-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Metal Gear Solid 4: Guns of the Patriots
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/ps3/adventure/metalgearsolid4/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 A brilliant mixture of storytelling and gameplay.
 Mind-blowing audiovisual presentation.
 Tight and compelling shooting mechanics.
 Gratifying stealth mechanics.
 Lots of cool gadgets and weapons that you can tailor to your own style of play.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Storytelling is heavy-handed.
 The single-player experience ends.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Jun 13, 2008
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 10
Critic Score: 9.3, 78 Review (s)
User Score: 9.4, 20,919 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Konami
Developer: Kojima Productions
Genre: Modern Action Adventure
Date: Jun 12, 2008
ESRB: Mature

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Metal Gear Solid 4 is an awe-inspiring synthesis of dramatic storytelling and entertaining gameplay. 
 

  Metal Gear Solid 4: Guns of the Patriots is the most technically stunning video game ever made. 
 It's also a fine example of storytelling prowess within its medium, combining gameplay and narrative 
 so slickly and beautifully that it's impossible to extricate one from the other. It's likely you 
 will emerge awestruck from your first play-through, wishing the experience would continue yet nonetheless 
 satisfied with its conclusion. It's difficult not to sound hyperbolic when discussing MGS4 because 
 every part of its design seemingly fulfills its vision, without compromise. There is no halfway. 

           The story is both convoluted and compelling.      

  Fully realized, lengthy story sequences will come as no surprise to anyone who has played a Metal 
 Gear game. You'll spend a good half of MGS4 watching cinematics, but it would be a grave misinterpretation 
 to assume that great gameplay takes a backseat to the story. Rather, these two elements are tightly 
 intertwined, and this tapestry is held together by an important technical thread: Cutscenes that 
 are rendered fully in real time within the game engine. It's impressive enough that these scenes 
 look as good as any prerendered cinematic you've ever watched. It's even more amazing when those 
 same scenes transition without pause into gameplay, and the same hulking mech you watched lumber 
 about in the cinematic is looming above you. The subtle animations, the lush environments, and 
 the rich textures are the same in and out of story sequences, and the effect is so seamless it 
 may take your breath away. You can skip past the scenes if you prefer, but doing so would soften 
 the experience. The story sequences carry more weight because of the intense gameplay that precedes 
 them -- and the gameplay feels more compelling because the story gives you powerful reasons to care 
 about your mission. The high point of this fusion occurs in an exciting and memorable split-screen 
 sequence that simply must be experienced.  

  Talking about what, exactly, is going on in the plot in the midst of MGS4's grand sweeping gestures 
 is to risk spoiling each little surprise as it emerges. Snake, suffering from the rapid onset of 
 aging, now must cope with stiff joints in addition to the looming specter of Liquid Ocelot's newest 
 plans. This is Snake's final hurrah; yet as the story reaches one height after another, the juxtaposition 
 of huge set piece battles and formidable bosses with Snake's deteriorating body creates tension 
 and gravity even beyond the series' usual pretensions. Some new plot strands emerge while others 
 get tied up, and old friends (and enemies) refuse to be forgotten. You'll also bear witness to 
 a few reunions -- some bloody, some teary, and some legitimately shocking. Parts of it are overblown, 
 to be sure. The musical score gets heavy-handed and the voice acting and writing are frequently 
 dogmatic, so while there are plenty of subtle moments, subtlety isn't really MGS4's strong suit. 
 But it doesn't need to be. After all, the fate of the world hangs in the balance, and judging from 
 a few silly attempts at humor that don't work, developer Kojima Productions was wise to err on 
 the side of melodrama.  

  The gameplay proper is familiar to fans, but it's been cleaned up and expanded, holding as many 
 twists and surprises as the story. For starters, both gunplay and close-quarters combat are more 
 satisfying. Regarding melee, the controls have been streamlined, making it less cumbersome to grab 
 an enemy soldier or perform a stealthy blade kill. Shooting mechanics are even more improved, so 
 much so that shooting your way out of a pickle is just as enjoyable as sneaking around it. There 
 are a huge number of weapons to play with; so many that you'll probably finish the campaign without 
 using many of them. Yet, quality wasn't sacrificed for quantity: Every weapon feels just right, 
 from your handy operator sidearm (best when upgraded with a silencer) and standard issue assault 
 rifles to a powerful railgun. The standard over-the-shoulder view is fine for the most part, but 
 you can gaze down the sights from a first-person perspective. Both views can be further improved 
 with various enhancements, such as laser sights and scopes.  

  Not that you don't have all the tools for completely avoiding your enemies if you choose that route. 
 Snake's got the basics covered: crawling, hugging walls, peeking around corners, and hanging from 
 ledges, for example. Cover mechanics are tighter than ever, so you can crouch and take potshots 
 from behind cover with ease. There are also a number of important gadgets that will make your life 
 easier in this regard. The most obvious of these is your OctoCamo suit, which takes on the texture 
 of your surroundings when you're prone or pressed against cover. Not only does this make it simpler 
 to avoid watchful eyes, but it's also a cool visual effect. Eventually, you'll be able to camouflage 
 Snake's head, and a few of the available camo options are bound to stir some fans' nostalgia. The 
 Solid Eye is your other major tool, as it expands your compass into a sonic-sensitive radar and 
 allows you to use night vision and a tactical first-person view. These are helpful gadgets indeed, 
 even during boss fights, like a stirring encounter in a blinding blizzard.  

           Shooting is always a viable option if you don't want to sneak.      

  Other gadgets, 
 such as portable hiding places (cardboard boxes and rusty barrels) and the Metal Gear Mk. II (a 
 stealthed robot that you can command as a scouting device) , are useful to anyone who prefers the 
 sneaky approach. Not every gadget is a welcome addition, though. For example, the much-ballyhooed 
 iPod is a neat touch, but to use it, you cannot have another gadget equipped, so you'll quickly 
 forget the option even exists. But aside from these nitpicks, one of the things that makes the 
 core gameplay so enjoyable is that you're rarely strapped into a single style of play. Shooting 
 your way through requires more thought and care than you'd put into a standard action game, but 
 you never feel as though the gun mechanics are stuffed uncomfortably into a stealth game. If you'd 
 rather sneak, you never have the impression that stealth was shoehorned into a game that's meant 
 to be played as a shooter. Sure, you're Solid Snake -- you're not supposed to get caught. But if 
 you're stuck in a jam, breaking stealth isn't a death sentence, and in fact, facing certain enemies 
 head-on is often a heart-pounding, challenging experience. The few levels that do force you into 
 one style, such as one in which you shadow your target through an Eastern European city, are still 
 great, if not quite as impactful.  

  You'll need to keep an eye on Snake's stress levels and psyche. Though these aspects are more peripheral 
 than health levels, they fit nicely within the plot. When Snake gets stressed (if he gets cold 
 or encumbered, for example) , his psyche gauge starts to deplete. The lower the gauge, the slower 
 you will move and the less quickly you replenish health. Generally speaking, the psyche meter is 
 rarely a factor, and should you notice Snake groaning a bit more, there are items like compresses 
 you can use for a pick-me-up. Should the meter get too low, you won't be able to hold up your weapon 
 or rush for cover. This doesn't happen often though, and while you'll need to keep a close eye 
 on your health for obvious reasons, you won't need to pay too much heed to psyche.     

   

  Regardless of the tactics you use, the level design and enemy artificial intelligence work 
 in tandem to create unparalleled gameplay. If you go stealth, hiding in that rusty barrel isn't 
 a perfect solution. Your foe may look at it suspiciously, kick it a few times, and eventually blow 
 your cover, so don't expect to be able to trick your way through as you might in other stealth 
 games. In full-on firefights, enemy teams will flank you, use cover to their advantage, and throw 
 grenades with precision to force you out of hiding. Most of your surroundings, inside and out, 
 are littered with objects and cover opportunities, from a trek through a South American jungle 
 to a nostalgic journey through a snowy island base. Each level is more-or-less linear, but within 
 the confines of these areas, you still have remarkable room to explore the various gameplay options 
 and test the limits of your foes. Some enemies are standard soldiers, though many others are wonderfully 
 imaginative. The colossal mechanical Gekkos, for example, are unpredictable and keep you on your 
 toes, while female operatives that pounce from wall to wall intensify an early escape scene.  

 
           There are ample cover opportunities.      

  Later in the game, a few set piece battles deepen the core gameplay even further, including a few 
 peerless on-rails sequences. One of these, a motorcycle chase, is as close as any game has gotten 
 to translating the excitement of similar moments in films to a game format. Another level, which 
 features a gigantic automaton, showcases destructible environments where walkways collapse on top 
 of each other and the screen fills with smoke. In all of these cases, the controls are excellent, 
 with the exception of that same mech's third-person view a bit later on (the first-person view 
 works infinitely better) . The interpretation of Metal Gear Solid as an interactive film still applies, 
 but in a way you may not have expected: These levels make you feel like the star of your own action 
 movie.  

  Boss battles are stimulating, though they aren't all that difficult. Nevertheless, a few of them 
 are tricky and require you to put some thought into your tactics because just riddling the boss 
 with bullets isn't going to ensure victory. Early on, it's clear that you'll be encountering the 
 four members of the Beauty and the Beast unit -- female supersoldiers that are as psychologically 
 complex as they are fun to battle. These battles are long and normally require you to fight other 
 enemies in addition to your primary target. In one of them, you can use your night vision to track 
 your target's footprints and use the wind direction to your advantage. In another, you'll dodge 
 missiles from flying creatures while taking on the main boss.  

  The gameplay and story would, perhaps, not be as effective if Metal Gear Solid 4 did not look and 
 sound so impressive, but truth be told, it's an amazing piece of technology. From the gritty textures 
 of concrete walls to the effective lighting and shadowing, there are few aspects you could reasonably 
 fault. In the biggest battles, billows of smoke fill the screen and blood splatters against the 
 camera -- all while meticulously designed helicopters fly overhead and ad-hoc team members take potshots 
 from behind grungy dilapidated vehicles. Yet in the midst of the visual drama, it's the little 
 things that are likely to provoke awe. Small details, such as how Snake rubs his sore back when 
 his stress levels get high or the authentic manner in which he ascends staircases, create as much 
 atmosphere as cluttered underground tunnels and war-torn Middle Eastern cities. You will have to 
 wait through some scattered install periods (just under 20 minutes worth, in total) and the occasional 
 loading screen, and you may find some frame rate drops and low-res textures here and there, but 
 these aren't issues in light of MGS4's impressive graphical accomplishments.  

  The sound design comes together nearly as well. The soundtrack on its own is rather pompous, but 
 in context, it works just fine to create the appropriate mood for any given cutscene or battle. 
 The voice acting follows suit but succeeds far better. Because the growling voice of David Hayter's 
 Solid Snake is so good, the rare hamming from the mostly excellent supporting cast is easily forgotten. 
 But the sound effects are unforgettable and excellent across the board. The Gekkos emit blood-curdling 
 moos like gargantuan cows, explosions are outstandingly obnoxious, and everything from the clicks 
 of the Solid Eye to the laughter and screams of the beastly bosses are top-notch.  

           Snake's final hurrah is a remarkable technical achievement.      

  On top of it all, 
 Metal Gear Solid 4 offers some enjoyable online 16-player action to complement its superb single-player 
 experience. Deathmatch and Team Deathmatch are represented, of course, and they play just fine, 
 assuming you don't approach the online component as a standard shooter. The maps are beautifully 
 rendered and packed with detail, and while not every mechanic is as wonderful in multiplayer as 
 it is in single-player (hiding in your cardboard box won't usually get you far, for example) , it's 
 all good fun once you adjust to the pace. The multiplayer star, however, is sneaking mode, a Team 
 Deathmatch variant in which one player plays as Snake and another supports him as the Metal Gear 
 Mk II. Shooting others is amusing -- but sneaking enthusiasts will enjoy the violent, stealthy game 
 of hide and seek you play as Snake. Playing support is equally entertaining because as Mk. II, 
 you can go invisible, creep up on other players, and zap them with your electronic tentacle. It's 
 a blast. Other modes include base mission, in which teams compete to conquer bases; a capture and 
 defend mode; and rescue mission, which is similar to the same mode in Metal Gear Solid 3: Subsistence. 
 Unfortunately, the process of creating an online account is laborious, so expect to take a few 
 minutes to enter a litany of information (a pain if you aren't using a keyboard) . Thankfully, the 
 variety of customization options and sheer numbers of players online mean that this process is 
 quickly forgotten.  

  If the story-heavy presentation of previous Metal Gear games taxed your patience, Metal Gear Solid 
 4 won't change your mind. For anyone who appreciates games that rise above the simple act of pushing 
 a few buttons and pulling a few triggers, Metal Gear Solid 4 is a stimulating ride that you won't 
 soon forget. You'll want to see what happens next, yet when its long campaign draws to a close, 
 you'll wish it would continue. That's not just because it's a well-told tale, but because that 
 tale is woven through a thoroughly impressive game that tops its predecessors.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (1463 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: Gamerpoopy
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 20, 2009 5:44 am PT
Review:  Review for MGS4
  
  Graphics 10/10 : The characters of this game are really animated beautifully , like wrinkles , 
 lipstick etc.... The environment is extremely beautiful and u will fall in love with this game 
 the minute u start it up.
  
  gameplay 10/10 : Really good gameplay , i find that the stealth is better than splinter cell for 
 some reason . Even if u dont like stealth , it provides a kind of third person shooter that u can 
 rush with but to enjoy this game more , play stealth , unless ur in a war zone , then u could really 
 consider fighting like Ur in a war
  
  Story 10/10 : Best story in a video game. The most epic , drama game ive ever seen and i have to 
 tell u , i almost cried because the story is just so touching and lost of unexpected twists , definitely 
 no game ive ever played be this epic . Its so hard to describe but trust me this story wants to 
 make me play this game over and over again. Although the long cutscenes was really unnecessary 
 . But still a great game
  
  Multiplayer : 10/10 : smooth online , lots of weapons , crazy shooting . I cant really get into 
 the online , cos im not too use to playing online but i found it still wonderful.. What i hate 
 is that u have to wait for at least 5 mins to even start up the multipalyer like logging in to 
 ur account and stuff which i find not really in need. And the worst part is the patch , i have 
 to wait so damn long just to patch the multiplayer , another reason why im not palying the multiplayer 
 , but sometime in the day im sure to aply the multiplayer
  
  Get this game no matter what , this is a sure halo killer 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: deathguardian08
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 19, 2009 6:22 pm PT
Review:  ok to start off, the graphics on this were beautiful. cutscenes had to be admired. but when it 
 comes down to game play, thats where it counts. 
  
  You can play the game either in a stealthy style (normal mode+)
  
  or if you want to go all 
 out shooting anything until its ash (easy mode) . 
  
  The game its self had so Manny things i enjoyed and like i said before, it took me almost a week 
 to get bored. the only things i found disappointing in it were the lack of missions, which made 
 the game unfortunately short. Each mission didn't last more then a few hours. But i had a ton of 
 fun on the first few missions. towards then end where it changed from humans to machine-ish enemy's, 
 is where i started to lose interest. but it kept me going with its story and humor. And the very 
 end of the game, is what won me over. (ILL TRY TO KEEP IT FREE OF SPOILERS)
  
  the end fight was great. i loved the old school fighting style. it was a little twist for all the 
 old style metal gear solid fans. and when "someone" died i felt sad almost. you almost felt a bond 
 with the characters. 
  
  I'd give this a 10/10 if it wasn't for the fact it was rather short. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lobert124
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 19, 2009 2:28 pm PT
Review:  The first thing that you will notice in this game is the graphics and the animation of the characters. 
 The graphics and animation are stunning and realistic and are probably the most realistic graphics 
 in any game. The next big difference is the game play. The best thing about the game is the way 
 a person handles a situation. Instead of the strict stealth, one could go through the game as a 
 shooter or as a stealth experience. No matter which way you choose to play you'll get a great experience 
 no matter what style you prefer. This great game is taken one step further because of the story 
 telling. The story telling is phenomenal, even though the cut scenes are a little bit long, they 
 are full of emotions with some of the best facial expressions seen in games. A great game altogether 
 with some the greatest game play, great graphics and great story makes this a must play game on 
 the PS3. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Fitz180
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 19, 2009 2:01 pm PT
Review:  I played MGS4 all the way through, and it was AMAZING! The grapics were nothing like I've seen 
 before. The enemy AI works in a totally different way that adapts and doesn't neccisarily attach 
 you right away. First, the local milita isn't on your side, but by helping beat the PMCs (games 
 overall grunts) and making alliances, they'll assist you and give special and vital items. The 
 controls are seamless even with the array of sneaking moves and techniques, however it takes a 
 while to master every move. And the plot is confusing, but if you know your MGS it wraps everything 
 into one nice, neat and epic bundle. I don't want to ruin anything, but it explains what happened 
 to characters in previous games (Naked Snake, Raiden, etc.) but has a new plot of its own that 
 new-comers can (attempt) to follow. So basically, if you have a PS3 PLAY THIS GAME! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: H4lo4Lif3
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 18, 2009 2:09 pm PT
Review:  It has been over four years that gaming world has awaited the final mission of the legendary Solid 
 Snake. So much hype has been thrown around; to some MGS4 is enough to buy a PS3 for. With all the 
 weight on its shoulders Metal Gear Solid 4 still manages to exceed expectations and deliver a game 
 experience that will be remembered for a long time to come. Make no mistake, this is Hideo Kojima's 
 masterpiece, I doubt I have ever seen a game where such love and care went into it. 
  
  While past MGS games for the most part took place in one or two locations, this game takes place 
 all over the world. No longer is it a small insurrection Snake is sent to take out, at this point 
 it is the entire world that is on the brink of ruin and Solid Snake must save the day. Compared 
 to the other MGS games, MGS4 is like a sweeping movie epic. It has a massive cast, takes you all 
 over the world, and manages to answer practically every lingering question the series has proposed. 
 The story is a major part of this game, huge chunks of exposition will break apart the gameplay 
 segments. Thankfully the cutscenes are presented in such a way that it rivals most CG movies, the 
 production value is at a point I have never seen before. Yes there is a ton of cutscenes but unlike 
 past MGS games almost all of them are stunning to watch. Codec storytelling is cutdown to almost 
 nothing; all meaningful plot advancements come from the glorious in game cinematics. If huge amounts 
 of cutscenes bothered you before it will bother you again, as with all MGS games it has hours upon 
 hours of cutscenes. Still, these are cutscenes worth watching as it deals with emotions and aspects 
 most games will never touch. You will feel pain, remorse, laughter, sadness, laughter, joy, and 
 love. All the characters you have grown to love all come together; all their lives reach a turning 
 point, its impossible to not get swept up in the emotional impact of the story. 
  
  Quite possibly the most impressive aspect of the cutscenes is that many of them now transition 
 seamlessly into the game itself. Its something you have to see to appreciate, it adds so much to 
 the mix of game and story. The two are now interwoven in a way that it feels like its one. The 
 only complaint about the story I can come up with is that it does not end on the same high notes 
 that earlier acts in the game do, it kind of gets bloated and almost MGS2 like toward the end. 
 Overall though I was satisfied with story, plus if you want to look deeper into the plot you can 
 find plenty of political commentary. 
  
  There are some people that play MGS games just for the story; well I am not one of them. I play 
 MGS games cause I believe they offer some of the best unique action/stealth based gameplay. MGS4 
 takes the great improvements added to MGS3, mainly the camo system and opening of environments, 
 to a whole new level. Snake now infiltrates a war zone; no longer is it just you and a group of 
 enemies you must evade. Two factions will be fighting in many areas and you can either choose to 
 help out the local militia or just sneak around in the chaos. This aspect brings about so many 
 gameplay possibilities; for instance you can hide in shadows taking out anyone that gets in your 
 way silently, or you can disguise yourself as a militia man and advance with them as you help defeat 
 the PMC army, or you can be Rambo and just kill everything in your path. Every new area you enter 
 has some unique event happening, whether its a tank making its way down an enemy street or a battle 
 for a power plant, the variety in locations and situations is staggering. 
  
  The best part of it all is that Solid Snake now controls like a dream. All the mechanics have been 
 reworked to provide a control scheme that fits in line with today's modern shooters. No longer 
 is gunplay a pain, now you can run and gun with ease. The third person camera works as well as 
 any third person shooter I have ever played, at any time you can enter first person view for more 
 zoomed in shots. Also of note, Snake no longer sticks to walls, at first this may seem like a bad 
 change cause it used to be so easy backing into a wall to peak around corners but when the action 
 would get rough to often would you accidentally stick to a wall when you really wanted to shoot, 
 that does not happen any more. Snake also has more evasive maneuvers like side rolls and the ability 
 to roll while prone. CQC is back and better than ever, holding up enemies or grabbing them is easier 
 to do than ever before. The octocamo applies the MGS3 camo system without any of the constant menu 
 surfing. Also introduced is the solid eye system which is an all in one radar, night vision, heads 
 up display system, you won't believe you used to play MGS games without it. Everything is so streamlined, 
 its vast improvement to the controls and helps the gameplay tremendously. 
  
  With this new control scheme comes a greater emphasis on gunplay. MGS4 has a RE4 like gun seller 
 named Drebin which sells you weapons and ammo for Drebin Points, points you get from finding weapons 
 all over the battlefield. There are 70 weapons in the game, most of them can be customized even 
 further with silencers, grips, scopes, and with some even a grenade launcher attachment. For the 
 Gandhi types that don't like to kill, there is a slew of stun weapon types as well. Finding DP 
 and gathering all the weapons is a game in its own. To be honest most players will probably find 
 a favorite weapon of each type and just stick with it but it's still nice to have the huge array 
 of weapons (some of which are very odd and can lead to hilarious situations) . The game makes sure 
 to make use of all these guns; there are many action heavy moments where you are forced to shoot 
 your way through the enemy. These set pieces are spectacular and really showcases how far this 
 game has come to making MGS has good a shooter as it is a stealth game. The only issue with this 
 system is that you are never out of ammo; conservation is not needed. 
  
  Initial footage of this game made MGS4 look like MGS3+ or something like that. Well in a stroke 
 of pure genius (in my opinion, some may think this is what hurts the game) , that is only the first 
 half of the game. The second half take you out of that war zone style of play and throws you into 
 a whirlwind of gameplay variety and scenarios that pull aspects of all MGS games together to create 
 the ultimate Metal Gear experience. You experience very unique locations and gameplay elements 
 you have never seen or played in a MGS game. I was left in awe at the stuff I was doing, my eyes 
 were popping out of their head at some of the action sequences, and every single MGS fan will be 
 in love with one of the later sections. Lets not forget the boss fights, while I think they never 
 reach the greatness of some of the MGS3 boss fights, they are all very memorable in their own ways. 
 I just wished there was more ways to take some of them down, like in MGS3. Seems that with the 
 emphasis on guns the unique tricks you can pull on them with your items has been pulled down to 
 a minimum, its mostly just shooting them to death (besides two puzzle like bosses) . There is not 
 a stinker in the bunch though, they maybe a bit easy but the way the battles are presented will 
 blow you away. 
  
  To say this game is deep is an understatement. When you first play the game (about 20 hours of 
 play, of which around 8 hours are cutscenes) odds are you missed out on some areas and did not 
 see the crazy amount of easter eggs and secrets hidden throughout the game. One such item is an 
 ipod, which you get at the start of the game with some tracks but many music tracks of classic 
 MG and Kojima games are hidden all over the game. Even if you don't want to look for secrets there 
 are so many ways to play the game there is no way you can say you experienced it all in one playthrough. 
 At the end of the game you get emblems depending on how you play, there are 40 of these, as you 
 play using different styles you unlock them. You will probably not put this game down for a very 
 very long time. To top it off there is even a full online game included, I won't go much into detail 
 here cause I will review it as a separate game but MGO is a great alternative to the usual online 
 shooter. 
  
  This game not only has great story and excellent gameplay but on the tech front it's a showcase 
 game. Graphically it is the most impressive console game I have ever played. You will see and play 
 things you thought could only be done in CG. The most impressive of which is the final boss fight, 
 which I swear is the most visually impressive fight in the history of videogames. Not to be outdone 
 the sound is movie quality. You have to play this game on some sort of surround sound, it would 
 be a crime not to. The sounds of the battlefield come to you from all sides; it's an immersive 
 sound experience like no other. Musically the score rivals even the biggest of Hollywood's blockbusters. 
 Sadly the main theme is missing cause of plagiarism, still Harry Gregson-Williams does an incredible 
 job closing out the series musically. If I had to find one real flaw with MGS4 it is that it does 
 have frequent small loads and installs after every act, even that is a minor inconvenience. 
  
  Metal Gear Solid 4 is the total package. Every inch of this game is oozing with quality, not 
 one aspect is left behind. On a technical level its one of the highest quality games you will ever 
 play. The true genius however is how Kojima leaves his mark on this game. Like the best directors 
 in movies, you can see Kojima's style come through in the gameplay and cutscenes. This game was 
 clearly a labor of love, you can tell that he poured every last inch of what he had into making 
 this game the ultimate masterpiece, to make it his greatest achievement. You don't just play this 
 game, you feel it, it grabs you, demands your attention in a way that few games ever do. It is 
 a landmark game, its a game that will be one of the defining moments of a generation, it simply 
 is one of the all time greatest games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: knicknut17
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 17, 2009 2:49 am PT
Review:  Let me preface this review, by stating that this more a justification of a perfect score on my 
 part. It took me almost a year to come up with the right words for a review of my favorite game 
 ever. 
  
  No video game that I have ever played in my life has moved me, emotionally, the way Metal Gear 
 Solid 4 did after my first play through. I enjoyed my second play through even more than the first...
 
  
  This game is everything that I loved about all of the past games, with spot-on controls. The graphics 
 of the in-game engine are AMAZING, the sound quality is pristine, and this game features all of 
 the little details most games miss. 
  
  As much as I loved the game the first time, I loved the game even more the second time through. 
 I noticed all of the background graphical details and understood the plot more. I've played on 
 Normal and Hard, but now I want to test myself and play on Big Boss Hard. This game has THAT much 
 replay ability.
  
  The world Snake lives in, is a world torn apart by war. It is controlled by Private Military Corporations 
 (PMC's) and The Patriots. The nefarious Liquid Ocelot seeks control of the Patriot control system, 
 JD to take control over the world's weapons and create a new Outer Heaven. 
  
  Characters from past games such as Meryl, Naomi Campbell, Rose, Akiba, Raiden and Vamp return, 
 while others such as RAT Patrol 1, Drebin, Big Momma, and best friend Otacon, provide support. 
 Sunny, daughter of Olga from Metal Gear Solid 2, is grown up now. Raiden saved her from the Patriots 
 in Metal Gear Solid 2, she plays an integral role in helping Snake save the world.
  
  My favorite chapter was Chapter 4, followed by Chapter 2, Chapter 1, Chapter 5 (which was great, 
 but very short) , and then Chapter 3. Chapter 4 literally had my heart racing the entire time! The 
 on-rail sequence in Chapter 3 is AWESOME...
  
  The coolest part of Metal Gear Solid 4 is that although 60% of the game is in-game cut scenes (which 
 you can skip, if you want to) , the 40% that you do play, is every bit as good, if not BETTER, than 
 the cut scenes. 
  
  This game proves that stealth is fun, but gives you the open to go Rambo on everyone too. I love 
 how you can switch from 3rd person to 1st person view. I love how you can switch shoulders when 
 aiming and have a lots of weapon customization options. 
  
  On subsequent replays of the game, you keep your existing weapons and Drebin points. 
  
  Drebin 
 Points are the game's currency. You collect weapons on the battlefield and you get points for them. 
 You spend the points on weapons, ammo, and upgrades. You can access Drebin at ANY TIME. Even in 
 the middle of a boss fight. It can be very useful...
  
  If you've played the other Metal Gear Solid games then you probably agree with me that this game 
 is an absolute masterpiece and Hideo Kojima's opus. He can't possibly top this can he? 
  
  This game is absolutely worth buying a PS3 for. I think it is the best game available on the PS3. 
 It is something that has to be experienced. It's a top notch stealth action movie in playable form. 
 
  
  The story is fascinating, I genuinely felt for my characters, and even my enemies, as I played 
 through the game. This kind of game comes around very rarely. I have the Collectors Edition with 
 a Collectors Edition Strategy Guide; they are both treasured additions to my collection. If you 
 are a PS3 owner, they should be a part of yours too. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: wlodyka10
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 17, 2009 2:15 am PT
Review:  I just finished the game and I must say my emotions and impressions are quite mixed. Judging it 
 for being the epilogue of the story I started to follow 9 years ago I can certainly say that this 
 is a masterpiece in terms of story-depth, atmosphere, "inspiration". Additionally, the stunning 
 graphics, the great music and the superb-directed plot constitute a further contribution in this 
 sense. However, the minor but still less enthousiastic impression derives from the fact that I 
 spent more time in looking at cut-scenes than in playing and this aspect can not be underestimated 
 in the total score of a GAME. This is why I consider MGS4 an intense and involving interactive 
 movie interrupted by some short gaming moments and I would suggest this "game" only to the fans 
 of the series. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: imthemostwanted
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 16, 2009 6:10 pm PT
Review:  Simply put, this is the best game ever made. The story, characters, visuals, gameplay is just phenomenal. 
 The seamless transitions from cutscene to gameplay is so subtle you could be watching the cutscene 
 then not realise that its not a cutscene anymore untill about 30 seconds after the cutscene finishes. 
 The details in the game are amazing, from Snake searching enemies for ammunition to the way Snake's 
 Octocamo changes its colour to match the environment. 
  
  There are a ton of ways to play this game. If you want to be stealthy and sneak around, you can. 
 If you want to run around, guns blazing, you can. 
  
  The Enemy AI is very smart. But not smart enough that you can't get away by playing dead or hiding 
 in your barrel at the right moment.
  
  Hideo Kojima wins the title of best game designer ever. 
  
  Seriously, buy this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SGTiD1NG0
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 16, 2009 2:58 pm PT
Review:  The Metal Gear Solid series is an incredible first party franchise that started from the Playstation 
 1 to the Playstation 2 and now to a dramatic end which ties up all the loose ends with a fantastic 
 finale to end on the Playstation 3. Metal Gear Solid 4 is another outstanding entry to the Metal 
 Gear Series Series and although it might be the last it's certainly the best.
  
  From Snake Eater, you're back with Snake except this time he's flipping ancient, with a disease 
 which increases his age rapidly and now although quite young and still fit for the job his age 
 is showing and it's only a matter of time before eventually he is put to death. You have one last 
 mission as Snake, to bring down your arch enemy brother, Liquid. Liquid still hasn't been killed 
 and it's up to you to track him down, not only that but kill him, unfortunate for Snake the mission 
 takes longer than anticipated and where as his aging starts to take place he starts to diminish, 
 fortunate for you as it lengthens the campaign to twenty hours at most for a challenged player, 
 preventing from Snake achieving his objective many obstacles will be put in your way while Liquid 
 hides in the middle of a war to make his job much harder not to mention his own elite soldiers 
 and bosses in your way. Snake this time round will have to use every degree of his stealth to his 
 advantage to overcome Liquid.
  
  Just before we start with the story, if you were somewhat cautious or concerned whether you had 
 to play the other games before it to understand the plot rest assured you can pick up the stories 
 cast and plot within the first act and second at most seeing as one or characters might still not 
 be introduced into the game yet. What it does great, are welcome newcomers covering the cast's 
 background once more which not only helps new entries to the series but furthers hardcore fans 
 knowledge of the game. Metal Gear Solid 4 delivers another immense story just like the predecessors 
 before it, but what makes it so good is that it's not rushed and takes up to twenty whole hours 
 to complete not to mention added on cut scenes totalling even longer, it doesn't over stay it's 
 welcome either which is another great thing like some games drag on a bit even with a great story 
 however Metal Gear Solid 4 does everything to keep you at the edge of our seat. You'll also face 
 a variety of enemies as well, from the average soldier to the fearful geckos not to mention the 
 variety of bosses. This time round you have the PMC Troops fighting a war against the Taliban and 
 you are dumped right in the middle of it to find and kill Liquid who predictably has a defence 
 of Elite Soldiers who rather look like Master Chiefs from Halo. You still have the classic Geckos 
 who moo and while powerful still seem to lack intelligence. The bosses aren't particularly hard 
 but it takes time to understand the tactic to defeat them, they aren't too cheap either and will 
 put up a relatively good fight but for the most part the challenge lies in the tactic for defeating 
 them. Another extra addition to addictive game play is the fact each of the five acts has a distinctive 
 and unique environment from the Middle Eastern deserts to the icy cold landscapes. The amount of 
 detail and adds to the jam-packed environments making the story feel polished and refined to every 
 possible degree with game play, graphics and sound. Although it was disappointing to see from the 
 second difficulty and higher on they completely relied on stealth for your survival instead of 
 a steady raise on the difficulty from Liquid Easy to Naked Normal the jump was significant to notice. 
 To be honest, I finished the game in three days at sixteen hours with about five hours per day, 
 that's right and that's how engaging the story was. Everything contributed to which overwhelmed 
 my experience to the extent it was incredibly addictive from the great boss fights to top notch 
 cut scenes. 
  
  The game play engine of previous Metal Gear games is unchanged although it does feel alot more 
 re fined due to the even more slick controls and incredible textured environments that adds to 
 the game play. Although there have been some welcomed additions to the game play they aren't as 
 well put in as predicted, one is you can now run and gun the entire game which differs the game 
 play from the must use stealth from previous Metal Gear games but what this run and gun does is 
 make it feel over powered, the easiest difficulty "Liquid Easy" is simply too easy and from the 
 next difficulty it seems just too hard and makes running and gunning too over powered to the time 
 consuming stealth. Run and Gun is simply made too easy or too hard for the most part or you could 
 simply just use a mix of both but one player would preferably just stick to run and gun or stealth 
 on its own. In other words you're not going to play stealth the whole level and then just run and 
 gun unless for some reason you want to mess up what you have done skilfully the whole level. The 
 next thing added is a stress symbolisation which while may not appeal to anyone it makes your connection 
 with Snake feel even more stronger, when you run and gun through the game you'll obviously get 
 shot alot which impacts on his stress for this and throughout the cut scenes it somewhat makes 
 you feel guilty for damaging him and not only that but limits how much running and gunning you 
 do. Unfortunately, the stress bar is never raised so high you die on Liquid Easy because it is 
 simply just too easy, for you could run in front of a soldier and say you had limitless life it 
 would take forever to die of stress, even on Naked Normal or higher, stress is never raised to 
 high because your health and better intelligence of your enemies limits you to stealth only. However 
 when your stealth does raise above 60% that's when you're worried because your game play suffers 
 from loss of the amount of movement which is reduced as well as hiccups which makes him cough and 
 splutter occasionally making him fall on the floor. 
  
  The game involves a small RPG system if you like in the game where early in the game you make a 
 deal with a weapons trader, you collect guns as you go along and some will be locked so you don't 
 lock them all at once to give you something to look forward to as you play, for example some weapons 
 may already be unlocked at the start but most weapons will be unlocked in later missions in different 
 acts. Of course you can collect weapons that aren't unlockable at the time, you're allowed infinite 
 weapons but only one of each weapon, any duplicates you may find of a weapon are sold on, you'll 
 be given Drebin Points in exchange hence the dealers name Drebin. The bullets of duplicate guns 
 will go to the existing gun and eventually form bandoliers. You are allowed five weapons at any 
 given time and five accessories, gadgets or grenades at any given time although by using the start 
 menu you can swap them with all your other weapons or accessories, gadgets or grenades. You can 
 also purchase anything you haven't collected, obviously there must be a use for the Drebin Points, 
 you can buy anything at all which is unlocked which you might not have found during the single 
 player although you'll find most weapons by the end of the single player anyway. Although obtaining 
 Drebin Points is incredibly easy for Run and Gun players since they'll be killing enemies most 
 of the time and obtaining more duplicate guns which leads to more Drebin Points than a stealth 
 player but this mechanic is easily balanced with at the end of every act depending on how much 
 stealth used and flashbacks seen through cut scenes you'll be rewarded with even more Drebin Points 
 so it's quite balanced but overall obtaining Drebin points is still incredibly easily and should 
 have implemented all the guns having little less value and the end of act reward scheme not so 
 rewarding as it is.
  
  The control scheme is really well presented and thought out and not only that but plays well too. 
 L2 is used to select what accessory, gadget or grenade you wish to use out of your inventory of 
 five allocated items. R2 does exactly the same thing except for your five allocated weapons. L1 
 steadies your aim and moves you slowly if you move at all, R1 shoots but if not in aim mode beware 
 for alot of recoil not to mention loss of accuracy if you don't use L1 to aim. The X button is 
 to jump, circle button is to crouch or double tap it to go prone and the square button is to reload 
 of course. The triangle button however has a much larger use not only does it take cover for you 
 but if you stay still while attached to cover or you just stay still, if you are wearing your ordinary 
 suit you will blend in with your environment and your HUD will say how well blended you are with 
 the environment from 0%-100% and how obvious you are to enemy intelligence. This proves exceptionally 
 approving for Stealth fans and not only makes their job easier but is cool too. The D Pad is used 
 for accessories as well, for example with your goggles you can press up for night vision, right 
 for thermal vision etc. Now you're probably wondering what do I mean by accessories well just that 
 ranging from an Ipod 2nd Generation to MK II not like Metal Gear Rex but a Mini Robot who you can 
 control to scout a local area and best of all he's invisible, he can also stun an enemy but be 
 warned he loses his visibility for a matter of seconds before turning back invisible. The Ipod 
 plays songs from all the previous Metal Gear entries and some songs must be found just like you 
 find weapons in the game, grenades are varied alot too essentially you can obtain every possible 
 grenade you could think of from a Flash bang to Molotov cocktail. Weapons are a incredible part 
 of Metal Gear Solid 4 ranging from about 50 weapons if not even at 75 wouldn't be a over the top 
 estimate from the tranquilizer to shotgun it's every mans arsenal at their disposal. 
  
  The graphics are absolutely incredible, easily the best graphics seen to date of 2008 and quite 
 possibly 2009 too. The cut scenes are immense and tense, graphically and awe struckingly. Not only 
 does the voice acting do the job but the acting itself helps it move along nicely making animations 
 look incredibly believable and realistic. Although some may say the cut scenes go on for too long, 
 it's no big deal because they are great, very few cut scenes won't appeal to newcomers as they 
 only further hardcore fans knowledge of the game but it was good of them to put those "hardcore 
 cut scenes" after the over the top action cut scenes so if you skipped one you weren't missing 
 out on all the action. If you were getting slightly bored of the cut scenes there are flashbacks 
 to see to enrich your knowledge and help you understand a given cut scene you might not have understood 
 better but also at the end of each act, the amount of flashbacks seen using quick time button tapping 
 is put into a reward scheme to give you extra Drebin Points as mentioned above. Although the in 
 game environments don't live up to the cut-scenes that's absolutely fine because not much would 
 as to be honest the cut scenes are computer generated. The environments may not be as jam-packed 
 as its multi-player counterpart but it's the incredible lighting, shadowing and textured effects 
 to give of a really fresh experience. You'll go through five different brilliantly designed environments 
 from the streets of Manhattan to the Underground Tunnels. 
  
  The sound is impressing most in the script and not so much in the weapons because it's a shame 
 from what was a almost perfect game was ruined by on one key area although to say the least the 
 voice acting was incredible with the animations to make cut-scenes slick with graphics blended 
 with top notch dialogue and voice acting. The weapons though really all give of the same sound 
 and are no different from each other at all. All silenced or non attached weapons give off the 
 exact same sounds. Not only that but they sound quite bland as well. But while the sound maybe 
 disappointing it's the dialogue and voice acting that really shines through in the sound. 
  
  You're probably wondering where the multi-player component review is well, I wrote a review 
 on it (Metal Gear Online) game which Gamespot have a made a whole game for it for some bizarre 
 reason so my Multi-Player full review is here on the link below. Just copy and paste it into your 
 search engine and you should get it, if for any reason you don't just PM me and I'll get right 
 down to the problem. I am not reviewing the multi-player component I am instead reviewing solemnly 
 only the single player in this review. 
  
  http://uk. gamespot. com/ps3/adventure/metalgearonline/player_review. html? id=654279&tag=contributions; review1
 
  
  Metal Gear Solid 4 is an outbreak success and delivers everything a Metal Gear fan wanted even 
 newcomers are welcomed into the game and me being a newcomer loved it, while the single player 
 clocks in at twenty hours although a gratifyingly incredible experience twenty hours isn't enough 
 to purchase a Playstation 3 but that's not to say if you own a Playstation 3 you have to buy this 
 game. If you're concerned about it, you won't be disappointed put this on the top of your buy list, 
 even pretend you're blind and get for more money than a normal beggar would get, that's how good 
 Metal Gear Solid 4: Guns of the Patriots is. No, it's not just good immense and incredbible is 
 the word to describe Metal Gear Solid 4, aside miniscule flaws it's a Masterpiece.
  -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  .Pros
  .Alot of variety of enemies including PMC Troops, Taliban, Geckos, Liquids Elite Soldiers and much 
 more.
  .Best graphics of 2008 especially in the incredible cut scenes.
  .Gameplay feels even more polished because of better graphics and more responsive controls.
  
 .Graphics in game are superb with fantastic lighting, shadows and textures.
  .Great boss fights with not just health and gun them down but there's a tactical approach to defeating 
 them.
  .Instead of playing stealth the whole way through previous entries this time round you're able 
 to play Run and Gun stlye.
  .It welcomes newcomers and takes no more than an hour to understand the plot.
  .Spectacular dialogue 
 and voice acting helps with the compelling story.
  .The best shown graphical cut scenes using incredible animations, dialogue and voice acting.
 
  .The story is better than all of the previous Metal Gear entries.
  .The weapon RPG in depth system is a great add on and includes up to 30 accessories, gadgets and 
 grenades and up to 75 weapons. 
  .Ties up all the loose ends with this finale of a Masterpiece.
  .Twenty full hours of story, 
 an incredible length.
  ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  .Cons
  .Obtaining Drebin Points with the RPG system is a bit too easy.
  .Running and Gunning feels over powered compared to stealth.
  .The step from Liquid Easy to Naked 
 Normal is phenominal.
  .The stress implementation doesn't work out quite so well.
  ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  Story Missions: 8.5
  Story Plot: 9.5
  Gameplay: 9.5
  Graphics: 9.5
  Sound: 8.5
  ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  Overall 9.8
  
  
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: tahmidk
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 16, 2009 10:08 am PT
Review:  MGS4 had me playing for about 9 days for me to complete it twice and get 60 weapons (Including 
 solar gun) i have to say i got so addicted to the story mode i forgot to eat and sleep.
  
  MGS4 had the best graphics ever i've seen yet and i own Resident Evil 5 as well and i must say 
 i still say MGS4 was a better game.
  
  MGS4 will take you months to get 100% completion, to say the truth i especially enoyed the bit 
 where you take control of REX and fight RAY which i found to be very fun. I also enjoyed the story 
 the drebin shop where you can just buy your weapons buy selling old ones and keeping the ammunition 
 for later.
  
  To say the truth i still havent got all the BSAA emblems on Resident Evil even though i know whwere 
 they are because now i keep on playing MGO (Metal Gear Online; On same disc as MGS4)
  
  MGO is the best online shooter i've played, i've played Halo 3 once online , Resistance 2 , Resistance 
 , Resident Evil 5, FarCry 2 and Killzone 2.
  
  Even after playing so many games im sticking to MGO and i think that seriously no other online 
 shooter based game can compete with it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bigboss1203
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 15, 2009 8:09 pm PT
Review:  I can't begin to say the sense of amazment i felt when i first pressed the "Start" button on this 
 game. The whole Metal Gear series was always a series that never siezed to amaze me, and Metal 
 Gear Solid 4 was no exception. Im going to start with the graphics. The Metal Gear series has always 
 had graphics ahead of its time but i never thought i was going to ever see a game look this good. 
 The envirment is far much better than previous installments, the combat in the background made 
 the game feel much more realistic and fun. But it doesnt stop there. There are five acts all together, 
 each presenting a new and exciting envirement. first act is a war in the middle east, second act 
 is war in a mountain area, act three is a well designed and highly detailed town in Europe, act 
 4, the most amazing of all, is a dramatic, reconstructed Shadow Moses from the original Metal Gear 
 Solid, and the final act takes place on a ship run by liquid snake.
  
  Gameplay- Lets face it, as amazing as the Metal Gear series is, the gameplay is the same everytime 
 (except mgs3, thats a different story) , you sneak past guards and run into obsticles and boss fights, 
 nothing wrong with it, its a fun type of gameplay, but Metal Gear Solid 4 brings new types of gameplay 
 into the series: You have your standard stealth based game, where you use the octocamo to blend 
 in with your envirments to flee from the enemy, typical metal gear game. but on top of that, you 
 can play it as a classic shooter, since there is a huge variety of weapons in mgs4, and shoot any 
 enemy possible, it works best in act 1 and 2, i highly dont recomend it in act 3 lol. Or in the 
 first two acts you can join either the milita or rebels and fight those PMC bastards! Regardless 
 of the gameplay, mgs4 delivers great variety.
  
  Enemies and bosses (may contain spoilers!!!) - One of the major changes in enemies in mgs4 is that 
 there are unmanned robots calles gekko, huge powerful machines that kill anyone possible, but can 
 be brought down with a tranquilizer shot to the legs. And then there are Scarabs. The most annoying, 
 most **** irritating creatures ever, act 4 with the reconstructed Shadow Moses and all, would have 
 been perfect if they didnt appear all over the god damn place! They are little mini gekkos that 
 appear in large doses and wont stop **** with you!. But enough of the complaining, because im going 
 to explain the boss fights. If you are familiar with the previous mgs games you will know who most 
 of them are. They are more adavanced, female versions of the bosses in mgs1. There is Laughing 
 Octopuss (Decoy Octopuss) , Raging Raven (Vulcan Raven) , Crying Wolf (Sniper Wolf) and the most 
 rememorable of them all Screaming Mantis (Psycho Mantis makes a comback!) . The final boss fight 
 is a fistfight with liquid. Probably the greatest boss fight ever, because there are 4 stages in 
 the fight, each resembling every other metal gear game, the health bar changes as well as the music 
 from those games!!!
  
  Conclusion- Of course i cant explain the whole game without spoiling the plot and fun. But i will 
 end it with this. If you want a unique game with a plot greater than most hollywood movies, get 
 mgs4! If you want great gameplay and graphics, get mgs4. If you want to witness the closing of 
 a great game series and possibly the greatest game of the decade. GET MGS4!!!.
  
  Metal Gear Solid 4: Guns of the Patriots
  10 solid snakes out of 10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mr_Fujiv1
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 15, 2009 5:31 am PT
Review:  Metal Gear Solid 4 guns of the patriots
  if you have played a MGS game before you will know that it has a cinematic feel to it and thats 
 what makes it metal gear soild.
  The graphics are out standing that best i have seen on the ps3 even better than COD in my oppion 
 gameplay and movement is fantastic the story mode really pulls you in and makes you feel like your 
 snake (character you play as)
  its also cleaver how theres no pause between cut scenes so you straight back into the action.
 
  the single player mode is an ok length even though most of it is taken up with the cut scenes 
 which isnt a bad thing. 
  the longest cut scene i viewed was around 35 - 40 minutes long you can skip them but if you did 
 you wouldnt know what was going on.
  online isnt that great but when you buy a MGS game your not looking to play online your paying 
 for the in depth story mode.
  a special feature in the game is that it allows you to custom your guns weither its different sights, 
 attaching scilencers or even having two in one this game is a must buy even if you havent played 
 MGS 1 2 or even 3 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Keough_7
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 16, 2009 12:52 pm PT
Review:  One of my or even maybe my favorite game on the PS3 
  
  It's amazing gameplay and graphics combined together with the MANY cutscenes make it astonishing,
 
  
  There is nothing I can say that they could make better, especially the amazing story.
  
  THE NEW: Gun customization, a cool new feature awesome on how you can customize anywhere and 
 buy parts anywhere,
  -Being able to buy weapons anywhere at any time (Drebin rocks)
  -The new Camo suit makes sneaking missions (all of them) more fun, and later on in the game you 
 get the camo mask and can change your face to retro snake from MGS 1, and it improves your camo.
 
  -Snake is old now so he gets back pains and it can alert guards.
  -Nanomachines will block you from using guns and you'll have to take them to Drebin and pay to 
 unlock them.
  
  
  IF YOU DO NOT WANT TO SPOIL PARTS OF THE GAME DO NOT READ ON!!!!!
  
  
  
  -Raiden's new cool cyborg form with his sword owns small metal gears.
  -The Metal 
 Gear Ray and Rex fight, you get to drive around in Metal gear Rex and fight Liquid who is in Ray.
 
  
  
  You get to see vamp again...
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: nickboy333
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 12, 2009 8:12 pm PT
Review:  Ok lets be fair here : This game, AS A MG GAME, is flawless.
  Amazing graphics, great entertaining action, optimized combat system, etc.
  
  If you are a 
 MG series fan, stop reading and go buy this game if you haven't already.
  
  Now... If you ARE NOT a MG fan, read further.
  This is a game that concludes a series with a long 
 history, and if you havent been playing the series ever or for a while, it will be very inaccessible 
 for you.
  
  It is inaccessible in terms of storyline, and overall style.
  FOR NON MG VETERANS, the combat sytem WILL be tough to master, CLUNKY, and frustrating.
  Even 
 more frustrating is the style and storyline. This is MG. This is MADE IN JAPAN. Do not expect a 
 realistic war game. It is not. After the first MG, Hideo Kojima has chosen to abandon the realism 
 of the first one to create a story that is confusing and VERY Japanese (anime- like) .
  You WILL BE ANNOYED at the jokes in this game, thinking they WOULD NEVER happen in a real battlefield. 
 You WILL BE ANNOYED at the japanese jokes, focused on simple comedy (diarrhea and voyeurism) .
 
  And most of all you will be annoyed at the overall CINEMATOGRAPHY of the game which seems at times 
 overly serious to overly comedic.
  
  So remember, you have to be OPEN MINDED about this game. Remember where it comes from. This is 
 MG. This is what you get : the most advanced yet MG game ever. It is a piece of art. A chef d'oeuvre. 
 But its MG.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Coleslaw893
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 12, 2009 4:43 pm PT
Review:  Ten years ago, Metal Gear Solid was released, and gamers got to experience a game like no other. 
 It had a deep story, memorable characters, state of the art gameplay, and beautiful graphics for 
 its time. Now, ten years later, Metal Gear Solid 4: Guns of The patriots has arrived, and it tells 
 the end to this amazing saga, as well as Solid Snake's final mission. And its absolutely incredible.
 
  
  From the opening cinematic, you can tell that this is one amazing looking game. This is arguably 
 the best looking game of this generation, which, of course, makes it arguably the best looking 
 game of all time. Everything is incredibly detailed. Never before have I seen more realistically 
 rendered characters in a game before. The level of emotion the characters convey in facial expressions 
 is something most of Hollywood's best actors cannot match. The environments are also stellar. You 
 may run into a nasty texture once in a while if you look really close, but aside from that, everything 
 looks gorgeous.
  
  Metal Gear Solid 4 also contains some of the best sound work in a game to date. The voice acting 
 is once again some of the best in the video game industry. The voice actors help bring these characters 
 to life and express each character's emotions in a level of realism and believability that is nearly 
 unmatched. the music, like previous Metal Gear games, is some of the best and most memorable in 
 the business. There's a wonderful blend of newly composed tracks as well as the most memorable 
 from the previous Metal Gear titles. And everything else sounds incredible. From the roars of the 
 Gekko's, to the gunfire and explosions, and the chatter of various soldiers on the battlefield, 
 it simply sounds fantastic.
  
  The biggest change in Metal Gear Solid 4 compared to the previous games, aside from the graphics, 
 is the gameplay, which has been refined to the pinnacle of perfection. Many games have been claimed 
 that you can play through them the way you want to play through them, and Metal Gear Solid 4 is 
 one of the few titles that actually delivers on this promise. You can play through the whole game 
 in the classic Metal Gear way of using stealth, or you can play it as a third person shooter. Combat 
 was never a wise course of action in the previous Metal Gear titles, but all that has changed in 
 Metal Gear Solid 4, as the iffy over the head shooting controls of the previous Metal Gear Solid 
 games have been replaced with a perfect over the shoulder shooting mechanic. I can't stress enough 
 just how responsive and precise the third person shooting controls are, their just that good. The 
 first person shooting is also much more accurate and effective than it was in the previous Metal 
 Gear Solid games as well. Taking the stealthy route is now more fun than ever, thanks to the brilliant 
 OctoCamo, which allows you to blend into any environment in a matter of seconds. The CQC (That's 
 close quarters combat) , introduced in Metal Gear Solid 3 also returns, and is much more streamlined 
 and less cumbersome. Put simply, the gameplay in Metal Gear Solid 4 is about as perfect as it gets.
 
  
  The story in Metal Gear Solid 4 is arguably the third best in the franchise, it doesn't flow quite 
 as well as Metal Gear Solid or Metal Gear Solid 3, and it doesn't have the same well structured 
 pace those titles had either, it was also presented just a tad choppier than I would have liked. 
 That being said, it's still one of the best written, most fascinating, compelling, and emotionally 
 moving stories I've ever seen in a game, movie, TV series, anywhere. It also accomplishes the monumental 
 task of answering every single question that has been left lingering after the previous Metal Gear 
 games, as well as exposing many other revelations sure to shock and surprise any Metal Gear fan. 
 I was gripped from beginning to end.
  
  Overall Metal Gear Solid 4 is a gaming, and cinematic masterpiece. Hideo Kojima's original goal 
 of creating an interactive action movie has finally been perfected, as the transition of cut scene 
 to in-game is absolutely seamless. You can tell just how much love, and attention to detail Kojima 
 Productions put into this game, the graphics are mind blowing, the sound is incredible, the gameplay 
 is as near perfect as it gets, and it would be a sin to not mention the amazing boss battles, which 
 are among the best I've ever had the pleasure battling in a game before. However the Metal Gear 
 Solid games have always required an acquired taste, and Metal Gear Solid 4 Is not going change 
 the minds of people who couldn't get into Metal Gear games before, and it's not going to bring 
 in many new fans either, and honestly shouldn't be played by those that haven't followed the series 
 since the original Metal Gear Solid, but it delivers on its purpose, its everything a Metal Gear 
 fan could hope or want for, and its a fitting coda to the series, as well as a proper and honorable 
 send out for Solid Snake. In conclusion, Metal Gear Solid 4 is arguably the best game available 
 on the PlayStation 3, of 2008, and of this generation so far. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pincrup
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 10, 2009 11:10 pm PT
Review:  Metal Gear Solid 4: Guns of the Patriots is the most technically stunning video game ever made. 
 It's also a fine example of storytelling prowess within its medium, combining gameplay and narrative 
 so slickly and beautifully that it's impossible to extricate one from the other. It's likely you 
 will emerge awestruck from your first play-through, wishing the experience would continue yet nonetheless 
 satisfied with its conclusion. It's difficult not to sound hyperbolic when discussing MGS4 because 
 every part of its design seemingly fulfills its vision, without compromise. There is no halfway. Fully 
 realized, lengthy story sequences will come as no surprise to anyone who has played a Metal Gear 
 game. You'll spend a good half of MGS4 watching cinematics, but it would be a grave misinterpretation 
 to assume that great gameplay takes a backseat to the story. Rather, these two elements are tightly 
 intertwined, and this tapestry is held together by an important technical thread: Cutscenes that 
 are rendered fully in real time within the game engine. It's impressive enough that these scenes 
 look as good as any prerendered cinematic you've ever watched. It's even more amazing when those 
 same scenes transition without pause into gameplay, and the same hulking mech you watched lumber 
 about in the cinematic is looming above you. The subtle animations, the lush environments, and 
 the rich textures are the same in and out of story sequences, and the effect is so seamless it 
 may take your breath away. You can skip past the scenes if you prefer, but doing so would soften 
 the experience. The story sequences carry more weight because of the intense gameplay that precedes 
 them -- and the gameplay feels more compelling because the story gives you powerful reasons to care 
 about your mission. The high point of this fusion occurs in an exciting and memorable split-screen 
 sequence that simply must be experienced. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: killzone2_09
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 10, 2009 3:08 am PT
Review:  MGS4 guns of the patriot. MGS4 is the best game i have ever played. The graphics are JAW-DROPPING, 
 the game play is incredible and the story is just wow, it is a fantastic game in all respects just 
 online was hmm, well **** but that doesn't matter, like most games that are good dont have online! 
 Like bioshock. but if you like stealth or love going rambo stiel or even teaming up with the rebols; 
 the game is for you...... The game is for everyone!!!
  
  MGS4s storyline is just, well there is nothing to compere it to its just plane old WOW. If you 
 like to watch long animated stories well here is the game for you, there are lots of charectors 
 that will make you lough and make you poo your pants lol. Weather its dumb blondy having problems 
 with is boel.... or the gecos mooing at lol i never new why the mooed, the story line is fantastic
 
  
  MGS4 is the best stealth/rambo/team (srt yeah that should be a new one unless it out? pretty shore 
 it isnt.) game in the world by far. you can eather team up with the rebols, sneak past your enemies 
 or just go crazy and kill everyone :) personaly i like teaming up with the rebols :) there idiots 
 but the thay move a bollet or two away from you:) so really the game is for every one but not xbox 
 players :) lol
  enjoy kujima's power in the gaming industry. U NEED THIS GAME 
::::::

::::::
UserName: drummerdickens
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 9, 2009 10:32 am PT
Review:  Firstly, I need to state this is by far the greatest game I have yet to experience on the Playstation 
 3. Having just completed this game, I can honestly say I feel that, despite the linear level design, 
 I could go and complete it again in a completely different way. There are a plethora of weapons 
 I didn't try, a multitude of routes I didn't go and I still have the online to try.
  
  However, it must be said that although the game is near perfection in its own right, its only failing 
 is the supremacy of previous titles. Firstly, the story ends and for my taste, ends in a wholly 
 unsatisfying way. The curious statements of Drebin, a gun launderer you meet in the first act, 
 and even the stylish "adverts" at the start of the game lead one to believe there is a lot more 
 than meets the eye to the plot, whereas in fact the philosophy and lengthy cutscenes contribute 
 to little in way of concluding the series, and I for one think 4 main titles and a spattering of 
 spin off's demand a greater ending.
  
  Furthermore, the gameplay is no longer about stealth or espionage. This isn't to say the game is 
 easy, far from it. The PSone game of 1998 left you feeling raw and exposed. You had no "easy mode" 
 tranquiliser gun, no octocamo which allows you to be in the line of sight of an enemy with no punishment, 
 and even silencers for your standard guns were few and far between. In short, MGS1 was a true stealthing 
 game. For me, the vast arsenal Snake possesses in MGS4 means you rely less on stealth and can fall 
 back quite easily on a cheap trick rather than genuine espionage.
  
  On its own it is one of the most stylish, impressive and outright amazing games you will ever play. 
 Yet old school MGS players may play this and feel the game is a bubble wrapped, more forgiving 
 version of MGS1, and expect an ending of the most epic proportions, yet experience what is in fact 
 a merely "adequate" conclusion. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Daniel72296
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 7, 2009 1:51 pm PT
Review:  I pity the people who are not MGS fans. They are such fantastic games, and Hideo Kojima (creator 
 of MGS) is a genious. I don't know how he could make this game better, what with the awesome gameplay, 
 fun online, and great cinematic features. All the MGS games are godly, all the way from the beginning. 
 It has to have the most compelling and interesting story I've ever heard of in a video game. Even 
 when you know what's about to happen in a cutscene, it's just incredible because it is what makes 
 MGS, MGS. This is the best Metal Gear game up to date, and the best PS3 game, I might add. Anybody 
 who plays this without playing all of the other games, it will seem boring and not as fun. But 
 if you've played through all the games and beaten them, this will come out as a great ending and 
 the most surpising. If you are a MGS fanatic and have not played this one, I encourage you to save 
 your money and buy it. It is worth every penny. 
  
  And it includes every single character who has been in the series like Raiden and Vamp, and even 
 other characters that are idealists of the bad guys from the first game (Screaming Mantis, Laughing 
 Octopus, Raging Raven) .
  
  Even if you aren't a Metal Gear Solid fan, I still would like you to give this game a shot. It 
 is my favorite game of all-time, and it would definitely, if not first, get on the top of your 
 favorite games list, too. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Tikicobra
Rating: 6
Date: Apr 6, 2009 3:55 pm PT
Review:  Metal Gear Solid 4 is obviously one of the most critically acclaimed games of the generation. People 
 praise its storyline and characters, but one important factor that people forget is the actual 
 gameplay, because while Metal Gear Solid 4 offers a deep and inventive storyline, it's really just 
 a cover for the game's mediocre gameplay and boring multiplayer. The game gives you the ability 
 to choose between sneaking about and avoiding combat or running straight into the fight, but it 
 can be so frustrating to hide that you'll be forced into engaging in the game's boring shootouts, 
 while other portions force you to use combat to continue forward. Combat in Metal gear Solid 4 
 isn't bad, but it's so repetitive and unoriginal that it's practically broken.
  
  Stealth in Metal Gear Solid 4 generally revolves around hiding under a barrel and trying to stay 
 behind cover. It's not bad in itself, but the enemies detect you too easily and the level of patience 
 required to sneak past most of the game's levels is ridiculous because level designs are sometimes 
 awkward to navigate due to all the wreckage, or in some cases, the similar-looking areas. The combat 
 is what you'd expect from basically any game with guns. You press L1 to go into and over-the-shoulder 
 view and press R1 to fire. Gunfights aren't bad, but they're repetitive and lack the creativity 
 required to bring some sizzle to a tired genre.
  
  The game includes an online component called Metal Gear Online, which is really just a poor attempt 
 at extending the game's playability. You have to pay for additional character slots, and you can 
 only have one to begin with on your console, which can't be edited. And unfortunately, you have 
 to have a character to play the game, so if you've already used the character on one account, you'll 
 have to share it with your others. The game itself is just as boring as the campaign, except with 
 lots of hackers and cheaters, which only worsen an already boring game. And as registration and 
 installation are such a pain, it's just a big hassle for a very poor game.
  
  The storyline is compelling for fans of the series, though for the everyone else it's convoluted 
 and hard to follow. If you haven't played previous Metal Gear Solid games then you have no use 
 for Metal Gear Solid 4, as it's all about the story, and the gameplay isn't fun enough to justify 
 its price. If you're a fan of the series then the story could make it worthwhile, but in the end 
 Metal Gear Solid 4 is more of a movie than an actual game, with its long, constant cutscenes and 
 watered-down shooter gameplay. That's not to say the cutscenes are bad, though. Fans of Metal Gear 
 Solid will be constantly gaping at the events that unfold throughout the game.
  
  Metal Gear Solid 4 looks very pretty. Character models look great and the environments can be pretty 
 when they're supposed to and ugly when they're not. The art here is fantastic, with some interesting 
 color palettes and excellent character designs. The game all runs at a very steady framerate, with 
 very few dips to speak of. The level designs can often be frustrating, with plenty of similar-looking 
 areas and enemies that come in endless waves and must be avoided, but the actual levels have some 
 very interesting art in them and can be fun to look at.
  
  Metal Gear Solid 4's musical score is dramatic and fitting, with some truly epic tunes throughout. 
 The sound effects are good, but they're nothing compared to the voice acting and music in the game. 
 The sound of enemies detecting you is goofy, but often ruins the more tense moments of the game. 
 The voice acting is excellent. Snake sounds like the old smoker that he appears to be, while Otacon 
 sounds like a computer nerd. Overall, the ound adds a lot to the experience, and is one of Metal 
 Gear Solid 4's greatest accomplishments.
  
  Metal Gear Solid 4 offers a deep, engaging story to those interested, but the actual gameplay is 
 both unoriginal and repetitive, while the multiplayer is a much greater pain than it should be. 
 The visuals are pretty, the voice acting is fitting and the musical score is top notch, and the 
 campaign lasts a good amount of time, so if you're interested in Metal Gear Solid then this game 
 should be worth the money, but if you aren't a fan of the storyline then the gameplay here is too 
 boring to justify purchasing it. In the end, Metal Gear Solid 4 manages to disguise its lackluster 
 gameplay with its story and production values, but only if you're not here for the actual game. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: loonypalooza
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 6, 2009 2:40 pm PT
Review:  Own a PlayStation 3? Well if you do, you need to buy this game! Metal Gear Solid 4 is one of the 
 greatest games to have come out in quite a while; in other words, it is difficult to find something 
 wrong with this game. The world created in the game draws the gamer in, and does not let go until 
 the dramatic end of this pretty lengthy game. What is truly fantastic about MGS4 is that it is 
 3 games in one; you can go all out and shoot everything in sight with assault rifle or play through 
 it as a stealth game and try to knock out or tranquilize all of the enemies if you feel like sticking 
 to the MGS formula. The third element is deciding who to help, which side to fight with; PMCs or 
 Rebels. I immediately fell in love with the new characters and the old ones from past games in 
 the series. The only problem that some people may have with Metal Gear Solid 4 is the fact that 
 some of the cut scenes throughout the game exceed 30 minutes, but each one is well crafted and 
 brings depth to the characters and story while keeping that over the top Metal Gear feel. Metal 
 Gear Solid 4 does not disappoint, with a riveting storyline and fantastic graphics, production 
 value and that Kojima sense of humor that the series is known for, it is sure to appeal to gamers 
 new and old to the series. Once again, BUY this game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ubermensche
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 5, 2009 6:15 pm PT
Review:  I am going to make this review short and sweet.
  
  Graphics: Phenomenal. At times I thought I was watching a movie. The cut-scenes can be long because 
 they are pulled off so well.
  
  Sound: Music, dialogue, sound effects, etc is all mixed incredibly well. One of the few series 
 that has always managed to have a good script that is performed well. 
  
  Story: One of the best, and most relevant story lines to ever grace a video game. Kojima is a master 
 at making insightful observations based on the world today to create his world. Although someone 
 should play the previous games to understand what is going on much better. 
  
  Online: The online is surprisingly good. It has a good following and Konami continues to support 
 it with expansion packs that can be purchased. 
  
  The only downside is a few of the levels rely too much on trial and error. This gets frustrating 
 at times, but in the long haul, is worth sticking with it to finish the story. 
  
  Bottom Line: If you like good games, you will like MGS4 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Koi-Neon-X
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 2, 2009 3:06 pm PT
Review:  The video game world waited. I had this game pre-ordered the minute I was able to do so. After 
 the great Grand Theft Auto IV came and went it was now time to get into another most anticipated 
 game.
  
  I have played Metal Gear (NES) and the sequel. I have played and finished Metal Gear Solid (PS1) 
 Metal Gear Solid 2: Sons Of Liberty (PS2) and Metal Gear Solid 3: Snake Eater. If there was ever 
 a game I could not wait to play then this game is it.
  
  
  The intro really got the juices flowing. I'd say my favorite part is the OctoCamo suit and how 
 the watermelon touches Solid Snake's leg and the leg takes the color of the watermelon! unbelievable! 
 not alot of breathing on that part as those monsters were on the lookout for me and I was RIGHT 
 THERE!
  
  
  As I said the OctoCamo is just as cool as the invisible camo in MGS if not cooler. You literally 
 take on the color of whatever you are trying to blend with. The effect is jaw dropping and I found 
 myself trying to blend in with everything just to see what it would look like.
  
  
  The graphics in this game are TOP OF THE LINE! and it's a good thing too because there are alot 
 of cut scenes (which by the way did not bother me one bit) and the music by Harry Gregson-Williams 
 and Nobuko Toda is STELLAR and adds everything to what is going on on-screen.
  
  I also like the first person perspective and the over the shoulder camera involved in the gameplay 
 as it makes for a much easier playing experience. I liked the gadgets such as the Solid Eye, the 
 night vision, and the little MK II robot that you can use to scope the territory ahead before you 
 proceed.
  
  
  The series has been known for it's off-the-wall boss battles and characters and this game is NO 
 DIFFERENT. The bosses here will amaze and intrigue. I have to say the battle with Laughing Octopus 
 and Crying Wolf rank as my favorite in the game.
  
  I'll let you know now those who haven't played the game and played Metal Gear Solid 2: Sons Of 
 Liberty and thought lowly of Raiden: In this game he KICKS A** this is a new and improved Raiden 
 and I'll say that his moves will leave you in awe. That's all I have to say about that.
  
  In this game Solid Snake is indeed the proverbial old man tired of being put into the middle of 
 the conflict and the aches and pains that come with age are beginning to show on this great hero. 
 There is also something that has affected me as well.
  
  **SPOILER ALERT**
  
  
  **The return to Shadow Moses. If any of you are familiar with Metal Gear Solid on the PS1 then 
 you'll know what I am talking about. A wave of things familiar and intimacy washed over me. It 
 was like seeing an old friend after many years of separation. I just stood there and it all came 
 back to me. It was eerie coming back here after all this time and seeing it in its present condition. 
 It feels like eons have passed since I was last here. Then you crawl in the ducts and can hear 
 the voices of the past. I am telling you right now I had tears in my eyes because I was there, 
 I remember, and it is very moving. For me this is my favorite part in the game because is struck 
 a chord within my heart, mind, and soul. Not many games can pull this off but, this one I am happy 
 to say- has. Just seeing the ghosts of the past and the scenes that unfolded all those years ago 
 are an emotional experience never to be forgotten.**
  
  
  It was a game I was in a hurry to play but, I also wanted Hideo Kojima-San to take his time. I 
 knew I'd receive a masterpiece (the saying "good things come to those who wait" was never more 
 true until now)
  
  I'd say if you haven't played ANY of these games try to get a Nintendo 8-bit and a copy of Metal 
 Gear. The PS2 also has The Metal Gear Solid Essential Collection which features MGS, MGS2, and 
 MGS3. In my opinion to just play MGS4 without the benefit of playing the previous installments 
 is just no good.
  Experience ALL of them and complete ALL of them. You'll be glad you did and there I believe you'll 
 get the ultimate payoff once you play MGS4.
  
  Alot has been said about the ending. My advice is bring popcorn and soda because you'll be here 
 there awhile. I'm not giving up ANYTHING about the ending but, I will say the team behind the game 
 did a great job on not just the game itself but wrapping up everything in a wonderful package.
 
  
  
  It is a must own game. You hear that alot from people. Well, this game has been awarded GAME OF 
 THE YEAR by just about every magazine, website, and other source on the planet. That really says 
 alot for this game. It IS perfect. I could not find one flaw in this game (not that I was looking) 
 but, trust me you won't find one. I have already finished the game and it broke my heart when I 
 had to sell it. I'd never let the game go under normal circumstances but, hear this: I bought the 
 game again and I'll be playing through the game again. Not to mention that there is an online mode 
 available.
  
  Game Of The Year fits this game perfectly but, I prefer to give it another title as well: Game 
 Of A Lifetime. They don't make alot like these anymore and it makes me wonder just how good the 
 next installment in this series is going to be. I have a feeling it will continue the Metal Gear 
 Solid magic like it has since Metal Gear Solid-Metal Gear Solid 3: Snake Eater. Metal Gear Solid 
 4: Guns Of The Patriots is a "10" in every possible way.
  
  So, if you are current in Metal Gear Solid history you MUST play this game and if you are new to 
 the series: please don't cheat yourself and play the Metal Gear Solid Essential Collection first. 
 As for me I look forward to what Metal Gear Solid has for me next. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lancefd
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 2, 2009 9:09 am PT
Review:  Now I know why MGS4 is game of the year for 2008 in Gamespot. All the aspects of the game were 
 just molded together with great perfection.
  
  The visuals were stunning. The texture of each character model is so realistic that when you use 
 the viewer in the menu, you can distinguish the texture of the leather balaclava from a silk necktie 
 from cloth pants as the light touches it as you turn the Snake around. The explosions are so realistic 
 that I tried to look for a pattern in the smoke but I can't. The water ripples are as realistic 
 as the ripples comes from Snake as he walks in water and these ripples bounce back as it hits land. 
 Animation is fantastic most especially when Snake crawls slowly. Everyone moves realistically.
 
  
  The audio was exhilarating. The explosions, gun fire, change mag are great. Along with the visuals, 
 it makes MGS4 great to watch as you play. The voice acting is great as usual having David Hayter 
 play the part from MGS1 to MGS4.
  
  The gameplay was amazing. You can go stealth as I did or go shoot to kill. Plan to be go shoot 
 to kill on my 2nd run. The original view is great as well as the 3rd person aim mode and the 1st 
 person aim mode. 
  
  The game like previous MGS games is a cinematic game. But the cut scenes and action have perfect 
 transition. The game ties the story from all MGS games. The epilogue was exciting as the story 
 makes you realize things about the story as the truth unfolds.
  
  The game especially at Act 4 brings nostalgia. There is even a playable MGS1 part! The return to 
 Shadow Moses brings back memories when I played MGS1 years ago on my PS1. This part of the game 
 sucked me in more about the MGS series. The map is like FF7 from PS1 recreated to the FF7 tech 
 demo but its an entire playable map! Everything looked familiar as I could remember each part of 
 the facility. And there are even voice flashbacks from MGS1.
  
  This game is a must have for PS3 owners most especially for MGS veterans. Each aspect of the game 
 is perfectly blended together to bring a masterpiece that is Metal Gear Solid 4. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SymphonyOfAshes
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 31, 2009 4:35 pm PT
Review:  Yes, Metal Gear Solid 4. The long awaited "reason to buy a PS3." Well, to be honest, it's true. 
 The game is really good enough to be a reason to buy the PS3, but did it live up to MY standards? 
 No.
  
  I am a big Metal Gear Solid fan, which INCLUDES MGS2 (yes, it's my favorite) . After I read the 
 review and saw that it was a perfect 10, something that only happened on GameSpot for like 4 games 
 (before GTA4 and MGS4 both got it in like the same month) , I couldn't help but be happy that the 
 game was actually probably worth all the hype.
  
  I was wrong. The game didn't make my hype, I expected it to be the single most amazing game I've 
 ever played, but I was disappointed because of that. It's not that amazing, it's just a really 
 good game. Enough about disappointment, I still gave it a 9, so here goes:
  
  The graphics are amazing for what they are. The game takes place in the Middle East and you can 
 tell for most of the time. You see broken tan-colored buildings and dust flying all over the place. 
 It's just got amazing graphics, to put it simply.
  
  The game's stealth is lacking to me. I enjoyed old times, where you just back into a wall and hide 
 under things and such. In this game you get an active octo-camo or something, where you just lay 
 down and your outfit will change to the color of the ground around you. It's a cool and innovative 
 thing, but it's also too weird and simple for me. The cinematics all make it look amazing, but 
 it's much more shallow than that, you end up using more of the walls around you to sneak around, 
 rather than even bother changing the camouflage.
  
  The storyline is amazing, though. I loved every single bit of it, and seeing all my favorite MGS 
 characters come together. I hadn't seen Meryl since MGS1, which was fun to see again. Seeing EVA 
 after she screwed over Big Boss was.. well it was interesting, I suppose. You could tell how much 
 she aged. And of course, Raiden. He's such a badass. I mean, everyone thinks he was a little girl 
 in MGS2, but I liked him even in that. This game made him awesome though. Taking the modern form 
 of a cyborg ninja (the original from MGS1 was my favorite character in the whole series, by the 
 way) , he saves you (Solid Snake) many times from danger, and his fights during cutscenes are quite 
 fun to watch. 
  
  As you can probably already tell, the cutscenes are amazing. The problem is that they're long, 
 and really, the story is basically all within the cutscenes, where the action is really just filler 
 until the next cutscene. That said, I can't complain much, because the cutscenes are incredible. 
 
  
  Yes, the game is a letdown for a fanatic, but it's not a bad game at all. It deserves better than 
 a 9, but I can't get myself to give it a 9.5. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: umair_s51
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 29, 2009 6:14 pm PT
Review:  MGS4 is a plot heavy stealth-action game. It's a game where you have to infiltrate a given situation 
 using cutting edge equipment and the protagonist's skill set.
  
  Let's start from the game's presentation: it's gorgeous. The character models in particular are 
 done really well. Visually this game will not disappoint. The music is perhaps even better, it 
 does a fantastic job of stirring a mood that complements it's story.
  
  Onto the gameplay: It can basically be summarized as a game where you do not alert the enemy of 
 your presence and either sneak pass them or take them out all together. The stealth system in short 
 is excellent, it is flexible and has been tuned to a great deal. The controls are very responsive. 
 While the mission progress is linear, each level offers a great deal of choice on how to approach 
 a given situation. There are a few shootouts/chase set-pieces to mix things up and the boss battles 
 are simply awesome.
  
  My first play-through was 30 hours long, and my second one was VERY different from the first one.
 
  
  
  Pros:
  
  -Outstanding gameplay 
  -Top notch presentation
  -Mature Storyline
  -Excellent replay value
  
  Cons:
  
  -New comers to the series
  will have a hard time
 
  understanding the story
  -Lengthy cutscenes
  
  MGS4 is one of the best game of all times, but that said it's long story may put off some. Fans 
 of the action/adventure genre must not miss out on this.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: SoulReaperSam
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 29, 2009 8:32 am PT
Review:  Good:
  
  
  * Stunning graphical imagery, the best seen on any console
  * One of the best storylines ever made, so many twists and turns
  * Cinematic cut scenes, some 
 lasting 15 minutes.
  * Feels as if you are in the cinemas watching
  * Computer AI is brilliantly smart
  * Shooting, hand to hand combat, feels just right.
  * Stealth 
 is now not a necesity, you can go guns blazing.
  * Using your camoflage is extremly fun.
  * Enemy's look superb and machines look futuristic
  * Each character has clearly been detailed 
 from head to feet.
  * Gadgets are extremly cool to use.
  
  Bad:
  
  * That it didnt go on forever!!
  
  Hideo Kojima once again shows the world that he is one of 
 the best if not the best games developer in the world!
  
  Metal Gear Solid 4 has uped the level of 'perfection'.
  This game will have you griped from beginning 
 till the end, truly a masterpiece, this game is without a doubt revolutionary.
  
  Every inch of detail looks great and the sound, from speaking to gun shots to robot movement sounds 
 out of this world.
  
  Each character grows on you untill you want them in every cutscene, and even the bad guys are hard 
 to hate as they are extremly cool!
  
  Every cutscene is gripping, right up untill the very end, the gameplay at first seems a little 
 'restrictive' but that is only because of snakes age, which shows how realistic this game really 
 is, and how he can become out of breath and sometimes is coughing due to his 'illness'.
  
  Overall this game is truly a brilliant stealth game, which can be turned around into a top shoot 
 'em up. There is no other game that is like this! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: llamalord3669
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 28, 2009 6:47 am PT
Review:  Metal Gear Solid 4 Guns of the Patriots is possibly the best game ever! it is masterpiece formula 
 perfected destroying all hopes of rivals for the next generation at least. Hideo Kojima squeezed 
 every trick he had left into this game and it came together perfectly. The game controls well once 
 you get used to the controls, is amazingly designed and is the best looking game ever made. The 
 one arguable problem with the game is the story to gameplay ratio. at the beginning of the game 
 it feels like 5 min of gameplay and 10 min of cutscenes, but it evens out in the end for 8 hours 
 of fun gameplay and 8 hours of epic awesome storytelling. this game tells its story so well and 
 that blends in with the gameplay flawlessly for a perfect blend. the online is also great with 
 many intense battlefields and firefights. overall, this game is epic, amazing, and easily worth 
 the 60$ for anyone with a ps3.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: SKELETOR555
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 27, 2009 7:18 pm PT
Review:  I bought this game the first day it came out, and WOW, I was stunned right off the bat. The graphics 
 were simply amazing. Best I have seen up to date. I know it may be a little late to write a review 
 cause the game is almost a year old, but hey hope this helps out newcomers to the PS3. Get this 
 game its as simple as that. Especially if you are a fan of the series, (like me.) This would be 
 a great game for newcomers but I highly recommend playing through the series to fully understand 
 this game. Believe me, they are all great. 
  
  (Warning May Contain Spoilers)
  
  The Metal Gear Series is known for the long cutsceens, and this might shy people away from playing 
 the game. Dont skip through them watch them to fully get everything out of the game. To me watching 
 them kinda pulls you in and makes you become part of whats going on. 
  
  (End of Spoilers)
  
  The gameplay is awesome, the controlls are tight, stunning visuals and 
 top notch sound. The Play through is just right and replay value is awesome. To sum it up if you 
 are getting a PS3 or have one but not this game, get trust me its the best game out there. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: IMBEST69
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 27, 2009 4:44 pm PT
Review:  Metal Gear Solid 4. A game, a movie, and an epic. Metal Gear Solid 4 ends the epic story of the 
 Legendary Soldier known as Solid Snake. It features returning characters like Otacon, Naomi, Raiden, 
 Vamp, Roy Cambell, and many more of your favorite characters including Ocelot and Liquid or Liquid 
 Ocelot.
  
  Now this is the best looking game out there, it's been out for almost a year and that's how long 
 I've had it too. I've played Resistance 2, Gears of War 2, Fallout 3, and Metal Gear is the best 
 looking of these games. The shadows, the dust when you crawl, the character models and the animation, 
 it's all amazing. Playing this I felt like I was in the middle of a war zone (I now know how Vietnam 
 was) .
  
  The story wraps up the series in a logical and satisfying way. Now this will be spoiler free (though 
 most people know what happens) so I won't give away the ending. Through the Acts of the game I 
 felt enthralled in the story. No other game has held me for 20 hours straight and satisfied me 
 in a way Metal Gear Solid 4 did. The characters were all interesting and I felt sorry for the good 
 guys and hatred for the bad guys. The ending sequences to the game are fueled by pain and emotion 
 and culminate in one final battle.
  
  The gameplay works well too. This is a stealth game and so the stealth works amazingly well. This 
 is far better then the previous MGS's and way better than Splinter Cell and the poor man's MGS 
 Syphon Filter. Now Metal Gear was never an all action game, but this one feels more actiony than 
 the rest, so that would be my complaint, but it's not a big one. Cause it makes Metal Gear the 
 perfect game, it's great for the stealth gamers and for the gamers who love action and anywhere 
 in between.
  
  So basically I have to say that MGS4 is the greatest game on the face of the Earth. It had me gripped 
 from beginning to the ending, even the second and third time I beat it. Oh, and the online is superb 
 as well. It mixes stealth and action very well too. One of a kind Online game. So everyone with 
 a PS3 needs to play MGS4 and it more than makes up for the hefty price of the PS#. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: evolution_4
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 27, 2009 5:13 am PT
Review:  this is the best game, although i don't have a ps3 now but I finished the game. If u get a ps3, 
 get this as your first game. WARNING this game can be too addicting and has extremely good graphics 
 and awesome missions. Ma favorite part is the last battle and even the cut scenes are great. Over 
 all it is 10/10 and u have to get it
  (ima repeat everything: this is the best game, although i don't have a ps3 now but I finished the 
 game. If u get a ps3, get this as your first game. WARNING this game can be too addicting and has 
 extremely good graphics and awesome missions. Ma favorite part is the last battle and even the 
 cut scenes are great. Over all it is 10/10 and u have to get it (ima repeat everything: this is 
 the best game, although i don't have a ps3 now but I finished the game. If u get a ps3, get this 
 as your first game. WARNING this game can be too addicting and has extremely good graphics and 
 awesome missions. Ma favorite part is the last battle and even the cut scenes are great. Over all 
 it is 10/10 and u have to get it) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: warrenmats
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 25, 2009 8:30 pm PT
Review:  Ok im a 13 year old gamer ( dont make fun of me! ) ( I played it even its Mature rated but my parents 
 let me ._. )
  I dont have money to buy a ps3 so i go to my cousins house every 5 months to play video games ( 
 wat its caled homework)
  well, i played thi game for a while, and i was amazed by its brilliance
  great gameplay, the 
 awsome voice actors, different vararitys of weapons, o I was certainly pleased
  well, i dont have much to write, since yea i havent finished yet, but this game actually got me 
 into the series! its great! i never knew mgs was a great series, i love it!
  I played portable ops and O_O OMG! So awsome.
  Cut scences are the best for these seies, thats 
 what it makes this game so revolutionary. This game is better than Call of duty or Halo. Some might 
 think different, but thats my opinion
  so i recommend this game to everyone who loves playing video games
  salutes 
::::::

::::::
UserName: maverick_76
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 27, 2009 2:39 pm PT
Review:  Okay so after I replayed through the original three Metal Gear Solid games I finally set my sights 
 on playing through the magnum opus that is Metal Gear Solid 4, or MGS IV throughout the rest of 
 this review. The first thing that we notice as the game starts is it is pretty much presented the 
 same way as the previous entries were in the series. There is usually an extended cut-scene to 
 set up the storyline before you can even jump into the action. But a nice little improvement was 
 before you even jump into the main game (while it is loading) there are channels like on a TV that 
 you can flip through that show commercials or TV shows that are connected in some way or another 
 to the actual game, which is really cool. So as we now are about to continue on Snake's journey 
 we of course now know there are still the lengthy cutscenes that don't have to but should be watched 
 to enhance and also just understand the somewhat convoluted story that Hideo Kojima is trying to 
 tell us. To help stave off boredom for people with ADD there is now flash back sequences that allow 
 you to hit a button on the controller during certain parts of a cut-scene to access stills from 
 previous games to give you a little game to play while also making you pay attention to the story 
 by paying you Drebin points (more on this later) for every time you press a button.
  
  We now find Snake in a pretty dire situation, his body has rapidly aged for reasons we do not yet 
 know and it seems that he is too old to continue on this last great mission to save the world. 
 The game does a great job to have you realize this by making snake groan after staying hunched 
 over too long, slapping his back to work the kinks out. Also during cutscenes he constantly is 
 coughing, no doubt from his high dosage of cigarettes over his life and the decline in his physique. 
 You really get a sense that Snake is going on will alone and not much else and the story really 
 has parts during which you feel for snake and the punishment you are putting him through. 
  
  Because Snake is going on another one of his trademark sneaking missions he is inserted into 
 the field with very little in terms of firepower but gadget wise he is certainly stacked. Otacon 
 (Snake's personal scientist and friend) has built him a tiny robot that can scurry around levels 
 in stealth camo and scout out the area to help keep snake out of danger. it also has a taser attached 
 to it to be able to stun guards and that also helps Snake move around easier as well. Instead of 
 the soliton radar from the first two MGS games and sonar and radar combo from the third you now 
 have an eye-patch that can render sonar and radar at the same time, pretty similar to the third 
 game. It also allows you to use night vision and also serves as binoculars for Snake as well, making 
 it one of the most used and useful gadgets in the game. Possibly the coolest thing and most important 
 gadget you have in your arsenal in this game is the octo-camo. This camouflage takes the selectable 
 camo from MGS III and expands on it by being adaptable to whatever Snake is pressing his body against. 
 Simply lie on the ground and the suit changes color and texture to the ground to help you blend 
 in with the enviroment better and eliminate the need to pause the game to swap out camo suits like 
 you had to in MGS III. Also snake has some new moves in his arsenal and the CQC system from the 
 third game has returned but has been made much more intuitive and easier to execute this time around. 
 
  
  This all makes playing the game a joy to do because you can seamlessly shoot someone, leap into 
 the dark and automatically camouflage yourself to evade the impending patrol. To combat this the 
 game has made your life gauge on the harder difficulties much more fragile, and you can die much 
 faster now so avoiding detection is paramount in this game. The enemy A. I. is pretty competent 
 and avoiding a patrol out after you is much harder than in previous games. But with all the new 
 tricks up your sleeve and gadgets you can use this really makes the game have a satisfying feel 
 and not feel frustrating at all. 
  
  As in all MGS games there are bosses and boss battles and this game is no exception. The amazing 
 boss battles from MGS III have not been outdone in this game but have definitely been matched. 
 You still have to figure out how to beat these bosses and that is half the fun in playing them, 
 of course the other half is demolishing them once you have found their weakness. 
  
  Your supporting cast is as robust as ever with General Cambell, Otacon and a guy named Drebin as 
 well as some other surprises as well. Drebin is the most unusual of the three because you interact 
 with him probably the most in the game. Drebin is a gun launderer and since most of the weapons 
 Snake comes across in the game are I. D. tagged as in previous games, Drebin is very useful to helping 
 you unlock the guns you want, at a price of course. Those Drebin points I was referring to earlier 
 are accrued by picking up weapons dropped by soldiers on the battlefield and are exchanged for 
 new weapons, ammo, upgrades and accessories of all sorts. Speaking of the weapons in the game that 
 you get the opportunity to use, they are amazing and there are a smattering of them! They are all 
 detailed extremely accurately and have upgrades that you can add to them like flashlights, laser 
 sights, scopes etc. that really do make the gun a better weapon. There are so many that it is impossible 
 to buy and upgrade every gun that is in the game, which gives the game major re-playability. 
 
  
  Another core part of a game keeping your interest long after the story is over is being able to 
 play a compelling and fun multiplayer battle. In steps Metal Gear Online, which has your standard 
 assortment of capture the flag, deathmatch, team deathmatch, secure and hold etc. gameplay modes. 
 One of the cooler ones is where a player gets to play as snake and try and collect the dog-tags 
 of killed or incapacitated soldiers. The remaining players are distributed into two teams that 
 are trying to score points by killing Snake and killing the other team. This is a really fun mode 
 because it allows a player to have a single player sneaking mission experience with other live 
 people and test their skills against the ultimate opponent, other humans. Online also has support 
 for clans and tracks stats, which makes the online portion of the game comprehensive.
  
  The game in itself is very well put together, a very good story and the only real niggling issue 
 the game has is the cutscenes' amount and duration (the games cut-scene material was about three 
 hours long with the longest clocking in around 30 minutes) . This does add much more than it detracts 
 but this might not sit well with some players accustomed to your average game consisting of maybe 
 30 minutes of cutscenes in it's entirety! Overall this game is a must buy for anyone that owns 
 a PlayStation 3 and has a penchant for action/shooter games. This game hits the nail on the head 
 for what Kojima was trying to do and for that this game is the best MGS game to date!
  
  UPDATE: After a closer look at the actual cut-scene times, the total amount of time of cut-scene 
 footage is around 8 hours. This includes every section that you are not playing but watching. The 
 longest cut-scene is still around 30 minutes though. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: The_Punisher25
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 23, 2009 4:48 pm PT
Review:  I cannot complain with the plot, which is brilliant as we all excepted, nor with any technical 
 aspect of course.
  Kojima said that with MGS4 he wanted to show War as it was never shown in any MGS game: right into 
 the action.
  That of course explains all those skirmishes where you'll find yourself in during most of the game.
 
  The REAL problem with this concluding episode of this Amazing saga is the way they wanted you 
 to play it, far from its predecessors.
  An oodles of weapons pointlessly, the concept "Stealth" completely disappeared and THAT's a thing 
 which I'm really sure of about this game!!!
  You're in a damn battlefield, does the "Alert" on your CODEC still mean something?! 
  No.
  
 Even the bosses of the game are disappointing (it's like you keep repeating the same battle on 
 and on!) .
  Let's say This a beautiful game but for these things it can't stand the other MGS's .
  That's 
 a real pity it could have been a perfect quadrilogy... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DEATHBYYAK
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 23, 2009 5:30 am PT
Review:  I was hesitant about buying Metal gear solid 4, as the cut scenes on 2 and 3 did my head in a bit, 
 and seemed to drone on and on, but im pleased to say i didn't mind them on Metal Gear 4, i actually 
 enjoyed them, i don't know if it was the fact they were interactive or just more interesting. I 
 Also loved old Snake the character was brilliant. Anyway about the game it is absolutely stunning, 
 the game is technically superior over the others and its a lot easier to aim your gun and the fact 
 you can now move in first person view makes it a lot easier. and the graphics are second to none 
 they really show off the playstations power. I loved the bosses and looked forward to every battle. 
 The return to Shadow Moses was brilliant and brought back great memories. All in all just and all 
 round brilliant game, which is a great addition to any PS3 owners game collection. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: simpsons_28
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 22, 2009 12:57 pm PT
Review:  All right I stayed up all night for one week just to finesh this game! My hair was dirty and I 
 smelt like crap! But trust me it was worth it.
  PROS:
  A great engaging storyline that keeps you guessing.
  A new over the shoulder camera let's you 
 get better headshots.
  First person is still here.
  Every character sounds like they should.
  Plot twists pop up everywhere.
  Many old characters 
 return. (Naomi Hunter)
  Graphics
  gameplay
  everything else.
  CONS:
  Sadly, the single player ends sometime.
  
  This game is just masterful. My favorite part would 
 have to be where your crawling on your hands and knees being hit with microwaves while everyone 
 you have worked with over the years is about to die. That part just showed you the true hero in 
 Snake.
  Also if you whine about how I spoiled that part for you it's your own dane fault!
  Anyways MGS4 is so good. You must go out get a PS3 just to play this masterpeice of a game. It's 
 as good as gaming get's! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: WanderleiSilva2
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 19, 2009 5:54 am PT
Review:  Everything about this game is genius. Konami made sure Snake went out in style with this masterpiece. 
 By far, the best in the series..... Finally, a game lives up to the hype.
  
  The Good -
  1. Story is incredible with occasional twists that keep you on your feet. You can literally spend 
 an hour watching the story waiting to play at some points in the game. It sucks you right in and 
 keeps you wanting to play more and more.
  2. Graphics are visually stunning. The attention to detail put into this game is incredible and 
 second to none.
  3. Atmosphere is always changing between levels...... Between fighting in the jungle to fighting 
 aboard a ship.
  4. Sound effects and audio is perfect. Especially with surround sound. Familiar vocals and same 
 characters as the series drives this game home.
  5. Gameplay and control set-up is exactly where it should be. If you have played any of the other 
 MGS games, you will be able to jump right into this one without even stumbling.
  6. Enemies are extremely detailed and original...... Not too mention, the bosses are exceptionally 
 challenging on harder levels.
  7. Problem solving is imminent and vital to completing the game. Some bosses and areas, you really 
 need to think of the best way to embark the mission objectives.
  8. Weapons varieties are perfect as well as the ability to utilize gadgets during gameplay.
  
 9. Snake is versatile in every way.... from climbing and hanging from objects to getting in the 
 prone. More games (like Uncharted and Dead Space) should take notice on how critical and necessary 
 it is to have full control of your player.
  10. Great resale value (if you choose to sell it at a gaming store) .
  
  
  The Bad -
  1. 
 Vehicles and heavy machinery, such as tanks, would be nice to have the option to operate.
  2. The story ends only leaving opening for a prequel to see how Raiden was created, how Liquid 
 formed his alliance, etc.....
  
  
  There isnt much else I can pick apart about this game. Its a must have even if you have never played 
 any of the other MGS games...... It will leave you wanting more when the game is all said and done. 
 Pure masterpiece....... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dumassed2k
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 18, 2009 5:24 pm PT
Review:  When God created the world he must have been proud, patted himself on the back and sighed with 
 relief. He then continued from therefore to always look after the world and all of his creations.
 
  
  Hideo Kojima created MGS4 and left MGS series forever.
  
  I mean the Earth is pretty cool, but MGS4 is a bit better. I mean the Earth would be ruined if 
 Snake had not saved the day.
  
  I mean does Kojima think he is really going to create a better game let alone a better series! 
 Metal gear solid 4: Guns of the patriots, is a true test to what humanity can produce when great 
 minds use those minds in constructive ways. I mean the MGS series is fantastic and will always 
 be one of the series that stands out through the gaming industry's history. But with MGS4 Kojima 
 productions went even further by creating, one of the truly great masterpieces of our time. With 
 every level being so immersive so tense and fun (except for one level) they could not go wrong.
 
  
  Liquid is at it again, Snake is growing old at an alarmingly fast rate and Sonny can't cook eggs.
 
  
  MGS4 starts with Snake in a graveyard with a serious amount of pretty looking flowers, which is 
 obviously Kojima's way of showing graphics off. A helicopter lands in the graveyard, yea sort of 
 strange but its okay MGS4 gets away with little niggles like this. Otacon runs out of the helicopter 
 to Snake to talk about his rapid ageing, they come to the conclusion that they have no idea what 
 is causing Snake to grow old and cynical so fast and that Snake is going to die soon. Yet as soon 
 as Snake receives this terrible news he is called inside the helicopter and is reunited with his 
 old friend the coronal, before Snake can get over his bad news he is to be whisked away to the 
 middle east to save the world from Liquid and his wrong-doings.
  
  There are 5 different acts in MGS4 each placing you in a different location across the globe forcing 
 you to stop PMCs, private military companies that are being controlled by Liquid. I mean there 
 is a whole huge story to MGS4 which would take a hell of a long time to explain so I won't go in 
 to detail. 
  
  Each act will have you take on or sneak past waves of PMCs. Now as most of you will know, there 
 is a twist to MGS4 that is different to the other previous games of the series, this time Snake 
 can actually get into a fire fight with emphasis on the title GUNS of the patriots sticking in 
 my mind. Snake is now very well equipped and can hold his own in a fight and gun down nearly all 
 enemies. The stealth side of the game is still there very much so, but it is sort of dwarfed over 
 by the ability to now just be able to blast your way through levels instead of spending half your 
 time sneaking. Sneaking in some parts of the game are the only option, but most of the other times 
 gunning and running are the name of the game. This provides new players of the series the ability 
 to get to grips with the game a lot easier, this also branches the game to a wider audience.
  
  Gameplay in MGS4 is obviously two options either fight your way with bullets ablaze or sneak 
 around in true Solid Snake style. I have played through the game twice each time doing either one 
 of the two options of gameplay, and I have to say with MGS4 it really does not matter. Each element 
 is enjoyable and brings a new experience to the game, being able to shoot people like a normal 
 third person shooter makes MGS4 a lot easier. Like so many times in MGS, MGS2 and 3 there are times 
 where you just wish you had an assault rifle to get through a level well now MGS4 provides you 
 with that option. Plus boss fights can only be won by shooting and using lots of bullets.
  
  Sneaking on the other hand is another enjoyable experience with fans of the series being able 
 to go back to basics and sneak up behind enemies and use CQC to their hearts content. This also 
 makes the game a lot harder and longer, with MGS4 having considerably more enemies to make up for 
 the more use of guns. Players have to think more and more strategically to get through to the next 
 level. 
  
  Each level brings more challenging enemies to engage and more obstacles to overcome. At the end 
 of each act you will face one of the B&B corps, the beauties and the beast corps. These are some 
 of the most awesome and fearsome bosses I have ever come across in a game. Each being a woman with 
 a horrible and sometimes disgusting past, with each ones past being recited by the one and only 
 Drebin. Each B&B has some distinguishing feature and ways of being defeated, when you encounter 
 these bosses you really will be reaching for the guns, these intense boss battles can take some 
 time to figure out with or without Otacon giving you clues.
  
  The final fight is an absolute spectacle and left me in a rare state of emotion and awe, I shed 
 a tear at the end I must say. 
  
  MGS4s graphics are indescribable the game and the cutscenes are exactly the same, with each blending 
 nicely. The graphics are just incredible and absolutely beautiful to look at with or without a 
 HD TV. I think MGS4 is by far the most amazing looking game I have ever played, the amount of detail 
 and effort that has gone into the textures, buildings, clothes, guns, plants and general surroundings 
 is astounding. 
  
  Now the main problem I think that people have with MGS4 is that the cutscenes put them right off. 
 I was at first a bit sceptical of a game with only 15 hours of gameplay at the most and has over 
 9 hours of cut scenes or whatever the actually number is. But I can honestly say MGS4 just would 
 not be the same without the cutscenes, the cutscenes are enchanting to watch although some are 
 very long winded most are a refreshing and entertaining break from gameplay. The cutscenes look 
 fantastic and are masterfully written with characters being very believable and easy to watch without 
 cringing at either terrible voice acting or groaning at long speeches. I mean one cutscene which 
 involves Liquid and a lot of boats which is over 30 minutes long is a brilliant and exciting piece 
 that is just insane. 
  
  MGS4 at the end of the day is just another game in a great series; it is a fantastic end to what 
 is a great piece of gaming history. MGS4 will have you laugh, immersed, sad, excited, enchanted, 
 frustrated, annoyed, in awe and most of all begging for more. I think to be fair and serious we 
 really could not ask Kojima for anything better because this seriously is the pinnacle of gaming 
 wizardry.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: YekDastan316
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 18, 2009 3:43 pm PT
Review:  MGS4 is a true masterpiece and shows what the PS3 is capable of. 
  
  If you've never played the series and don't know the story behind MGS then you wont be at a total 
 loss, but if you want to get the full experience then knowing the story will make you love the 
 game even more. 
  
  Whats amazing about this game is that you can beat the game how ever you want. You can play the 
 game without killing a single soul, you can play by sneaking an not be seen even once, or you can 
 play by doing it rambo style and cause mayhem. Thats why this game will never get repetitive. The 
 enemy AI is really smart too. They can seance you by making noise like footsteps, smell and lots 
 more. On top of everything this game has AMAZING graphics. 
  
  If you don't have this game you are missing out. This is history in the making. This game will 
 be remembered for generations to come like Donkey Kong for the SNES. This is a must buy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mithrixx
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 27, 2009 1:10 pm PT
Review:  Metal Gear Solid was one of the most anticipated exclusives on PS3. Konami had been working very 
 hard on making that product, and they delivered -in my opinion- the most perfect game ever made. 
 I mean graphics were very beautiful, gameplay was flawless, and story was very touching. I need 
 to be fair here and show bad elements as well as good elemets, but I couldn't find anything annoying 
 about MGS other than the length of the cutscenes.
  
  Graphics in simple words were awesome. Textures, and environments are very detailed, and you would 
 be able but to notice that trees looks lively, wind moved in different directions and leaves were 
 moving accordingly. Also the facial details of characters were remarkably detailed. Not only during 
 cutscenes but also during gameplay.
  
  Gameplay made this game even more spectacular. The ability to sneak around, kill or sedate the 
 enemy quietly, knocking them out, and dragging bodies around gives the game a touch of fun. This 
 kind of adventure never gets old
  
  The story one of the glory points of MGS4. The story managed to introduce characters very well. 
 It also managed to blend into the levels very well. Konami was trying to do was to give the players 
 something to do while the story was running. For example, pressing "X" in specific times you will 
 get to see photos from MGS3 and MGS2 that relate to the story. Players who played the previous 
 games would be able to relate it to the current events in MGS4.
  
  My only catch with MGS4 is the long cutscenes . They just keep dragging and dragging, some of them 
 may take up to almost an hour. But you can skip the story if you want, yet you can't avoid the 
 loading screen even if you don't want to watch the cutscenes. It is a problem, but not big enough 
 to pass this game.
  
  In conclusion, MGS4 is a beautiful game that everyone should try. I had a wonderful time playing 
 it, and looking forward to my second playthrough. If you have a PS3 and don't own a MGS4 yet, I 
 strongly advice you to get it. You will not regret it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: young17
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 17, 2009 4:31 pm PT
Review:  i had been waiting for this game for years, ever since the excellent but underappreciated metal 
 gear solid 3. i had never been as excited about a games release ever before, and that excitement 
 didnt end once the game did.
  
  gamespot say that this is the pinnacle of storytelling in its medium, and they arent wrong. the 
 story is epic and ties off every loose end from the series. i'll give you that sometimes its gets 
 a little crazy, but if you lose yourself in it, it delivers and then some. the characters are excellently 
 rounded, with the leads snake and otacon being noble but flawed, the villains being a necessary 
 evil but having solid reasons for doing what they do. i honestly felt for the first time that i 
 really cared about what happened to these characters. lets just say by the end of the credits i 
 didnt know whether to laugh or cry!
  
  gameplay this time means you can play it either way, being stealthy or go in as a guns blazing 
 death machine, apparent form a few stealth required sectiosn such as in the eastern europe stages.
 
  
  soundtrack is amazing, graphics are the best ive seen to date. the multiplayer is fun and well 
 balanced, with plenty of modes and mre expansions on the way.
  
  i honestly cant stress how much i loved playing this game. it is excellent and is now firmly at 
 the top of my all time top 10. hideo kojima, i salute you! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ridethepiggy
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 18, 2009 11:07 am PT
Review:  Overall Score: 7.9
  Metal Gear Solid 4: Guns of the Patriots is one of the best Playstation 3 titles released to date. 
 The presentation is fluid, the gameplay solid and the story is engaging enough to keep any Metal 
 Gear fanatic on the edge of their seat. This is a MUST HAVE if you own a PS3 and is such a great 
 game that you should go out right now and buy a PS3 with this game. Well, not right now. Read the 
 rest of the review first! From start to finish, Hideo Kojima and team have published an incredible 
 title that you don't want to miss.
  
  Presentation: 9.5
  Absolutely phenomenal! MGS4 harnesses the power of the Playstation 3 to deliver an outstanding 
 performance in graphics, sound and presentation. Considering that MGS4 is more so an interactive 
 movie than a video game this is a valued asset to the overall affect that Hideo Kojima promised 
 and succeeded in delivering. You begin the game with a fantastic, yet long, introductory movie that 
 sets the bar for, not only this game but, many games to surpass. The voice acting is spot on and 
 to have the in-game models match up, every voice persona had a specific body actor to complement. 
 When Old Snake grunts and moans about his lower back pains (yes, when you stayed crouched too long 
 he'll grab his back) you see him physically reach back and attempt to appease his soreness.
  
  Overall, I couldn't give this a perfect ten though. There are a few aspects of making a video 
 game into a movie presentation that has its flaws. There are over 6 hours of cinematics in MGS4. 
 Yes, that's right. Over 6 hours. Some people may enjoy this but in general this is too much. To 
 keep you busy there are interactions such as watching flashbacks and using the first-person look 
 button to break up the long cut-scenes but you still have to sit through them to grasp the concept 
 that Kojima is projecting.
  
  Gameplay: 8
  Great mechanics and execution. The Metal Gear series has created a solid foundation in their gameplay 
 development over the past decade. As each new game had released, a new implementation had been 
 introduced. As Old Snake, the changes that he has gone through his life-span have created changes 
 and new elements to the Metal Gear series.
  
  Metal Gear 4 is still primarily a stealth game (although you can choose not to play this way) but 
 since Snake is no longer young and agile, the time you spend crouched can create fatigue. This 
 factors into new ideas to staying hidden or finding way to "take breaks" as you progress through 
 the game. There are flaws to that idea though, the longer you stay in one position, the more you 
 will notice that the AI tends to follow a track. As with most military-based games, the basic enemy 
 is a patrolling foot soldier. He stands, walks and looks in the same positions at the same times 
 as others follow their "destiny". Of course, as you progress through the game the tension and anxiety 
 sets in as the levels tighten and the AI becomes more intelligent. For a beginning player, the 
 latter portion of the game can be quite intimidating. For a seasoned veteran, the nostalgia provided 
 and experience from older games in the series help guide you through any difficult moments in MGS4.
 
  
  Replayability: 6.5
  Metal Gear does not have much to offer in the replayability department. I'd catalog this in either 
 the "perfectionist" or "completionist" categories. Upon completion of the game you are given a 
 rank. The rank is determined along several aspects of the game such as: time taken to complete, 
 kills, rations used, etc. Some might look at this as a challenge. The most difficult rank required 
 you to play on Big Boss mode (the absolute hardest difficulty) without setting any AI character 
 into alert mode, no kills, no continues (no deaths) and completing in less than 5 hours I believe. 
 This is quite an achievement if completed but, as with any scripted game, the chances of this are 
 feasible and downplays the actual difficulty of getting that rank. Also, there are collection items 
 featured in the game but there are very few and usually can be acquired on the first run-through. 
 All in all, any gamer can get the full benefit of the game playing once.
  
  Story: 7.5
  Fan of the theory that there's a governing body that controls the world? Then you'll love Metal 
 Gear. Honestly, MGS4 is just tying up loose ends. There are plenty of plot twists and new thoughts 
 brought in but this is a sequel in the end. Some people may not even grasp (see: care) the complete 
 storyline that Kojima dreamt up. If you missed a game in the series, you missed a large portion 
 of the back-story but that's not to say that you wouldn't enjoy it without playing any of the previous 
 games. The story is well-written and does encapsulate the previous story-lines as well as complements 
 Metal Gear Solid 4. 
  
  Multiplayer: 8
  This category is a tough one. Metal Gear Online is technically not part of the MGS4 game. They 
 do package it together but you can't really call it MGS4-Online. However, the gameplay is fantastic 
 and it is one of the most played PS3 online games available. Any fan of the series has always hoped 
 for the chance to pit them against another in CQC (close-quarters-combat) or see how good their 
 sniper skills stack up in a full scale battle. 
  
  
  (Contents of this review are my work also hosted on http://dirtytruth. wordpress. com - Real Reviews 
 by Real Gamers) 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: prakhar_gautam
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 17, 2009 4:21 am PT
Review:  Metal Gear Solid series has always been the favorite of many gamers. It's famous for its amazing 
 stealth missions embedded with superb action. Metal Gear Solid 4 is the seventh game in the canonical 
 series of Metal Gear. This game has almost completely changed the gaming experience of many individuals. 
 The game carries the same 'tactical espionage action' label. The following is a brief description 
 of the game:-
  
  Story- The series has always been popular for its new and innovative plot. Same goes for Metal 
 Gear Solid 4. The plot is full of ups and downs and sets the gamers interested till the very end.
 
  
  Graphics- As it is a PlayStation 3 exclusive the graphics are absolutely superb. The 3D cut scenes 
 during the missions display the depth and detailing of the graphics quite well.
  
  Sound effects- It has a great original score as well as sound effects suiting to the situations 
 which make the game even more realistic and fun to play. 
  
  Game play- The game play of Metal Gear Solid 4 is one of its best things. There are several different 
 ways to defeat an enemy or to accomplish a mission. The camouflage system, extremely awesome environments, 
 new developed co-dec system, wide variety of guns and their laundering, superb shooting mechanics, 
 great CQC moves, the opponents artificial intelligence, the wide variety of items (camera, drum 
 cans, cardboard boxes, magazines etc.) and the in between humor make this game a must have for 
 all PS3 owners.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: MGS-Mercenary
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 16, 2009 12:27 pm PT
Review:  Well I bought a PS3 and this was the first game I bought for it. I had played all other MGS games 
 and I expected great things from this game. It blew past my expectations and was probably the best 
 game I've EVER played. Well first of all this covers everything you might want. The game serves 
 as an action, FPS, TPS, battlefield shooter, stealth game, interactive movie, engaging story, tactical 
 shooter, and an online multiplayer. So pretty much this game has all of what PS3 players want. 
 You might want to play the first few games to understand it better but if you just Google "everything 
 you need to know before playing MGS4" and go to a website you'll be fine. This game's story is 
 magnificent and it really does get you as engrossed and in-depth as if you were reading a book. 
 Now to first timers, the voices and looks might seem weird at first but after an hour or so of 
 play you couldn't imagine the characters being anything else than what they are. The graphics really 
 blew me away. Every corner, texture, pattern, outfit, soldier, etc. is finely shaped into this 
 amazingly lifelike environment which might make you feel its TOO real at times... As the story 
 goes on you'll learn to appreciate Solid Snake and what he stands for. Despite, his aches, sores, 
 stamina, health, thought or emotion he always has a will to fight on. Many new characters are introduced 
 and that noobish Raiden from MGS2 has taken new awesome form. This game has excellent camera views 
 and technologically fits the bill of anything you might expect from a MGS game. What you will notice 
 the least is the excellent soundtrack. I've played the game six times now and I can catch myself 
 humming the tunes. The cutscenes... ah yes... well... they are long. But, this is a good type of long 
 if you enjoy the occasional 45 min. action sequence because some cutscenes are very long. The cutscenes 
 are excellent and, depending on your gameplay style, usually take up most of the game. Now there 
 are many methods to use in this game to make it your kind of game. Maybe you prefer hiding behind 
 crates and stealthing your way through levels or maybe you like to run & gun. Whatever your style, 
 MGS4 is a game for you. Now the online is probably my least favorite part of the game. Metal Gear 
 Online is a pretty (... just okay...) fun tactical shooter but isn't a spitting image of the game 
 itself. The online though definitely does give new PS3 users some online experience which is why 
 the game is a good starter game for anyone. This game is worth quite a few playthroughs to get 
 better emblems and items, also to better elaborate on the story. This isn't a matter of advice 
 because if you're like me you can never make up your mind. GET THIS GAME. This is a COMMAND not 
 a request. This game will give you everything you want guaranteed. Shun my review if I lie hand 
 on my grandmother's grave this game is good. To those of you who don't like it, keep your opinions 
 to yourself and leave the people who do be. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: scorpions_tiger
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 16, 2009 10:50 am PT
Review:  For over a year, I have been writing articles about the world of Metal Gear, and for 20+ years 
 I have talked with friends and family about Snakes, missions, secrets, and every twist in between. 
 If there was one word I had to use to describe my feelings towards Metal Gear Solid 4: Guns of 
 the Patriots, it would be "life-altering". Okay - so that is technically two words, but you get 
 the point.
  
  Metal Gear Solid 4: Guns of the Patriots screenshot
  
  Metal Gear Solid 4, in my opinion, is Hideo Kojima's magnum opus. Kojima has delivered a story 
 so complex that it alone could refute the claims that video games are a medium devoid of incredible 
 storylines and plots. Every Metal Gear game is involved the complex relationship mankind has with 
 nuclear weapons. Of course, Metal Gear has usually amped up the feeling of urgency and has also 
 highlighted the dangers of technology in general when it comes to war. This is easily accredited 
 to the main character, Snake. Aside from the message about the dangers of war and advancements 
 in dangerous technologies, there has always been one constant: one man can make a differenceMetal 
 Gear Solid 4 continues this sentiment. The one man who will make a difference is, once more, Solid 
 Snake. Set in the year 2014, the world has changed. The military restrictions in foreign countries 
 have been lifted tremendously, and now private military companies dominate the armed forces of 
 the world. The five largest of these companies are owned and operated by one overarching company, 
 Outer Haven. If you are familiar at all with the Metal Gear universe, then it comes as no surprise 
 that Liquid Ocelot is the leader of this company. Newcomers will quickly learn that Liquid Ocelot 
 is destined to be Snake's ultimate nemesis. This makes sense, especially considering how double-dealing 
 Ocelot is, and that Solid Snake's genetic brother, Liquid Snake, is still involved in this mess. 
 They could have gone with a new villain, but why destroy the countless years of hatred built up 
 amongst fans? Liquid Ocelot definitely deserves a spot among the top villains of gaming, as newcomers 
 will undoubtedly agree.
  
  Metal Gear Solid 4: Guns of the Patriots screenshot
  
  Liquid is not the only antagonist of this game though. Nanotechnology also plays a huge part. Soldiers 
 of these private military companies make use of it, and one man, Liquid Ocelot, is controlling 
 them. Solid Snake has a little more invested this time around. Snake's body is rapidly aging, with 
 a short lease left on life. Naomi Hunter, considered a questionable and hated character for most 
 fans for what she did to Solid Snake in Metal Gear Solid, is possibly the only one who can save 
 him, but she needs rescuing. She has been under the eye of Liquid Ocelot for a while, and now her 
 life is in danger. She calls the one person she trusts to help her - Solid Snake. Aside from the 
 rescue mission of Naomi, Snake is also asked by long-time comrade, Colonel Roy Campbell, to bring 
 Liquid Ocelot down before it is too late. To reveal much more would be a disservice to new and 
 old fans alike.
  
  The storyline in MGS4 is both exciting and overwhelming at the same time. To keep with the pace, 
 Kojima and company bring you into the game with an awe-inspiring sense right from the get go. This 
 is both a problem and a blessing. Instead of a solid introduction to the controls of the game, 
 you are left with a sense of "what am I supposed to do?" Several standard actions in the game have 
 been replaced with ones that result in quicker response time. This will be something even old fans 
 will have to get used to. The main reason I enjoyed this is because, unlike a lot of recent sequels 
 that kept similar control schemes, MGS4 decided to go against the "if it ain't broke" mindset. 
 The innovation has really helped the overall controls of the game, right down to a level many fans 
 have wanted since the first Metal Gear on the NES and MSX2. As much as I like the new ways to do 
 things, it would have been good to have had a few things laid out, especially if this is your first 
 time.
  
  Metal Gear Solid 4: Guns of the Patriots screenshot
  
  However, there will be plenty for you to do in the game to help you quickly acclimate with the 
 controls. Unlike previous installments, MGS3 included, where you felt enclosed and somewhat restricted 
 in the games levels, MGS4 aides in abolishing all claustrophobia. In fact, I have yet to discover 
 the true limits of the levels, and trust me, I have done some wandering. This is also a huge factor 
 in the replayability.
  
  There are several different strategies you can employ on any given level of the game. If you want 
 to be all guts and glory, you can. Of course, if you want to be more of the sneaky snake (pun intended) , 
 then there are several routes you can take. It is important to note that in some cases you have 
 a set path you have to take, but these occasions are minimal and make sense. The overall open feel 
 of the game helps create the sense of a battlefield.
  
  The vast weapon selection you will accumulate over the course of the game adds a lot to your approach. 
 The fact you can now pick up enemy weapons is a huge factor. Unfortunately, several of the weapons 
 you pick up from enemies are locked due to the PMC ID tags; but there is a way to get around them: 
 a man named Drebin. Drebin is an arms dealer and enables Snake to use the ID-tagged weapons and 
 purchase others with "Drebin Points". This might sound like an annoying process, but it is an easy 
 and interesting addition to this series. You will also gain points by giving Drebin the duplicate 
 weapons you find; you keep the ammo, he gets the weapon, and everyone wins 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bofish
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 15, 2009 12:04 pm PT
Review:  Once I understood this is an espionage game where your not supposed to get caught and I took the 
 time to understand the controls I couldn't believe what I was missing. I bought this thing with 
 the PS3 bundle and for months I didn't play it. Once I understood what this was all about I literally 
 pissed my pants.
  
  The single player action as "Snake" is amazing. You have an aresenal of weapons at your disposal. 
 Assault Rifles, Machine Guns, traps like Mines and Playboy magazines, CQC - hand to hand combat 
 using knives and choke holds, Tranquilizer guns, Grenades, Sleep Gas, and my favorite the Sniper 
 Rifle! It was so much fun camping out and making an enemy look utterly ridiculous. The story was 
 so much fun. I had to play and beat this numerous times. Every level is different. A lot of time 
 was put into this game and there is so much realism. I felt like I was right on the battlefield.
 
  
  After a while of the single player action I thought there was nothing else to this, but when I 
 went on multiplayer online mode and created my character, I couldn't believe there was more to 
 this. It was already a 10 and then the online part is another 10. If I could give this game a 20 
 I so would. Basically the online mode works like this: create your character, personlize there 
 skills in the way you would see fit, join up to 16 people on a level 8 on 8, and play about 10 
 different types of missions. After each mission you and the other players are rated by a point 
 system. You use points to purchase new gear, outfits, facepaint, etc. My wife plays this just as 
 much as me, we both have characters and we laugh so hard playing online mode. It's so much fun! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Q8akira
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 14, 2009 1:47 am PT
Review:  I will start with the obvious, the game looks beautiful. The graphical
  quality does not change between cutscenes and gameplay. Kojima and his team pulled out all the 
 stops on the beauty of this game, as they have always striven to do.
  
  SPOILER ALERT
  Then there is the story. A lot of people harp on the Metal Gear Series because the story is full 
 of twists. One person even said that the plot was twists and only twists. That person missed the 
 point completely. Especially by the end of this game, it becomes apparent what Kojima had been 
 pushing for. The message about humanity is clear... the MGS series has always been anti-war, anti-genetic 
 determinism, anti-environmental determinism, every mistake that humanity has ever made with regards 
 to war and control of the populous has been addressed in some way. Consider the history through 
 which Kojima derives his inspiration. His home country of Japan experienced an apocalypse during 
 WWII while causing an apocalypse in mainland Asia at the same time.
  
  In all situations of war no matter who begins the fight or where it starts or ends, the young will 
 repeat the mistakes of the old, and the old will let the knowledge gained from their mistakes slip 
 away with death. Even the most heinous actions, deception, murder, are a means to an end, and the 
 end is all that really matters.
  SPOILERS OVER
  
  Gameplay was spectacular. The MGS franchise is one of very few that has made significant gameplay 
 improvements with every subsequent release. Control of Snake feels much more fluid, yet at the 
 same time you can feel his age in the way he performs. Though he is more agile and powerful than 
 the average human could ever be, he isn't quite the same old Snake. He is THE Old Snake.
  
  Old Snake gets a lot of neat toys in this game, too. Most notably is his chameleon suit. If he 
 lays flat, his suit will automatically adopt the pattern of the materials that are on the floor. 
 By pressing the "triangle" button while up against a wall, he will adopt those coverings as well.
 
  
  The second great toy is Drebin's shop. Drebin is a weapons launderer who gives Old Snake full access 
 to replacement ammo and other supplies. ID Locked weapons can be converted to old-world weapons 
 that do not require nanomachine permissions. There are A LOT of weapons in this game. First time 
 through you probably won't get to experience all of them, and that is okay. Just check them out 
 on your next run. The game is only about 10-15 hours long depending on how you choose to play. 
 Also, through Drebin's shop Old Snake can modify his weapon. The first weapon, the M4 Custom is 
 a good all-purpose weapon. It packs a decent punch and holds 30 rounds. It can be modded with a 
 shotgun attachment, grenade launcher, or foregrip for stability. Laser sights and scopes can also 
 be added to the M4 and other select weapons. So play around and have fun.
  
  Next up, the enemies. In this game, it is impossible to hate the enemies you fight (except for 
 Vamp) because they are amazing, flat-out. Whether they are GECKOS (bipedal beast machines) , FROGS 
 (all-female supersoldiers) , or Private Military Company militia-men (remnants of their humanity 
 will keep you grounded) , or the Beauty and the Beast Corps (best enemies in of all time in videogames?) , 
 enemies are not just targets. Kojima and his crew made the enemies in this game characters to be 
 admired. They neither have names nor faces, but they will f*** your day up very quickly if you 
 do not respect their power. From the top down, they are all capable killers.
  
  The humanity of this game lies within Snake's allies. Meryl, Eva, Hal, the Colonel, Mae Ling, Raiden, 
 Rosemary, Naomi, and especially Sunny represent the other side of life. Old Snake is a manufactured 
 product of war, the only life he has ever known. No machine can imitate or destroy the compassion 
 that these individuals shared. This is passion. I won't go on, can't explain much else without 
 major spoilers.
  
  Gameplay, people, visuals, this game is stunning. Metal Gear Sold 4 exemplifies why videogames 
 deserve to be celebrated as art. It has the story worthy of novel publishing, breath-taking visuals, 
 engrossing music, and an all-around realism that we celebrate in paintings such as the Mona Lisa. 
 If only more videogame producers put this much time and effort into a game. Production for perfection... 
 long hours, perspiration, and inspiration to produce the culmination of one's efforts... that is 
 art... this is art.
  
  If you are a casual gamer, this is not for you. If you have never played the other MGS games, this 
 is probably not for you. Play through MGS1-3 in order to get the story and gameplay straight, and 
 then play MGS4.
  
  For everyone who has been trying to compare this game to COD and HALO... come on. MGS4 is not a 
 pure shooter. They put it nice and bold on the cover, "Tactical Espionage Action". That means be 
 sneaky and use force only as needed. Play a "shooter" and judge other shooters with it. MGS4 is 
 NOT, I repeat, is NOT a shooter.
  
  Could this go down as one of the best games of all time? Absolutely. Game of the Year? For sure. 
 It is in a league of its own. Nothing else plays like it. Few other games are as engrossed in the 
 mystique of political/sci-fi conspiracy. Too few have such dedicated stories. In most games, the 
 producer's passion is not as apparent. MGS4 had a 105 degree fever with Kojima's ardor for gaming 
 perfection. The game feels like he and his team cared.
  
  Gameplay 5
  Video 5 - Cutscenes are long but not at all boring
  Audio 5
  Story 5 
::::::

::::::
UserName: armyman_22
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 13, 2009 6:30 pm PT
Review:  I have to apologize to this game for reviewing it so late, but I have a real life. This is the 
 definitive console game, and that is not an understatement. Often gamers ride the MGS series for 
 having long cut scenes or spending too much time with the story. To those who say that I say grow 
 a brain and some insight. To not recognize MGS 4 as the best game on the PS3, the best game this 
 Gen so far, and perhaps one of the greatest games made is a serious over sight. 
  
  Story -- I guess the first question would be.... is it necessary to play the previous games to enjoy 
 this game the answer would be yes and no. Yes if you want to understand and fully follow the story. 
 The answer is no if you just want to enjoy the superb game play. The story goes like this: Snake 
 has accelerated in age and he has one last mission to carry out. He is indeed the only Soldier 
 who can execute this mission. Liquid/Revolver is out to take over the world's computer systems 
 and by extension the world. Things are never what they seem to be in MGS 4. As any fan of the series 
 will tell you things start out kind of simple, but get increasingly crazy. In this story though 
 saying things go from bad to worse is a gross understatement. At one point I couldn't even see 
 how Snake would pull it off. The ending of this game was the best I seen since Mega Man 2 back 
 on the NES. I know that doesn't compare, but by making that comparison is meant to say they both 
 evoke emotion from the player. I really felt for Snake like he was an old friend who was about 
 to leave me forever. 
  
  Graphics -- Hands down this is the best looking game on any system to date. If someone disagrees 
 then I'll just have to decapitate them. Yes I feel that strongly. The smoke that emits from Snakes 
 cigarettes during the loading of scenes to the subtle way snakes steps over a downed combatant 
 is brilliant. Snake twist, turns, lies, and fires in the most real true to life fashions I have 
 seen in gaming. I know because I am a Soldier and we study these things. His Knife work is great 
 also. Going beyond Snake though the enemies are all given care and will react to being shot, held 
 hostage, and a multitude of other things. The lighting and shadow effects are CRAZY!! The motion 
 capture is off the hook. The one drawback I would have to make is the facial expressions in the 
 game are second to Heavenly Sword. If they did whatever it was that team ninja did in that game 
 MGS 4 would be untouchable for years to come. It's safe to say this game is gorgeous.
  
  Music -- Yet another area this game shines. The scores of music that play as you move from area 
 to area are stellar. When a boss sets foot on screen or a certain fight sequence plays out the 
 music is right on point to keep you more than on the edge of your seat. The voice acting is on 
 par with the most dramatic of films. No line is cheesy or campy and are all delivered with precise 
 timing and wit. There is even an iPod you find in the game and collect music for, which you can 
 then listen to past games in the series. A lot of time and care was put into this area.
  
  Game play -- Any gamer knows a game can look and sound great, but who wants to play the unplayable? 
 With MGS 4 you don't have to worry one bit. This is the meat and potatoes of the game. Where past 
 MGS' got away with slight clunky controls and limited ranges of moves this one blows not only its 
 own past games away, but any shooter of the current times. You collect guns (which you are never 
 short on) and you can modify them; a feat never done before in MGS. The uses of real weapons are 
 a treat as I carried around an M4 rifle all day everyday while in Iraq. So to view the weapon and 
 its modifications was kind of scary because someone must have told the game makers exactly what 
 we use and how they are used. Take the attachable flash light; not only does it light your path, 
 but is a strong light that blinds enemies as well. You have a ton of weapons at your disposal, 
 too. You can crawl, walk, run, roll over and fire, and many more things. Controlling Snake is like 
 having control over a real Soldier. I could go on and on about this area, but I suggest you play 
 it to appreciate it.
  
  Online -- Now on its own MGS 4 is a crown jewel, but for some reason Konami wasn't satisfied with 
 that. They went in packed in a stellar online portion to the game. In most games like this where 
 the campaign is the most important thing the online feels tacked on. Not in MGS 4 it's like a separate 
 team spent time dedicated to this portion as you can see different games, you feel strategy play 
 out and many other things. Once again excellent work was done here.
  
  MGS 4 was promised to be the end all be all on the PS3 and to me it's just that. It was a wise 
 move to repackage the game with a console. To me this one game if there ever was one is a system 
 seller. If you are a gamer and don't own a PS3 then you should get one and this should be your 
 first title. Play it, live it, and enjoy it because there won't be a game of this caliber for quite 
 some time heck probably not until the next Play station. END MESSAGE.... Snake it was an honor and 
 a privilege to help you carry out your last mission. PEACE!!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: md-rew
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 13, 2009 9:53 am PT
Review:  mgs4 sets the bar very high , high enough that it makes every games in the market looks bad not 
 satisfing not good .
  
  yes hideo kojima latest project is that good and even more no words will give this game what it 
 deserves .
  
  so i will hold my mouth and let exprience the joy your self
  
  mgs4 destroyd other game giants before they even come out ...
  it is truly a master piece
  
 
  graphics 10/10
  game play 100000/10
  sound 10/10
  story 100/10
  all in all it even exceed 10/10 yes 10 will put it with gta4 put comparing with gta4 and mgs4 is 
 not real not in this world buy it and see for your self what i am talking about just once you begin 
 you can never stop .
  
  the best to date .
  
  cannot wait for mgs5 it will kill and revive the gaming world like this one did
  
  cannot wait 
 for mgs5 it will kill and revive the gaming world like this one did
  cannot wait for mgs5 it will kill and revive the gaming world like this one did
  cannot wait 
 for mgs5 it will kill and revive the gaming world like this one did
  cannot wait for mgs5 it will kill and revive the gaming world like this one did 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MooMan89
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 13, 2009 4:11 am PT
Review:  One of the best games I have ever played. From start to finish I could not put it down. I have 
 only played MGS1 on the pc before; during the game the flash backs brought back all the good memories 
 form playing the first. 
  
  The mix between cut scenes and game play is well paced and makes this game its own. The action 
 is gait and keeps you on your toes at all time. The control system is just right, as you never 
 feel that the button was in the wrong place. 
  
  The one thing I will never forget about this game will be the ending. The last fight was not only 
 engrossing, intense and movie like; it is the best way to end this amazing game. Also there is 
 a large replay value, i have played it about 5 times now and it is still as good as the first time.
 
  
  This game is a must bye for any ps3 owner. 10/10
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: game-dna
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 12, 2009 11:14 pm PT
Review:  Sometimes i wonder if it isn't time for me to hang up my PS controller. and then they release a 
 title like this. 
  
  This is by far the best looking ,best sounding and most awe inspiring game out on the PS3 . It's 
 easy if you select easy and near impossible if you select big boss mode (Hardest) . it's a balance 
 of great storytelling and great espionage action.
  
  If you didn't like the other games, chances is you won't like this one. This game had me on the 
 edge of the seat all the way through. and yes the cut scenes are long and it takes a while to get 
 through them but the first time it's interesting to watch because the story in this game is great. 
 and on the second play through you can just skip it all. and i actually liked the second play through 
 more than the first i skipped most of the Cut scenes But a few of them i had to see again.
  
  I really don't have any bad comments on this game , i didn't experience one glitch. i saw maybe 
 one tear during the whole game and that is very rare. i just wish there were more games that could 
 compare.
  
  Awesome game!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cyclonebw
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 13, 2009 4:39 pm PT
Review:  Metal Gear Solid 4 releases the true power of the ps3, when I first played it I couldn't figure 
 out how they fit this powerful of a game on that disk? If it is because it is blueray then what 
 happened to the other games? Other ps3 titles should be jealous of this game because it is one 
 of the very first games that came out for the ps3 and is probably the most respected game there 
 is out there. The graphics are phenomenal, the game play kicks the face in of many other ps3 games, 
 weapon selection is ground breaking, cut scenes last easily 30-90min but filled with action, love 
 and humor. Multiplayer is very breath taking with customizable characters and weapons you are given. 
 Some people do not like this awesome game because of the stealth part, but you don't have to go 
 stealth or hide from enemies, I never did, just run n gun! Why can't other ps3 games come even 
 close to this because now this is all I'll be playing? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jamesknoxpolk
Rating: 2.5
Date: Mar 12, 2009 9:50 am PT
Review:  Ok I know that everybody will say that this is the best game of all time, but trust me it is no 
 were near as good as other games such as (saints row 2, resistance 2, dead space, brothers in arms 
 hells highway.) and thats just a few games that are better. The graphics are the best part of this 
 game I mean the story is so bad and the gunplay is nothing to brag about even though it can be 
 somewhat fun, if you shoot someone a siren goes of and you have to take cover and hide for like 
 90 seconds! and the boss battles are so easy its not even really hard and it for sure is not fun! 
 like I said the graphics are the best part of this game and they are probley better then any other 
 game out there right now but this game just is not fun! if you want a good fun game with great 
 graphics that has a good story that is fun to play you should go to your game store and get saints 
 row 2! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: charizard1605
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 10, 2009 3:39 am PT
Review:  Metal Gear Solid 4 is one of the greatest games ever conceived. There can be no doubts, no second 
 thoughts, no double guessing about that. Snake's final chapter is a glorious epic, with remarkable 
 set pieces, heart pounding gameplay, breathtaking panorama, gorgeous spectacle and the best storytelling 
 in any game, ever. And all these marvelous details are brought to life by a stunning blend of technical 
 achievement and passionate excitement, so that, in spite of the technical prowess of the game, 
 the game never feels detached or mechanical, but is always one of the most involving experiences 
 one can come across on any platform.
  
  It really is difficult to write a coherent review for a game such as MGS 4, or even attempt to 
 achieve some manner of linear progression, or a loosely cohesive structure. And that happens because 
 the game can completely overwhelm the senses, and it really becomes difficult to not get carried 
 away under such circumstances. However, here, I have attempted my best to ensure that I can, in 
 some manner, express my gorgeous admiration for the accomplished masterpiece that is Metal Gear 
 Solid 4.
  
  The first thing to notice when the game is booted up for the first time are the game's astonishing 
 visuals. It seems remarkable that any amount of programming could really have yielded the beautiful 
 graphics that grace your screen. Really, get an HDTV if you want to play this game. A widscreen 
 one. Or you'll be doing the game an injustice otherwise. For the game's true strength, the one 
 area in which it shines like no other game can, is its visuals; let your eyes feast upon the epic 
 vistas that the game bestows upon you from the get go, and for a minute, just put your controller 
 away to take in the stunning panorama of your in game surroundings. It's that good, really.
  
  As flawless as the graphics are, the same cannot be said for the sound in the game, strictly 
 speaking. The soundtrack and the background score is great, of course, as is to be expected from 
 a Metal Gear game- though I really believe that it isn't the series' best- but the voice acting 
 does start to get on your nerves after some time, with some characters seeming overdone. It appears 
 that Kojima was far too excited about the story he was telling, and, in the voice acting department 
 at least, developed an uncharacteristic flair for dramatae that, while not such a great issue otherwise, 
 detracts from the flawless experience that MGS 4 really is. 
  
  But these minor niggles really do not taint the quality of the game's presentation. Like I said 
 before, the game's technical achievments are marvelous, a stunning synthesis of proefficiency and 
 accomplishment, and as such, many will find Metal Gear Solid 4 to be the most involving and engrossing 
 experiences they have ever had across any medium. It's that good. And while the game's satirical 
 story may not leave much scope for one to truly care about what happens to the protagonists, the 
 way that the same story is presented makes sure that one will truly care what happens to the in 
 game characters.
  
  A good story, and great presentation, can only go so far, however, in a game. Both of them should 
 also be supplemented by gameplay that is at least of the same level and quality as the former, 
 and while MGS 4's gameplay is definitely better and more streamlined than any past title in the 
 series, compared fairly to the other games in the market, it actually is pretty ordinary. The interface 
 is clean, sure, and the menus seem to have been spruced up. IT's just that, the shooting parts 
 of the game at least, feel like they could have belonged in any gun and run title out there in 
 the market, something that really cannot be said for any of the other elements of the game.
  
  But the stealth parts of the game remain as good as ever, and the good news is that, for the 
 most part, one can really choose to sneak through a level rather than go out all guns blazing. 
 The thrill and the excitement provided when Snake's suit changes colour, allowing him to blend 
 in effortlessly with his surrnoundings, really cannot be put into words, and it is best experienced, 
 not told, because no second hand account can truly do justice to it.
  
  In fact, that's pretty much true for all of the game. Metal Gear Solid 4 is best experienced yourself, 
 and no amount of words can truly convey what the game really is. It is said that a picture speaks 
 a thousand words, and MGS 4 has a million of those, thus telling a story that really could not 
 have been told otherwise. The lengthy campaign, stellar graphics and panaromic cutscenes are hindered 
 only by an average soundtrack and sub par gameplay. That said, the sheer interactivity provided 
 by the game in telling a truly moving story is enough reason for anyone to get out there and buy 
 this game. Do yourselves a favour, all of you. For a minute, look past your Nintendo, Sony or Microsoft 
 fanboy affiliations- and go get this game. Because if you don't, you will be missing out on what 
 is undoubtedly one of the greatest achievments in gaming, and this generation's most ambitious 
 game. 
  
  Play this game. I cannot stress it enough. Play this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Terminator736
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 17, 2009 3:04 pm PT
Review:  When I first saw this game, when I had an Xbox 360, I thought, 'Darn, I wish I had a PS3. But the 
 game can't be as good as everyone says it is' Well, six months later, my 360 broke and I bought 
 a PS3 because most of my friends have PS3s instead of 360s. And one of the first games I got for 
 it was Metal Gear Solid 4: Guns of the Patriots, and it's the best game I have ever spent my money 
 on. It is the closest to perfect a game will probally ever get. The gameplay is outstanding, along 
 with the story, graphics, music and voice acting. This is arguably the best looking game ever, 
 even half a year later with Killzone 2 on the market. The main reason the gameplay is great is 
 because you can play it as a stealth game or a run-and-gun shooter, but it is still a great experience 
 either way. And the story is complex and confusing at times (I had never played a Metal Gear game 
 before it you see) , but with the help of the MGS4 Database DLC from the PlayStation store, I was 
 able to understand the whole story. I could go on all day about how great this game is, but you 
 and I don't have the time for that. All I have to say is this: If you have not played this game, 
 go and do it right now. This game is the pride and joy of the PS3 and kicks the crap out of Halo 
 and Gears of War and any other game ever. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Flamuel
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 9, 2009 3:13 am PT
Review:  War has changed but Metal Gear stays the same with yet another epic hit from Hideo Kojima. Metal 
 Gear Solid 4: Guns of the Patriots leaps over its competition to take the Best game of 2008.
  
  You play the character we know and lover, codenamed Solid Snake, a perfect soldier cloned from 
 Big Boss, the original CQC master from MGS3: Snake eater. With the constant aid of Otacon and the 
 other characters, revisited, including Meryl and her RAT Patrol. Also included are a couple new 
 characters, introducing Drebin and his soda-addicted-smoking-monkey. Snake now 'Old Snake' tries 
 to stop Liquid Ocelot for the last time. 
  Stunning graphics and smooth game flow allow players to become completely immersed in the game. 
 The controls allow for easy utilisation and quick learning for even the most incapable console 
 gamer. Sticking to its roots, MGS4 retains the stealth action genre with Snakes new and improved 
 sneaking suit which has the ability to change colour to its surroundings automatically. A great 
 improvement from Big Boss' manual changing we saw in the last Metal Gear Solid. The element of 
 stealth should not fool you though, as you will find yourself in some of the most classic gunfights, 
 adding to the list for the Metal Gear series such as the Ocelot Showdown from the First Metal Gear 
 Solid.
  Criticism has been thrown at all MGS since the first one appeared on the shelves for having grueling 
 and lengthy cut scenes and Guns of the Patriots is no exception. But when you have a story as complex 
 and detailed as the Metal Gear Series, you're going to need a large amount of time to tie up all 
 the loose ends. MGS4 manages to answer all questions which players of the old games will have to 
 ask. Even though I had to play through twice, to fully understand the story, the second run was 
 just as fun as the first especially as you constantly try to outdo yourself in being the perfect 
 stealth operative.
  New additions to the MGS game play include a Shop system which allows Snake to purchase weapons 
 without an ID tag  This allows players to choose how they play and with what kind of arsenal. 
 Vintage MGS weapons are available with the SOCOM and the M1911 return to take down your enemies 
 once more.
  The difficulty levels are ranged for all abilities form an easy going experience for the new players 
 to the stealth combat style, ranging to the Extreme rush and Ultimate experience for those who 
 think they can go toe to toe with the Big Boss Himself.
  At the end of it all, it comes down the fact that Metal Gear Solid is one of the best Play station 
 Unique series' and Metal Gear Solid 4: Guns of the Patriots is the Icing of the MGS cake as a perfect 
 5 star ending, arguably the best series in gaming history. That's why I give MGS4 a 10/10
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: chosencocoa
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 8, 2009 11:05 am PT
Review:  I personally just bought a Playstation 3 system and I made it a priority to make this my first 
 game. I loved the Metal Gear series. Thank God for Hideo Kojima, whoever he is. All I know about 
 him is that he made the best gaming series ever. All of the Metal Gear games are solid except for 
 this one. This one rewrites gaming. Yes people... I went there. The graphics alone are worth talking 
 about, but when you add the story and gameplay into the mix, I just don't have the time to sit 
 here and type it all. This series has always had plots filled with twists and turns. I was surprised 
 just 5 minutes into playing it. The controls took some getting-use-to, as they are not the same 
 as the other games. Simply, Gamespot was dead on when they gave this game a 10. It should have 
 gotten an 11. I have never seen a game like this one and probably won't see one again. Perfect..... that's 
 the only word for it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 98scoutgandia
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 8, 2009 3:50 am PT
Review:  First of all, when I bought this game, I really didn't know the background of the story so it took 
 me a day to research and ask my friend.
  
  And here's my not very detailed review:
  
  Graphics: 9.5/10
  -The reason why I didn't give a perfect ten because sometimes the walls don't 
 look too pleasing to the eyes but nonetheless, it's one of the best-looking games in the PS3 world.
 
  
  Controls: 10/10
  -I really liked the controls of this game (especially when I use the Mantis Doll. :P) and got so 
 used to it that when I played the Killzone 2 demo, I accidentally keep pressing L1 then Triangle 
 to zoom.
  
  Gameplay: 10/10
  -VERY, VERY AWESOME! I've played some games which are highly rated because of gameplay but I found 
 this game so addictive that no other game would replace it but I finished it very quickly so I 
 wanna buy a new game now. :D
  
  Story: 9/10
  -Somehow, I really didn't get bits of the story... But thanks to Wikipedia and my friend, I was 
 able to understand the story. The story of this game's so elaborate that you'd want to repeat it 
 because of the story.
  
  Online: 10/10
  -I really like Metal Gear Online because the gameplay doesn't require anything else but to follow 
 the rules of the game and that's it... It doesn't lag that much so I guess the online play's not 
 really bad.
  
  Overall: 9.5/10
  -Well, the best in the series...
  
  But I still wanna know what happens after the very last scene. :D 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Cpt-Salt
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 7, 2009 2:20 pm PT
Review:  Metal Gear Solid 4. The final chapter of Solid Snake - One of the greatest game characters that 
 ever existed. Easily the best chapter, even though the others are also unbelieveable in greatness. 
 It has an ideal mix of an epic story and incredible gameplay.
  
  Let's start with how I thought of this game - Gamespot. I know for a fact that they don't give 
 out 10s unless the game is not far from, or even, perfect, so I decided to put it as a first priority 
 on my rental list. Then it came. I took the disc out of the wallet and out it into my drive. From 
 that day on I have never thought another game was better. My first game I owned was Army Men 3D 
 - just see the date. After I played it i I went back to the very start and collected the rest of 
 the legendary series.
  
  It starts of with a great effect. Hugley cinematic, brilliant music, and unblieveable graphics 
 - especially on HD. Snake's re-entry to the story has a significant effect on the whole game itself 
 - many people (Xbox 360 players mostly) accuse the game of being a movie and I have to say that 
 it is the saddest thing I have ever heard. The games movie sequences and plot have such an effect 
 emotionally, I nearly cried at the end, and it was the first MGS game I played, and I'm not ashamed 
 to admit it. Never before has a game effected me emotionally as much as MGS4 did. Long term fans 
 of Metal Gear Solid will find the story overwhelming. All your old friends return from the previous 
 games, you go back to a place (I will NOT reveal that place, you can see for yourself :D) that 
 you visited before in the series, which from some people I heard they cried about. This is all 
 I'm going to say about the story aspects - you can find out the rest for yourself; believe me; 
 it is the best way.
  
  Now onto the gameplay. There's plently of it, so stay quiet, 360 gamers. The gameplay is absolutely 
 brilliant. The graphics are incredible in resolution and detail. Controls are perfect. Most of 
 the view is in third person, but like the previous games in the series, you can go into a first 
 person view mode, which has now been enhanced vastly for MGS4. The enemy AI is so realistic, you'll 
 be wondering for hours how it is done. You can use the OctoCamo to change to the colour of ANY 
 object you are touching, oh, and for long term MGS fans, don't worry, the cardboard box returns 
 with even more wonders and adventures. Every weapon you have can be upgraded in at least one way. 
 Once you meet Drebin and the monkey, the fun expands. Not only do you have access to hundreds more 
 weapons and upgrades, you have a humorous character duo that have significance in coolness.
  
  There is literally hundreds more things I can say about this game, but I firmly believe that 
 it can be achieved by one's self, and with great east as well. It is so significant in emotional 
 story and gameplay that it is exactly how GameSpot have put it - perfect.
  
  Pros
  
  -Emotional, epic and climatic story
  -Solid, realistic and fun gameplay
  -Once you have played 
 this game, Call of Duty and other games will look consiberaly inferior
  -It's a Metal Gear Solid game
  
  Cons
  
  -None 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xXChronopolis
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 7, 2009 11:50 am PT
Review:  Oh Hideo Kojima, you amazing man! I am in love. And im sure im not the only one. Ever since my 
 first encounter with you on Shadow Moses, I have been in love. It was love at first sight really 
 but now my love for you has reached new limits.
  
  I guess I'll start off by saying the only reason this isn't getting a 10 in my books is because 
 of 2 things. Firstly because It wasn't introduced into the 360, which made me mad when it first 
 came out as I didnt have PS3. Secondly, because of how confusing a lot of the story is if you havent 
 played all previous Metal Gears. Now this isn't to say its impossible to understand or that its 
 not enjoyable, this is by far one of the games I have enjoyed most.
  
  With that said I *recommend* you play the other Metal Gears before you play this, and thats the 
 only reason I say *recommend* because even if you don't, it will still be one of the best games 
 you have played. 
  
  So after you have played the previous Metal Gears, get ready to delve into MGS4. This game is a 
 beauty. I also recommend playing on an HD with the HDMI cable, it makes it that much better. 
 
  
  So the graphics in this game are stunning to say the least. At some points in the game it looks 
 almost real and the way they made the cutscenes mix into actual gameplay was amazing and shows 
 the true power of the PS3. The gameplay is phenomenal. It takes all the old aspects of Metal Gear 
 and expands on them and makes them a lot better. The new octocamo based on the camoflauge principle 
 from Snake Eater is neat as instead of having to change camos, it does it automatically. Sometimes 
 even at 99% enemies will spot you though which is rather frustrating if you're going for the Big 
 Boss Emblem. Onto the story. Theres not much I can say without giving anything away. There are 
 the B&B, which were introduced in the trailer. Just the voice acting for these creatures alone 
 is incredibly scary, and the boss fights kept me on the edge of my seat. Everything in the previous 
 Metal Gears is finally concluded with this latest installment and as I said before, even though 
 I haven't played all the previous Metal Gears, I was still enthralled by the story and was able 
 to get most of it. Although almost all of the loose ends have been tied up and there is most likely 
 not going to be a new installment, I will keep wishing along with all of you others wishing for 
 more. This is one game that should have never ended.
  
  If you have a PS3 but not this game, I dont know what you're waiting for. This game is nothing 
 short of one of the best games ever. If I wasnt so picky about games this would have easily gotten 
 a 10/10. Ive just ordered a pizza, have some coke, and my PS3 along with MGS4. Im going in for 
 my second run of this game. While I am doing that, run to the store and buy this game if you haven't 
 already. 
  
  I love you Hideo :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: W8I8Z
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 6, 2009 9:33 pm PT
Review:  By now we all know the story, or at least we thought we did. MGS4 takes the MG universe and smashes 
 it together along with finally tying up ALL the loose ends. New enemies arise and old favorites 
 are finally put to rest.
  
  The basics are this: Snake is rapidly growing old and he doesn't know why. So his new call sign 
 is "Old Snake" and you get reminded of that throughout the whole game. Constant back problems and 
 characters picking on his age are a staple of this game. Liquid Snake is trying to control the 
 system and Old Snake is out to stop him. Along the way you encounter hordes of enemies and Boss 
 battles alike. Remembering that this is a sneaking game, hiding and crawling is essencial. 
  
  I played this game a different way as I was not afraid to attack and kill the enemy and preferred 
 that style over sneaking around. I guess I play too many FPS games to sneak around for several 
 hours. I was able to use almost all the weapons and ammo provided and had a ton of fun doing it. 
 Blowing up enemy tanks and GEEKO never was more fun. 
  
  That being said, the gameplay itself was similar to previous versions in you can blend in with 
 the environment and weapon/item selection was a breeze. Plenty of items and health available if 
 you knw where too look or hide. The Snake Eye was usefull in finding items and locating enemies 
 and the battery lasted what seemed like forever. Plus you can see in night vision and zoom.
  
  Of course MGS wouldnt be a MGS game without legendary Boss characters and battles. This game 
 absolutely delivered with the 4 Beauty Beast Bosses and even a battle against Metal Gear Ray. Of 
 course there were several honorary mentions and cameos from previous Bosses such as Psycho Mantis, 
 Vamp and Big Boss. The battles themselves are unique in each Boss has to be defeated a certain 
 way or with certain weapons. Plus you have the option of mercy wins by drugging them instead of 
 killing them for bonus prizes. This is what really makes the game fun to play instead of just plainly 
 sneaking from level to level. 
  
  As with a typical MG game, the story takes up more than half the playing time with in-game movies 
 and mission briefings. Although sometimes long and drawn out, they always have important things 
 to say and are critical to the next part of the story. Sometimes if you miss something, you can 
 usually catch up during the next movie or storyline segment but everything is pretty much explained 
 in the ending.
  
  Overall this was a very fun game to play especially if you dont mind killing enemies. The challenege 
 arises when or if you decide to play through on Big Boss Hard without killing anyone or alerting 
 the enemy. I can see why GS gives it a perfect 10 but there were some parts of the game where it 
 seems humor was kinda forced in and wasnt necessary. Some characters were more annoying than entertaining. 
 Worth every penny just to see how some characters in the MGS universe are finally put to rest. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: beriman
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 6, 2009 8:12 pm PT
Review:  MGS4 is the greatest game I have ever played! the graphics awesome! the game play fantastic! the story 
 unforgettable! the selection of weapons almost endless! MGS4 truly lived up to its hype and it really 
 is more than a game! It outshines every game there is. MGS4 delivered so many unforgettable moments 
 like (spoilers to people who did not play it yet) the boss battles against the Beauty and the Beast 
 unit, the ride on the bike with Eva in Prague, the battle between Rex and Ray, Snakes dream (MGS1) 
 our the epic final showdown between Snake and Liquid just to mention a few! two thumbs up for MGS4, the 
 MGS series and to Hydeo Kojima! Thanks for the unforgettable memory's! the game really deserves 10 
 out of 10. I am happy that it ended on a high note! MGS will always remain one of my favorite video 
 game series and for now MGS4 the greatest game that I ever played! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sweetwater94
Rating: 7.5
Date: Mar 6, 2009 1:52 pm PT
Review:  This game is hailed as one of the greatest ever, but I find myself disagreeing. Sure, it is a pretty 
 good game with great graphics and a good story but it really isn't anything special in my opinion 
 and it doesn't hold my interest long enough to prevent me from playing Killzone 2 or CoD instead. 
 The story is easily the best part of this game, albeit a bit confusing if you haven't played any 
 other Metal Gear games (like me) . I liked the character Solid Snake and you could tell this game 
 had some very high production value. That is really this game's problem though, it seems to be 
 more focused on its cutscenes than the repetitive and short sequences of gameplay. The gameplay 
 is fun but after a while it gets old and the scenery in each level gets repetitive after a while. 
 I thought the gameplay was probably the best in the beginning and slowly went downhill while the 
 story started slow but got progressively better as the game advanced. If you want a fun distraction 
 for a little bit with a good amount of production value then by all means pick up this game. But 
 it you want fun in your face non-stop gameplay I might hesitate and ignore the hype on this one. 
 That's my opinion anyway. The multiplayer is really annoying and could have been a lot better if 
 it had been through the PSN instead of through Konami. The connection quality is bad and you basically 
 have to pay for all the good stuff and I just didn't think it was worth my time that much. I feel 
 like even though this was a Playstation exclusive Konami wanted to distance themselves somewhat 
 from Playstation by using their own system and by not putting an Only on Playstation bar at the 
 top of the box, just an inference I made.
  
  Graphics: 9.5 The graphics were amazing for this game, and some of the best I've ever seen on a 
 console. 
  
  Gameplay: 7.0 The gameplay is pretty fun albeit a bit repetitive and short sometimes. 
  
  Story 
 9.5 The story was very good and obviously was where most of the effort for this was game was put 
 into, although some parts were somewhat confusing. 
  
  Replayability 6.0 After playing through it this game has hardly any replayabiliity at all, and 
 the multiplayer really is not good at all. 
  
  Overall (Not an average of above scores) : 7.5 This game is pretty awesome but overall not deserving 
 of all the hype it receives. A good game but you may want to consider getting it based on your 
 playing style.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: _Ben99_
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 5, 2009 5:25 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay: as mentioned those two elements will keep you entertained . As you will fight different 
 4 bosses ( and 2 mini bosses) and the rest of the game is metal gear solid i. e. Stealth action .
 
  
  Story: its captivating with memorable characters and great script. You will play as snake to fight 
 Liquid forces and the evil System he has developed.
  
  Graphics : Very detailed . Great lighting effects , water is so realistic, facial expression and 
 sync is top notch . It's my 2nd best after Uncharted . mgs4 is quite the looker.
  
  This game has done a unique job in storytelling, gameplay appeal and in developing a stunning visuals 
 .Snake will get you through a journey of endless fun both in story and gameplay where you will 
 be thrown into 5 different places around the world each with its own events and unique atmosphere 
 which gives the element of variety necessary for a good game .
  
  This game is a must have for every ps3 owner 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Pro_Zelda_playa
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 5, 2009 1:34 pm PT
Review:  This is the best game ever on all consoles. Even people that do not like shooters or hiding they 
 would still be sucked into this game because of its amazing story and stunning graphics. This game 
 is like a real movie. Once you start it, you have to finish it. You would always go like "what's 
 going to happen next?" "Is he going to die?" "Oh my god I can't believe it!". Apple sponsored this 
 game. As you walk through the missions and objectives you'll find different macs. You also have 
 your own personal iPod... In the game! There are also a lot of different funny lines in the game. 
 You will also here many lines talking about how the PS3 is amazing and its Bluray power. The game's 
 online gaming is also amazing. You start in Level 1 and get trained either by an A. I. or a real 
 person. As you kill more and more different people throughout many matches, you will level up. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xdancexyayxnayx
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 4, 2009 4:22 am PT
Review:  Pros : Beautiful graphics / Great story (has everything) / Cool boss fights and chars / Best ps3 
 "story game" to date
  
  Cons : Fairly short if you take out the story elements / More of a "film" then a game
  
  First 
 off lets get things right i "loved" MGS 4 it is probably my favorite ps3 game i have played so 
 far and i have played most ps3 exclusives except lair "avoided that after the reviews :p", but 
 i have just one complaint about MGS 4 its not exactly a "game" its more like a live film and you 
 will be watching cut scenes more then you play the game, luckily these cut scenes are very well 
 done and the story is excellent overall its definitely worth the price it is now however i am not 
 sure it would have been worth the full price.
  
  A great Story and a good game but you will complete it in 1-2 days and there's little reason to 
 go back as its more of a "film". In my opinion its not worth the full 10 out of 10 as its far to 
 short in game play terms and to rate it 10 out of 10 you'd be rating it as a film imho 
::::::

::::::
UserName: iceman_1486
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 3, 2009 11:20 am PT
Review:  Might be more movie than game but it's definitely worth beating. Snake's final game is visually 
 stunning and the musical score is tremendous. The sounds are authentic and great to hear in-game. 
 The game play works really well with the new positioning of the camera. Long time fans might be 
 thrown off with the new camera angle but it works. The game is very long without the cut scenes. 
 The cut scenes just make it that much longer especially with the length of the ending. All gets 
 revealed in this game which is great for those of us that have been either confused or overwhelmed. 
 The game is split up into chapters. The online portion is quite fun and can be addictive if you 
 like to play MGS style against other people across the world. This is one of the greatest games 
 of all time. It's just too bad Hideo has said he is done with MGS. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: drtran101
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 2, 2009 10:37 pm PT
Review:  When I was going to buy a PS3, it came with Uncharted and I didn't want my first game for the PS3 
 to be that so I bought Metal Gear Solid 4 first and I thank god everyday for that. The game ends 
 the series so amazingly, the gameplay is revamped and perfected from years of Metal Gears, the 
 storyline keeps you in your seat unless you have to make, and just everything is god like. Kojima, 
 being the super nerd he is, must have spent day and night on this. I can't play this for one hour 
 even though the game tells you to take a break I can't stop, I have to play for like 7 hours. Trying 
 to get the highest achievements makes playing the game again and again never boring. Solid Snake 
 has spent years suffering, now he may relax knowing he has an epic finale........... or did he?????!!!!! 
 *DUN DUN DUN* 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Franistelrooy
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 1, 2009 6:03 pm PT
Review:  This is so far my favourite game, it has all the elements that you might want in a single game, 
 the graphics are just amazing, story line is a masterpiece, game-play is nice, one of the best 
 games ever...
  
  Old School !!! Old School !!! Old School !!! Old School !!! Old School !!! Old School !!! Old School 
 !!! Old School !!! Old School !!! Old School !!! Old School !!! Old School !!! Old School !!! Old 
 School !!! Old School !!! Old School !!! Old School !!! Old School !!! Old School !!! Old School 
 !!! Old School !!! Old School !!! Old School !!! Old School !!! Old School !!! Old School !!! Old 
 School !!! Old School !!! Old School !!! Old School !!! Old School !!! Old School !!! Old School 
 !!! Old School !!! Old School !!! Old School !!! Old School !!! Old School !!! Old School !!! Old 
 School !!! Old School !!! Old School !!! Old School !!! Old School !!! Old School !!! Old School 
 !!! Old School !!! Old School !!! Old School !!! Old School !!! Old School !!! Old School !!! Old 
 School !!! Old School !!! Old School !!! Old School !!! Old School !!! Old School !!! Old School 
 !!! Old School !!! Old School !!! Old School !!! Old School !!! Old School !!! Old School !!! Old 
 School !!! Old School !!! Old School !!! Old School !!! Old School !!! Old School !!! Old School 
 !!! Old School !!! Old School !!! Old School !!! Old School !!! Old School !!! Old School !!! Old 
 School !!! Old School !!! Old School !!! Old School !!! Old School !!! Old School !!! Old School 
 !!! Old School !!! Old School !!! Old School !!! Old School !!! Old School !!! Old School !!! Old 
 School !!! Old School !!! Old School !!! Old School !!! Old School !!! Old School !!! Old School 
 !!! Old School !!! Old School !!! Old School !!! Old School !!! Old School !!! Old School !!! Old 
 School !!! Old School !!! Old School !!! Old School !!! Old School !!! Old School !!! Old School 
 !!! Old School !!! Old School !!! Old School !!! Old School !!! Old School !!! Old School !!! Old 
 School !!! Old School !!! Old School !!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Epochend
Rating: 7.5
Date: Apr 7, 2009 4:43 pm PT
Review:  In a way, I knew from the moment everyone started lavishing perfect scores on MGS4 that it wouldn't 
 be as good as promised. Remember the overwhelming praise and eventual backlash against MGS2? Still, 
 it was Metal Gear, so there was no way I was going to miss out on it...
  
  ~
  
  Pros:
  
  + Controllable Camera & Improved Aiming: Technically this was introduced in MGS3: 
 Subsistence, but seeing as I never got round to buying it, I'll mention it here instead: the ability 
 to control the camera yourself is a great relief, allowing you to scout ahead and admire the scenery 
 with much greater ease. It also frees up your aiming a great deal, and the ability to controllably 
 move and fire (including 1st-Person mode) does the game no end of good.
  
  + OctoCamo: Effectively solving the fiddly annoyance of the MGS3 camouflage system, the OctoCamo 
 is a great way of blending in without disrupting gameplay. I think it could have been better, however, 
 if the 'visible' time between changing patterns lasted a bit longer, forcing players to plan ahead 
 a little more (this is offset by the camo seemingly being less effective than that of MGS3, though) .
 
  
  + Voice Acting: The actors must surely have had their doubts about the script, so the fact they 
 managed to suppress their laughter/boredom/bemusement long enough to deliver strong, convincing 
 performances is worthy of commendation! You also have to wonder how much water David Hayter had 
 to chug to recover from Snake's ludicrously gruff voice...
  
  + Warzone Setting: Like its predecessor, MGS4 transplants the stealth gameplay into an interesting 
 new setting: in this case, sneaking straight through a warzone. Since you're technically on neither 
 army's side, it's something I haven't really seen in another game, and gives MGS4 a unique feel 
 and approach.
  
  + Expansive Environments: Most of the areas cover quite a lot of ground, with multiple routes available 
 to take, and the variety you'll find within is commendable.
  
  + Cinema/Gameplay Fusion: While most of the time the divide between cinematics and gameplay is 
 quite jarring, there are moments when you finally get to see the two genuinely fused together; 
 and when it happens, you'll finally see what this game had the potential to be. In particular, 
 the brief split-screen moments are very well done, and genuinely involve you in what's going on 
 (until the game inevitably takes your control away again, that is) .
  
  + In-Game Codec: The fact that you can now recieve essential advice without having to pause the 
 game is a long-overdue feature, and one you'll be thankful for in terms of flow and immersion.
 
  
  + Longveity: With such a wide variety of routes and approaches to take, not to mention the secret 
 items and rankings you can acquire, there's plenty to do should you ever return to the game.
  
  Cons:
  
  - Story & Plot: MGS2 burdened this game with the task of explaining one of the 
 most needlessly complex, stupid plots in gaming history, and in that respect, it doesn't actually 
 do too bad a job. However, in transplanting the setting to a radically different future, the game 
 loses both its convincing black-ops air and its relevance to our current times - while you can 
 pull out the occasional message or two if you use your imagination, the game very rarely gives 
 any true thoughts or debates on any subject but its own melodramatic storyline. Also, the plot 
 (which doesn't actually develop as much as you'd expect) doesn't really have any truly interesting 
 twists like the previous games did, and when there are any, they either have very little dramatic 
 impact, are incredibly obvious so you're left waiting for the characters to catch up with what 
 you realized hours ago, or are so utterly far-fetched that you wish they hadn't bothered (to be 
 fair, the game is trying desperately to clean up the mess of MGS2, so there isn't really room for 
 many more twists) .
  
  - Characterisation: Not much characterisation actually takes place throughout the game, and whenever 
 there is any, it's so exaggerated, or forced out of the blue, or repetitive from past games in 
 the series, that you'll quickly grow pretty sick of them all. The only character who consistently 
 remains tolerable is Snake himself (largely because he doesn't actually say very much compared 
 to usual) , but even here they missed the opportunity to develop his personality and emotions in 
 light of his sudden ageing: instead of genuinely seeing what his decaying body is doing to his 
 mind and outlook, all we get is him continuously coughing, smoking, and talking vaguely about his 
 duty. You'll also grow sick of how absolutely every character knows every last detail about the 
 plots of each Metal Gear game, but somehow Snake manages to stay out of the loop!
  
  - Cinematics & Dialogue: Of course you expect them from a Metal Gear game, but even so, the sheer 
 amount of cut-scenes in MGS4 is simply unnacceptable - you will literally spend at least half of 
 the game, probably more, just watching the damn thing. There are so many scenes that could have 
 been vastly improved by letting the player actually take part somehow, and given how well it works 
 when these cinema/gameplay fusions actually happen, it's a bitter disappointment to keep seeing 
 potentially great set-pieces pass by without your involvement. I suspect the reason for this is 
 that Hideo Kojima is desperately in love with himself and his cinematics, to the point where he 
 doesn't want even the player interfering with his vision, and refuses to let anyone edit them down 
 at all. This is bad enough with his fairly average directing (he's very given to repetition, plagarism 
 and absurd exaggeration) , but what really makes the cinematics unendurable is the dialogue. There 
 is no way around this for even the most loyal of fans: the man simply cannot write to save his 
 life. The precious few moments set aside for characterisation are botched terribly with pretentious 
 metaphors and complete lack of subtlety, and fatally for a script so obsessed with plot exposition, 
 it takes an incredible amount of time to reveal even the smallest development (which must be part 
 of the reason why the plot doesn't actually develop too far) . The key offender here is repetition: 
 Kojima finds an incredible amount of ways to say the exact same things at least three times over, 
 and yet can't avoid repeating key words dozens of times within the space of minutes (if you remove 
 the words 'nano-mahcines', 'Patriots', 'proxy', 'system', and several other key offenders, the 
 script would be half as long) !
  
  - Limited Codec: Unlike its predecessors (and unusually for a game just waiting to drown you in 
 dialogue) , the Codec features very few people to talk to, and those there are don't have nearly 
 as much to say as before: this would have been the perfect means of siphoning off details and backstory 
 into an optional pursuit for those who cared enough, but as it is, the Codec almost entirely loses 
 its purpose. Even the Codec in MGS for the GameBoy Colour had far more to say!
  
  - Drebin's Shop & Excessive Inventory: Any kind of challenge or enjoyable exploration regarding 
 ammo-conservation and weapon-acquisition is completely removed by Drebin's Shop, basically allowing 
 the player to be a walking arsenal from the very start. Compounding this, there are such an absurd 
 amount of weapons and items that none of them feel particularly distinct or special (which the 
 lack of Codec information only makes worse) , and you will almost certainly never need to use the 
 vast majority of them, even on harder difficulties. Also, with so many weapons and limitless ammo 
 available, CQC has such a reduced role in the game that you can quite easily never use it at all, 
 which is a shame after its great implementation in MGS3.
  
  - Excessive Globe-trotting: The game jumps about between quite a few wildly different settings, 
 which is all well and good; except when you add in the sheer amount of cut-scenes you'll be forced 
 to watch in each of them, this means you'll barely have the chance to settle into your new surroundings 
 before you're already moving on, missing all sorts of gameplay opportunities in all of them. This 
 only gets worse as the game goes on, as the cut-scene-to-gameplay ratio shifts dramatically to 
 the point where you barely have any involvement whatsoever - to have one consistent yet varied 
 setting, as in MGS1 and 3, would have been preferrable.
  
  - Limited Warzone Options: While the Warzone setting is nice, and certainly has its moments, it's 
 not quite as fully-fleshed as it could be. There's no emotional reason to be sympathetic to one 
 side over another (even the dialogue admits this!) , you can only gain anything by siding with the 
 rebels (who I think are a little too easy to win-over) , there are no real developments in the conflicts 
 unless you step in yourself, there are rarely long-term consequences or rewards for winning a battle, 
 and it's impossible to tell beforehand which fights can actually be conclusively won or not. Still, 
 a nice idea!
  
  - Excessive Crawling & Obvious Hiding: Because it's by far the most effective way of staying hidden, 
 you'll spend almost all of the game crawling on the floor, which can be a bit slow and repetitive: 
 there should have been some sort of drawback or incentive to make the player mix it up a bit. Another 
 problem with the stealth in the game is that you almost never have to utilise the 'classic' approach 
 of keeping yourself hidden behind objects, which was fundamentally much more tense and challenging 
 than just lying still in the open.
  
  ~
  
  It must seem like a massive list of complaints I've given, but in truth, it almost all centres 
 around the story and cinematics. The gameplay itself is certainly among the best the series has 
 to offer, but you're given such a frustratingly short amount of time to actually play it in that 
 it never really gets to develop and draw you in like its predecessors did. The fact is, if Kojima 
 had put half as much effort into the gameplay as he did with his cinematics (not to mention drastically 
 cut the amount and length of them) , then MGS4 would have been a far better experience overall: 
 as it is, I don't think time will be as favourable to MGS4 as its reviews have been. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Matt3811
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 27, 2009 11:45 pm PT
Review:  Whether you hate it or love it, you know what it is. It is Solid snakes proverbial farewell address, 
 his grand finally if you will, and he goes out with a bang. There is no shortage of action in this 
 final hoo-ra, whether it be battling your way through the middle east or the fight to end all fights 
 at the end of the game, you wont be disappointed. this game is also the winner of the longest unskippable 
 cut-scene in video game history award (roughly 20 minutes in length. The great thing about this 
 game is that it does'nt confine you to one style of play. You could sneak your way through the 
 entire game without killing a soul or you can be the deadliest killing machine known to man, the 
 choice is yours. This game is a must play for anyone and everyone period. Even if somehow you've 
 never picked up a mgs game in your life, this would be a great time to start. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sither11
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 27, 2009 10:58 pm PT
Review:  well first off what a way to end a series with a bang it sums out evrything you could possibly 
 want to know. in fact it revealed alot more than expected in terms of departments im going to give 
 it the ratings and then explain them
  
  graphics:10
  gameplay:10
  bosses:10
  story:10
  
  first to begin graphics what else is there to say im not ging to go to in depth 
 becuase i could ramble on and on.
  
  gameplay department there is alor offered espically for me i was expecting alot of story facts. but 
 gameplay wise there is a wide variety and ways to play the game for your run and gunners or your 
 stratgic players.
  
  bosses no boss battle is more epic than snake vs ocelot in the end of mgs4 its amazing a delicate 
 end to a revoulotionary game
  
  story is sums up evrything in the end and leaves you gasping for air or wiping your tears of the 
 face i hope you got klenix your gonna need it 
::::::

::::::
UserName: M-Yu
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 3, 2009 11:05 am PT
Review:  When we last left off with the story of Metal Gear Solid, We were introduced to Snake's father 
 Big Boss in Snake Eater, but four years later, Metal Gear Solid 4: Guns of the Patriots picks up 
 where the Sons of Liberty left off and it features a changed battlefield and an older Solid Snake. 
 Snake has been diagnosed with a virus that can kill him in less than 6 months and with the return 
 of his arch-rival/brother Liquid, Snake sets out to make one last stand to save the planet. 
  
  You'll spend 50% of the game watching cutscenes which are the backbone to the complex, intense, 
 tongue-in-cheek storytelling and it's very interactive with the push of a button we can see flashbacks 
 from the series but the gameplay doesn't always take a backseat, the game is suited to all styles 
 of play whether you can use stealth to complete objectives or shoot anything that moves or you 
 can take the middle road and do both
  
  The gadgets in the game are top-notch with the inclusion of OctoCamo where Snake can blend into 
 his surroundings making him invisible to the naked eye and the MK. II can also aid Snake when he 
 needs to get rid of patrolling soldiers.
  
  The voicework is briliiant, David Hayter, once again does a phenomenal job as Snake, this time, 
 older and raspier. Not to count the other characters such as Otacon, Meryl, Liquid and Vamp. they 
 put on a good show
  
  The visuals are where MGS4 is at, They are some of the best visuals to bless the system so far, 
 As good as it gets on the PS3. The models and environments look and feel vivid. It will pull the 
 player into its world.
  
  The storyline is also a blessing with it's complexity and it's subtle humor. 
  
  All in all, 
 Metal Gear Solid 4 leaves it's mark on the PS3 and it's definitely one of the best to grace the 
 console so far. 
  
  Good to have you back, Snake :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: calvinsora
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 26, 2009 1:29 pm PT
Review:  Sometimes, you can sense a game is different simply by solely looking at the intro. Metal Gear 
 Solid 4 goes even further in that sense with a unusual, but brilliant intro, and it only goes uphill 
 from there.
  
  The MGS series has been a well known series for a long time, and the standards for quality, in 
 storytelling, gameplay and music, have been high from the get go. However, the quality of 
  MGS4 is beyond any expectation and it excels in every way imaginable.
  
  Firstly, the story 
 and the presentation are by far the best on the PS3 so far. Ingenious voice-acting from experienced 
 voice actors, crisp, amazing graphics and incredible character design make the game immersive and 
 novel, but nostalgic as well. Also, it isn't necessary to play the previous games to love this 
 game and it's incredible story.
  
  As for the gameplay, it's as solid and polished as any shooter can be. The game also mixes up the 
 action with varied and unbelievable boss battles. This, however, has to be experienced to actually 
 enjoy to the fullest. There is a whole arsenal of guns to choose from, and shooting isn't as awkward 
 as it used to be in the previous games. Finally, Snake has a plethora of new gadgets which make 
 sneaking even more accessible and rewarding.
  
  The music is topnotch, and even though only a few music tracks are that noticeable, those songs 
 are as good as they come. Also, as I have previously said, the voice acting is on a Hollywood-level.
 
  
  The graphics really highlight the power of the PS3, and are truly brilliant. There are no texture 
 hiccups or texture pop-ups to be found, and most of the time, you really feel like your inside 
 the game, not just playing it.
  
  If anyone is wondering whether they should play it again or not, the game has enough extras to 
 keep you playing for weeks. Additionally, the game ranks your prowess and achievements in the game 
 which appear at the end of the game, and the quest for the Big Boss rank is a long and hard one.
 
  
  Ultimately, every PS3 owner has to buy this game, no matter what kind of genre you generally pay. 
 It's a sterling game, which never ceases to surprise and impress you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hottstreetballa
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 26, 2009 12:46 am PT
Review:  So I decided to get MGS4 after a price drop and to hold me off till KillZone 2. And boy am I glad 
 I did.
  
  The Gameplay:
  Quite simply amazing! It feels very natural. You can shoot from 3rd person, you can shoot from 
 one person, or you don't have to shoot at all. I love how this game has just about everything. 
 And since there's some nice unlockables you'll want to play at least once sneaking around, and 
 at least once gunning down everybody like a one-man army.
  
  Controls:
  Very extensive but also simple at the same time. Several different moves you can do. Choke someone 
 out, slash their throat, hold somebody up and steal their stuff, or even take them hostage and 
 using him as cover while shooting other baddies.
  
  Graphics:
  I was a non-believer on this and let me tell you, they are technically flawless. The Mk. II looks 
 completly real.
  
  Story:
  EPIC EPIC EPIC!! Now, I've only played the Metal Gear Solid games. And it's been awhile since I've 
 played them so I did not know the full story going into this game. And to put this rumor to rest, 
 you will be able to follow the main plot no problem without even touching any of the other games. 
 Although, if you want to understand EVERYTHING then I suggest just doing some reading. Going to 
 the Playstation website Forums MGS4, there's a very nice thread in there that's stickied that explains 
 the story starting from the very first game. And it's straight to the point, so it's an easy read. 
 Even if you don't read up on any of it, you'll be able to understand most of it.
  
  Close-Up:
  This game is a mix between a game and a movie, so if you do not like long cinimatic 
 cut-scenes then I suggest not playing it. But even if you could care less about the story you can 
 skip them, the gameplay alone is worth it. And when it comes to the story I laughed, I got angry, 
 frustrated, and literally cried. It's that epic. And to me, theres even a twist at the end, or 
 I should say that something that I thought was going to happen the entire game doesn't end up happening 
 (Which was a good thing) . Tons of easter eggs, and unlockables to keep you busy for awhile.
  
  Complaints:
  My only complaint is that they stretched the ending as far as possible. When 
 you think the credits are going to roll up, another cut-scene comes in and plays out for 20minutes, 
 then repeat. And even after the credits roll up, theres a voice-only conversation between 2 characters 
 for like 5min. Other than this no biggie, I could not complain at all about anything else.
  
  Multiplayer:
  It's cool, it's fun... but kind of hard to navigate around and to get a decent 
 game started. My average time on getting games started up was around 2minutes-6minutes. And this 
 had nothing to do with my connection, but finding other people to play with. It has a nice match-making 
 where it tries to get you in a game with others at your skill level. But it's slow... The actual 
 game itself I didn't notice any lag. You also have to sign up to 2 different things in order to 
 play (Whice was a hassle) . But the whole Metal Gear Online what looked to be a good future online 
 community. It even has people on there who will tutor you on how to play the online game. Which 
 was amazing. Other than it being hard to navigate and slow to start up games, it was a very nice 
 experience and very in-depth.
  
  I highly recommend this game to anybody. I can definetly see why it won so many game of the year 
 awards. And it is also my game of the year for '08.
  
  Any questions, message me. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xSithiSx
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 25, 2009 12:42 am PT
Review:  I was skeptic at first, I couldn't understand how so many people could have such a great opinion 
 of this game. I finally picked up a PS3 with a copy of MGS4 and I gotta say I would trade in my 
 360 and all of the games just for MGS4's storyline and multiplayer. I can understand why some folks 
 wouldn't like the story because of the long cutscenes and some of the "big words". But you can 
 only expect so much from people today with their short attention spans. To me the game is a refreshing 
 break from the usual "Delta squad, cover the right flank!". Multiplayer is fantastic and never 
 gets dull, you have the choice to play automatching which is basically matchmaking where you can 
 earn points to buy tons of cool gear for your character. Free battle allows you to choose a server, 
 then choose a game from the list. You can also compete in tournaments and survival matches. Overall 
 this game is fun, immersive, and an instant classic. If you haven't played Metal Gear 4 I recommend 
 you pick it up ASAP, you wont be dissapointed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: WWE4lyfe123
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 23, 2009 4:23 pm PT
Review:  
  Twenty-one years ago the world was given a new video game by some unknown man named Hideo Kojima. 
 His goal wasn't exactly complicated. All he wanted to do was make a simple game that focused on 
 stealth and avoiding conflict. This game, Metal Gear was a big hit in Japan and its flawed port 
 to the NES only heightened its popularity. The canon sequel, Metal Gear 2: Solid Snake continued 
 the story and while it was Japanese exclusive for quite a while, it still served its purpose. It 
 wasn't until 1998 when this series grew to astronomical heights. The release of Metal Gear Solid, 
 considered by many to be the greatest PS1 game of all time, if not one of the greatest games on 
 any console, marked not only an evolution to 3D graphics, but a more developed and complicated 
 story. Three years after its release, Metal Gear Solid 2: Sons of Liberty was released which added 
 more gameplay elements and especially the convoluted everyone either loves or hates. Three years 
 after that, Metal Gear Solid 3: Snake Eater, a prequel, contributed even more to the gameplay and 
 eased up on the narrative, as did its sequel of Metal Gear Solid: Portable Ops. Finally, however, 
 after over two decades of complex, though-provoking plots, clever gameplay elements, remarkable 
 production values, and memorable characters, Hideo Kojima, the once unknown person and now renowned 
 video game developer, finally concludes his series once and for all with Metal Gear Solid 4: Guns 
 of the Patriots, but how exactly did it turn out?
  
  ---
  
  Graphics: 10/10
  
  It was hard to determine a score for this department. Many reviewers have called this the best 
 looking game thus far, and I would find it hard to disagree with them. Everything about this game's 
 presentation is astounding, especially when played on an HDTV. While a few textures are blurred 
 and muddy, and while shadows can be pixelated, it is going to be hard to find a game out there 
 that truly exemplifies the gritty, war-torn environment better without making everything needlessly 
 shiny. The character models are definitely some of the best to ever grace any game. From the needle 
 marks in Naomi's neck to the aged lines that plague Snake, Campbell, and Liquid, it is simply amazing 
 how far gaming has come. 
  
  The environments themselves are beautifully crafted, with different art styles that reflect on 
 the five different locations. These locations in the game are flawlessly designed and feature incredible 
 atmosphere, from the Middle East with dirt and papers blowing in the wind to the South American 
 forest with lifelike grass and water. Without spoiling anything, the later locations are even more 
 amazing, with incredible weather effects and realistic urban settings. No longer will you sneak 
 through one generic hallway to the next. The differences in locations is a breath of fresh air 
 that is not only great to look at, but great to play in as well due to the lack of redundancy. 
 
  
  Other effects are also well done. Grenades and rockets exploding cause a cloud of dirt to cover 
 your vision and prevent you from seeing anything that is going on. Afterwards dust settles on the 
 screen which subtly draws players in. The same thing is true for blood and water. When Snake is 
 shot, little droplets of blood appear on the screen and as Snake emerges from water the same thing 
 occurs. Minute details such as those show the dedication that Kojima Productions had in making 
 this game look as great as possible. 
  
  The animations and physics are fluid and realistic as well. The Octocamo transitions beautifully 
 in real time to match its background. Characters move with actual weight to them and never feel 
 stiff or unresponsive. One thing that impressed me was that whenever an explosion happened around 
 Snake, he would go flying and would react to the environment. For instance, after being hit with 
 a grenade, he flew onto a railing and hung limp over it for a second. Enemies react perfectly to 
 gunshots, falling in the awkward positions gamers have come to love. All in all, aside from the 
 few bad textures, occasional framerate dips (nothing below 30) , and some pixelated shadows, Metal 
 Gear Solid 4 looks as great as everyone had hoped for. You won't get a greater experience than 
 playing this at 720p (or even upscaled to 1080p) . Do not fret though, the game still looks great 
 in standard definition.
  
  Sound: 10/10 
  
  The sound design in this game should be a standard for every future game to come. The decision 
 to use uncompressed audio may not show to some, but with the right equipment, you can feel like 
 you're right behind Snake as he advances in the battlefield. Every gun sounds incredibly realistic, 
 as does every single element in the game. Footsteps, breathing, coughing, the sound of Snake's 
 lighter, the keys on the keyboard being tapped, the explosions, the helicopter blades rotating, 
 etc. etc. Needless to say, your reward for having a 5.1 setup will no doubt come from this game.
 
  
  Voice acting is another important thing to consider from a game like this. I was a bit hesitant, 
 because I felt Dave Hayter's performance as Snake has been slipping since The Twin Snakes. However, 
 his depiction of Old Snake is excellent. He perfectly captures the deteriorating health of Snake 
 with his rough,  voice. Other characters sound wonderful as well. 
 Returning characters and new characters alike never drop in quality, and turn an otherwise cheesy 
 line into something meaningful.
  
  Finally, the music. Every Metal Gear game has had great music, and this one is no different. In 
 fact, I would say this game has the best soundtrack of all of them. While it does unfortunately 
 lose the Metal Gear Solid motif we've all hummed at some point in our lives, the rest makes up 
 for it. Harry Gregson-Williams and Nobuko Toda work together to craft one of the finest game soundtracks 
 ever. The tracks range from beautiful, sad pieces to upbeat, techno ones. In doing so, the music 
 manages to make sad scenes even sadder and action scenes more exciting.
  
  Gameplay: 10/10
  
  This game is, in simple terms, a blast to play. While theoretically sneaking 
 around may sound boring, everything is done just right to entice the player and make them beg for 
 more. Of course, you are not limited to sneaking around, though it is encouraged. That is one of 
 the many joys of the game. You are never limited in how you should approach the mission. You can 
 go through the entire game and not kill a single person, or you can kill as many as you want with 
 guns blazing.
  
  In a couple of areas in the game, you will find Snake entering a proxy battle between PMC troops 
 and simple militia. Snake can go about his way, ignoring both sides, or he can help out the militia 
 by killing PMC troops and giving them supplies like rations. If players choose the latter, they 
 might find some parts more bearable. Of course, you can go through and kill anything that moves, 
 including the militia. Doing so might make the area a bit of a challenge however. 
  
  These militia vs. PMC battles aren't the only types of missions in the game though. Another great 
 feature is the variety in the missions. While many retain the stealthy feel, a lot of them are 
 different. You'll find yourself tracking a certain character after they are kidnapped, or tailing 
 a person to find their hideout. There are a couple of amazing chase scenes, one of which puts most 
 Hollywood movies to shame. Not only does this variety provide exciting alternatives to the simple 
 sneak around from point A to point B method, but it makes the overall experience much more enjoyable.
 
  
  The Metal Gear games have always featured numerous weapons with which Snake could kill or knock 
 out his foes. Metal Gear Solid 4 does not change this. It does, however, inject the concept with 
 steroids. Metal Gear Solid 4 features well over 70 weapons, ranging from peashooters to adult magazines 
 to anti-tank missile launchers to rail guns. What's more is that many weapons can be customized. 
 For instance, you can add a grip to a machine gun to make it easier to shoot, or even shotguns 
 and grenade launchers to add secondary weapons to ensure your foe is dead. Furthermore, a lot of 
 weapons can fire different types of ammo. This level of depth, creativity, and customization adds 
 a lot to the longevity and awesomeness-factor of the gameplay.
  
  To get weapons, Snake can either find them on the battlefield, or he can purchase them from a gun 
 launderer named Drebin. By pausing the game, you can access Drebin's shop and buy weapons, parts, 
 or ammo. To buy these things, players use Drebin Points, or DP. DP is gained in a variety of ways. 
 If players pick up dropped weapons from enemies, for instance, and they already have that weapon, 
 it will automatically be sold (not the ammo though) and they will earn DP. Other factors contribute 
 to DP earned, including killing certain enemies and viewing flashbacks. Many guns cost a lot of 
 DP (upwards of one million) , so it adds yet another layer of depth to the game and definitely increases 
 replay value.
  
  Actually playing as Snake is incredibly fun. His move set has been greatly expanded from previous 
 games. CQC returns from Metal Gear Solid 3, with more moves and easier controls. He can run while 
 crouched over which is a nice contribution that may just save your life. He can also roll sideways, 
 which also proved to be very useful. Other returning elements are hanging from ledges and forward 
 rolling. He can also roll when on the ground, shoot from his back, "worm crawl" to slowly advance, 
 lie prone and pretend to be dead, or lob grenade from his back and over obstacles, all of which 
 make sneaking and fighting easier. 
  
  The controls have been changed a lot from previous games. No longer do you hold R1 for first person 
 view and square to shoot. This time the controls were made a bit easier. To aim, the player holds 
 L1 and then fires with R1. The over-the-shoulder view is a nice addition which helps make aiming 
 easier and more intuitive. It is not limited to this, however, as hitting square allows for auto-aiming. 
 First person mode is still in the game, and this time the entire game can be played in it. While 
 it is not the best decision to play the whole game in it, it can be very helpful in giving pinpoint 
 accuracy. Triangle is an action button which allows Snake to perform certain abilities such as 
 pressing against a wall or performing certain CQC actions like throat-slitting. Adding a lot of 
 moves to one button may seem like a lot, but it really isn't. It only contributes to the controls 
 and makes it easier for player to have fun.
  
  To add to the gameplay and even one of the overall themes of the game ("sense") , the Psyche and 
 Stress meters were added. These retain the mechanics in Metal Gear Solid 3, like stamina and camouflage, 
 albeit in easier and less clumsy ways. Below the health meter is another meter which represents 
 Snake's mental health, or psyche. It gradually lowers as battles become more intense, and the lower 
 it goes, the less accurate his aiming is. Stress is located below the Psyche meter, and it is in 
 percentage form. As Snake becomes more stressed out (usually in the heat of a battle when guards 
 are shooting him) , he once again becomes less accurate. If players shoot enough while Snake is 
 stressed out, they will enter a "combat high" in which less damage is sustained and accuracy is 
 better. Though this will follow with detrimental effects. Unlike the stamina system of the third 
 game, these two work together to convey the sense of battle to players, and because of this players 
 will truly focus on them as they play, making sure they are in good condition.
  
  One major addition to the gameplay is the Octocamo, which is the suit Snake wears. Lying prone 
 for a couple of seconds on any surface will allow it to change and mimic the surface. The more 
 well hidden he is (represented in a percentage in the top right corner) , the less likely he will 
 be spotted. This is a much better system than Metal Gear Solid 3, avoiding time-consuming menus. 
 Players can save patterns, download extra ones, or even enjoy collectible face-camos. 
  
  Okay, time for the ninth paragraph on gameplay. I'm sorry, but there is so much to talk about. 
 Let's start with the Solid Eye. This device, created by Otacon, serves many purposes. It combines 
 the functions of binoculars, night/thermal vision, and radar into one. It is a very useful tool 
 in locating items on the ground, or for seeing which side a soldier is on (PMC or militia) . The 
 threat ring is similar to the radar in Metal Gear Solid Portable Ops. When crouched or lying down, 
 a slightly transparent ring hovers around Snake, with bumps representing sound from animals, people, 
 and vehicles. The closer those things come to Snake, the bigger the bumps get. It is definitely 
 a useful tool in locating enemies who might be trying to get you from behind. 
  
  Speaking of enemies, the AI is amazing in this game. When you go on alert, the enemies will try 
 and find you by any means necessary. They will search every nook and cranny of the area. Also, 
 when in firefights, they will flank you, throw grenades, take cover, and team up on you. The boss 
 fights in the game are spectacular. Each one is unique and are very memorable. They are definitely 
 among the best boss fights in game history.
  
  Story: 10/10
  
  This is probably the most important part of the game for me. While I do love playing the game, 
 I can't help but sit down and enjoy the cutscenes in the series and watch as the plot gradually 
 unfolds. With Metal Gear Solid 4, Kojima intended to wrap everything up. He wanted every loose 
 end closed, every question answered, and all of the fates decided. He did succeed, and this is 
 most definitely the end for Snake. While we may see spin-offs, I doubt we'll see a sequel to this 
 game.
  
  I was slightly disappointed with the storylines in Metal Gear Solid 3 and Metal Gear Solid: Portable 
 Ops, so I was a bit worried about how this one would turn out. Thankfully my fears were quelled 
 and soon enough I found this one to be as good as the first two games. The story itself takes place 
 in 2014, when the world economy depends on warfare to thrive. Solid Snake faces accelerated aging 
 due to being a clone, and, while only in his forties, takes on the look of a much older man. He 
 knows his time will be up soon, but agrees to take on one final mission. His brother, Liquid, seemingly 
 possessing Revolver Ocelot's body, wields authority over many powerful Private Military Companies 
 (or PMCs) and commences his plans to lead an insurrection by gaining control of a system of nanomachines 
 which controls and regulates soldiers' actions. This, of course, is only the beginning. I will 
 not go further lest I reveal spoilers, but suffice it to say, everything that needed to be addressed 
 is. People who have played through the series will find, by the time the credits are done rolling, 
 that nothing was left unanswered. While it has been said that people new to the series can pick 
 up and play this game, I would have to disagree. Not only would the plot be more complex, but most 
 of the jokes wouldn't be understood and all of the nostalgia simply wouldn't be there. As many 
 reviewers have said, this is a game for the fans. If you haven't played the previous games in the 
 series, go ahead and pick them up and then play this one.
  
  The cutscenes through which the story is told are marvelous. They are emotional, epic, action-packed, 
 provocative, nostalgic, funny, and entertaining. While they are certainly lengthy (the longest 
 of which is approximately 60 minutes) , the time goes by fast. Each scene is perfectly crafted, 
 and some are truly spectacular to watch. Many cutscenes flow seamlessly to and from gameplay, heightening 
 the immersion and providing an amazing presentation. As long as you don't have ADD, you should 
 enjoy the overall experience.
  
  Replay Value: 10/10
  
  There is an incredible amount of extras in this game. The single player alone gives players many 
 incentives to go back over and over, whether it is locating extra items, getting more DP to buy 
 more weapons, or just improving the overall rank, there is a lot to do, especially because of the 
 five difficulty levels which range from hold-your-hand simple to  
 hard. You will no doubt want to play this game over and over, whether it's to watch the splendid 
 cutscenes again, collect all the emblems, or simply challenge yourself, it is easily a fun game 
 to just play over and over.
  
  Of course, the biggest contributor to replay value is the online play. MGO is extremely addictive, 
 even with its bare-bone features. It has the basic modes like (Team) Deathmatch, capture the bases, 
 etc. It also features the unique sneaking mode in which one person plays as Snake and other play 
 as guards who try to kill him before he gets their dogtags. Other modes include rescue missions, 
 and base missions. While as of now there are only a few maps and modes, it is still incredibly 
 fun and captures the thrill of Metal Gear Solid 4's single player in a convenient, high quality 
 online experience with no slow downs at all and top notch presentation. The only problems, however, 
 are the insipid Konami and Game IDs needed to play, which force the player to go make more accounts. 
 It is also region locked, so you won't be playing around the globe for this one. You are also limited 
 to one character unless you want to pay for one. While this is an admirable effort in preventing 
 people from making new accounts just so they can kill off new players easily, it is still somewhat 
 annoying. It would not be as bad if you could edit your character, which unfortunately isn't an 
 option once everything is set. You can't change the clothes they wear (except for removing the 
 ones you have) , and you can't even change their color. Still, it is extremely fun and is a great 
 way to waste many hours of a dull day. The single player, by itself, has tons of replay value, 
 so consider MGO a bonus.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: jubeajubea
Rating: 1
Date: Feb 23, 2009 3:56 pm PT
Review:  Hours and hours of melodramatic, windy monologues make this game barely playable. I guess the easiest 
 way to call this one is: its a Japanese game for a Japanese audience and
  it really isn't a game interspersed with cutscenes, but instead its a movie interspersed with playscenes.
 
  
  Pros:
  * Lovely 1080p/60, although there are some oddly misplaced low-res textures.
  * Boss fights (5) are mildly fun, mostly because you get to actually play them.
  
  Cons:
 
  * Story - If you're a big anime fan and have dutifully played every single mgs game before this 
 one, this story would probably be up your alley.
  For those used to watching actual movies or reading actual books: this storyline is mired by two-dimensional 
 characters, infantile anime-style plot lines, and weak philosophical preachiness.
  * Sexist - probably not from the perspective of Japanese culture, but for the rest of us its offensive 
 to women.
  * Design by punishment - The designers wanted to provide a very broad set of gameplay possibilities 
 and so the way you play the game will wildly change from one playscene to the next. This is great 
 in theory, but in practice it just pisses you off because you really don't have the time to explore 
 any particular part unless you want to replay.
  Also, many times the game will just punish you arbitrarily and by placing a mine somewhere that 
 you just have to know about, or by obfuscating an objective so that your best option is really 
 just to look it up in an FAQ. My personal favorite is at the end where they punish you by forcing 
 you to mash the triangle button for like 5 minutes while you're screaming 'END IT!'.
  
  The saddest part about this game though is the wasted resources. The game industry is booming and 
 there is market opportunity and funding out there right now than there is talent. The coding and 
 artwork put into this game is exemplary, but its such a waste in the hands of Hideo Kojima and 
 the design crew. 4 or 5 wonderful games could've been produced with this budget and this talent. 
 Instead, we got Metal Gear Solid 4. Oh well, at least its over... maybe Kojima will retire.
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: ElGreco88
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 23, 2009 8:41 am PT
Review:  The so long-waited fourth (and unfortunately final) MGS is everything a PS3 gamer would dream.
 
  
  From the very first time you control old Snake in a hooded disguise till the shocking ending scene 
 you try to realize if u actually play a video game or you're a part of a movie. The graphics are 
 stunning and the environment is like it's coming alive. Otacon's new gadget is a really good addition 
 to the game (i loved shocking enemies from behind) and of course one more time you have to use 
 anything around you in order to sneak past the guards. 
  
  The game in a first run wouldn't be hard to complete (especially for experienced MGS fans) , but 
 with its cool unlockables you want to finish it over and over again! Plus the fact that the big 
 boss disguise is quite intriguing. Personally i loved the final scenes too and i think it was and 
 ending that deserved to one of the best fictional video-game characters ever.
  
  Online gameplay is interesting, too. There is a pretty big community playing the game and there 
 is a bunch of cool skills in order to develop your character in whatever way you want.
  
  I tell you one more time. Even if this is the first time you'll be playing a title from the MG 
 series this game is a MUST for every gamer. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mamikapapo
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 7, 2009 6:58 am PT
Review:  WOW.
  
  This game is fantastic. Every gamer needs to experience it.
  
  When I first heard that this game has over 9 hours of cutscenes, I was worried that it'd be more 
 movie than game. Instead, Kojima ends up producing the perfect blend of gaming and cutscenes, creating 
 an entirely new gaming experience. This combination of cutscene and gameplay is perfected in the 
 final boss battle. That battle, I must say, is the THE most awesome final boss fight I have ever 
 played through. I don't want to spoil the treat you're in for by describing it. You just have to 
 play it to know what I mean. It's really something else, trust me.
  
  The only thing that would have made this game better is if they had added more gameplay to the 
 second half of the game (starting from the 3rd act) . If you remove the cutscenes, those 3 acts 
 are quite short. Still, there are many things that add replayability to the game, which more than 
 makes up for it by making MGS4 fun to play again and again. I won't get into into the details anymore 
 because much has been written about the extras that make MGS4 worth playing over again.
  
  And then of course, there's MGS online, which should definitely add a lot of replay value, though 
 honestly I can't say much about it because I haven't played it. I can't access the PlayStation 
 Network from where I live (bummer) .
  
  Other than that complaint, this game is practically perfect. It's so good that I'm actually contemplating 
 on buying a limited edition MGS4 gunmetal PS3 that I found online.
  
  MGS4 is, most definitely something every hardcore PS3 gamer should own. If you don't own a PS3, 
 go get yourself one, or play it on a friend's PS3 (which is what I did) .
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Fezilla
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 22, 2009 8:10 am PT
Review:  Just about everyone in the gaming community knows what the Metal Gear Solid series is about. Fans 
 love the immersive storyline and in depth characters, while detractors of the series have affectionately 
 nicknamed the series "Movie Gear Solid," which isn't entirely untrue.
  
  As far as the game itself goes, every aspect of this game floored me. Truly fantastic on every 
 aspect. The in-game graphics engine (which, as in all previous iterations of the series, drives 
 the cutscenes) is beautiful. MGS4 is easily one of the best-looking games ever released, and that's 
 without any preprendered scenes.
  
  Also, the sound contains the same epic score, and even borrows pieces from the older games for 
 some nostalgia. Sound effects are all in place as they should be, and the voice acting is terrific. 
 Hell, even Otacon's actor got me wrapped up into the story as opposed to making me just laugh at 
 him a la MGS2. David Hayter does his typically amazing job, even if half of his job is just coughing 
 and throwing up. The rest of the cast all did excellent jobs, with a notable performance by Quinton 
 Flynn playing Raiden and the aforementioned.
  
  The game plays great, too. Between the stealth options and the new, in-depth weapon customization 
 system, you can truly play the game however the hell you want to. If you feel rampantly slaughtering 
 everything possible? Hey, more power to you. Do you have the patience to sneak around and manage 
 to not kill so much as a fly? All the same. Of course, it might be a little harder to fend off 
 some of the bosses with a tranquilizer gun, but it's really not even that hard to do so.
  
  Also, with the weapon customization system I mentioned, it's quite a relief from the older system 
 of pre-chosen weapons, because you can actually approach the combat situations of the game however 
 you want to. Did the Socom never really feel right when taking on a boss? Well, **** it. Grab a 
 Desert Eagle this time around and let loose.
  
  Also, the aiming system has been refined to make using automatic weapons easier than ever. In MGS2 
 and 3, I preferred pistols over rifles because the aiming system made automatic rifles a pain to 
 use. No more! :D The trusty M4 custom never left my side, especially with attachable shotgun for 
 extra awesomeness.
  
  The boss fights were, for the most part, incredible. The ONLY drawback of this game, IMO, is that 
 the four members of the B&B corps go through the same motions when defeated. The first time it's 
 an eerie and amazing event, the second time you're taken aback by the similarity, the third time 
 you're pissed off at Konami for being lazy, and then the fourth time you say the boss's lines for 
 them. Despite being formulaic though, the bosses all have unique and well-drawn backstories, even 
 if they're all a little nutty, even for MGS. And then actually fighting these bosses is a story 
 in and of itself. The bosses all actually intimidated the HELL out of me. Great, intense boss fights 
 all around.
  
  Of course, the meat and potatoes of any MGS game: The story. I will not give any spoilers away, 
 but suffice it to say this is easily one of the greatest stories in a single game I have ever witnessed, 
 and easily my favorite series of all time. All questions left from MGS2 have been answered in superb 
 fashion, and the game excellently ties all three games together. As Gamespot said, I was actually 
 sad when I knew the game was nearing its end, because in no way did I want it to end. But the grand 
 scale of the events made it truly a wonder to behold nonetheless.
  
  And finally, replayability. For single player, the emblem system and unlockable items can easily 
 leave people wanting to play the game again to obtain new weapons or items (I mean, who DOESN'T 
 want a long barreled Desert Eagle to go along with stealth camo?) . I have yet to delve into the 
 multiplayer, just beating the game last night, but I've heard good things about it, and so long 
 as there's no lag or server issues, the multiplayer should be superb all around.
  
  Final rating? 9.9, simply for the fact that I was displeased with the repetition of the B&B Corps 
 boss endings. Gamespot won't let me rate it a 9.9, so I'll settle for a 9.5 under the idea that 
 the game is actually in fact is a masterpiece in every respect save for one tiny, tiny, TINY blemish 
 that really doesn't detract from the overall enjoyment of the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NortePadrote
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 21, 2009 5:37 pm PT
Review:  MGS 4 was the reason I even wanted to get a PS3. I finally did when i got fed with with my 360 getting 
 the red rings. When I got my PS3 Metal gear sold 4 was the game that I bought as my first PS3 game. Okay 
 this review is not negative one because I did like the game, to me it wasnt all that I expected 
 it to be, you know what it probably was. But the thing that I hate mgs4 was that I felt like I was 
 being force to play the game like the creators would play it themslves. This game is really a next 
 gen game with some flaws.
  
  First off, The graphics are next gen and they look great. Some reviews here on Gamespot state that 
 MGS4 graphics are bad, but their not. The lighting on the enviroments to the characters is great. Every 
 single wolrd is detail, to the characters and their outfits and expressions. If you play a next gen 
 game make sure you got an HDTV and the right cables for it, thats the only reason I got for people 
 bashing on MGS4 graphics cause they really are truly beutiful.
  
  The control are perfect. Aiming is accurate as if you were firing a real machine gun. Well it might 
 tick some people that some controls been change, theyre not hard to get used too. But the game basicly 
 is the same. I dont see why they would change it, in my opinion they could have been the same like 
 previous Mgs4 games.
  
  Now the story is still confusing. They are talking about. For example what the hell is the JD? It 
 happens during most part of the story. Its like they keep making up its own rules as the story moves 
 along. In other words its too technical. Its not bad, the problem is like I said its to techinical, they 
 should had seen it and had to simplify it. Now the other bad part is that the cutscenes are too 
 long. Way too long, that I never played this game on weekdays, cause I have to work and when I simply 
 want to play a game not watch a movie. I sweat the cutscnenes are so long when they are done I have 
 to go to sleep. Thats why I played on weekends only. Now the story is about Solid Snake havent age 
 in an abnormal way. His aging has sped up and he is dying. While with that condition he still to 
 stop Ocelot? Liquid Snake from becoming big boss.
  
  The voice acting is great, not must to complain about here cause there is nothing to complain about 
 it. The score to me is not memorble but its not bad, it keeps almost the same as previous Metal gears.
 
  
  Now the problem I have with is the gameplay. Something that I usually notices by Japanese devolop 
 games. During the whole time I felt like I was being force to play the game as they wanted me to, not 
 like I want to. Why give Snake the gears of war behind the shoulder camera angle and not being able 
 to use it because they want to use stealth to reach my goal. SOmetimes I felt like just go guns 
 blazing just to speed up the gameplay, well I could do that. Then I have to deal with hordes of guards 
 coming after me and they wont stop until I try to loose them. Its like iam being force to just used 
 stealth. Why give Snake all those machine guns, weak custimze weopons feature if all they want me 
 to do is to sneack around. Mostly the guns are used to fight bosses. Now the boss battles are the 
 most boring in any of the Metal gearsI think thats one thing that remains last gen the boss battles, everything 
 is next gen but the boss battles are not. This is how they are boring. They are slow. The whole concept 
 of the boss battles with the three girls is trying to find the target, and when you find it take 
 care of buissness. This part the developers didnt took full advanatges of the boss battles. I meant 
 they wouldnt had been so boring if they been a little bit faster to complete. They should have made 
 them more Like God of war grand scale battles, not just find the target and shoot her and then watch 
 her dissapear and find her again.
  
  Okay this is a good game. I did like it I just wish the developers would have done things much better, more 
 player friendly. I think only Metal Gear fans would only appreciate this game, from the story perspective. If 
 your just here want to play it for just the gameplay, then this is a good stealth game. If you want 
 to start getting into the MGS frenzy i recomend you find the original Metal gear or play the remake 
 for the gamecube.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Vindibudd
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 20, 2009 11:41 am PT
Review:  Metal Gear Solid 4 is my first game in the series. I never played the other ones, but I will shortly 
 because I really think that you are going to end up lost on the plot if you do not know who people 
 like Big Mama or Ocelot or any of these other outlandish people are. I'm going to get the cons 
 out of the way first. Awful humor. I think that a game of this magnitude needs to be above fart 
 jokes. For real. 30 minute cut scenes, I kid you not. This is great if you want to have a something 
 to eat for a while. A long while. Break out your psp and play something real quick while you wait 
 for things to get done in MGS4. The boss fights are insane, and I do not mean that in a good way. 
 Even after you figure out how to kill a boss, it takes a LOT OF TIME and EFFORT to do it. This 
 is EASILY the most difficult, cheap-shotting game I have ever played. And Otakon screaming SNAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAKE 
 every time you die can get just a little annoying.
  
  Just a little.
  
  Dialogue is stilted and seems like there is a disconnect between Japanese language and English 
 translation here. Lots and LOTS of awkward pauses. If you like anime, you probably will love this, 
 but if you are flat out western in sensibilities, you are going to be bored to tears, or falling 
 asleep (like myself) . And does every single woman in the game have to have a blouse so low it shows 
 her navel? Was this game modeled by 13 year olds?
  
  That said.
  
  This is an incredibly deep game. It can be played so many different ways and it is epic in every 
 sense of the word. Though the cutscenes can drag for people who want to play a game, they are beautifully 
 rendered and show an amazing cinematic quality. I've seen people talk about horror games and I 
 have always laughed, but the monsters in this game literally freak me out. There has never been 
 a game with such epic ambition like this that I have ever seen. It is entirely unlike anything 
 that I have ever even THOUGHT of. For that reason it is a 10. If you own a ps3, you need to get 
 this for posterity if nothing else. Just to say that you have it. Will you want to replay it over 
 and over? Not if you are looking for something that is easy, that's for sure. But this is the pinnacle 
 of console game design and execution. I highly recommend it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ern1982
Rating: 5
Date: Feb 20, 2009 12:44 am PT
Review:  There is not very much to say about this game, so i will make it snappy. Firstly, I would like 
 to say that I completely trust the reviews from gamespot editors and sometime its users, so score 
 number 10 gave me the green light to go out there and buy Metal Gear Solid 4. I was very ecxited 
 but unfortunately this game was a total let down. Graphics are excellent but the gameplay is boring, 
 it has no substance, no pleasure, no fun, nothing. I mean Drake' fortune had smaller score than 
 MGS4, but its gameplay was just right. Metal Gear Solid even make Assasin's Creed look better.
 
  Bottomline is that I paid a good amount of money for this game, and it certainly does not worth 
 it. Also, i don't understand why you guys voted it as game of the year. GTA IV wasn't also a big 
 hit as some people make it look like, but its gameplay was much better. Anyway, I know what I like 
 and this game is not in my options. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: anths1987
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 17, 2009 1:52 pm PT
Review:  Well, I could say alot of this game. But to keep things short I will only make a small, yet, to 
 the point review.
  
  Firstly, the presentation to this game is a sight to behold. Nothing compares to it in the slighest 
 sense. Everything from the graphics, sound effects, to the epic soundtrack, it is great!
  
  The boss fights that were accompined within the game are excellent and very exciting!!! Known as 
 "The Beauty and the Beast" corps, they offer a thrilling experience, especially the first one, 
 Laughing Octopus.
  
  The gameplay is awesome as well. It may be a "slow" game based upon how most people view it initially, 
 but this game is meant to be played as stealth, and it is great at it. 
  
  All in all, if you own a PS3, i highly suggest that you look into this game. It is a MUST for PS3 
 owners and a great addition to your game library. Enjoy! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: caseypayne69
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 17, 2009 9:10 am PT
Review:  Its really hard to go over all thats in MGS4, but doing so would only reveal spoilers. 
  
  Graphics: 9
  MGS4 doesn't shine in the texture detail of say Gears 2, maybe MGS character models 
 match up. But the overall graphics experience is wonderful in its ability to create and immersive, 
 chaotic warzone. The draw distance is strong and no signs of screen tearing ever takes place.
 
  
  Presentation: 10
  The overall story telling experience is wonderful. Are their long cutscenes? Yes, but they flow 
 along with the gameplay and enhance the meaningfulness of playing. 
  
  Sound: 10
  Feast your ears to high definition sound. 
  
  Online play: 8
  Online play feels very much 
 like single player except their are people to shoot at. Their are abilities that you can level 
 up to 20 classes up to a level four in experiene. I preferred my knife, CQC, and running in free 
 for all matches. Sonar, and other team based skills for group matches. Enabling your team to see 
 who's shooting at you, seeing them through walls. 
  
  Gameplay: 9
  The gameplay is tradition MGS with the camera less over your head than it was in MGS3. It feels 
 clunky like Resident Evil. Also like Resident Evil that stiff feel plays a role in how the game 
 feels, and it fits right.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: rajsingh12
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 2, 2009 2:47 am PT
Review:  About 10 years after the original hit the Playstation, Metal Gear Solid 4 is the last game that 
 will feature Solid Snake. Konami has made sure that Solid Snake's last game is bigger and better 
 than anything we have ever seen, and to be honest this is a landmark game in video gaming. The game 
 breaks new ground in terms of visuals and presentation, the six-hour plus game movies are brilliantly 
 produced and features some of the best fight sequences ever witnessed, if you doubt my claim just 
 see the video. The game is virtually flawless for a fan of the series. For those new to the game, 
 let me assure you that the story will not make sense to you, so better read a lot about before 
 jumping into this one. Following are some of the MGS facts that you should know:
  
  # When Hideo Kojima first briefed Konami about his Metal Gear ideas, they rejected them saying 
 a game about sneaking will never work.
  
  # The series often has a very subtle theme that raises concerns over worldly issues like Nuclear 
 war and Genetic Engineering (for war) .
  
  # The series is known for its larger-than-life characters, especially Solid Snake, their emotional 
 bonding, the really intense single-player plot that can seem intimidating to new players.
  
  # Solid Snake, the character, has been felicitated with numerous awards and is regularly listed 
 in iconic gaming character features.
  
  # The boss battles in every MGS games are the true highlight of the game, the first Playstation 
 game called Metal Gear Solid was known particularly for its boss fight with Psycho Mantis. This 
 was a unique experience, as the boss had psychic powers in the game, and to show off that skill, 
 Mantis would read the content of the player's memory card, see how many times he has saved the 
 game and what other games he plays. He could also predict the player's movements towards objects 
 and dodge his attacks. To eliminate him, one had to remove his controller and plug it in the other 
 slot. This change would result in Mantis not being able to read your movements and making it easier 
 for the player to eliminate him.
  
  # MGS 4 was a highly anticipated game before its 16th June release date, so much so that there 
 was speculation that the game needed to sell more than million copies on the first day to recover 
 costs. In reality, it sold more than 1.5 million after its release.
  
  # MGS 4 is the first game ever to use a 50 GB Blu Ray to its full capacity.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: bikram89
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 16, 2009 7:53 am PT
Review:  Hell Yeah!!!
  It's here, the game which will be looked upon by everyone for years to come. In the world of mediocrity, 
 the pure awesomeness of this game will shine bright. The game starts with (now old) snake sneaking 
 into a middle east war zone and from there what you will encountre will leave you awestruck. The 
 whole game is made up of moments that you will remember and cherish may be even after 10 years 
 from now on. This is a lesson in game making by the master Hideo Kojima. You may have heard about 
 the long cut scenes that pan out between gameplay. But believe me these cut scenes only enhances 
 the whole experience that this game has to offer. There is no stone left unturned to ensure that 
 the player gets the time of his life while playing it.
  
  The gameplay is designed in such a manner that you can either chose stealth or the all guns blazing 
 approach to it. This is another ace as the hardcore fans will find it satisfying and newcomers 
 like me can also get in the groove as the game doesn't punishes you for being loud. The boss fights 
 are not very hard but are very well laid out. While the epic final battle with liquid will leave 
 you stunned to silence. Well the game has delivered a boost to the sales of PS3 and given it a 
 new lease of life. I hope all the developers learn a lesson or two from this game and we get to 
 see more such epics. A perfect 10 from me. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: YngBld023
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 15, 2009 4:53 pm PT
Review:  Some Spoilers:
  
  Really this Metal Gear Solid did not do it for me as much as some of the others did. There was 
 just a few things that really did make me angry about this game ex: Eva was boring (I wanted to 
 shoot her instead of Raging Raven) , the story was just not there if you ask me. I mean come on... nano-machines 
 soldiers that are super talented and then Liquid takes over them and all of a sudden they act like 
 zombies, I mean what is that. Then the B&B's were crap too. The B&B's were definitely hot chicks 
 but that is all, no real soldiers like Vulcan Raven, Wolf, etc etc. To me the only thing that this 
 game really does have is graphics. Only reason I gave MGS4 a 8 is because of its graphics and game 
 play..... that is it.
  
  
  One thing that I ENJOYED was when you got in front of the Nuclear Weapons disposal facility and 
 the song The Best is Yet to Come kicks in. That brought back memories.
  
  I really wished that they would look back at MGS and learn from it and make more games like it. 
 It had characters, story and game play. Me and my buddy used to stay up for hours playing MGS.... unfortunately 
 I doubt that I will do that with this one.
  
  
  My List:
  MGS
  MGS Snake Eater (snake eater was way better than MGS4)
  MGS4
  MGS2 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Hanass
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 14, 2009 7:38 am PT
Review:  This was the first game I got for my PS3, and can say that I don't regret it at all. One of the 
 most addictive games I ever played. Storyline is extremely complex and satisfying as you do not 
 need to play MGS1/2/3 to be able to understand it.
  
  Pros:
  -Very long campaign.
  -Hard, but no too difficult.
  -Huge weapon variety.
  -Well-designed, original and fun-to-use 
 gadgets.
  -One of the best UI's/HUD's every designed in any game.
  
  Cons:
  -Terrible graphics. As a usual PC gamer I am very demanding. Visuals are really sad for such an 
 awesome game, but I guess you can't compare a console to a PC.
  -Some laggy parts.
  -Too many cutscenes.
  
  In conclusion, anybody who has a PS3 should have this game because 
 it makes up for it's bad graphics by creating a simple to understand yet very addictive and interesting 
 storyline. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: matthova
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 13, 2009 8:49 pm PT
Review:  MGS4 is, i think, the best game or the past few years, if not decade. The game is just plain beautiful. 
 You'll notice that when you watch a cutscene (which you'll spend most of your time doing) , the graphics 
 look the same in the scene as when you play the game!! I've never seen a game look so polished, 
 but yet so gritty at the same time.
  
  So it looks great, but how does it play? I've played MGS1 and 3, and those are good games, but 
 the controls are clunky. Shoothing someone is a chore; but not in this one. Just hold the L1 button 
 and press R1 to start shooting. The guns are also customizable.... even though i must admit I didnt 
 customize or buy weapons very often. Every control in the game just feels right.... like when you 
 want to camofloge yourself just simply go next to a wall or object and your octocamo will do the 
 work for you. That is a big improvement over the 3rd game.
  
  In conclusion, if you liked the other 3 games, or like shooters/action games, or if you have a 
 PS3, BUY this game. Its that good. Its a lil on the hard side, but you feel so good after beating 
 it. You definantly get your money's worth with this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: XxAnubisxX
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 12, 2009 10:37 pm PT
Review:  It's simple to review a game with no flaws. Though there is still a lot of confusion when it comes 
 to the story the information is available to fill any possible blind spots or questions you may 
 have.
  
  Along with this story comes epic in-game cinematics... I find it a pleasure to watch these cutscenes 
 as anyone should since they're created to perfection from voice-acting to the graphics. I find 
 it unnecessary to lower a rating due to the actual length of cutscenes in a video game. I understand 
 how some may grow tiresome of watching instead of playing but there's good reason as to why they 
 extend for so long. The story is extremely involved in the game.
  
  Graphics are nothing short of amazing. Enough said.
  
  Gameplay is great... There is so muh 
 you can do and so many ways to go about doing it... at times I'd feel overwhelmed with ideas fo 
 every room that would inspire you to play through the game more than once. Controls are excelent 
 and after playing you will grasp them quite well.
  
  Nothing else needs to be said. If you consider the game at any time then buy it. Based off any 
 and all that you may have seen, if you haven't experienced the game yet and are considering picking 
 it up then don't hesitate. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Arashcrysis
Rating: 1
Date: Feb 12, 2009 4:44 pm PT
Review:  
  
  It had all of the money, all of the excitement, and hype, and the full power of a next generation 
 console, but Metal Gear Solid 4 like none of the others before it, took the controller out of the 
 player's hands and when it did that, it sacrificed gameplay for story. It turned off casual gamers 
 to appease fanboys, and it pushed the ludicrousness of it's plot and characters passed the point 
 of no return.
  
  The graphics are top notch with great environments, detailed characters, weapons, and enemies. 
 The game at times was stunning in its presentation. This is one of the best looking games I've 
 ever seen. Effects like water and snow really stand out in terms of excellence and the gamer will 
 appreciate the very methodical attention to detail that the designers took with the game. To give 
 an example of the level of detail, I was amazed when in a snowing area I equipped a barrel and 
 as time went by the barrel slowly started becoming covered in snow. That really stood out to me 
 as a small but incredible graphical achievement. Another thing that struck me was the part of the 
 barrel that got covered the fastest was where the wind and snow were blowing and part of the barrel 
 would not be covered if that part was against the wall. The fact that the gamer didn't even need 
 to use this item at all, but that much detail had been put there anyway was something that blew 
 me away. Regardless of the games problems, it is amazing to look at.
  
  Many new gameplay elements emerge in this installment and while some are good others completely 
 detract from the overall gameplay experience.
  Octocamo, which allows Old Snake to blend it with his surroundings, is a very graphically pleasing 
 thing to see and was a neat twist on the camo in MGS3. Old Snake also moves very fluidly and very 
 rarely shows his age in combat. In addition, Old Snake can use a wide variety of weapons and although 
 he may only carry a few more they can be substituted at any time. Some of these weapons can be 
 customized with all sorts of nifty gadgets and it is fun to collect all the different weapons and 
 find the most effective one for your character.
  
  Another addition is the Metal Gear Mk. II which can travel a short ways and scout out items and 
 enemies. While the idea is very interesting, the situations for it to be useful are very few. One 
 gameplay element that in my mind was an excellent addition was the Solid Eye. The Solid Eye works 
 similar to the radar in previous games but also features night vision Binoculars and a handy digital 
 read-out of weapons, items, enemies, and allies. This was just a great idea all around as it eliminated 
 the need to switch between clunky binoculars and night vision goggles and implemented a lot of 
 new features.
  
  A huge disappointment is the codec feature which was one of my favorites in previous games. Codec 
 wasn't just for funny banter or dialogue it could also do a great job of filling in parts of the 
 story. As opposed to taking you away from the action, you could use codec or not use it at your 
 leisure. For fans that wanted the maximum amount of information it gave it to them, for those who 
 just wanted to play the game, it was fun to use every once in awhile regardless. Many of the cutscenes 
 that were just characters talking, could have been codec calls and would have lengthened the game 
 because it would have saved alot of wasted money. Instead the codec has only two people who repeat 
 mostly the same things and aren't fun to talk to.
  
  Although you can use both stealth and run and gun techniques the game seems to reward the latter 
 through the use of Drebin points which are used to buy/unlock weapons, and buy ammo at any time. 
 Although your able to use both strategies most gamers will just use the one that nets them the 
 most exciting items and weapons. Drebin points I personally enjoyed, but I could see how they could 
 upset some of the veteran gamers who would have to conserve ammo for the bosses because there was 
 less of it (and therefore you kept more of it if you didn't engage enemies) like in previous games.
 
  
  Another problem is, although in one of the acts Old Snake is in a pretty wide open area, often 
 certain paths are inaccessible which doesn't allow for the player to have fun exploring different 
 areas because they all have to go in a linear route. This contrasts alot with MGS3 where often 
 the player had multiple routes to go much of the time. Product placement rears it's ugly head way 
 too much in this game. The Apple/ Ipod wasn't even the worst instance with that honor going to 
 Otacon who is bragging about the power of the Blu Ray disc or something during what I guess is 
 a story sequence and the irony of course being that the game in fact was apparently too powerful 
 for the medium otherwise the gamer wouldn't have to wait for long load times every time he wants 
 to play an act. It would be like in the middle of Gear of War if the protagonist said "you know 
 I really like the xbox 360 alot!"
  
  Finally we come to the AI. And having played every MGS game I can say that the regular enemies 
 traditionally are not very intelligent. But I would expect enemies to at least be as smart as they 
 were in MGS3 but sadly the enemies (and allies) here aren't. The extent that they are not is sometimes 
 downright embarrassing. You might chuckle at the beginning as Old Snake says, "War has changed", 
 because as he says it the group he is with charges headfirst into an enemy machine gun nest and 
 entire group of them are killed. War has changed indeed as soldiers are apparently more stupid. 
 Many other instances of rebel fighters charging into enemy nests and getting mowed down is I guess 
 supposed to be a poignant commentary on the horrors of war but due to poor gameplay design, a cheerful 
 chirping sound effect plays as the soldiers die indicating that an item has spewed out of their 
 corpse and is ready to be collected. Since Old Snake owes no allegiance to the rebels and there 
 is no penalty for them dying, the player can find himself cheering for the enemy to slaughter respawning 
 rebel forces so he can run around afterwards like a madman stealing items and weapons from the 
 dead bodies all in an attempt to sell them for Drebin points which allow you to get even more weapons. 
 In it's most idiotic state the war that the gamer is supposed to care about could be described 
 as a spectator sport wherein as soon as the gunfire calms down an old man in a muscle suit listening 
 to an iPod runs in and begins looting corpses with glee instantly selling their possessions to 
 an arms dealer and his shaved monkey companion who is addicted to cola.
  
  As for the enemy itself, although the enemies are genetically enhanced they are still as clueless 
 as ever. In one instance in the Middle East my character was hiding in a dumpster and this causes 
 Old Snake to smell bad. This is a neat and novel idea for a video game. However the enemy somehow 
 distinguished my character as a separate entity from the dumpster itself, and spent a long time 
 asking itself and another guard casually about what smelled so bad as if the genetically altered 
 guards with heavy weapons (and masks over their face/nose!) were paid to sit around and sniff the 
 air like bloodhounds for intruders! Another instance Old Snake was lying on a green couch trying 
 to heal after a gun fight and there was still an alert and several guards casually walk right bye 
 me and then run outside and demand where the intruder is even though I wasn't camouflaged and I 
 was literally right under their nose. The enemy troops are perhaps at their most confounding during 
 cut scenes where they become extremely kind caring and sweet. For example during a fierce battle, 
 an elite unit of soldiers carrying high powered machine guns politely allow their enemies to literally 
 propose to each other before the pair begin killing them again. Often enemies allow characters 
 to talk as much as they want. In another scene Old Snake and Raiden are surrounded by many enemies 
 who slowly circle around them patiently waiting for them to stop talking to each other before attacking 
 them slowly one at a time. Old Snake unfortunately, is not better in this regard having many opportunities 
 to shoot the main villain and save thousands of innocent lives, but instead opting to engage him 
 in Close Quarters Combat. Overall, although it has some serious problems, the gameplay can sometimes 
 be very fun and sometimes dare I say awesome. The problem is it is WAY TOO SHORT!
  
  And the reason it is way too short is because of the story. The story starts out with a bunch of 
 different TV shows that you can turn to and watch. I guess you could call it artistic license but 
 I call it an amazing waste of money. Most of the shows don't mean anything or are silly and some 
 are admittedly cool but they are just eye fluff and the resources they used to make them could 
 have lengthened the game by 2+ hours. It is like Kojima wants to forcibly show the gamer something 
 cool, without the gamer actually having to play the game. The problem with MGS4, is everything 
 is so over the top and so completely unrealistic, but you can tell it tries to be taken as seriously 
 as possible with its impressive production costs, insidious bad guys, blood and gore, existentialism, 
 exposition, genetic engineering, and convoluted plot. It wants to be a serious military/spy intrigue 
 but it also wants to be a cutesy anime.
  
  The mystery of the Patriots is a big focal point in this game. The Patriots are this underground 
 organization that have been controlling the United States of America behind the scenes, bending 
 it to their will. I'm not going to spoil the game other than say that the truth behind this mystery 
 is a letdown and Kojima who I thought was capable of telling a story but letting us play a fun 
 game in this last installment does a poor job of both.
  The gamer is almost viewed as hindrance to the plot where in reality the plot is a hindrance to 
 the gamer. Just like Snake in previous games is fooled into going along with the enemies plan, 
 the gamer is fooled into thinking he is part of an interactive experience when this is only somewhat 
 true.
  
  The game is divided up into acts and the intermissions between them.
  The intermissions are often the Sunny show with Sunny being an annoying squeaky voiced girl (around 
 6-7) who possesses the brain of a million supercomputers but yet cannot cook eggs! This girl will 
 usually interrupt the mission briefing chastising Old Snake for smoking or serve him burned eggs. 
 Sunny is not even close to being the worst character in the game and she is the only female character 
 that manages to dress appropriately.
  
  When it comes to other characters like the otaku Otacon, the cutesy Mei Ling, the robotic tentacle 
 vixen Laughing Octopus, or the cyber ninja Raiden who uses his foot to spin around and throw gigantic 
 building sized robots at vampires you can begin to see a definite anime influence. Bosses unlike 
 in other games from this series really have nothing to do with the plot, and while one form of 
 them is a challenging battle, the other form could be described as strange fights with murderous 
 but pretty women in cat suits while the screen is fuzzy. When you defeat them Drebin calls you 
 to tell you a unbelievable story about each that attempts to make a large mechanical screeching 
 wolf with a rail gun into a sympathetic character.
  
  As someone who loved MGS, MGS2, (yes believe it or not) , and MGS3, I had high expectations for this 
 game. But in the end it wasn't war that changed it was Metal Gear Solid. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: makiveli100
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 12, 2009 4:17 pm PT
Review:  First off I'll stat by stateing that I never played any of the other Metal Gears, because I was 
 to young for them i suppose. Moving along, I was first off amazed by the graphics of this game 
 from the introduction. The design details of the game scenery and characters was just bold and 
 riveting. The story was also fantastic, and suprisingly eazy to follow considering as i hadn't 
 played of the earlier games. The playability was also fantastic as i found myself sneaking around 
 in the dark, having a utterly massive shoot out, or just simply exploring the map. All were fun 
 and I was able to move from one motion to the next beautifully. My absolute favorite thing about 
 the game though had to be the sense of humor it had about itself and of the forth wall even though 
 the story talks about very serious issues within itself. I would highly recommend this game for 
 those who want something a little driffert than your average "shoot 'em" up action game. It may 
 seem like thought this game rocked but hey, it's my review. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LosDaddie
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 11, 2009 10:55 am PT
Review:  LOVED
  
  Graphics: Eye candy is a staple of every Kojima game and MGS4 will make your jaw drop. This is 
 one of those games where you realize have taken a huge step forward this generation, at least graphically. 
 Yes, that good.
  
  Audio Design: MGS4 can easily be considered "Demo Material" when you want to show off..... err I 
 mean, "demonstrate" you surround sound system to friends/family. Konami spared no expense to put 
 you right in the middle of the action. You actually do feel like Old Snake in battle. The soundtrack 
 is solid and flows great with the game.
  
  Gameplay: By "westernizing" the control scheme, Kojima finally made the franchise accessible to 
 the masses. Snake is easy to control and the camera doesn't fight you either.
  
  Cutscenes: MGS games have a reputation of amazing, cinematic cutscenes. MGS4 lives up to that reputation 
 with movie-quality cutscenes & dialogue. If you like cutscenes in your game (s) , then you'll love 
 this game.
  
  Fan Service / Story: The tale told in MGS4 is very good and the game does an OK job of refreshing 
 gamers on the backstory. Hardcore MGS vets will, understandably, be blown away with all the Fan 
 Service in MGS4; Meeting Big Mama, the trip back to Shadow Moses (complete with MGS1 flashback) , 
 piloting a Metal Gear, meeting Big Boss, etc. 
  
  Drebin's Shop / Weapons: I loved being able to buy new weapons, upgrades and ammo right from the 
 menu screen from Drebin. It was quick & easy. While no weapon stands out (I mainly used the M4) , 
 every weapon had the right "feel" to it and every type (Rifile, shotgun, sniper, rocket launcher, 
 grenade launcher) is covered. You'll be happy with your weapon selection.
  
  Boss Fights: Another staple of the MGS franchise are the Boss Battles and MGS4 does not disappoint. 
 You will remember each of the 6 bosses you fight. And I actually got freaked out how the ladies 
 would follow you around once you destroyed their armor.
  
  HATED
  
  Non-Customizable Buttons: Note to PS3 developers; The DualShock3 now has triggers for the L2 & 
 R2 buttons and you SHOULD defalt those 2 buttons for firing of weapons. While not a huge problem, 
 I hated not being able to aim & fire my guns with the L2 & R2 buttons. Yes, you do get used to 
 the controls, but I would've preferred the option to tweak the button layout to my liking.
  
  Fan Service / Story: I understand this game is the fourth iteration of the MGS franchise, but 
 unless you've either played the 3 previous MGS games or done some research on the backstory; Almost 
 all of the Fan Service (ie. events / dialogue / story / jokes/ etc) will be lost on you. And realistically, 
 are even the MGS vets really supposed to remember everything they did from a console generation 
 (or two) ago? 
  
  The story, while good, is very convoluted and difficult to follow at times. Konami should've packed-in 
 a story re-cap with every copy of MGS4.
  
  Loading: Normally I have no problem with loading screens, but MGS4 has a 4GB ( ! ) install (takes 
 about 15min) when you first insert the game into your PS3 plus an additional 3min install in between 
 each Act. And yet you still get loading screens throughout each Act/chapter. It's ridiculous. 
 
  
  MGS4 is absolutely NOT the game that proves blu-ray is needed for games. Switching DVDs would been 
 far quicker.
  
  CONCLUSION
  
  To franchise vets, MGS4 will be a truly epic experience that will leave them speechless. Kojima 
 lays the Fan Service on thick and ties up all loose ends of the story. To franchise virgins, MGS4 
 will be a great game (with awesome graphics, amazing audio design, and great gameplay) with a confusing 
 story.
  
  Every PS3 owner should at least give MGS4 a rent to see what all the fuss is about. Do some backstory 
 research, play the game with an open mind and you might find yourself enjoying it far more than 
 you expected.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: brickdoctor
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 9, 2009 3:11 pm PT
Review:  No matter what you think, after playing Metal Gear Solid 4: Guns of the Patriots you will be in 
 awe. It's so amazing that 1 in every 5 people playing it will wet themselves. Let me summerize 
 the game in three words: TOTALLY FREAKING ASOME!
  
  If you have followed up on the Metal Gear Solid series you know it focuses on you, Solid Snake, 
 or in this case Old Snake who is rapidly aging for unknown reasons, must rise to the challenge 
 when Metal Gears, bipedal machines capable of launching nuclear attacks, threaten to take over 
 the world. Although no new Metal Gear, unless you count the GEKKO, AT Corps machines capable of 
 getting anywhere in the world and quickly dispatching entire armys, the plot focuses on killing 
 Liquid Ocelot, who has found a new way to control the world.
  
  The graphics are amazing, some of the best on the PS3. One thing that all video games have trouble 
 with is making a human look completely real. Metal Gear Solid 4 may have cracked that code. Also, 
 the water, rocks, enviorment, and everything else on the game looks 99.999% percent real.
  
  The AI is also great. A quick example would be when fighting a freaky cyborg named Laughing 
 Octopus, I followed my cowardly instincts and hid under a table in the building hoping to ambush 
 her. But the AI was smarter than that and Laughing Octopus came strait through the window in the 
 room and started shooting at me while under the table. Or if you throw a magazine clip pass an 
 enemy around the corner or knock on a wall, they will get suspicious and go to check it out, which 
 can be used to your advantage or disadvantage. Great sound and voice acting along with the best 
 story on a video game for the PS3 so far.
  
  It is hard to explain how great Metal Gear Solid 4: Guns of the Patriots is unless you played it, 
 but until you do, I can just tell you that you will be amazed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CPTrandom1982
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 8, 2009 8:32 am PT
Review:  Sound = 10
  Gameplay = 9
  
  I have got to take my hat off to kojima. I was a die hard Metal Gear Solid fan that fizzled away 
 from the series after the sons of liberty for the Xbox.
  
  The game is solid, lol, no flaws except for the tricky controls to begin with but that soon changes 
 after some game time, then it becomes second nature.
  
  The first thing which struck me was how much focus on detail had been included in the actual gameplay, 
 after some of the most impressive cinematics i've ever seen! The level designs are beautiful and 
 lighting is spot on.
  
  I won't spoil any of the content of the game but i will say the boss battles are as memorable as 
 the first in the series. 
  
  Truely inspiring and if you own a PS3 this game is an essential must have. If you don't like the 
 depth and complexity of stealth 'em ups which can also be played run and gun if you prefer, then 
 go play on a Wii! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: blue4avenger
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 15, 2009 2:12 am PT
Review:  Sister's Fith Review, MGS 4.
  
  The Metal Gear series has produced some of the most memorable gaming experiences I've ever had 
 over the course of my meager 23 years of life. So when I finally plugged my shiny new 80 GB PS3 
 into my television and popped in the Blu-Ray Metal Gear Solid 4: Guns of the Patriots disk, I had 
 a lot of expectations. I wanted something that would redefine my conventions of what a video game 
 could be. I wanted to see what HD graphics could really do. And most importantly, I wanted all 
 those mysteries that came up in the last few Metal Gear Solid titles to be solved. I had some high 
 expectations for this game. 
  
  To all of you who have played even one of the past games from the series, I have this to say: this 
 game was made for you. Every character and conflict finds closure; every question is answered; 
 and yet there are still surprises. Sadly, nothing will reach the mind-bending fight between Psycho 
 Mantis and Solid Snake in the original Metal Gear Solid, but this game comes close to that on many 
 occasions, and again reshapes the boundary between Solid Snake and the player. 
  
  It's difficult for me to describe the most significant components of the experience because it 
 would spoil a lot of the game. To summarize, everything that you loved about the past three Metal 
 Gear Solid games  as well as Portable Ops  has been put into Guns of the Patriots, and things 
 you complained about from the past Metal Gear Solid games have been fixed. 
  
  Because so much of the plot requires pre-existing knowledge of the franchise, most newcomers won't 
 come close to understanding the story, but they will appreciate the game nonetheless since Guns 
 of the Patriots is the most accessible of all the Metal Gear installments. There's more direct, 
 in-your-face action than previous games had: Sneaking can only get you so far, forcing you to work 
 with one side of a conflict to fulfill your objectives. What results is a gameplay experience that's 
 sometimes similar to Call of Duty and other first-person shooter games. 
  
  Like with past Metal Gear Solid games, pushing the limits of a level is a rewarding experience. 
 Going off the beaten path to explore the various environments nets you not only good weapons but 
 also easter eggs that vary from cool to hilarious. The environments are fully interactive, too: 
 anything not nailed to the floor is likely to get shot down or blown up, and I'd hate to be the 
 guy that has to clean up Snake's mess. 
  
  Sound effects are clean and crisp, which is to be expected from any AAA title, but I got a kick 
 out of the various ways the audio is implemented in the game. The sound of a guard's footsteps 
 grows louder as he approaches your hiding place, and becomes softer as he moves away. You'll know 
 there's a gunfight in the next house because the gunshots are muffled and sound distant; they grow 
 louder as you get closer. 
  
  The voice actors also get bonus points for engaging dialogue. I love David Hayter's work as Solid 
 Snake, and Christopher Randolph's Otacon remains the brainy-yet-woeful ubergeek from the past installments. 
 Quinton Flynn also deserves an acknowledgment for his work as Raiden  a character as convoluted 
 as he would not have been believable without the skills Flynn brings in his performance. 
  
  One of the biggest improvements has to be the story progression. There are less "CODEC moments" 
 in this game, and even when these conversations do occur, those simple animated mug shots from 
 past games have been replaced with real-time animations. The other 80-85% of dialogue in the game 
 occurs within real-time cut scenes, which have advanced another degree in quality. 
  
  The Rex Mk. II serves a lot of purposes not just for the new gameplay mechanics it provides, but 
 also in terms of the presentation. It's a little robot that acts as a short range reconnaissance 
 device whenever Snake is unable to survey enemy-riddled environments himself. As a result, many 
 cumbersome cuts between on-the-scene action and Codec dialogue are gone because the Mk. II acts 
 as Otacon's stand-in on the battlefield, used to both display his face on a small LCD screen, as 
 an optic camera to view the environment, and to converse with Snake in real-time. 
  
  The controls have been given some modifications, and there are some benefits and drawbacks to this. 
 You hold down the L1 button to engage either the over-the-head perspective or first-person perspective 
 (interchangeable with the Triangle button) before you can fire your weapon (using the R1 or R2 
 button, depending on what weapon you are using) . This becomes easier to execute as you progress 
 through the game, but the duration of time required to switch between firing and non-firing modes 
 can slow you down, especially when you're under heavy gunfire. It would have been nice if they 
 had left a quick-fire button for emergencies. 
  
  Now for the online portion of the game: I've tried a couple of online sessions with Guns of the 
 Patriots in the past, and the experience was overall positive. Control mechanics play out exactly 
 the same as they do in the main game, except this time you have the ability to equip special skills 
 that either grant combat abilities or enhance your skill with certain weapons. Using these skills 
 over the course of game time nets you experience points which can raise your skills up three levels, 
 but it takes so much time for the skills to level up that I never got an opportunity to see the 
 difference. 
  
  You earn points for the number of kills, head shots, and other miscellaneous things you accomplish 
 over the course of battle. Sometimes hosts will set the game up to let you use those points to 
 purchase new equipment. I didn't like this style as it designed the system to reward higher-skilled 
 players with better weapons, which is likely to make some games terribly unbalanced. Fortunately, 
 this can be turned off by the host, which allows you to play with the whole assortment of weapons, 
 which varies from Claymore mines to sniper rifles to Playboy magazines. 
  
  But here is my one complaint: it was difficult to log on. Since this is the first time I have ever 
 used my Playstation 3, I had to set up my online user account with Sony before I could even log 
 onto their network, let alone play any games over it. Afterward, I had to set up an online account 
 with Konami to allow me to access their network. This took longer because I play games on a 32-inch 
 1080p HDTV, and going online with the PS3 displays fonts really really tiny (next time, I'm using 
 my laptop) . Finally, I had to register the account to play Metal Gear Solid 4 online. This part 
 was OK, and I didn't mind the work involved, but I felt the overall experience from start to finish 
 was incredibly difficult and redundant. 
  
  It's sad to bid farewell to such a remarkable series, but exciting to know that it ended with an 
 incredible bang. Almost every aspect of the game has been combed, buffed, and polished, giving 
 Metal Gear Solid 4: Guns of the Patriots a fine glow. In a world where people scoff at sixty-dollar 
 games, Guns of the Patriots is worth its weight in gold. 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: josh494
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 7, 2009 7:52 pm PT
Review:  This is a amazing game. The graphics are probably the best i've seen on either system. The character 
 models are all beautiful. They each have little quirks. You will notice how the devlopers put so 
 much detail into the characters, They're eyes move like a humans instead of focusing on one thing 
 for the whole cutscene like a robot. And in-game graphics are just as good.
  
  The A. I. is amazing to. if you make a noise or shoot when they don't know your in the area they 
 won't automatically know were you are like in most games, they will actually have to search for 
 you. They follow footsteps they here, distractions you set up. If they see a unconcious buddy they'll 
 wake them up then call for back-up, if he's dead they'll run for cover and call for backup. They 
 are extremely observent to there surrondings noticing you in full camoflauge laying down in the 
 middle of the road from a ways. They're also very good shots. ;) .
  
  The gameplay is amazing. Sneaking takes a big role in the game, but you can kill everyone that 
 comes your way as long as you don't get caught. ;) The guns shoot well and sound great. They do 
 damage how they should also. Aiming is easy and you can look through sights for that perfect shot.
 
  
  The story is the greatest. I can't tell you anything about it because if i tell you anything the 
 story will be ruined. The story is amazing, probably the best i've heard, better then any movie 
 and/or book. See you on the feild soldier. ;) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ElJay2010
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 7, 2009 4:55 pm PT
Review:  I absolutely loved this game. I didnt play it for a very long time due to alot of people saying 
 that it had to many cutscenes and not enough gameplay. After playing this game i have relized that 
 those people are wrong. The storyline to this game is the best i have seen. It also has great gameplay 
 with fun customizable guns. This game became highly addicting after a couple hours of playing. 
 I am stil amazed in the storyline at this moment. MGS4 truly is one of the best games i have played. 
 However i do not believe in a perfect game. Nothing is perfect so i will tell you my only two complaints 
 of the game. Although i played on hard difficulty i believed the enemies had a really hard time 
 spotting you no matter what you do, but that takes nothing from the gameplay as you see i still 
 gave it a perfect 10/10. My other complaint is that they make some of the main characters a little 
 to invincible, i will not explain this because i dont want to give you any spoilers but the people 
 who have already played this might no what i am talking about. Like i said before i do not believe 
 in perfect, so i will rate this game a 9.7. From me i will give it 10/10 graphics. 9.5/10 gameplay 
 and 10/10 on i believe the best storyline i have seen. Snake as well as all the characters in this 
 game deserves a hand of applause for some great acting to. If you havent played this buy it now. 
 If you do not have a PS3 i would recommend buying the PS3 for this. It truly deserves alot more 
 attention than what it has gotten. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AndrewFLEA
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 6, 2009 4:20 pm PT
Review:  I'LL admit it i dint play any previous mgs games before this. that means that i had no clue on 
 the story. spart form the LONG cutsence it was an awsome game. even thought this game goes into 
 the stelth genere you arn't totally scrued if you set of an alarm. each level felt unique and awsome 
 ( the europe level was just 30 mins. of gameplay and the rest was a cutscene) . the wpon customization 
 is awsome but i only realy used the free m4 with a bunch of stuff on it. there were a ton of diffrnet 
 enemys ( i HATE geccos and the little black ball things.) *o i hope im not giving spoilerrs but 
 their is a flash back from MGS1 and the gameplay seems crude compared to the MGS4's well polished 
 gameplay.* im only nit picking now overall an awsome game BUY IT !!
  
  ps i love where the game is so aware that it is what it is 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DecoySnake
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 5, 2009 9:31 pm PT
Review:  Metal Gear Solid has been my favorite game series since I opened up that pizza hut demo and played 
 it for the first time.. it was weird because, the things that I was doing in the game, had never 
 been done before in games.. and that is the same feeling I had with MGS4. the story pulls you in 
 for a hell of a ride. does better then most movies in a cinematic sense. the controls were all 
 i could hope for and more... and the last appeal is forever. I hope Kojima and his crew can still 
 make some magic out of what is left of the story. I really want a MGS5 or atleast a Metal Gear 
 spin-off. perfect 10 out of 10. best game ever. and as far as online goes, there is MGO.. Metal 
 Gear Online. for me, it was the tactical online shooter anyone could ever as for. tons of guns. 
 great places to hide.. and teamwork is used well against the other team. if I had to give that 
 part a score as well, it would also get a 10 out of 10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: josecarreno77
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 6, 2009 9:34 am PT
Review:  Hideo Kojima has done it again. MGS4 is the most detailed, convincing, and well-researched game 
 I have ever played. It offers a compelling and imaginative glimpse into the future of high-tech 
 warfare, a nuanced, intelligent storyline, vastly improved gameplay, and incredible graphics.
 
  
  The gameplay is more open and the action is more intense than prior games. The environments seem 
 much bigger and are bustling with npcs engaged in building to building warfare. Snake can join 
 either side in the conflict or ignore them and sneak by. He has a ton of new weapons and gadgets 
 as well. But do not spend much time unblock all weapons, there are few weapons that you will really 
 need in the game.
  
  The graphics are among the most impressive I have seen in a game. The characters are solid physical 
 presences with subtle, lifelike facial expressions. The mechs move with an animal grace and hunt 
 with a keen intelligence that belies their artificial construction.
  
  Sometime you get bored with large videos between chapters, but I recommend to watch all of them 
 to appreciate the quality of each details of this story. 
  
  Overall, the game is an experience that should not be missed by anyone with a PS3. If you don't 
 already own a PS3, this game alone would justify its purchase. It is by far the most creative, 
 original, and technically polished game to appear on the system to date. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Wootex
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 1, 2009 11:32 pm PT
Review:  Somewhere out in there in the world of metaphorical pretentiousness, there is a line. It's invisible. 
 I'm not sure where it's located. I'm not even sure where the point where you cross it is. I am 
 sure of one thing though, Metal Gear Solid 4 crosses that line. Hideo Kojima has always been known 
 to be a man to pursue his own unique and ambitious vision. Following in the tradition of his keen 
 sense of Irony, Kojima studios has crafted a game that plays fantastically compared to any of the 
 previous games in the series and any other game on the market, yet he seems to make a conscious 
 effort to make sure you get to actually play the game as little as possible.
  
  With a variety of ways to dispatch the enemies and a sharp interface to customize your weapons, 
 decimating countless grunts is profoundly enjoyable. However, each time you find yourself getting 
 the hang of the level and the gadgets, the game decides that you've become dangerously close to 
 having too much fun and decides to throw a half hour stream of cutscene or boss battle at you. 
 The boss battles are well done, but don't give nearly the sense of freedom that the levels do. 
 In the end, the game is probably about 70-80% cutscenes or boss battles.
  
  
  Metal Gear Solid 4 is an incredibly impressive mix of cinematic gameplay and storytelling, for 
 maybe two hours. For the other 15 hours, there is a very obvious disconnect between the gameplay 
 and storytelling. I don't care how fun your game is; it's impossible to keep a player engaged in 
 playing a game consistently when most cutscenes run for at least ten minutes, and many run much, 
 much longer, the brain simply shifts from playing by that point, and you lose the feel and pacing 
 of the game. I'm very happy I got to play MGS4, I care about the story of metal gear and the game 
 wraps it up nicely. There are also parts of the gameplay that are nothing short of incredible. 
 However, it also demonstrates one of the problems with a game being created by an auteur. Nobody 
 on the dev team has the balls to go up to Kojima and say "hey Hideo, we've made a stellar game 
 here and I just think that maybe people would rather play it than watch a half hour cutscene about 
 how computer viruses work". Well, if anyone did say that, they should promote that guy. Also, fire 
 the guy who decided to have Octacon preach the wonders of Blu-Ray in the middle of the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: macfaelan
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 1, 2009 11:00 am PT
Review:  The Good:
  
  - fully realised and complex story
  - humour and nostalgia in all the right moments
  - the parts where you get a chill down your 
 spine
  - seamless in game rendered cinematic sequences
  - epic orchestral score
  - variety of ways to play
  - beautiful character models
  
  The Bad:
  
  - those annoying 
 scarab things
  - the level set in easten europe
  
  The Best Part:
  
  - the mission on outer haven, excellent level design
  
  The Worst Part:
  
  - the mission 
 in eastern europe : (
  
  Overall:
  
  - if you have played at least one of the prior metal gear solid's before, then this game is a must. 
 if you are new to the series, then it's still worth a look. i would play this game just to watch 
 the epic storyline unfold (which you will spend the majority of the game doing btw) . 
  
  - if you are the type of gamer who flicks through the fmv's and cinematic sequences in video games, 
 then do not buy this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mrme03
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 1, 2009 10:49 am PT
Review:  OK Well i bought mgs4 about 3 days ago. if your wondering hm why did he wait so long? It is because 
 i didn't know what all the fuss was about it didn't look to good at first. but i finally bought 
 it. and omg it was amazing. a masterpiece. The games story is amazing. there is one annoying thing. 
 the cut scenes some are even an hour and a half long. But they are very good and describe the story. 
 And the game is kind of tough. but yeah. it is really good. and the characters are Amazing. all 
 tied at number 1 are akiba (Johny) , sunny, raiden, snake, and otakon. The game is just so good. 
 I would recommend this to everyone. Also it says strong language i only heard 4 swear words. And 
 there is barely any blood. Also you can turn off the blood. But yeah. i love this game and you 
 will love it to. I give it a 10 out of 10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chocolate1325
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 31, 2009 5:38 am PT
Review:  This game was really expected to deliver and it so does in terms of expectations. 
  
  Story
  
  Snake is rapidly ageing and is called on by his old pal Otacon to do one last mission. 
 He is told that Liquid is controlling Ocelot and is planning for world domination. Snake meets 
 familar faces from old Metal Gear Solid titles such as Meryl, Naomi and Raiden as well as others. 
 Snake has to basically follow Liquid to a few new areas to try and put a stop to his plan.
  
  Gameplay
  
  The gameplay uses stelth which Metal Gear Solid games are known for. A new 
 idea is Octacamo. It basically allows Snake to blend in with certain areas which can a a neat idea 
 of sneaking up on enemies but some enemies can hear moment and they will check certain areas to 
 see where the noise came from. If your spotted then a few will attack you until you find a safe 
 place to hide until the Alert phase is over. He also has the Solid Eye which had the ability to 
 see peoples footprints. The game offers a new set of ideas and in certain cut scenes you can even 
 see flashbacks or something just round the corner through a button on the joypad. Flashbacks can 
 be either from a certain meeting or a certain boss encounter. The game does have a nice feel to 
 it by adding this. Your pal Otacon has also made a thing called the MK2 which helps stun enemies 
 and can tell you if it is okay to move. You can move by crouching and even laying down on the floor.
 
  
  Also Snake meets a gun salesman in the name of Drebin who sells ammunition as well as being able 
 to unlock guns. It kind of reminds me a little of the merchant from Resident Evil 4 but the thing 
 with Drebin is you can purchase ammunition at just about anytime during the game and believe me 
 you will need some ammuntion for certain bosses and areas if you get stuck. There is also a Metal 
 Gear Online as well to the game and that seems to be okay as well I haven't really played it but 
 it looks alright anyway.
  
  Graphics and Sound
  
  This game really does show what the PS3 is capable of in terms of graphics. Everything looks so 
 beautiful. The cut scene can be amazing to watch at times and the sound of characters is perfect. 
 It just feels so right in every area.
  
  Lastability
  
  It should take you about a good 20 to 40 hours to complete but then there's a harder mode and of 
 course the online or you will just play it again because it is an amazing achievement.
  
  Overall Opinion
  
  This game is amazing. It has amazing graphics, brilliant cut scenes, an awesome 
 story and a few new ideas in gameplay. This game is one of the finest games ever made. It is a 
 good reason to own a PS3. If you have a PS3 you must get this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Wron
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 30, 2009 4:43 am PT
Review:  Hands down, the greatest iteration of the game. I won't even need to elaborate on graphics, storyline, 
 gameplay etc... simply because they were all exceptional albeit the story takes on a more prominent 
 role in this game to the point that I started falling asleep through a couple 15-20 minutes sequences. 
 These can be skipped but they flesh out the story the first time though and are presented so fluidly 
 and interchangebly with gameplay it feels like the story scenes are part of the gameplay.
  
  The guys at Konami have pretty much set a new standard for graphical quality on nex gen systems. 
 The water effects, explosions, facial features, and environments are all top notch. The graphics 
 are so good that it becomes a bit awkward when the camera ends up taking a high def close -up of 
 Snake's crack (some things are better viewed from afar!) .
  
  The sound effects and musical score are also classic MGS style but taken to the next level particularly 
 if you have a good surround sound setup. Kojima has implemented a new feature in this game which 
 produces a circle around Snake during gameplay to symbolize his sense of the environment. It is 
 awesome to see how well this feature matches up with the surround sound system. It's hard to explain 
 but when the circle indicates an enemy approaching from the left of the character for instance 
 you can hear the footsteps right where they should be coming from. You have to experience this 
 one to understand how well the two systems work.
  
  The multiplayer seems pretty standard with the exception of the tedious registration process. I 
 have only tried the team deathmatch and it was fun and at a quicker pace than the game so I didn't 
 fare so well the first time through. Other than that the graphics still look crisp and there are 
 an assortment of features to create a unique character as well as weapon set-up.
  
  In conclusion, the PS3 was made for this game! You must own this game. Even if you don't like the 
 series you should get this game just to see what the PS3 is actually capable of. If you consider 
 MGS 4 the benchmark for MGS games on the PS3 I can only imagine what the games will look like 4 
 years down the line. Simply put, this game is phenomenal! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vladex00
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 30, 2009 2:22 am PT
Review:  Metal Gear Solid 4: Guns of the Patriots is a story-driven adventure game, with seasoned hero Solid 
 Snake drafted for one final mission. Set across stages including the Middle East and South America, 
 the now aged Snake has been asked to assassinate his old adversary, Liquid Ocelot. To do this, 
 however, he must make his way through a series of battlefields, using his legendary stealth abilities 
 and all-new OctoCamo suit to avoid detection and to reach his target. With series favorites such 
 as Meryl Silverburgh, Raiden, Hal 'Otacon' Emmerich, Eva and Roy Campbell returning, and with all 
 new gameplay features including a remote-controlled Metal Gear Mk. II and enhanced CQC (Close Quarters 
 Combat) system, Metal Gear Solid 4 rounds out the Metal Gear saga with a fittingly cinematic and 
 gripping final outing.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: zarshack
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 29, 2009 10:06 pm PT
Review:  This game is a masterpiece. but not entirely perfect. there was only a couple small things which 
 detracted from it.
  
  Things which i would have liked to see.
  - A movie viewer. to allow you from the menu screen to view any movie clip from the game.
  - 
 Not having to install before every Act would have been nice. it gets rather irritating when you 
 want to replay through the game numerous times.
  
  Visuals - Some of the best looking Graphics around at the moment at first glance the game can look 
 next to perfect. But like all games you don't have to look too hard to find bland textures all 
 over the place, but either way the game still looks magnificent (the character models especially) .
 
  
  Sound - I think there was only 1 thing in the game which sounded off, which was the screams of 
 the beauties right as you kill them it just sounds stupid. Everything else in this game sounded 
 wonderful, perfect sound effects incredible music scores filled with emotion and splendor.
  
  Game play - MGS games have always been heavy on the cinematic, but that's just the way they 
 are meant to be, the game is mostly about telling a story and sending a message, the gameplay is 
 just a great bonus. The controls on this game are so much better then any of the previous games 
 in the series which makes it much less painful to get through. With the way the game has been designed 
 you can play through pretty much the entire game either stealthing or by playing it as a shooter 
 and gunning the entire way through. After you finish the game the first time you can try complete 
 it on the extra hard difficulty (which requires mostly stealth to complete) .
  
  Overall - if you have never played a MGS game before then try play through the others first (or 
 atleast try to read up on them so you can understand what the hell is going on) . If you have played 
 a MGS game before, then you most probably already own this and worship it anyway. In the end this 
 game has a satisfying conclusion which ties up all the loose ends and makes sense of things which 
 made very little sense before. The most emotionally charged Game to be released this generation.
 
  
  "This is good, isn't it" 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LittleBigDawg
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 29, 2009 9:09 pm PT
Review:  In MGS4, you play as Old Snake (duh :P) This is Snake's last mission, and Konami made this one 
 hell of a battle. The graphics are like none before, and gameplay is very smooth. Drebin, a new 
 character to the series, is a neutral "friend". As Snake progresses, he'll come across ID locked 
 weapons, which only Drebin can unlock (for a price) . While some will say this ruins the stealth 
 aspect of the game, players can really just skip the feature altogether. Whether it be buying ammo 
 or weapons, this is a great addition to the gameplay. The story is pieced together perfectly, and 
 ties up all ends to any possible questions anybody will have. As I finished the game, I felt terribly 
 sad that it had to end. The only real flaw to this game is the online in my opinion. Setting up 
 an account seems weird since you can't just use your PSN ID. But this will only take away about 
 15 minutes, but the online is, well, ok. MGS4 is by far my choice for Game of the Year, and possibly 
 one of the best games I've EVER played. If you don't buy this and you own a PS3, you must really 
 hate videogames. So do yourself a favor and buy this game, it is flawless, to say the least. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: joelgargan
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 29, 2009 3:11 pm PT
Review:  Metal gear solid 4 offers up so much: the best graphics ever seen, easily the best stealth action 
 in any game series, the best story and music tracks ever featured in a game, not to mention the 
 Gamespot: 2008 Game Of The Year Title, given in acknowledgement these elements of stellar awesomeness.
 
  
  The reason i would feel guilty giving MGS4 a 10/10 is because i was expecting the best game ever, 
 and anything less would be a massive step down. Never the less, metal gear solid 4 manages to flawlessly 
 tie up two of the most popular gaming genres. The stealth elements are of the best i've ever seen, 
 and the shooting action feels whole-hearted and well thought out. All the guns felt just right, 
 and like some other stealth action games *cough* splinter cell *cough* didn't tack on the shooter 
 elements.
  
  Up until the killer punches in the final act of Metal Gear Solid 4, the story line provided "Solid" 
 (No pun intended) emotion with strong political feel, and as such, Metal Gear Solid 4: Guns Of 
 The Patriots, will remain one of my most well loved games, and a classic every PS3 owner should 
 at least rent a copy of. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Paul_GameFury
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 28, 2009 5:42 pm PT
Review:  It's hard to say exactly why this game is so good because everyone is going to be in one of two 
 categories: the long time fans of the series that already love the game and the people who can't 
 understand why this series is so popular. This game wraps up the Metal Gear Solid storyline perfectly. 
 There may be more Metal Gear games, but it closes Solid Snake's part of the series.
  
  The stealth action continues to get better. The already good controls have been tweaked to near 
 perfection. Although it takes several button presses to do a simple action (like aiming your gun) , 
 the scheme is so intuitive that it quickly becomes second nature. The aiming moves a bit slower 
 than I liked and it lead to some confusing moments during some of the more intense battles. Many 
 people won't like the game's slow pace, but that is exactly why I loved it. Waiting for the perfect 
 moment to pop out and quietly take down one guy is so much more rewarding than mowing down a hundred 
 enemies while running through a level at full speed. Instead of having to switch camouflage like 
 in the last game, you get a new suit that automatically takes on the pattern of anything you lay 
 down on or lean against. This makes sneaking around a bit more fun, but still keeps the challenge 
 because you will have to be extra careful when going through an area with several different floor 
 patterns. It is also much easier to run and gun in this game than past ones, but I still wouldn't 
 recommend it. In addition to monitoring Snake's health, you now also have to keep an eye on his 
 stress level. Actions like getting shot at, being spotted by the enemy, or even just walking around 
 in the open will raise his stress. If Snake gets too stressed, he will not perform as well in combat.
 
  
  One of the reasons it is a bit easier to get away with not sneaking is the addition of the character 
 Drebin (and his always entertaining hairless monkey with a soft drink addiction) . He is an arms 
 dealer that you meet early in the game who will allow you to buy weapons and ammo from him using 
 Drebin points. You can also automatically sell any weapons you find to him as soon as you pick 
 them up as long as you already have another one in your inventory. This adds a new, unexpected 
 aspect to the game. After watching a squad of rebels get mowed down by the enemy, I would debate 
 whether or not it was worth it to expose myself to gather their weapons or just play it safe and 
 move on. By the end of the game, it is possible to have so many points that ammo will never be 
 an issue. Some players will like this, while others will feel it isn't really faithful to the series 
 since in every other game, you had to work so hard to conserve ammo.
  
  The boss battles are hit and miss. Some are a ton of fun and quite memorable while others are completely 
 lame. All of the bosses are named for the bosses in the first Metal Gear Solid and are a bit similar, 
 but still unique. The Screaming Mantis battle was awesome and reminiscent of the Psycho Mantis 
 battle. I can't really describe it without ruining it for you, so you will just have to take my 
 word for it. The Crying Wolf fight, however, was disappointing. The series is known for it's sniper 
 boss battles, so I was ready for a long fight. I ran to a tank to hide under it and was able to 
 see the boss. I shot her with my rifle which caused her to run around looking for me. When she 
 was done running around, she returned to the same spot and I could shoot her again. After repeating 
 this several times, I won the battle. Even though this fight was a little boring, it doesn't even 
 begin to compare to how bad the final fight is. The final boss battle is a fist fight and the controls 
 are completely changed. I had to die a few time before I even got the feel for how to fight. Even 
 once I got the controls down, the fight is so poorly constructed that I died several more times. 
 The hit detection basically doesn't work and always seemed to favor your enemy. I would throw punches 
 and my hand would go right through them. They would swing at me and clearly miss by a couple of 
 feet but it would still register as a hit. During the fight, Snake only takes small steps and cannot 
 run at all, making avoiding attacks near impossible. After an insane amount of practice, I got 
 to the point where I can win the fight most of the time, but I still hated it.
  
  The cutscenes, as always, are top notch. Every camera shot and angle is Hollywood quality. Although 
 they are impressive, many of them drag on way too long. It will take more than a half hour from 
 the first time you put the game in your PS3 to the time you actually start playing. There are a 
 few scenes that are about forty five minutes long. The final movie, including credits, is almost 
 an hour and a half. You can pause during these movies, but you cannot save and quit. If you don't 
 have more than an hour of free time, you might as well play something else and wait until you have 
 some more time on your hands, because you won't get anywhere with this one. The game took me about 
 eighteen hours to complete, but I would guess that less than ten was actual gameplay.
  
  Even though the scenes can be lengthy, the story is amazing. The main purpose of the plot is to 
 explain all the past games, so newcomers will easily get lost. Just about every question you ever 
 had is finally answered. What happened to your allies from the first game? Why is Snake so old? 
 Is it possible for Raiden to go from sissy to bad ass? I'll spoil this one: yes. Why can't Vamp 
 seem to die? Hell, they even go as far as to explain why the guard in the first two games had stomach 
 problems that made him go to the bathroom so much and tie that into the story. How's that for closure. 
 Almost every character from the series makes an appearance (some only in flashbacks) and everyone 
 has an impact on the story in some way. I can't think of a better way to tie up the story I have 
 been following for ten years and three console generations.
  
  This is the just about the perfect end to the Solid Snake saga. Aside from a few poorly designed 
 boss fights, I loved every bit of this game. Finally, there is a reason to own a PS3. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: super_csa
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 28, 2009 9:21 am PT
Review:  Yes, Metal Gear Solid 4: Guns of the Patriots is truly an amazing game. Though the cut scenes could 
 have been a bit shorter (, or not. It depends) . The gameplay is a bit repetitive for my taste, but 
 the story and graphics are MIND BLOWING!!! This game has actually the best graphics and story (with 
 a few good jokes at some points) that I have seen to date, so I say if you have a Playstation 3 
 than you just have to get this game if you didn't get it till now. I think that's all I can say 
 about this fantastic masterpiece of a game.
  
  See you at my next short review
  
  super_csa
  
  Sorry for this, but my review is too short so I have to do this :P :P :P :P :P 
 :P :P :P :P :P :P :P :P :P :P :P :P :P :P :P :P :P :P :P :P 
  :P :P :P :P :P :P :P :P :P :P :P :P :P :P :P :P :P :P :P :P :P :P :P :P :P :P 
  :P :P :P :P :P 
 :P :P :P :P :P :P :P :P :P :P :P :P :P :P :P :P :P :P :P :P :P
  Okay, I hope its enough now... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cmatthews839
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 27, 2009 10:27 pm PT
Review:  This game is perfect in Act 1 and 2. The amount of detail in this game is unbelievable. The only 
 thing I hated HATED were the cut scenes. They are so complex and detailed that you lose ALL interest 
 and just stop listening. I timed a cut scene at the end of Act 3 at around 45 minutes long. This 
 is no joke, no exaggeration.... FORTY FIVE MINUTES OF SITTING AND LISTENING TO COMPLEX BABBLE! In 
 the begging the cut scenes were cool, a little long, but they had awesome fight scenes and cool 
 **** You can skip the scenes yeah, but they are part of the game. The game is what I am reviewing. 
 I find they ALWAYS take the long way in explaining everything. They never sum up, they always have 
 to explain in drawn out, ridiculous detail everything that is happening in the game. The game is 
 awesome, but the cut scenes were way too much for a video game. 45 minutes is half of a movie. 
 This is a game not a movie. Games require more interaction than an "X" for a flashback or an "L1" 
 to look at some cleavage every once in awhile. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: msharki
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 27, 2009 10:13 am PT
Review:  So, once again MGS returns with a deeply story driven adventure with great voice acting and an 
 epic story. Even the series staple of adding cheesey elements in it's story can't stop this game 
 from being amazing, but it did keep it from being a perfect 10. Kojima won't stop adding in nonsense 
 that doesn't directly deal with the story. This may keep it from being perfect, but the newly refined 
 control scheme, gameplay elements and the best story of the series more than make up for it. Gameplay 
 has been evolving pretty slowly in this series until now. Before it was almost a death wish to 
 go in guns blazing, but MGS 4 welcomes this approach quite well. You can still choose to go about 
 the mission stealthily, and this is more useful on higher difficulties, but by no means are you 
 bound to this type of gameplay anymore. In fact, you can do a combination of the two which works 
 out rather well. Also they went ahead and put some surprising sequences in there that are far from 
 the "norm" for the series. (you will have to play to find out what these sequences are) . The control 
 scheme finally feels right. You have total control of the camera with your right analog stick. 
 (which is also used to aim in either 3rd or first person) . Also R1 is finally the fire button. 
 (Correcting the problem of previous installments) . Finally, the ability to move in first person 
 was added making it almost perfect aside from the strange ommition of not being able to shoot while 
 pressed against a wall looking around a corner. Still, there are very few other points that you 
 could pick on about this game. Some may say "you watch the game more than you play" but at these 
 times the cutscenes are very well done, interesting (especially if you have played the previous 
 installments) and they also transition perfectly into gameplay aside from a few loading times here 
 and there. The only other weakness of the game is that it really is catered to fans of the whole 
 series. (even starting with Metal Gear for NES) Kojima didn't do much in the line of catching anyone 
 up who hasn't played a MG game before, however the general story is still good enough that it could 
 be enjoyed by a first time player. Just not understood. In summation this is a must play title 
 that could actually change everthing you think about gaming these days. If you don't emmerge aw 
 struck from your first play through I would personally be amazed. Gamespot was right in saying 
 the worst part about the game is that it ENDS. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: perkins
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 26, 2009 5:02 pm PT
Review:  I have played every metal gear since ps1's metal gear solid. There are very few games where you 
 become so involved with the characters and the story. This is one of those games you get done playing 
 and are exausted by how awesome that session was, then you say to yourself okay thats enough for 
 today, but you find yourself 30 min to an hour later saying gosh I really wanna play that game 
 again. Every single metal gear game is so addicting and just breath taking to play. 
  
  The games visuals have to be one of the contenders for this generation so far. I wouldnt say the 
 best but its there. What is very unique about this metal gear of course has to be the octo camo. 
 Being able to blend in with the enviroment is brilliant and clever for any stealth sneaking genre. 
 One this that makes me sad playing this game is the fact that snake is battling a disease that 
 makes him age faster. War has changed and so has snake. If you have played all metal gears then 
 you need to pick this one up. If you have not played any metal gears then i would recommend playing 
 them before trying this out. No one wants to go to see a sequel of a movie without seeing the first 
 one. It makes the game 10 times better if you actually know the characters and there relationship 
 with each other before playing this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bigevil1987
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 26, 2009 1:44 pm PT
Review:  It should be noted at the start that as a gamer, before my time with MGS4, I was not a Metal Gear 
 fan. I remember playing the original Metal Gear on NES when I was little at my friend's family's 
 apartment a couple of floors up from us, and never again until this past year. I never played the 
 "Solid" games during the PS1 and PS2 days, having only obtained the former at the end of its cycle 
 mainly to finish playing that copy of Final Fantasy 8 bought from a pawn shop for $4.00 and never 
 owning the latter. I tried Metal Gear Solid once and it was the beginning of my distaste for "sneaking" 
 or stealth games. I later tried the Twin Snakes remake on my Gamecube and found much the same experience. 
 
  
  Suffice it to say, I HATE sneaking. I can sneak in real life, why do it in a game? I hate Splinter 
 Cell, and any game related to it, even tactical shooters, which are not really "stealthy" games 
 like Ghost Recon or Rainbow Six I find myself unable to play, finding a unique combination of boredom 
 and frustration in a new term I call FRUSTROREDOM. Even sneaking levels in shooters I hate, as 
 I recall that was the very reason I stopped playing one of those 007 games with the word "fire" 
 in the title. And in so many words, I believe my point is made. 
  
  And so now we move onto the wonderful world that is Metal Gear Solid 4, from the mind of the living-gaming-legend 
 Hideo Kojima. Despite my apprehensions about MG (Metal Gear) , I decided after obtaining a PS3 last 
 month and seeing (and hearing, I'm looking at you HotSpot) all of the praise given to MGS4 from 
 GameSpot, to play the game. After having a terrible time with the MGS4 demo released on the Playstation 
 Network, I was doubtful my experience would be one of enjoyment, but by golly was I wrong. 
  
  MGS4 may not be the completely action-packed experience that some would want and the claim 
 that it is "more movie than game" is a fair one to make. The game however needs to be praised for 
 the sheer technical achievements it displays, I can think of no other game that has such amazing 
 technical and visual graphics. Sure some of the textures may be low-res, but it is by far the most 
 technically advanced game out there. A simple example of which is Snake's Octocamo suit which changes 
 colours and patterns based on ANY surface that you are in contact with. It's true that some of 
 the cutscenes in the game can be quite lengthy, going up to, including, and over 30 minutes at 
 times, but they definitely are the pinnacle of story-telling in games and the absolutely seamless 
 transition from cutscene to gameplay is astounding. As a gamer I have become used to the here-is-the-pretty-cutscene 
 now here-is-the-not-as-pretty-game mechanic, or even the here-is-the-cutscene and  
 mechanic. MGS4 uses neither of those, you will see an epic battle between soldiers and/or Gekkos 
 in a camera pan across the a street, then you will see Snake hiding around a corner, and the game 
 will begin, no angle changes, no screenwipe, no graphical transformation, seamless, fantastic. 
 
  
  The gameplay in MGS4 also needs to be praised, because at least for me it did something amazing, 
 I sneaked! (Snuck? Snucked? Snooked?) I found that when I was given the choice between sneaking 
 and shooting, I almost always went with sneaking, it was the choice that I needed. Choice, and 
 the option to shoot your way out when caught was all I needed, being so sick of the "once you're 
 caught you're dead" games. So many games have claimed to let you play them any way you want, but 
 this is likely the first I have played that actually adheres to that claim. Sure the levels are 
 fairly linear, mostly move from A to B, but how you get there is essentially entirely up to you, 
 within the context of the game obviously, you can't jump into a place or teleport to the other 
 side. Like to sneak? Go through that hole in the wall and tranquilize that soldier on the other 
 side. Like to shoot? Buy a shotgun attachment for your gun and blow them away. Like to blow things 
 up? Replace that shotgun with an under-barrel grenade launcher. All of the skills you hone are 
 applicable to boss battles as well, all of which are lengthy and epic. I will admit that despite 
 some of the cutscenes being epic and well-done, I did find myself asking "can I play now?" at times, 
 particularly during the last 2 acts of the game which are somewhat sparse on the gameplay. The 
 lengthy cutscenes can also sometimes point out some of the less-than-stellar voice-acting by some 
 in the game, although that may not be a fault of the actors but the typical pitfalls of anime being 
 translated into English with a lot of "uhh.. uhhhhh. hhh" and "huh?" and absurdly silly names like 
 Big Mama, which lessen the emotional impact of dramatic speeches and scenes. When people scream 
 "Big Mama! No!" it makes me laugh, maybe I'm sick. 
  
  A note on my score, I keep it from being a perfect 10 because I don't find the game to be perfect 
 in all ways, many ways indeed, but not all. It wasn't as mind-blasting for me as it will likely 
 be for some because I was not a MG fan before this game, so the anticipation of ending this great 
 story was lost on me. Also there are some gameplay aspects that didn't blow me away, mainly the 
 lack of it at times. There were days when I just wanted to play instead of watching cutscenes, 
 regardless of how amazing they are. I was only going to give this game a 9, but the extra .5 is 
 for the game's ability to make me like sneaking, I must commend them for that. 
  
  I'll keep this disjointed review short by saying that despite its downs MGS4 has a LOT of ups, 
 the best of which being gameplay. If you own a PS3, or borrowed one, or stole one, at least try 
 MGS4, take it from someone who was anti-Metal Gear before, I have officially been turned people, 
 and I love it. I will likely be playing this game for a second time eventually, which is rare in 
 my world. I hope this is not the end of MG, it may be the last game for Snake, but I hope the game 
 engine and the formula make a return for another experience, can anyone say Metal Gear Akiba?
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: brr055
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 25, 2009 5:41 pm PT
Review:  So, I'm a total newbie to the MGS universe. The twists that you all were raving about meant nothing 
 to me... the drama, the tear-jerking events, again, nothing. I also had never even heard of this 
 Hideo guy.
  
  I'm a casual gamer, maybe buy four games a year. I read about how all of you were just going on 
 and on about this game, and then after I saw that it won game of the year on this site and seeing 
 all the 10s (which I never see) I decided to go ahead and get the game. Heck, it was on sale for 
 $30.
  
  I popped the thing in and was literally blown away. I loved the extended cutscenes, and that opening 
 sequence with the Gekko freaked me out. I just bought a 46in LCD flat panel, so I was getting the 
 max out of this game visual-wise.
  
  I love sneaking games, so obviously I'm a fan of the Hitman series. The Assassin's Creed series 
 was a bait-and-switch if you asked me, so needless to say I LOVED how I could sneak around in this 
 universe! The weapon choices, the ease of use of switching items and guns, the octocamo. All spectacular. 
 Then, there's the bizarre commercials, the wacky easter eggs, an ipod for crying out loud, the 
 bosses that freaked me out, and the massive scale of the game. This game had everything I never 
 knew I wanted in a game.
  
  Now, I'm NOT going to go back and replay the previous games. I did, however, read the wiki on each 
 of the previous games as well as download the encyclopedia add-on. I think that gave me enough 
 on the background.
  
  I really appreciated the author's attempt to make a deep story, although I felt that it had too 
 many plot twists and too many double-triple-quadruple agents for my taste. Nevertheless, it was 
 great.
  
  I could've done without the Lord-of-the-Rings-ish ending of this game, with the hour long cutscenes, 
 but once it was all over I DID restart the game all over. :-)
  
  If I can do that, then it's a GREAT game and well worth the money. Heck, at the very least download 
 the demo and see for yourself!
  
  Great job, Hideo Dude. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fantasticlink
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 24, 2009 8:47 pm PT
Review:  Its been a while since i wrote a review but its just that this game is so amazing that I have to 
 write one.
  
  Gameplay: The gameplay of this game is better than the previous metalgears. You could decide to 
 go all out and blow your way through bad guys or you could of course sneak your way through. Both 
 work incredibly well. The button placements and controls are also pretty good. 10/10
  
  Story: The storytelling is the most detailed and incredible thing you'll ever see in a videogame. 
 It just sucks you in and watching 30 minute cutscenes which sometimes only consist of talking are 
 so enjoyable to watch, just because the story is that good. Oh, and the ending is also incredibly 
 satisfying. 10/10
  
  Music: Incredible orchastral music that enhance the experience and make the game seem even more 
 epic. 10/10
  
  Characters: Solid Snake is the one of the most bad ass and coolest character in videogame history. 
 Even Raiden, who among the MetalGear fans is considered a loser, grows a bit more balls and becomes 
 pretty damn cool. The bosses are really cool and epic, and since they are modeled after real life 
 female models that makes them really damn hot. 10/10
  
  Graphics: The graphics are really good. The best I've ever seen (a part from Crysis of course) . 
 So you won't be disappointed, trust me. 10/10
  
  MGS4 has now become my second favorite game of all time. Just right after Chrono Trigger and just 
 before Zelda Ocarina of Time. As you can see, my previous two favorite games of all time are pretty 
 old, so its been a while since I played a game this extraordinary. So I advise you play it now. 
 If you haven't played the previous MGS games, I suggest you do. They are all really good, but this 
 one takes the crown. A true Masterpiece!
  Total Score: 10/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jericho9696
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 1, 2009 7:04 am PT
Review:  Some of the best games I've played in my life, no forget it:
  THE BEST GAME EVER MADE!!!!!!!!
  It has such a good story, it sucks you in immediately, well, 
 that depends if you played the other metal gears because if you haven't, you will be confused.
 
  
  This is a instant classic of all-time, it's truly a master piece by a gaming god, which is Hideo 
 Kojima.
  
  Not only that it has some solid gameplay and a TON of weapons to use and customize, there's online 
 play, the online isn't the greatest of all time but it's definatly going to keep you busy, adleast 
 for 10-20 hours of playing.
  
  The story in this game is just so awesome you will feel extremley connected to the story when you 
 will finish it, and you will probably remember for a long-long time.
  
  Conclusion: This game is f*cking amazing!!!!!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: ZanarkandTidus
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 23, 2009 7:15 pm PT
Review:  
  
  The plot in MGS4 is in the near future, companies with huge armies fight for control of the world. They 
 implant their soldiers with tiny machines called 'nanos' which allows them to control their soldiers.
 
  
  The government/military have been creating humans designed specifically for warfare.
  
  Snake now has a disease which makes him age rapidly, and the story becomes very deep and emotional, and 
 the story isn't just about Snake, you'll also see the story of Raiden (he is no longer playable) but 
 you see how his family life fell apart and it's very sad, and Meryll, the colonel, Rose, Otocon and 
 new characters join the story and there is a few surprises.
  
  The gameplay's main feature is there's a variety of different gameplay elements. You can play the 
 game using stealth, or as a run and gun shooter. You can sniper, you can traquilize enemies, or cut 
 their throat or knock them out if you want to dispose of an enemy without making too much noise 
 that will attract enemies. There is shoot em up segments (such as using machine-gun turrets or rail 
 shooting segments on a motorbike) there will be a time you will use a giant mech suit and combat 
 other mech suits. You even have to crawl a badly injured Snake to safety before an explosion, and 
 you use a much younger Snake to help rebels infiltrate the enemy.
  
  You can control a mini robot to scout and even shock enemies to clear a path. Besides just enemy 
 soldiers, you'll also encounter heavily armored robots (Gekko) , enemy aerial vehicles, and the boss 
 battles are very unique (I don't want to spoil it for people who haven't played the game though)
 
  
  Because the game's story is such an important feature, the graphics for the cutscenes need to be 
 great, and they are some of the best cutscenes I've ever seen, with alot of detail in the people's 
 skin tone and facial structure. Great FMV scenes too.
  
  The graphics during general gameplay are great, the Middle East has a nice yellowish tinge for the 
 sky and lots of detailed ruins. In Eastern Europe you see realistic detail for the roads, and for 
 more variety there is forest environment and another environment with a thick snowstorm and you 
 have very poor vision for realism. There is high tech military bases as well.
  
  Raiden's new appearance is quite disturbing, he has cybernetic arms and some sort of sophisticated 
 light armor that covers his whole body with the exception of his face. It even protects his jaw 
 and the sides of his face.
  
  The final battle with Snake and Liquid looks so brutal with close ups of their faces being smashed 
 and blood splattering everywhere.
  
  After you defeat some bosses, a creepy woman shows up and stalks you and sometimes she cries and 
 I remember when she did so where the blizzard is and you couldn't see her coming until she was 
 right near you!
  
  The music sounds great, I love the music when you enter the blizzard area, it sounds so beautiful 
 but sad at the same time. It was quite delicate too as you have an old dying Snake trying to complete 
 his mission and survive the snowstorm.
  
  You need to play this game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mixindave
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 23, 2009 5:13 am PT
Review:  Ive been a fan since the ps1 days so this was a very big game fro me and it didnt dissapoint one 
 bit. graphically this game is awesome and really shows what the ps3 can do and the 360 wont do 
 unless you use about 30 game discs lol... joke. 
  the gameplay is awesome , snake can pull alot of moves and has had a big upgrade in terms of abilities. 
 one of my favourite moves is the ability to lie in a still dead position, i also love the new way 
 of shooting using the l1 button.
  
  the story is just superb, everytime theres a cutscene i feel myself getting excited, and thats 
 why the cutscenes are just as good as playing the game. no matter how long they where. this is 
 why this game deserves a full 10 , theres alot of work been put into this game and no other game 
 gets close to it.
  
  we also have metal gear online. i cant say ive played much but it seems very fun. you basically 
 make your own solider and join various games, eg deathmatch team deathmatch etc, your character 
 and weapons can be leveled up which gives you something to play for.
  
  ok so i cant think of something else, ive just woke up for christ sake. but this is the best game 
 ever made. after super mario bros 3 (nes) hehe 
::::::

::::::
UserName: The_Solid
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 22, 2009 6:32 am PT
Review:  Are way too long, by all means they were good, but when your trying to save the world, you don't have 
 time to stop and smell the roses. Because of the cutscenes i mean if you watch them make the game 
 lack fluidity. It is kinda of at slow motion. But it's still a great game. Throw in Camoflauge, a Knife, Loads 
 of guns, And an old guy doing back-flips, Bam, theres your game.
  METAL GEAR ONLINE, is good. But boring, do not buy this game for online and I am warning you now.
 
  They way it stacks up.
  Graphics 10/10
  Almost, real.
  Gameplay 6/10
  Slow, sluggish but when the killing parts come, it doesn't rain blood, it pours.
  Story 13/10
 
  "This is good isn't it"
  In other news, the suit snake uses, it's awesome.
  In all, this is good. worth 70$.
  *****Note******, this game doesn't require previous knowledge 
 about MGS universe, Cos by the end you'll know enuff. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: -CANUCK-
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 19, 2009 7:21 pm PT
Review:  
  
  Metal Gear Solid 4 : Guns of the Patriots: The supposedly FINAL rendition of one of the most popular 
 and bat**** insane franchises in the history of the industry. 
  
  Story : Here's something to think about. Guns of the Patriots is the first Metal Gear game in about 
 ten years where you actually play as Solid Snake. Yes, after ten years of having Solid Snake dangled 
 in front of us, only to be baited and switched into playing the rest of the game as a more androgynous 
 blonde cretin, or tricked into playing as someone who only bears a resemblance to Snake, we finally 
 have a game where we play as the hero who's supposedly too legendary to appear in the same video 
 games he appears on the box art for. And this time around, Snake faces two dire enemies: premature 
 aging and every single unanswered plot thread remaining in the series.
  
  There is certainly an unfair standard here that I'm not going to pretend doesn't exist. If "Metal 
 Gear Solid" wasn't in the game's title, myself and every other person who had played the game would 
 be trashing the story for so many right reasons. The cutscenes are agonizingly long, the writing 
 would be considered annoying, and a lesser human being would lose their mind with the conspiracy 
 buffet they're being asked to binge on. It often feels like there's a series of conspiracy theories 
 laid out on top of each other, like every "truth" has five other "truths" behind it. Hell, just 
 the explanation behind how a man's hand can possess Ocelot has a massive conspiracy beefy enough 
 to upset one's stomach. And lest we forget, the complete break in consistency of a game that puts 
 so much emphasis on modern warfare and government policies to throw at you an enemy that defeats 
 adversaries with voodoo dolls. 
  
  But this is a Metal Gear game. By now, fans have not only come to accept the series shortcomings, 
 but they might be disappointed to not see them. Old age hasn't helped Solid Snake's hearing, as 
 he'll continue to ask for clarification on every noun thrown at him. You know what I'm talking 
 about. "The Patriots? PMCs? War economy? My brother Liquid? Guns? Urinary Tract Infection?" The 
 writing in general tends to reiterate points repeatedly and there's no sense of subtlety; main 
 characters will gladly spell out the game's themes in case you didn't get them the first ten times. 
 But we've come to expect this after the last three games. We've already dealt with cyborg ninjas, 
 a soldier that shoots bees and a psychic that reads Playstation memory cards so perhaps we're desensitized 
 by absurdity. 
  
  After all, it's hard to criticize the length of the cutscenes when they look this good. 
  
 
  Just like with past games, the cinematography here is leaps and bounds above anything else in 
 any game ever released, which is even more astonishing when you consider it's all done with the 
 in-game engine and not pre-rendered video. If you have experience with this franchise, then you'll 
 know to expect half-hour-plus long sequences of watching the game before you actually get to pick 
 up the controller and play. Though cutscenes occasionally prompt you to press a button; the X button 
 is literally the FLASHBACK button while the L1 button is the "first-person view of a woman's cleavage" 
 button. Any other game, I'd be frustrated and wondering why I'm not shooting something right friggin 
 now, but with Metal Gear Solid, I can't help but sit back and grab another soda. 
  
  It also helps that the characters aremostly appealing. There's little in the way of generic archetypes 
 here, though does become redundant to hear what is essentially the exact same backstory over and 
 over again for each member of the "Beauty and the Beast Corp", this game's set of unsavory supervillains/boss 
 fights. It's also worth mentioning that this game has some of the lamest comedic relief characters 
 you'll ever bear witness to. Nothing kills the mood like seeing Otacon's weird RC mech thingy or 
 a monkey in spandex drinking soda. The game does have some good jokes though, most of which make 
 fun of past games, but I couldn't in good conscience spoil this game, or at least spoil it moreso 
 than the countless reviews or eager brothers were to tell me about what moment freaked them out 
 (and you know who you are. Thanks, you ass!) Oh, and pretty much every character still alive (and 
 plenty that are dead) will make some kind of appearance here. Fortunately, Fatman stays dead and 
 forgotten. Unfortunately, The End also stays dead and forgotten. It seems that Hideo Kojima is 
 hellbent on making sure he isn't forced into making a Metal Gear Solid 5, so he wraps up every 
 single loose end and gives each character the kind of resolution that ensures they'll never see 
 action again for one reason or another. 
  
  It helps that the game proficient at bringing players up to speed as to what happened in the past. 
 If anything, you can get by playing this game with almost no prior experience with the franchise, 
 which is something very few sequels of this ambitious nature can pull off. Then again, no game 
 of this nature has a fraction of the dialogue of a Metal Gear Solid introductory cutscene. Obviously, 
 to get the most out of your Metal Gear experience, you should have played through the first three 
 games, but I'd say "don't touch Guns of the Patriots until you've at least sat through the very 
 first game, otherwise many sequences within this game will mean nothing to you!" 
  
  Speaking of game, there actually is a game somewhere within this game. Shocking? Not a whole lot 
 of game, mind you. I was told by the game that I had invested about 17 hours of time into the single 
 player campaign, but I think I only spent about 4 of those hours in control of something. It's 
 absolutely absurd, but again, this is Metal Gear, so after ten years, fans should be used to this 
 kind of gameless gameplay. And to a degree, I kind of respect what would otherwise be considered 
 a short game because there's absolutely no filler whatsoever.
  
  There's no fetch quests or contrived excuses to go back and forth in a single area. You need only 
 go through each game environment once, and how you go through it is strictly up to you. There are 
 no mandatory tutorial sequences or video packages where the game slowly details each button press, 
 you merely tap a button to bring up a menu at your leisure detailing the default controller layout. 
 And as opposed to say, the Prince of Persia games, there's never a single solution to any given 
 scenario, and the game won't constantly badger you with how to whatever command you need to do 
 at that specific moment. You're merely given a handful of items and weapons, and it's up to you 
 to invent a means of going through any given area, and how peacefully you want to go through that 
 area. 
  
  Because of this, there's a large degree of trial and error involved in figuring out a successful 
 technique. A certain degree of patience and technique is required to sneak your way around. If 
 you're really proficient and peaceful, you can play through the entire game without killing a single 
 human being, demented bosses included. The "guns blazing" approach also has plenty of validity 
 to it, though you'll have to overcome some baffling controls to mow down your competitors. You 
 have to press three different buttons to enter first person view to shoot your adversaries. Considering 
 how combat seems to have a large focus this time around (what with most of the game set in a freaking 
 WARZONE) , the cover mechanics in this game are as old as the protagonist, as you're relegated to 
 ducking behind an object that you hope is taller than Snake's crouching animation, and then have 
 to peek out because you can't view enemies from behind cover, hopefully spotting and picking them 
 off before they do the same and send Otacon into the same crying frenzy he enters every time you 
 die. And you'll probably die a lot, partly because of the controls but also in the pursuit of experimentation 
 with assorted tactics. You have two advantages in the battlefield though; one is that you can access 
 a weapons shop at any time and use money amassed by automatically selling the extra weapons picked 
 up from fallen enemies to buy new toys, ammo and mods. The other advantage is that enemy AI is 
 generally rather thick. 
  
  There's also the game's boss battles, which take the same approach as the rest of the game in that 
 you'll be left to your own devices to figure out what tactics will work best. Because of this, 
 the battles here feel moreorganic, like the enemies are living, breathing foes that you need to 
 outsmart, instead of you and an enemy hacking away at each other's shins until the first to run 
 out of health collapses, or a robotic like enemy with a predetermined attack pattern who becomes 
 hopeless to your assault once you've got them figured out. 
  
  Illustrating examples presents a small challenge for me as I would hate myself for spoiling anything.
 
  
  Again, a lot of this is eased by the uniqueness of the settings. For the first half of the game, 
 each level is spent on a battlefield, and sneaking around while two factions duke it out makes 
 for some unique sneaking scenarios. I hope you like gun turret sequences though, because there's 
 at least three of them here, but the latter two are actually quite memorable in of themselves, 
 without me giving anything away. The one gameplay sequence that peeved me was a section where I 
 was forced into following someone without being seen, and any attempt to help him against enemy 
 soldiers was met with said person opening fire on me. And for better or worse, the game shamelessly 
 evokes the nostalgia card; expect plenty of moments designed to tug on the heartstrings of people 
 who have played the previous games. 
  
  Finally, there's the online playwhich features an update that, at this point in the review (including 
 proofreading) , is only 60% downloaded. I'm going to have to update this review at some point to 
 include the multiplayer aspect, but this really shouldn't take so long. 
  
  Metal Gear Solid 4 is a bit of an old fossil. Combat mechanics should be much tighter by modern 
 standards. The standards of writing have improved (at least in specific games) enough that we shouldn't 
 need such lengthy story sequences. But at the same time, some of the "dated" aspects are admirable. 
 We rarely get games anymore that don't submit the player to a slow-paced tutorial that holds our 
 hand while detailing every single possible action, followed by asking the player to repeat said 
 action repeatedly like we're learning to write the Alphabet in grade school. We rarely see games 
 anymore that are comfortable with being short and sweet, not feeling obligated to force the player 
 to re-do levels over again or grind enemy battles to progress. And we rarely see games anymore 
 that give the player freedom to figure out their own solutions to a challenge. 
  
  To sum up this obscenely long review, the more you like Metal Gear, and in particular the first 
 Metal Gear Solid, the more you'll like Metal Gear Solid 4. I would argue that it's not as charming 
 a game as say, Metal Gear Solid 3, but I doubt this game aimed to charm. For what it is worth, 
 I would suggest that Metal Gear Solid 4 is perhaps the greatest conclusion-game in the history 
 of gaming. When you think of attempts at multi-game epics, the final game either ends with a forgettable 
 whimper (Halo, the Sands of Time trilogy) , in a hurry (Xenosaga) , or not at all (Shenmue) . So Metal 
 Gear fans can be honoured to be given such a fantastic send-off. Solid Snake is leaving the stealth 
 genre on top, and he's leaving it his way. 
  
  Pros : For the life of me, I couldn't recall any reference to Portable Ops, Metal Gear Acid 1 or 
 2, or the Metal Gear Solid Game Boy Color game, which is great for people like me that couldn't 
 be made to finish most of them. 
  
  Cons: Product placement for Apple products feels out of place in a game with this many conspiracies 
 about corporations. The ending is a lot longer than it should be; imagine the ending to Return 
 of the King, but to the power of ten. 
  
  4 stars
  
  Someone out there is attracted to the idea of their virtual in-game character listening to a virtual 
 iPod, and listening to old themes from past Metal Gear games.
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: onikage87
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 19, 2009 2:14 pm PT
Review:  This game is definitely worth the wait and worth playing. However, after playing through the story 
 the second time around I noticed a few things that tend to bring the game down. First off, in a 
 game like the MGS series we grew to love a lot of the cutscenes over the years. The problem with 
 MGS4 is that it seems like Konami was more interested in tying up loose ends rather than making 
 the game more enjoyable. Cutscenes happen so frequently and last so long that it really interrupts 
 the action and kind of takes you out of the game. On a second playthrough you'll find yourself 
 sighing at the start of another cutscene and just skipping through it. Sadly, by doing that you 
 end up realizing that in total, for a MGS veteran the game would only take about 10 hours to finish. 
 That being said next up, multiplayer. Surprisingly, multiplayer is actually really fun new modes 
 that let you play as Snake are a great addition. Minus the one flaw I feel a lot of PS3 multiplayers 
 have.... lack of people with microphones but other than that still fun. All in all MGS4 is a great 
 game that shouldn't be missed by any fan of the series. However, it might not be one for the newcomers. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: simeon_prasad
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 19, 2009 1:07 pm PT
Review:  If u have a ps3 and havnt purchased this game yet then, clearly, u dont know what your doing with 
 a ps3. this is a must get title for any ps3 owner. sorry xbox fanboys no mgs for u guys. online 
 is superb. the game it self it nice. the graphics are awesome and gamplay flawless. if u think 
 halo is better than this then u either never played this or are jealous cause u cant afford a ps3 
 and this game.
  
  GRAPHICS: 10/10
  GAMEPLAY: 10/10
  LENGTH: 9/10
  DIFFICULTY: !0/10 (ALLOWS YOU TO CHOOSE WAT IS RIGHT FOR YOU)
  SOUND: 9/10
  QUALITY: 10/10
 
  
  Its a $60 game and its worth every penny. you wont regret buying this game. i gauruntee you. it 
 has a lot of secerets and stuff from all mgs games. its a damn good game. so save you change and 
 pick this game up. You'll have no regrets. to bad this one might be or will be the last in the 
 series. no one can master kojimas metal gear solid series and i mean no one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dominatordave48
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 19, 2009 12:36 pm PT
Review:  Amazing game to say the least. One of my favorite things about this game was the way that it went 
 back through the series, tied up loose ends, brought old bosses back, but still moved forward and 
 after each mission made you want to keep playing. The cut scenes are a bit.. long. They're awesome, 
 but still some of them seem to go on for 30 + min. If it wasn't nice to watch or interesting it 
 would have been bad, but it was both. Only thing is that it seemed a little to easy. I'm not saying 
 that you can just run through in a couple hours, but there they could have bulked up the bosses 
 a little more. I couldn't imagine going through the game with out getting spotted once, maybe I 
 just suck, or enjoyed rampaging people. I did what I could, but if I did get spotted I just tried 
 to kill everyone rather than hide, eh well. It was an amazing game, and I had a lot of fun playing. 
 Would recommend this to anyone who feels like playing an awesome game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: adamt2828
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 9, 2009 11:20 am PT
Review:  The story is absoloutley amazing and could be made into a good film. The controls are really good 
 and the graphics is brilliant at times.
  I have read previous reviews and people have been saying that the game is the best game ever created 
 and gave it a 10/10.
  I also wish that there was more gameplay and less of the story (even though its a good story) because 
 sometime you could have been on the game for half and hour and not even have played at all. But 
 you have to watch all of the mission breifings and the other things otherwise you wouldnt know 
 what was going on the game.
  Overall i do like the game becuase of the brilliant gameplay and the amazing storyline and it was 
 well worth the 15 I payed for it. I wish could play the online though becuase its meant to be 
 amazing but im under 15 : ( so I cant go online.
  
  --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  The story is absoloutley amazing and could be made into a good film. The controls are really good 
 and the graphics is brilliant at times.
  I have read previous reviews and people have been saying that the game is the best game ever created 
 and gave it a 10/10.
  I think im missing something, it is a good game but not 10/10. 
  I also wish that there was more gameplay and less of the story (even though its a good story) because 
 sometime you could have been on the game for half and hour and not even have played at all. But 
 you have to watch all of the mission breifings and the other things otherwise you wouldnt know 
 what was going on the game.
  Overall i do like the game becuase of the brilliant gameplay and the amazing storyline and it was 
 well worth the 15 I payed for it. I wish could play the online though becuase its meant to be 
 amazing but im under 15 : ( so I cant go online. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BewareOfTrees88
Rating: 7
Date: Jan 18, 2009 11:51 pm PT
Review:  Though this, um piece of entertainment has a lot to offer epic story wise, it falls short by making 
 the player sit and watch everything happen, keeping them from helping the story evolve by becoming 
 a part of the game themselves. Which is why in the end I have major trouble categorizing it as 
 a game at all.
  
  Because of the lack of actual playtime, towards the beginning of the game I seriously thought about 
 giving up. After all, there's about 80% cut scenes here, if they can still be called that when 
 they form the majority, and if I wanted to watch a movie I would have chosen to do so. Luckily 
 a lot of work was put into the animation and dialog to draw in the viewer, saving the game for 
 me in the end. Through the moments of pure boredom, to the moments I was screaming at the screen 
 because of how ridiculous little things seemed to me, I slowly became attached to the characters. 
 Not in the same way as other games where I live in the moments with them because what I do spells 
 out life and death, but still strong none-the-less. Plus there were some pretty epic moments that 
 I am glad I didn't miss, such as the boat scene where the guns malfunction to pretty much anything 
 involving Raiden. Not only that, but I really loved how a couple of times they threw a bone to 
 the player and actually split the screen so that there were moments of gameplay going hand in hand 
 with the movie.
  
  In the end, or after the numerous ends of Lord of the Rings proportions, my mind had changed drastically 
 about Metal Gear Solid; however, I was still slightly disappointed because I didn't feel like I 
 had contributed anything to what had come to pass in Snakes journey.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: SragentThom
Rating: 6
Date: Jan 18, 2009 6:35 pm PT
Review:  It had all of the money, all of the excitement, and hype, and the full power of a next generation 
 console, but Metal Gear Solid 4 like none of the others before it, took the controller out of the 
 player's hands and when it did that, it sacrificed gameplay for story. It turned off casual gamers 
 to appease fanboys, and it pushed the ludicrousness of it's plot and characters passed the point 
 of no return.
  
  The graphics are top notch with great environments, detailed characters, weapons, and enemies. 
 The game at times was stunning in its presentation. This is one of the best looking games I've 
 ever seen. Effects like water and snow really stand out in terms of excellence and the gamer will 
 appreciate the very methodical attention to detail that the designers took with the game. To give 
 an example of the level of detail, I was amazed when in a snowing area I equipped a barrel and 
 as time went by the barrel slowly started becoming covered in snow. That really stood out to me 
 as a small but incredible graphical achievement. Another thing that struck me was the part of the 
 barrel that got covered the fastest was where the wind and snow were blowing and part of the barrel 
 would not be covered if that part was against the wall. The fact that the gamer didn't even need 
 to use this item at all, but that much detail had been put there anyway was something that blew 
 me away. Regardless of the games problems, it is amazing to look at.
  
  Many new gameplay elements emerge in this installment and while some are good others completely 
 detract from the overall gameplay experience. 
  Octocamo, which allows Old Snake to blend it with his surroundings, is a very graphically pleasing 
 thing to see and was a neat twist on the camo in MGS3. Old Snake also moves very fluidly and very 
 rarely shows his age in combat. In addition, Old Snake can use a wide variety of weapons and although 
 he may only carry a few more they can be substituted at any time. Some of these weapons can be 
 customized with all sorts of nifty gadgets and it is fun to collect all the different weapons and 
 find the most effective one for your character.
  
  Another addition is the Metal Gear Mk. II which can travel a short ways and scout out items and 
 enemies. While the idea is very interesting, the situations for it to be useful are very few. One 
 gameplay element that in my mind was an excellent addition was the Solid Eye. The Solid Eye works 
 similar to the radar in previous games but also features night vision Binoculars and a handy digital 
 read-out of weapons, items, enemies, and allies. This was just a great idea all around as it eliminated 
 the need to switch between clunky binoculars and night vision goggles and implemented a lot of 
 new features. 
  
  A huge disappointment is the codec feature which was one of my favorites in previous games. Codec 
 wasn't just for funny banter or dialogue it could also do a great job of filling in parts of the 
 story. As opposed to taking you away from the action, you could use codec or not use it at your 
 leisure. For fans that wanted the maximum amount of information it gave it to them, for those who 
 just wanted to play the game, it was fun to use every once in awhile regardless. Many of the cutscenes 
 that were just characters talking, could have been codec calls and would have lengthened the game 
 because it would have saved alot of wasted money. Instead the codec has only two people who repeat 
 mostly the same things and aren't fun to talk to.
  
  Although you can use both stealth and run and gun techniques the game seems to reward the latter 
 through the use of Drebin points which are used to buy/unlock weapons, and buy ammo at any time. 
 Although your able to use both strategies most gamers will just use the one that nets them the 
 most exciting items and weapons. Drebin points I personally enjoyed, but I could see how they could 
 upset some of the veteran gamers who would have to conserve ammo for the bosses because there was 
 less of it (and therefore you kept more of it if you didn't engage enemies) like in previous games.
 
  
  Another problem is, although in one of the acts Old Snake is in a pretty wide open area, often 
 certain paths are inaccessible which doesn't allow for the player to have fun exploring different 
 areas because they all have to go in a linear route. This contrasts alot with MGS3 where often 
 the player had multiple routes to go much of the time. Product placement rears it's ugly head way 
 too much in this game. The Apple/ Ipod wasn't even the worst instance with that honor going to 
 Otacon who is bragging about the power of the Blu Ray disc or something during what I guess is 
 a story sequence and the irony of course being that the game in fact was apparently too powerful 
 for the medium otherwise the gamer wouldn't have to wait for long load times every time he wants 
 to play an act. It would be like in the middle of Gear of War if the protagonist said "you know 
 I really like the xbox 360 alot!" 
  
  Finally we come to the AI. And having played every MGS game I can say that the regular enemies 
 traditionally are not very intelligent. But I would expect enemies to at least be as smart as they 
 were in MGS3 but sadly the enemies (and allies) here aren't. The extent that they are not is sometimes 
 downright embarrassing. You might chuckle at the beginning as Old Snake says, "War has changed", 
 because as he says it the group he is with charges headfirst into an enemy machine gun nest and 
 entire group of them are killed. War has changed indeed as soldiers are apparently more stupid. 
 Many other instances of rebel fighters charging into enemy nests and getting mowed down is I guess 
 supposed to be a poignant commentary on the horrors of war but due to poor gameplay design, a cheerful 
 chirping sound effect plays as the soldiers die indicating that an item has spewed out of their 
 corpse and is ready to be collected. Since Old Snake owes no allegiance to the rebels and there 
 is no penalty for them dying, the player can find himself cheering for the enemy to slaughter respawning 
 rebel forces so he can run around afterwards like a madman stealing items and weapons from the 
 dead bodies all in an attempt to sell them for Drebin points which allow you to get even more weapons. 
 In it's most idiotic state the war that the gamer is supposed to care about could be described 
 as a spectator sport wherein as soon as the gunfire calms down an old man in a muscle suit listening 
 to an iPod runs in and begins looting corpses with glee instantly selling their possessions to 
 an arms dealer and his shaved monkey companion who is addicted to cola. 
  
  As for the enemy itself, although the enemies are genetically enhanced they are still as clueless 
 as ever. In one instance in the Middle East my character was hiding in a dumpster and this causes 
 Old Snake to smell bad. This is a neat and novel idea for a video game. However the enemy somehow 
 distinguished my character as a separate entity from the dumpster itself, and spent a long time 
 asking itself and another guard casually about what smelled so bad as if the genetically altered 
 guards with heavy weapons (and masks over their face/nose!) were paid to sit around and sniff the 
 air like bloodhounds for intruders! Another instance Old Snake was lying on a green couch trying 
 to heal after a gun fight and there was still an alert and several guards casually walk right bye 
 me and then run outside and demand where the intruder is even though I wasn't camouflaged and I 
 was literally right under their nose. The enemy troops are perhaps at their most confounding during 
 cut scenes where they become extremely kind caring and sweet. For example during a fierce battle, 
 an elite unit of soldiers carrying high powered machine guns politely allow their enemies to literally 
 propose to each other before the pair begin killing them again. Often enemies allow characters 
 to talk as much as they want. In another scene Old Snake and Raiden are surrounded by many enemies 
 who slowly circle around them patiently waiting for them to stop talking to each other before attacking 
 them slowly one at a time. Old Snake unfortunately, is not better in this regard having many opportunities 
 to shoot the main villain and save thousands of innocent lives, but instead opting to engage him 
 in Close Quarters Combat. Overall, although it has some serious problems, the gameplay can sometimes 
 be very fun and sometimes dare I say awesome. The problem is it is WAY TOO SHORT! 
  
  And the reason it is way too short is because of the story. The story starts out with a bunch of 
 different TV shows that you can turn to and watch. I guess you could call it artistic license but 
 I call it an amazing waste of money. Most of the shows don't mean anything or are silly and some 
 are admittedly cool but they are just eye fluff and the resources they used to make them could 
 have lengthened the game by 2+ hours. It is like Kojima wants to forcibly show the gamer something 
 cool, without the gamer actually having to play the game. The problem with MGS4, is everything 
 is so over the top and so completely unrealistic, but you can tell it tries to be taken as seriously 
 as possible with its impressive production costs, insidious bad guys, blood and gore, existentialism, 
 exposition, genetic engineering, and convoluted plot. It wants to be a serious military/spy intrigue 
 but it also wants to be a cutesy anime. 
  
  The mystery of the Patriots is a big focal point in this game. The Patriots are this underground 
 organization that have been controlling the United States of America behind the scenes, bending 
 it to their will. I'm not going to spoil the game other than say that the truth behind this mystery 
 is a letdown and Kojima who I thought was capable of telling a story but letting us play a fun 
 game in this last installment does a poor job of both.
  The gamer is almost viewed as hindrance to the plot where in reality the plot is a hindrance to 
 the gamer. Just like Snake in previous games is fooled into going along with the enemies plan, 
 the gamer is fooled into thinking he is part of an interactive experience when this is only somewhat 
 true.
  
  The game is divided up into acts and the intermissions between them.
  The intermissions are often the Sunny show with Sunny being an annoying squeaky voiced girl (around 
 6-7) who possesses the brain of a million supercomputers but yet cannot cook eggs! This girl will 
 usually interrupt the mission briefing chastising Old Snake for smoking or serve him burned eggs. 
 Sunny is not even close to being the worst character in the game and she is the only female character 
 that manages to dress appropriately.
  
  When it comes to other characters like the otaku Otacon, the cutesy Mei Ling, the robotic tentacle 
 vixen Laughing Octopus, or the cyber ninja Raiden who uses his foot to spin around and throw gigantic 
 building sized robots at vampires you can begin to see a definite anime influence. Bosses unlike 
 in other games from this series really have nothing to do with the plot, and while one form of 
 them is a challenging battle, the other form could be described as strange fights with murderous 
 but pretty women in cat suits while the screen is fuzzy. When you defeat them Drebin calls you 
 to tell you a unbelievable story about each that attempts to make a large mechanical screeching 
 wolf with a rail gun into a sympathetic character.
  
  As someone who loved MGS, MGS2, (yes believe it or not) , and MGS3, I had high expectations for this 
 game. But in the end it wasn't war that changed it was Metal Gear Solid.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: GirlsPlayToo89
Rating: 3.5
Date: Jan 17, 2009 12:57 am PT
Review:  I don't get the deal with this game, you are an old man who runs so slow, and hides under things. 
 There was almost no action when I tried to go out and kill people the guy on the radio told me 
 to go hide and not get in the action. I thought that was the point of an action game but I guess 
 not. I spent a lot of money on this game because of the hype and I was totally dissapointed. I 
 sold it back to gamecrazy and got uncharted wich was a waaay better game and more worth the money 
 than this game. And don't listen to the excuse that "you have to play from the beginning of the 
 series to like it". There are plenty of games that I have played the sequel first without knowing 
 the storyline and they were still fun. It wasn't just that the story was boring it was that the 
 gameplay was too. I wouldn't recommend this game to anybody who wants a fast paced action game. 
 Go for Bioshock and Uncharted, those are worth your time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: holmars2006
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 16, 2009 10:54 pm PT
Review:  The best game ever! after I beat it i thought i could play another of the eight games i got for 
 Christmas, no dice i had to put it back in to play again. I have been playing nonstop for almost 
 three weeks. Would recommend the game to anyone, great game! plus game spot game of the year enough 
 said. I have owned and played all Metal gear solids and they keep getting better. cant wait to 
 see what they can pull off for Metal gear solid 5 if there ever is one. This game is also more 
 than a first person shooter it lets you play different roles in the game. I beat the game 3 times 
 and played on the internet but just recently but my ps3 has problems with my internet o well. One 
 thing with the game is long periods to load the scenes for the next part of the game but i still 
 think its worth the wait. Overall it a great all around game. At this rate i may be playing it 
 into the new year or 2010. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: XxBloodPoolxX
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 15, 2009 1:52 pm PT
Review:  Metal Gear Solid 4: Guns of the Patriots is probably THE best game I have ever played. I have been 
 a giant metal gear fan ever since my big bro introduced me to it when i was about 9 or 10. now 
 at 15 I absolutly adore the series, The concept, storyline, music, gameplay, and now one of the 
 best online games i've played. it's all you need in a video game series. 
  
  Guns of the Patriots reveals all the secrets you are dying to know such as; Who or WHAT is the 
 patriots?
  Why does snake look old?
  Why isn't snake dead from foxdie yet?
  and so on......
  This game can be played as a FPS but i do not recomend it... its not metal gear 
 if it isn't 3rd person to me. but the fps part now being able to walk and shoot is like a giant 
 releif... 
  this metal gear brings back memories and just overall makes this probably the best last part of 
 a saga... that i have ever played.
  the storyline is about 20 hours long with all cutscenes, but i've beatin it in about 5 hours once... 
 trying to get all collectables. which, makes the story worth playing again and again...
  and after you get tired of the story, there is the online play. THIS is THE best online for the 
 ps3 no doubt. and probably beats out most of the 360 and the wii's online games too.
  so many game modes ranging to capture kroaton to stealth, in which one person plays as snake trying 
 to knock down members of either the blue or red team and capture their dog tags. then there is 
 death match and team death match. Stealth would be my favorite gamemode.
  
  This game will bring you to awhs on graphics and the sound is just amazing. Along with the best 
 boss battles in gaming history.
  
  I do not recomend playing the last game in a series as your first game in the mgs series... even 
 if they say it, you will be lost as a blind man. and therefore probably not give this game all 
 the credit it deserves. atleast play mgs1 and 2...
  
  okay well. this is a must buy game for all ps3 owners. if you do not have this now game of the 
 year winning game. and you own a ps3... then someone needs to knock some sence into you. lol. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kodmani
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 14, 2009 6:16 pm PT
Review:  This game is the and greatest game of all time!!! Hideo Kojima is a genius !! writing this review 
 will be the biggest waste of time. 
  
  Graphics:
  Best visuals I have ever seen in a game and no game will compete to their level for a very long 
 time. Its so realistic its actually better than real life graphics especially when watching it 
 from a 1080p screen ! you can see the wrinkles on snakes face !!
  
  Game play:
  Like any Metal gear game its almost very similar but this has a lot of extra features such as moving 
 while crouching and crawling backwards and much better camera angles while aiming.
  
  Story:
  The story is so good and so complicated that we are forced to love it no matter what. 
 This is the way of life. And finally when you finally finish the game you will feel so good knowing 
 that you just not only finished the greatest game of all time but experienced something so wonderful 
 and memorable that you are willing to treasure that memory for a very long time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jake2396
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 14, 2009 3:48 pm PT
Review:  Truly a remarkable title, with great visuals, sounds, and scenery, with replay value. If you have 
 PSN you should defiantly try Metal Gear Online, with the option to customize your character and 
 skill sets. I never really found any flaw within the game. Defiantly the best in the Metal Gear 
 Solid franchise. I also like how they actually wanted to make a terrific story, instead of just 
 making a hardcore game with amazing gameplay. No they did that AND made an amazing story. And online 
 play is superb. With the option to join in tournaments and compete in matches to earn reward points. 
 Sure there's other games that do that, but it actually works for Metal Gear Online. With expansions 
 and voice packs, Metal Gear Solid 4 has amazing online play. Metal Gear Solid is defiantly an epic 
 win for those who love shooters (Or GOOD games for that matter) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: souljahofman
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 14, 2009 7:23 am PT
Review:  Metal Gear Solid 4: Guns of The Patriots is simply the most perfect, most beautifully rendered 
 blend of cinematic story telling and action adventure gameplay. Hideo Kojima finally takes the 
 gaming mechanics of previous Metal Gears and turned them on their heads creating an awe-inspiring 
 control system allowing you to play the game like a stealthy sneaking game or like an all out guns 
 blazing action adventure work of art. The story, having been huge parts of previous Metal Gear's, 
 needed to be up to standards of previous installments but instead took previous game and made them 
 look like they had been written by Dr. Suess. The fact that Hideo and his team were able to take 
 20 years of loose ends and tie them up in such a convincing manner is amazing. There is no aspect 
 of the story that seems purposefully shoved in just to please fans and give explanations to questons. 
 Instead, every part was thoroughly looked at and only the best was let through. It goes without 
 saying that Metal Gear Solid 4 is the most beautifully rendered game of all time. Kojima's Production 
 team left no stone unturned in making sure that Metal Gear Solid 4 obliterated the previous visual 
 standard on the PS3, pushing the PS3 to its limits. Metal Gear Solid 3 introduced online play to 
 the Metal Gear franchise and due to Metal Gear Solid 4's advanced visuals and gaming mechanics 
 online play is alot of fun. In short, Metal Gear Solid 4: Guns of The Patriots is a must play for 
 PS3 owners. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MangoLlamas
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 12, 2009 7:34 pm PT
Review:  As Snake, you are equipped with an arsenal of weapons and items, ranging from anesthetic-shooting 
 pistols to drum cans from which to conciel yourself amidst the chaos of war. With a completely 
 refurbished take on Close Quarter Combat, CQC, and a quick point, aim, shoot gameplay mechanism, 
 you set out as Snake in an edeavor to stop Liquid Ocelot from controlling the world.
  
  You've probably heard this from countless other sources, but the game is as much game as it is 
 movie, which can reveal to be good or bad. Apart from a genuinely brilliant script and carefully 
 planned out battles, you will have the long talks, the drama of tears and sweat, and yes, even 
 romance. However you look at it though, the plot is luminous.
  
  Graphically speaking, you will be contained in dumpsters (rust hand carved,) trapped beneath the 
 cleanest and freshest antarctic snow and surrounded by a raven colored pool of blood. The game 
 can seem too real at times. Especially with your OctoCamo (camoflauge suit.) You will hear the 
 fearful bullet whisp past your shoulder and turn of the volume from an explosion. Everything in 
 the game, the textures, the sounds, the characters, the narration, the gadgets and gismos, are 
 gorgeously crafted.
  
  Deeper into the Plot... In the future, soldiers are equipped with a "Sons of Patriot" system within 
 their bodies, which allows them to see, feel, smell, and sense what their comrades do. These functions 
 help them endure pains of bullets, track one another if lost, etc. When a soldier disobeys his 
 commands or opens fire on an ally unit, his/her's weapon will lock to ensure the safety and well 
 being of the rest of his mates. You assume the role of Snake (referred in the game as Old Snake 
 due to his youger appearance in earlier titles plus the docter's diagnosis of rapid aging.) Snake 
 is a retired war veteran seeking to stop Liquid Ocelot from taking over the world, as he managed 
 to hack into the Sons of Patriot system. For a while, things will get to seem gloomier and gloomier 
 in the time of despair, when eveything goes wrong in appropriate times.
  
  In conclusion, Metal Gear Solid 4: Guns of the Patriots is packed with breath-taking scenery, amazing 
 dialogue, easy to learn (and use) controls and stunning characters/storline. It is easy enough 
 to pick up if you have never played previous games, and still as enjoyable if you aren't a fan 
 of the game or genre itself. MGS4 truly deserves the Game of the Year award in my opinion. If you 
 own a Play Station 3, this is one of those games to look out for. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: murano28
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 12, 2009 3:34 pm PT
Review:  Metal gear solid 4. Im not a big fan of the series. I only played the half of mgs snake eater and 
 finished mgs portable ops for psp. I must say i had more fun playing the mgs ops than mgs 4. The 
 reason is mgs 4 has less gameplay and lots of long cutscenes that might put you to sleep specially 
 for people who are not the fan of the series. What most annoyed me was that the longest cutscenes 
 in history of gaming. But then i was thinking why they had long cutscenes is that they were wrapping 
 up the story of the series they had to do it because for people to understand it more. So it was 
 like a movie based game. There are 5 acts I didn't enjoy the first 3 acts I bet few people quit 
 and never played the game because of the cutscenes. But I gave it a chance and played the full 
 game. Last 2 act was good and the cutscenes weren't that annoying even tho they were still long. 
 I'm just being honest here, I mean the game is great but it is not great for everyone, it is not 
 for every age group. The graphics are amazing. The best graphics so far. The sound is good. Gameplay 
 don't expect to play alot but watch. I didn't have that much fun playing the game. So people who 
 gave 10's are mostly the fan of the series and people who didn't mind the long cutscenes and less 
 gameplay. But every people has a different taste. Some people don't want to watch it they want 
 to play the game. If this game had more gameplay and short cutscenes I would probably give it at 
 least 9.0 but unfortunately I can't. i'm not a hater either and giving 1 or 2. I'm just being fare. 
 Some of the boss battles are cool but not great you will see what i mean when you play it. I mean 
 it is a good game but not perfect game. There are other good games around and will be better games. 
 So let's not overhype a game. 
  
  Graphics: 10
  
  Sound: 9
  
  Gameplay: 6.5
  
  Value: 7
  
  Tilt: 6.5
  
  Story: 9
  
  OVERALL: 8.0 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bl4ckh34rt
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 12, 2009 2:23 pm PT
Review:  "War has changed." Thanks to this videogame, so has the industry. I was a fan of Kojima's work 
 since the first MGS game came out for PS One. At the time it was a crazy new innovation to videogames. 
 With each subsequent installment of Solid Snake's lifelong adventure came a more intense innovation. 
 Now that the latest game has come out, and has won Gamespot's coveted "Game of the Year" award, 
 I can happily say that Metal Gear Solid 4: Guns of the Patriots was well deserving of it.
  The storyline of the games has been historically great, and MGS4 is no exception. In fact, I am 
 even willing to say that MGS4's story is the most intense of them all: In a future controlled by 
 the war economy, one man, codename Liquid Ocelot, is in the position to seize control of the world. 
 It's up to Solid Snake, the now retired war veteran  turned  hero, to stop him. What ensues is 
 a chase around the world as Snake tries to stop Liquid from enacting his grand plan to control 
 the Sons of the Patriots system, entitled Guns of the Patriots. As you play the game, you encounter 
 slew of interesting characters, new and old, who either try to help or hinder your progress through 
 the game. The most captivating of these characters, in my opinion, is a group of shell-shocked 
 individuals who banded together and formed the Beauty and the Beast Corps, whose sole purpose is 
 to hunt down and eliminate Solid Snake.
  The gameplay itself was simply spectacular. It practically made me drool. Most of the game takes 
 place in combat zones across the planet. You can either try to sneak past the conflict, or choose 
 to take a side in the fight and shoot your way through (the vast selection of weapons available 
 makes option B a little more tempting) . Some of the mechanics have been tweaked for the next-gen 
 platform, but the overall feel of the game is still the same as the others in the past. 
  The cinematic sequences of the game are another part of what makes this game worthy of its praise. 
 Now some people argue that there too many cutscenes that were too long, but these are necessary 
 to fully explain the story and tie all loose ends that have come up in the past. Furthermore, these 
 sequences are simply breathtaking, so they give you an opportunity to enjoy them while you break 
 from the gameplay, which by the way flows seamlessly from cinematic to game.
  Overall, the game is definitely worthy of a designated space on your videogame shelf. However, 
 I strongly advise that you play MGS1 through 3 before you play MGS4. It's definitely not the kind 
 of game you can simply jump into at the latest installment and fully understand everything. 
  Finally I'd like to say that Metal Gear Solid 4: Guns of the Patriots is possibly the greatest 
 game I have ever played. I would like to personally congratulate Hideo Kojima for a job well done. 
 I also want to thank him for directing one of the best stories I have played and also thank you 
 for reading this unnecessarily long review.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: johncena12
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 11, 2009 5:37 am PT
Review:  if you are a MGS fan like me this game will be the game for you. the graphics are amazing, the 
 sound is awesome. gameplay is perfect. because of the hype that went into this game i thought it 
 wouldn't be a good game but when i popped it into my ps3 i could not stop playing, it is sooo adictive 
 and you wont put the control pad down. also the characters, you want to learn more and more about 
 them, also the same characters are back such as Raiden, Vamp, Otacon, Eva, Meryl and liquid. this 
 game is a must buy for anyone even if your not a MGS fan and your new to the series or if you are 
 a fan. If you have never played before there are flashbacks about the previous games. yes the cutscenes 
 are long but don't let that stop you most of the cutscenes are interesting and entertaining. the 
 only annoying part is that it is snakes last mission (sorry for the spolier) but what a way to 
 end it. Deffo must buy 
::::::

::::::
UserName: samfisherelitec
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 11, 2009 2:07 am PT
Review:  This game is a superb game!!!! I wish I had all the money in the world for Hideo Kojima... I woulda 
 wanted him to do MGS 5, MGS 6, uptill MGS (X) .... That guy is a monster....
  
  Graphics: Superb!!!!!
  
  Cinematics: Great!!!!
  
  Gameplay: better than MGS 3 and far more 
 tempting!!!!
  
  Storyline: very smooth just like MGS 3 and predecessors!!!!
  
  BOTTOM LINE!!! IF YOU WANT MONEY WORTH GAME FOR PS3
  BUY IT BUY IT BUY IT BUY IT BUY IT BUY IT 
 BUY IT BUY IT BUY IT BUY IT BUY IT BUY IT BUY IT BUY IT BUY IT BUY IT BUY IT BUY IT
  BUY IT BUY IT BUY IT
  BUY IT BUY IT BUY IT
  BUY IT BUY IT BUY IT
  BUY IT BUY IT BUY IT
 
  BUY IT BUY IT BUY IT
  BUY IT BUY IT BUY IT
  
  BUY IT BUY IT BUY IT
  BUY IT BUY IT BUY IT
  BUY IT BUY IT BUY IT
  BUY IT BUY IT BUY IT
  BUY IT BUY IT BUY IT 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sxs_alex
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 11, 2009 12:20 am PT
Review:  This game has it all... nice music, good sound effects, epic gameplay, deep emotional story, and 
 cinamatic cut scenes. It makes you feel like you're part of a hollywood movie. Many had argued 
 that you're spending most of your time watching than playing. Sorry but I played it through and 
 felt i needed a break in between the intense boss fights. I like the idea of them throwing in long 
 cutscenes just so you can relax and cool down before continuing on to the next ACT. Don't we all 
 want to sit in front of our HDTV and feel like we're part of something really big? I'm telling 
 you... people are missing out on this game if they pass up on it. MGS IV has a very high replay 
 value. Online play is ok and I'd say it's a nice added bonus. The single player campaign is where 
 it shines. Kojima is right.... the PS3 is a theatre. Bravo! Best game of 2008! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gamernut
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 10, 2009 2:47 pm PT
Review:  I am just going to say it: Metal Gear Solid 4 is the best deal on the market today. The Metal Gear 
 Solid series has been highly praised by critics and fans alike for a very long time because it 
 just dosen't get old. Metal Gear Solid came first, with the legendary boss Psycho Mantis and an 
 interesting variety of stealth options. Then came the awesome Metal Gear Solid 2: Sons of Liberty 
 which was even better than the first. Then came Metal Gear Solid 3: Snake eater which didn't meet 
 the games before it, but still made an impact on society. Now comes Metal Gear Solid 4 and it is 
 just the best of the series. The graphics are stunning and i did not spot one error in the textures. 
 The great graphics in this game just making fighting Gecko or stealthing through the middle east 
 just so much better. The gameplay is simply amazing, now you can fight in intense gun battles without 
 getting killed in a couple of seconds. There are so many guns in the game that you couldn't use 
 them all in one play through. You can customize your guns by adding shotguns, laser pointers, and 
 grenade launchers to them. I had alot of fun wth this system because with you will never get tired 
 of using the guns in the game. For example, attaching a shotgun to a machine gun makes for an interesting 
 fight. The enemies n the game are very clever and will look around even if they hear a slight noise. 
 The boss battles are intense, and are probably one of the best parts of the game. The missions 
 are filled with variety, from crawling through the dirty streets of the middle east to shooting 
 massive hordes of dwarf gecko in the snowy base of Shadow Moses, you will have fun in every inch 
 of the game. There are also some great videos that have some intense action packed into them. Also 
 there is Metal gear Online, but I have a full review for that on the Metal Gear Online page.
  So basically, to some up a long review, this game is amazing and you need to play it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: acsguitar
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jan 9, 2009 11:37 am PT
Review:  I remember playing Metal Gear 1 for the PS1 back in highschool. I don't remember a ton of the story. 
 But I do remember an awesome and addictive game. 
  
  That's the last MG game I had played until purchasing my Ps3 and actually receiving a game somewhat 
 on time from Gamefly. com.
  
  At first I thought the game was interesting and artsy. Slowly though I found the game to be the 
 following negative things:
  
  1. Slow
  2. Boring
  3. Terrible Controllers
  4. Clunky Camera
  5. Too much talking
  6. Horrible combat
  7. Impossible stealth.
  
  
 I am Impressed by the game. but its really not much of a game for me. Its a movie! With events 
 thrown in that feel disjointed. Overall I know I'm in the minority. That's fine. I'm not going 
 to bash this game because I know it is well liked. However, for me it was just too much unlike 
 every other game I like.
  
  Admittedly I'm not a TPS fan and maybe that has something to do with it.
  
  Anyways if you 
 are a fan of the series and have 500 hours to kill give it a shot. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JuggaloZero
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 9, 2009 5:22 am PT
Review:  So, I know this has been said a million times before, but the game has a lot of cut scenes..... 
 and that was an understatement. The cutscenes are well made, but tend to get very, very tedious 
 at times. And one has to wonder if they hired the same people who write the dialog for the American 
 versions of animes for some scenes, as the dialog can be very cheesy and moronic. However, the 
 game's story is actually pretty good besides that little set-back, and is much better than your 
 average game's story.
  
  The graphics are top notch, and so are the sounds and voice work (even though some character's 
 voices make you want to bash the character's head in... *cough cough* Otacon *cough* ) leaving 
 you with a pretty game with pretty sounds. Game-play itself, though usually brief and constantly 
 interrupted by long winded cut-scenes, is enjoyable... nothing wildly amazing or different, but 
 still very enjoyable. So, perhaps this "game" is a bit over-rated (in my opinion anyway) but it 
 sure is an enjoyable "movie". And is worth picking up ( or at least renting) if you even mildly 
 enjoy a game with a good story. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Raider8784
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 7, 2009 1:32 pm PT
Review:  I'm a huge MGS fan. I loved the first 3 very much and I pretty much got a PS3 to play MGS4 and 
 I after beating it last night I can safely say, well worth it. MGS4 is an absolute masterpiece 
 and both artistically and technically. If you're a fan of the MGS series like me, you will fall 
 in love with this game. Gameplay wise a few things have changed. It's a lot easier to run and gun 
 in this game and there a lot more weapons included. However that doesn't mean it's turned into 
 a strict shooting game. You can go through this game without shooting anyone (other than Bosses) 
 if you wish. I love when games include extra things and make them optional instead of forcing them 
 upon you, and that's exactly what MGS4 does. The new octocamo is amazing and works perfectly. There 
 are also many cut scenes in the game, from start to finish. While this has caused many people to 
 whine and complain, I have had no problem with it what so ever. As a big fan of the story and the 
 characters, I'm glad they added so many cut scenes because I'm really interested in finding out 
 what happens to these guys. You can skip any cut scene you wish and you can also pause in the middle 
 of a cut scene, something every game should have. Story wise this game has so much information 
 regarding all the other MGS games it's crazy, but that's a good thing. The scale of this game is 
 truly epic. The graphics are simply amazing and not once was there any slowdown. The boss fights 
 are all fin in MGS fashion and the final boss fight is as epic a fight as I've ever seen. The online 
 mode is also pretty cool and should add a lot more play time. Overall MGS4 is the perfect ending 
 for one of the greatest heroes to ever grace a video game, so long Solid Snake. Do him a favor 
 and play this game!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cetnikking
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 7, 2009 4:49 am PT
Review:  Kojima is the man when it comes to making a game that you just can't get enough of... MGS 4 is 
 the best game and most intense in the series, thumbs up :) if you don't have it yet then buy it, 
 you wont be disappointed i promise you that....
  
  I have spent allot of time playing it and i have beaten the game twice and i will soon begin to 
 do it the third... the first time i played it as FPS it was so cool
  and the second time i did it with stealth, the way the game can be played in both ways is amazing 
 and fun, the graphics are off this planet and the story is also great ( as always ) i wont go in 
 to details but rent it if your unsure of buying it but you will quickly discover that you want 
 to have it and so to close this i will just say kojima well done and i hope you will continue to 
 make great games... The only thing that's sad about it is that its the last MGS game : ( 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pixelboy08
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 6, 2009 1:40 pm PT
Review:  First off I'll start by saying if you don't like cutscenes, this isn't the game for you. But if 
 you've played any Metal Gear Solid you'll know this already so I'll jump right in. let's start 
 with graphics
  
  -Graphics-
  on the whole the graphics are very impressive and really gives a taste of how good the cell proccessor 
 actually is. the cutscenes often feel like you're watching a movie thanks to brilliant camera work, 
 the realistic character movements and the exellent textures. Having said this though there are 
 a few, very small, flaws such as almost all the characters ears looking a bit too flat and the 
 occasional texture looking slightly pixelated but i don't know a single game that doesn't have 
 little problems like this. The graphics are definately the best I've seen 99% of the time and the 
 fact that it's all in game and doesn't use pre rendered cutscenes makes it even more special which 
 is why I give the graphics 9.5/10
  
  -Sound-
  Right from the simplistic yet haunting opening theme I knew this would live up to expectations. 
 the music is excellent and adds so much to the fantastic story (which I'll come to later) . The 
 voice acting is also superb. The voice acting has always been great in the MGS series with it's 
 over the top villains and it's gruff lead, Solid Snake and MGS4 is no exception 10/10
  
  -Difficulty-
  There are 5 difficulty settings and so far I've completed the game on the first 
 3 and just starting on the 4th. The 1st two difficulties don't seem to have much difference and 
 are both very easy. The middle difficulty provides a bit of a challenge but not enough to ruin 
 the flow of the game so I would say this difficulty is about right if you've had even the smallest 
 experience with stealth games. hopefully the two harder difficulties will provide a lot more challenge 
 though. 8/10
  
  -Gameplay-
  The gameplay is very similar to previous MGS games but this time around it's a lot more refined, 
 allowing easier aiming of weapons, automatic camoflage (having to change suits in MGS3 all the 
 time got kind of annoying) etc. The fact that almost all the weapons you find can be modified to 
 suit the situation is also a nice touch.
  The combination of this weapon modification and an improved aiming system also means that the game 
 can be played in a more varied way to previous MGS games. Don't want to sneak around a group of 
 soldiers blocking your path? don't take them all out, wait for the reinforcements, take them out 
 and then carry on. Also it's at this point I'd like to say to all those people calling this game 
 an interactive movie that some of the most memorable parts of the game are actually playable. without 
 going to much into detail, the laughing octopus boss battle and the vamp vs raiden fight are two 
 of the greatest moments I've played through in a computer game.
  The one down side is the fact that after every act, you have to wait a few minutes for the next 
 act to save to the hard drive, this isn't a problem as such but it can be a little frustrating 
 if your a little impatient. 10/10
  
  -Story-
  Although the story is one of the best in computer game history, if you haven't played any MGS games 
 (or even if you've only played one of them) you will have pretty much now idea what's going on 
 for half of it. I've played all the metal gear solid games and even I went cross eyed when Eva 
 explains the back story to Snake during one of the acts. That being said, the story is a very intricate 
 one and ties up the lose ends of the previous games very nicely. One of the true merits of the 
 story is that it feels very original in a world where so many stories are borrowed from other places. 
 10/10
  
  -Overall-
  Although there are a few very minor graphical hitches and although the lower difficulty levels 
 are rediculously easy, this Metal Gear deserves a very solid 10/10 because not only does it provide 
 some breathtaking in game moments, it also proves that games can be just as involving as movies 
 (if not more so) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: khoofia_pika
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 6, 2009 1:27 am PT
Review:  First things first- if you like watching games rather than playing them, this is the perfect game 
 for you. This game about five hours of gameplay and eight FREAKING hours of cutscenes (not that 
 its a bad thing. This gives the game its own identity) . Metal Gear Solid 4 is probably the best 
 looking game I've ever played across all platforms. People go gaga over its story, presentation 
 and its gameplay (so do I) but none of it would have been as good as they are if it weren't for 
 the visuals. 
  
  Telling anything about the game's story would be blasphemy and it would just ruin the entire point 
 of the game. The story, convulated yet compelling, tells us a tale so epic that it can put several 
 movies to shame. It has a lot of twists to boast of, and the typical cinematic of an MGS game makes 
 it even more epic than ever. 
  
  The main point of the game is not its gameplay, not its story, neither its sound. The main part 
 of the game is its brilliant and beautiful cinematic presentation that can put movies like the 
 Matrix and Lord of the Rings to shame. Even though the cutscenes are frustratingly long, they dont 
 seem so when you are watching them. They're so compelling and so involving and they suck you in 
 so masterfully that you dont feel as if you're playing a game. You feel as if you're watching a 
 movie. 
  
  It gets even more awe-inspiring when the beautiful cutscenes translate into gameplay scenes, without 
 any loading times, and you dont even notice the change in graphics, if there's any, and sometimes, 
 you might be standind there idiotically, thinking that it still is a cutscene. 
  
  Many old characters of the MGS series- villains and friends alike- make a return in this game. 
 It feels quite good when old and familiar faces are seen via full blown movie like graphics.
  
  Lets get to the next section- the graphics. The graphics have been done beautifully. The lush 
 green environments, the trees, the grass, the fog.... all of them seem so real, it seems as if 
 it was shot with a camera in real life. It doesn't look like a game in any manner. Even the subtle 
 animations, like the swaying of the grass if there's a gust of wind, the swaying of Snake's hair, 
 the waving of Snake's crippled and torn clothes are done so beautifilly and seemlessly, that it 
 feels (as I have said many times before) as if you're watching a movie.
  
  The gameplay of the game is great. With great AI, spectacular stealth and shooting mechainics and 
 brilliantly done weapons and gadgets, the gameplay becomes all the more interesting. There are 
 many interesting gadgets in this game- like the OctoCamo suit, which takes on the texture of your 
 surroundings and makes you as good as invisible. Not only is it great fun to use, but also, its 
 a visual marvel. The Solid Eye is your other major tool, as it expands your compass into a sonic-sensitive 
 radar and allows you to use night vision and a tactical first-person view. These are helpful gadgets 
 indeed, even during boss fights, like a stirring encounter in a blinding blizzard.
  
  Ultimately, it boils down to this: Metal Gear Solid 4: Guns of Patriots is one of the best games 
 anyone could come across on ANY platform. Its the next big thing after Ocarina of Time. Anyone 
 who wants to experience a breathytaking mixture of spectacular gameplay, brilliant graphics, mind 
 blowing presentation and a mervelous story, MGS4 is the game for you all. 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: SeanDiff
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 28, 2009 2:25 pm PT
Review:  A great game with a combination of shooting, stealth and cinematics that will appeal even to those 
 who have not played the series. 
  
  You can play the game as a shooter, or as a stealth game and still enjoy it. 
  
  The storyline 
 aways twists and even those who have not played the series will understand it. 
  
  The graphics are very impressive and better then anything else on the console at the time.
  
 
  The multiplayer is fun, but it would be better if it used PSN.
  
  The game has a person called "Drebin" that sells weapons and ammo to you, for a currency you collect 
 through the game. This and many unlockables gives the game a good re-play value. It would be better 
 if the game has trophies, though.
  
  Overall the game is perfect, nothing more could be asked for and there is little to improve on. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shadygeneral
Rating: 7
Date: Jan 5, 2009 7:42 am PT
Review:  You know what to expect from these by now. Loads of cut-scenes that go on & on, topped off with 
 some stealth gameplay, great graphics & ridiculous bosses. What you don't expect is to get shoved 
 straight into ('straight into' as in straight after a cut-scene obviously) a war zone with bullets 
 flying everywhere, people dying, big mechanical things chasing you & 4 different routes to progress 
 from your starting point. All of them with their own way of dealing with the situation. MGS has 
 changed  & at first its for the better.
  
  Initially you are entering a world of confusion, bafflement & exhilaration. The confusion & bafflement 
 mainly stems from there not being any tutorial so to speak. You're placed in the middle of it all 
 & supposed to know all the controls & intricacies off the bat. Although after a few minutes of 
 testing buttons, menus, dying & maybe a quick glance at the manual, they eventually fit into place. 
 
  
  The exhilaration comes from being thrown straight into a war zone & the fact after a few steps 
 you realise the level has been expertly designed with plenty of choice on what to do & how to get 
 to where you're going. Theres loads of paths you can take, theres sliding in between buildings 
 & hiding in the shadows. You could hide under an oil drum, taking a few steps at a time. Run through 
 the buildings, being careful not to be spotted or climb your way to the rooftops & go that way. 
 Or you could even join the rebels & let them take down some of the armoured gits that are in your 
 way. Providing assistance where its needed. But wait that's not all. Thanks to a new control scheme, 
 combat is considerably improved & going in all guns blazing is now a genuine option. 
  
  Finally, being in a shoot out isn't a huge frustrating mess anymore. Theres 3 options, the run 
 around like a moron option that is just as useless as in previous instalments, the FPS mode that 
 had you stood like a man sized target before  now allows you to move freely. But theres now also 
 a 3rd option, that places the camera over your shoulder Resi 4 style that makes combat much better. 
 Its by no means perfect & not really recommended as the controls are still stiff in these options 
 & you will get shot numerous times from lack of movement. But it's a huge improvement. 
  
  All in all, this means you can play MGS4 the way you want & instant detection doesn't mean wasting 
 what seems like an eternity waiting for the evasion timer to decrease. You can just shoot them 
 all instead. It gives a lot more choice & freedom. Its still a linear game which is good & keeps 
 it focused but the choice in gameplay is welcome.
  
  This variety in gameplay stems to the scenery too. From initial screenshots & videos I was worried 
 it was going to be a repetitive & grey bore. Not so, it has ones set in jungles, snowy islands 
 & sandy war torn streets to name a few. 
  
  The graphics are great too. It all has a very focused & consistent look to it & do a great job 
 of keeping you immersed. They also make the cut-scenes much more enjoyable to watch. Some of which 
 are spectacular. 
  
  So far it seems brilliant. & by the end of Act 2 I was loving it. Then act 3 began & started & 
 the game went on a steep downhill slide. 
  
  First the cut-scenes. I don't have as much a problem with them as most. In fact some are damn entertaining 
 & I really enjoyed watching them. But from Act 3 onwards they start to take up a ridiculous amount 
 of time. & I mean ridiculous. Not only that but they stop being entertaining & start spouting a 
 load of crap you just wont give a damn about, at all. There is a story here somewhere but I lost 
 it under sea of BS that came from every character. They can honestly talk for 20+ minutes without 
 actually saying anything. I hate using this same old argument as Ive never found it that big a 
 problem before  apart from the beginning of MGS 3. But it is [i] that [/i] bad this time. Not only 
 that but the end scene is a complete cop out & long before it was finished I was just wishing for 
 it to end. 
  
  Act 3 also starts out with one of the most tedious missions ever in a game. You basically follow 
 a character that walks like he's crapped himself & has arthritic knees so cant go more than 0.5mph 
 past lots of enemies. & if you get spotted you have to go back a hell of a long way. I [i] hated [/i] 
 this level. 
  
  The thing is they never pick back up to the opening levels quality. One will have die hard MGS 
 fans wetting themselves but for the rest of us, including casual fans like myself will find it 
 pretty hard going. All the areas start melding into grey corridors too. 
  
  You also start getting bombarded with little black blobs that are like security drones rather than 
 proper enemies. These just aren't as satisfying to sneak past or kill. & it even throws so many 
 of the standing mechs at you they lose all sense of threat & coolness & become tedious. 
  
  The bosses are suitably great & OTT. Until you start fighting them. They spend  of their time 
 off screen & when they do appear their health goes down so slowly it'll take you a day to beat 
 one. Slight exaggeration there but you get what I mean. They aren't difficult, they are just boring 
 & frustrating & not at all fun. 
  
  There is the odd stand out moment in the closing chapters but they are too few & far between to 
 make a impression on the overall game. 
  
  All in all it's a game of 2 sides. One brilliant & breathtaking. The other dull & frustrating. 
 The problem is the dull & frustrating side is quite a bit larger & that's what the game left me 
 feeling more after completion. Theres enough here to keep the die hard fans worshipping Kojima 
 as theres loads of little references to past instalments & they probably like all the excess rubbish 
 in the cut-scenes. But for the rest of us it's a great game ruined by a poor 2nd half. 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: UlTimatelee
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 5, 2009 5:29 am PT
Review:  Cant say much about this game - its just awesome! Great graphics- great game play and an awesome 
 story line to boot! All you need to do is go out and buy this game:) First few levels are just 
 stunning- gets you really involved with the story and you find urself almost on the edge of ur 
 seat wanting to know whats goin to happen next! Ive only played throu the first few levels and 
 i must say im already hooked- havent been able to play it throu the week cos really i dont have 
 much time at night to play and i really dont want to ruin the game experience but gettin throu 
 one new level and then having to save! This is really something awesome and should be treated that 
 way i think! Cant wait for the weekend when i know ill be sittin in front of my tv awe struck at 
 the sheer coolness of this game- 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PyroSniper
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 4, 2009 11:32 pm PT
Review:  Don't get me wrong, I love cut-scenes, they really show what a system can do and they show the 
 true creativity of these artists, but there is just a point where it gets ridiculous. 
  
  Anyway the gameplay and unlockables are good, there is a lot of extra content for you to find as 
 is true with other games in the series. This game brought in a lot of new ideas and concepts that 
 will probably appear in other games, the octo-camo for one was a fantastic idea and it really helps 
 to sneak around people even if you are practically licking their shoelaces. There is a good variety 
 of weapons and gadgets in the game as well (69 weapons I believe) . Its been a while since I've 
 played any of the other MGS games (I'll be re-buying the older games to refresh my memory) so I 
 don't quite remember the finer details, but they did well to keep up with the classic gags and 
 such from the older games. One thing I really like is how in every game, they have the same old 
 sound effect when someone sees you; it's an extremely unique sound that just screams MGS at your 
 brain. With the classic additions to the game, they also had some annoying stuff in there, I just 
 felt they tried to push the whole "blah blah PS3 blah blah superior system blah." That sort of 
 thing just isn't necessary, we paid the $400 for the system and we bought the game, we like the 
 system that's why we bought it, don't shove that crap in our face.
  
  MGS4 has a great story and they have a lot of cut-scenes to tell that story. The characters who 
 help tell the story are good too, the new major character in this game, Drebin and his hairless 
 monkey, bring a great aspect to the game that I really liked, and he was funny as all hell (I love 
 that monkey) .
  
  Anyway, in conclusion, it is a good game, there are just way too many cut-scenes and not enough 
 gameplay to support the high scores this game has been giving, personally, the highest rating I 
 would give it is a 9, and it most certainly does not deserve a perfect 10. I will admit, this game 
 is close to perfect, but there are better games than this that got lower scores.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: se7s95
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 4, 2009 5:07 pm PT
Review:  First im going to say that this game is AMAZING. Its a little bit hard, but if you own a ps3 you 
 must have this game.
  
  Game play: The game play in this game is great, with new and amazing weapons and items that will 
 help you . 9.5/10
  
  Storyline: The storyline is the best part in the game with new enemies and all new things. its 
 a little bit complicated but its AMAZING.10/10
  
  Graphics and Sound : graphics and sound are fantastic in this game. specially the graphics. 10/10 
 
  
  Metal Gear is not just a game it is an experience. the Cut scene direction put most of the Big 
 budget Hollywood blockbusters to shame. From the Very Beginning of the Game you are immersed into 
 the intense action of Metal Gear. During the Beginning of the Game you notice how beautiful the 
 Graphics are and you think to your self WOW this cut scene looks really good, then all of a sudden 
 during the Cut Scene a HUD appears and you take over, until you have played this game you don't 
 understand the true Beauty of it.
  
  OVERALL : this game deserves the title of BEST GAME IN 2008 and if you have a ps3 YOU MUST HAVE 
 THIS GAME.10/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ChrisManso
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 3, 2009 11:28 pm PT
Review:  I practically buy every game for my Xbox 360, even if its available for another system. This game 
 isn't so I was forced into buying it and from review how could I not. The controls at first made 
 me mad, having to aim in order to shot (no free fire or whatever) , but then i got use to it and 
 didn't mind it so much. Cut scenes lasted FOREVER and that made me mad at time, i didn't want to 
 skip but i didn't want to wait. Now that i'm further into the story i don't mind the cut scenes 
 since all of them are pretty much amazing. "Why would a buy a movie?" i hear that alot, but all 
 I can say is "That "movie" is pretty damn good". Even if MGS4 was a movie and not a video game 
 it would still be a great piece of work. The gameplay is great, at one point it felt cinematic 
 with thing blowing up and then i realized this isn't a cut scene i'm actually playing. Yea the 
 game was so good that it tricked me into thinking it was a cut scene. Overall, great game, go buy, 
 play, watch, and love. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: killeridis
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 3, 2009 10:21 pm PT
Review:  Metal gear solid 4 is a masterpice amazing  
 of items weapons it's game that is definetly worth buying, I can say Kojima definetly brought uss 
 the best end for MGS saga
  
  If you haven't played it yet i must say you must go and buy it cause if you consider yourself a 
 serious gamer and you haven't played it yet then it's like you missing a part of yourself, Another 
 thing you will find very cool anf chalenging in mgs is the boss fights they are so well made that 
 you will want to fight them again , another thing that i really loved is the camo suit of snake 
 (stealth system) you can take the texture of any surfice you touch and hid even in plain sight 
 that is one of the tings that i really loved but for people that don't like stealth and sneaky 
 stuff you can always take your weapon and charge you can play it in anyway you like the game doesen't 
 need stealth is just something to add in the whole package, well that is all i want to say there 
 is no need for more.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Obliteraser
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 3, 2009 2:01 pm PT
Review:  its doubtless, it really is, that anyone with respect for himself must own this game. why? becourse 
 this game is the best for the console yet. you might own a copy of GTA IV or Mirrors edge or LittleBigPlanet 
 and thinks, now ive seen what 08 has to offer, but trust me you havnt.
  
  sure the game might have a heavy story, and may at times be deficult to piece together, but in 
 the end, when big boss sits at the gravestone and says "this is good" you sit on the couch with 
 a little tear running down your cheek and you think "this is better than good". suddenly you realize 
 you been sitting on that very couch for 10 hours, and you think "wait its 10pm, but didnt i start 
 like 1 hour ago" that moment is where you know, that this game was every little penny worth, course 
 holding you bound for the 20 hourse being, thats a defficult task, that hideo kojima masters fully.
 
  
  
  so if you like an amazing story, jawbreaking graphics and some good gameplay served on a silverplater 
 for a pretty low price, this is it... this... this... this... is the complete gaming experience. 
 at least untill someone cooks up something better XD 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kratos788
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 3, 2009 12:21 pm PT
Review:  I entered mgs4 not knowing what to expect, since i never played any of the previous games. Not 
 knowing much about the story or anything for that matter, all i knew was that these games were 
 about stealth and there were these robots called metal gears. I was quickly sucked into the world 
 of metal gear and was shocked at how great and realistic it seemed. The story was a bit hard to 
 follow, being as i never played the previous games, but there was something about it that got me 
 hooked. The many guns, the stealth, the chase parts, where your on the back of the vehicle shooting 
 enemies. This game is action packed and the cutscenes from the end of act 2 till the end of the 
 game are just priceless. I beat the game and i just didnt have enough. Then i had to play the first 
 3, i bought the set for 30$ and loved them all. I then went back a second time to enjoy the game 
 again. I understood the story alot more this time, as i knew of the patriots and all that stuff. 
 This game is great because it is action packed, and has an awesome story. The boss fight are great, 
 and you could make it a shooter or go stealth mode. This is a great all around package, and worth 
 every penny i spent. Mgs4 is definitely for me the greatest game out there. There are others that 
 come close, but not quite there. Oh and Metal gear online is for me not that great, its mediocre 
 at best, the main game makes up for it though. So if you havent played this then i suggest you 
 do so, you wont regret it. Well worth getting a ps3 for this game, as well as other ps3 exclusives, 
 but mainly this one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pulpthatfiction
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 3, 2009 11:29 am PT
Review:  I'm no Metal Gear Solid fan or to stealth but this game just blow my mind. I got so into this game 
 I was standing and playing this game st the same time, I couldn't sit down and when I did sit down 
 I was on the edge of my seat. I got this game on four days ago and I have played it non stop and 
 Have already beaten it twice and I still cant stop playing this game. The very long cut are just 
 amazing and then when it got to the game play it was just as good as the cut scenes and is a lot 
 of fun. The story is nothing short of brilliant and even rivals and beats most movie story lines. 
 The boss fights were a lot of fun and the game unlike most game story lines this year was had a 
 very good ending to it but I wish the game was even longer. To me this is the best video game of 
 all time and its destine to become a classic. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: blizzardoblivio
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 3, 2009 9:18 am PT
Review:  Metal Gear solid is back... Snake is back! This is the criticaly acclaimed conclusion to one of 
 the most influencial series in the video game world to date. This game will and has changed how 
 gamers look at video games, and has raised the bar for the quality, essence, emotion, impact, ambiance, 
 and appeal for all games to come. So slide that BlueRay into your PS3 and prepare to experience 
 the best 50GB of entertainment ever packed into on package. This is the future of gameing....
 
  
  This is the furture of gameing, and not becuase of amazing graphics, great gamplay mechanics and 
 outstanding story (which this game clearly has) , but how all of these essensial elements and implamented 
 together to create an increadible game. The game never neglect to prove this to you. Form the second 
 you start a new game to the moment the credits roll, I was blown away by the seemless transition 
 between game and cinimatic, sneaking and shooter gameplay, and the emotions you feel. 
  
  In terms of the gamplay, there is no wrong way to play the game and there endless ways to approach 
 the situations set before you in the game world. An enemy is around the corner: you could sneak 
 to the conrner and pick him off with your pistol, or run around the corner guns-s-blazin'. You 
 could use your Mark III robot to zap him to death, throw a stone to send him in that direction 
 after the sound, or simply make a sound and send him aimlessly towards you for the CQC takedown. 
 This is just on of thousands of situations in the game, and just a handfull of the ways you could 
 attack the situation. The great part about the gamplay is that the mechanics in the game allow 
 for you to play the game completely stealth based, or allow you to play the game as a shooter. 
 You can use a blend of both as you play the game and both the sneaking and shooting mechanics are 
 so well polished that you the gamer will have true choice between playablility. 
  
  Just as seemless as the styles of gamplay is the integration of cinimatic and gamplay. The movies 
 are so well directed, voiced, motion captured and put together that you are watching a cinimatic 
 of hollywood quality. The quality of movie is no less than a animatied movie you would pay to see 
 in the theatre. There is so much cinimatic in the movie as well. You watch the game as much as 
 you play and it is in this seemless intigration of these two mediums of entertainment that help 
 create usch an amazing experience for the gamer. The graphics between both gamplay and cinimatic 
 are exacly the same to the point where at times when the movie ends your not entirly sure it has. 
 This is an increadable element to achieve in a game and it is done so well here with MGS4. 
  
  The game has so many ties to attend to from perviouse games and at the same time has to attend 
 to the loose ends from other games while creating a new fresh addition to the story line. And did 
 they ever do it here. The game has so many draw backs and flahbacks to previouse games, that creates 
 a sense of nastalgia to the great memories you have with the characters from the adventures over 
 the last 10 years. Then all of the flashbacks aside the game has a fresh story taking the gamer 
 in new directions and presenting them a story that was intirly unpredictable leaving the gamer 
 asking whats next. This game is, without a doubt the best game of 2008. It is absolute entertainment 
 Bliss! I said id the moment I beat it, and it was the best weekend of gaming I've ever had in my 
 career. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RO-J
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 3, 2009 8:44 am PT
Review:  Technically, you can't get much better than Metal Gear Solid 4, its graphics, audio and plain off 
 gameplay is some no, THE best ever.
  
  If you've played the series before, then you'll know that Metal Gear Solid has a long history of 
 both showing a movie and a game together, merging them effortlessly as a single entity, it also 
 doesn't take a genius to figure out that its worth buying a PS3 just for the MGS4 experience.
 
  
  Most choose to play this game with the standard over the shoulder view, but both scope and 1st 
 person modes can be easily switched although, for the duration of the game, you're gonna wanna 
 stick with the over the shoulder tactic, trust me.
  
  Also one of the most versatile Snakes we've seen, crouching, wall-hugging and leaning are in Snakes 
 capabilities now.
  
  The thing that really makes this game stand out is the intwined storytelling aspect, using genuinely 
 lovable characters and hate-able ones too, you get to know far more than most other games are even 
 bothered to offer. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mandrate
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 3, 2009 8:54 pm PT
Review:  MGS4 Guns of the Patriot is one of the best games I've ever seen.
  
  Graphics:
  It deserves a 10 because the environment design and Characters 
  Design were more realistic. 
 
  
  Sound:
  The sound is the also the impressive because the 5.1 surround sound is very clear to hear the gunshots, 
 dialouges, Soundtracks were awesome. It gets a 10
  
  Story:
  The Story, I think, was really going to the Hollywood style, the plot was tremendously motional 
 and powerful, as the hero Solid Snake trying to confront his enemy Liquid Ocelot from making a 
 war using his own PMC,
  characters from MGS series has appeared also like his trusty partner Octacon, Cyborg Ninja Raiden, 
 EVA (aka Big Mama) , New Commer like Drebin who is the gun launder (correct me if I just didnt Spell 
 correctly) who helps snake to unlock the weapon that is locked and the Beauty and the Beast, the 
 four tramatic female who serves as bosses and are trying to kill Solid Snake, those characters 
 dialogue were so good i want to listen, it gets a 9.
  
  Gameplay:
  The gameplay was absolutly powerful as we can use guns as third person/ first person shooter, we 
 can pick our choice in Campaign: Assault and Shealth, 
  Assault is generally picking a gun and kill soldiers but can alerting nearby enemies and kill snake, 
 this is not recommanded as more soldiers can be dispatch and making more trouble to Snake.
  Shealth is a more easy and slow method to get through your missions while sneaking.
  As Solid 
 Snake have a Octo Camo suits and can allow him to blend any environment, making the enemies not 
 awaring of your pressences, Which is cool.
  Solid Snake also gained a lot of new gears like the Solid Eye which can use as a radar, night vision 
 and binocular, Metal Gear Mk II (later Mk III) is small portable metal gear which can be helpful 
 for shocking enemies and picking up weapons. 
  Sadly the multiplayer wasn't great unfortunatly as there are not many custom match, but the gameplay 
 still provide a very potential setup and offer deep experience like in the Story Campaign, it gets 
 an 8.
  
  Overall MGS4 is still the best to offer in the PS3 with Story and others will blow everyone away 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ultramarine777
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 2, 2009 11:33 am PT
Review:  This is truly a great Metal Gear Solid 4 with intensifying gameplay and stealth . This game is 
 an action ,adventure ,3rd person shooter. In the game you play as Old Snake ( bad@ss character 
 ) who has aged quickly but is still a great soldier due to hes enhancements . The story of the 
 game is fantastic and keeps you on your seat. The cinematic are very intense and amazing. The game 
 was worth the money as its electrifying scenes and customizable weapon in many ways that it matters. 
 You can choose to use stealth through all the mission or fight your way through depending on the 
 difficulty. I recommend this game as one of the best Games out there and the best PS3 title out 
 yet. You can choose 3rd Person or 1st person view on your preference which is also a great addition 
 and of course the story is one of the best narrated yet. The game also features attachable and 
 amazing character background and filled with personality in each one. Awesome guns ,weapons and 
 gadgets that are very useful in the game and superb environment and unique and different missions. 
 The game itself features many different experiences. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: taquito1000
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 2, 2009 9:21 am PT
Review:  The first MGS game I played was MGS2 and since I played it I wanted to have all MGS games because 
 they are a piece of art.
  
  Metal Gear Solid 4 is a game that deserves to be The Game of The Year, for its story, graphics, 
 gameplay and sound.
  
  When you play this game you don't want to stop playing until you finish it because you want to 
 know what happens in the story until the end.
  
  Graphics: This is one of the characteristics that makes the game a masterpiece. Sometimes you feel 
 that you are in the game with the amazing sound and incredible graphics
  
  Gameplay: It has been improved so when you are playing you feel more comfortable and you don't 
 have to move your hands a lot
  
  In general MGS 4 is a game that you have to play or you would be missing one of the greatest games 
 ever made
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Phillipdorf
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 2, 2009 6:43 am PT
Review:  When I first played this game, I was amazed by it. The story, game play, characters, music, voice 
 acting, and other things are amazing. I could not put this game down when I started. I am glad 
 to see that Snake is still alive to kick butt again. Raiden is cooler in this game, but I like 
 Snake better. The fight between Metal Gear Rex and Metal Gear Ray was awesome. I also like the 
 appearance of Psycho Mantis in Act 5. It was cool to see Big Boss again before he died. It is different 
 from the other Metal Gear games, but it is amazing. My favorite part of the game is Act 3 because 
 of the fight with Raging Raven and the ending cinema. It was also cool to return to Shadow Moses 
 and hear the voice-overs from Metal Gear Solid. The ability to buy and customize weapons is something 
 I really like. I highly recommend this game to all Metal Gear fans. However, I do recommend that 
 people play MGS1, MGS2, and MGS3 before you play this game. If you don't, you might end up being 
 lost in the story. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GhostRecon985
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 2, 2009 12:58 am PT
Review:  Wow. Just wow.
  I was blown away by this game.
  Its the perfect combination of gameplay and entertainment. The creativity that went into this game 
 shows, I've never seen such a "Lush" and "vibrant" single player campaign in my life. Looks beautiful, 
 works beautifully, and surpasses all expectations. The cutscenes are long, but it would be a mistake 
 to skip them, for they are more entertaining then many hollywood movies. Konami really out did 
 themselves this time. If you wanted to nitpick this perfect game, you could put it in the confusing 
 plot. I've beaten the game and downloaded the database and still I'm not sure exactly what was 
 going on. But that can easily be overlooked.
  If you own a PS3 make no mistake and buy this game NOW. Even if you haven't played any other MGS 
 game this will surely take your breath away. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Meshuggah_73
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jan 1, 2009 10:08 pm PT
Review:  Really, i don't get it. This game doesn't deserve 10! It is probably the most returned game to 
 blockbuster and game stop for trade in, if you don't believe me go check it yourself. But anyway, 
 I didn't like this game or i thought that this game doesn't deserve 10 for the following reasons; 
 now you maybe asking why am i writing the review 6 months after being released, simply, i rented 
 the game a week ago, played it for 2 hours and returned it the same day.
  1) I didn't like the audio/sound of the weapons and the game
  2) I don't know, was it just me 
 that thought the enemy was dull at some situations, they were acting as if they just have finished 
 smoking their ****.
  3) Game play is boring, waited and waited and waited for things to change and get excited but got 
 bored doing the something over/over/over again.
  4) Multiplayer is a joke (the sound, movements and you have to spray the enemy with bullets to 
 kill them) reminds me of my old games on the Sinclare, i mean really, after playing SOCOM you think 
 i'm motivated to go online and play MGS4?
  
  Now this game is not for me anyway, because i have tried splinter cell before and didn't like it, 
 the above are my observation about the game during my play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MrFinalFantasy
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 31, 2008 2:05 pm PT
Review:  this game just set the limit of what GAMES must look like on the PS3. and that's just on graphics. 
 no other game mix Movie making and Game Playing into 1 mumbo jumbo and succeeded but look no further 
 as Guns of the Patriots bring all of it. together in this Mind Blowing masterpiece of a game. it 
 is SOOOO GOOOOD its quite unbelievable. i mean. i've been following closely with Metal Gear Solid 
 since Metal Gear 1. which i played on an aged old SNES when i was a kid. Metal Gear took 7 games 
 to finish up this story. and i wonder how Hideo Kojima thought up of this game? its mind blowing.
 
  
  this is no Final Fantasy. but i gotta say. i'd rather be mr. metal. gear. solid after playing this 
 game. job well done. EPIC. and as far as what the PS3 can go. well. i have confidence that it will 
 deliver in the future. SNAKES (NAKED, SOLID) RULES! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: playstationboy7
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 29, 2009 8:35 am PT
Review:  i loved the game but its really hard to unlock emblems like the big boss emblem. i hated stealth 
 games until i played this. the graphics and sound are phenomenal. this is a game worth getting. 
 this is probably the game of the 21st century. this game is the reason i got a ps3 if this game 
 was on the 360 i would have gotten a 360.
  
  you don't have to read this part but here the characters are great. i like Raiden because hes awesome 
 and of course snake is cool too. too bad you cant play as Raiden.
  YOU HAVE to buy this game or at least rent it. the part i don't like about the game is when you 
 have to face crying wolf or something like that, and the sand is blowing in your face. i hated 
 it in god of war when your in the desert .if you've never played the other games in the series 
 i suggest you either play the other games or go to Wikipedia and read about it.
  
  100000000000000/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Hadaldo7
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 30, 2008 5:39 pm PT
Review:  This game is literally the best game of all time, and it winning the game of the year proves that. 
 This is must get game for every gamer in the universe. Its as if I'm watching a movie!!!!!!!! The 
 graphics are really good, great storyline, great characters and everything else is great in it. Mark 
 my words"MUST BUY NOW!!!!!!"
  
  I know Konami made a big risk making it like a movie but it all turned out for the best. There's 
 no need to get GTA IV, and play like a little child, and as GameSpot said about games rated 10 "This 
 exceedingly rare score refers to a game that is as perfect as a game can aspire to be"
  
  A game like GTA IV doesn't deserve a title like that. GTA IV might be a free-roaming game but MGS4 
 has proven that these kinds of games are not always as good as games as MGS. MGS4 gives the Best 
 Boss Fights, Best Story, etc but most importantly, is the Game Of The Year. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TomBrandon121
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 30, 2008 10:45 am PT
Review:  Metal Gear Solid 4 is, without question, the greatest PlayStation 3 game to date, and some may 
 argue, (myself among them) that it is the greatest game ever created.
  
  Lets start with the graphics. This is one of the only games I've ever played where the creators 
 have done EVERYTHING possible to make it as visually stunning as it could possibly be. Everything 
 from characters' faces to concrete walls has been crafted perfectly. Not only will the obvious 
 amazing graphics awe you, but really hardcore gamers will notice and appreciate the little things, 
 like the realism of when Snake climbs a flight of stairs, or the wind blowing foliage in the background. 
 It's great the way that the cut scenes blend straight into gameplay, because it's good to see a 
 scary, powerful boss in a cutscene, and then, without a loading screen, that same boss is looming 
 right in front of you and you're thrown into a epic battle.
  
  Next, lets talk about sound. The musical soundtrack of this game is brilliant to say the least. 
 It hosts a lot of classic songs from previous games, plus a lot of awesome new ones.
  The sound effects will blow you away, especially if you have a decent sourround-sound system. Everything 
 from the sound of a bird in a nearby tree, to the sound of blowing up a tank is expertly done.
 
  
  Now we come to the best thing about the game, and in fact the entire MGS saga... The story. 
 
  The three previous games have all had unbelievable plots, and the this one doesn't disappoint. 
 Snake is afflicted with a highly accelerated aging condition, and is referred to as 'OLD SNAKE' 
 by Otacon and Meryl. To make things worse, he's told he has only 6 months left to live by Naomi 
 Hunter, because after 6 months, the FoxDie in his body will start infecting everybody, turning 
 Snake into a walking Biological weapon. This fact makes Snake even more fearless, because he believes 
 he has nothing to lose.
  The story is, without a doubt, epic... There are huge plot turns and surprises, some bloody, some 
 tearful, and I bet that if you're a true MGS fan, then by the end of it you will have a tear in 
 your eye.
  
  
  
  The gameplay of this game is amazing. The guns look and react like their real life counterparts. 
 The gun fights in MGS4 have been tweaked, so that gunning your way out of a situation is now more 
 fun and immense. Also, the sneaking has been improved tenfold, and it is now much easier to perform 
 stealth kills such as slitting an enemy's throat. The controls are fluid and easy to master.
  
  In conclusion, there is not a single thing about this game that you can fault. It truly is 
 an epic, amazing, brilliant, once-in-a-lifetime game that finishes the Metal Gear Solid franchise 
 off with a a bang.
  10/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Essian
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 30, 2008 9:53 am PT
Review:  I like to consider myself a fairly intelligent individual. I tell you this so that when I tell 
 you that the Metal Gear Solid storyline made about as much sense to me as Halo 3 fanboys do, you 
 will understand what I mean. The storyline is perhaps the most complex and absolutely absurd storylines 
 in gaming history. Let me give you a brief rundown. The game centers around Solid Snake, who is 
 a clone mercenary of a super soldier named Big Boss. He had a twin brother named Liquid, who died 
 but then possessed some other bloke by use of his arm.... somehow. Anyway, so now there is a nanomachine 
 system in place that Liquid wants to use to take over the world and jesus christ do you get the 
 ponit already? Perhaps the reason I was so impressed by the story in the game was because I didn't 
 understand a ****ing word of it. So how about we move on.
  
  Graphically, this is probably the best looking console game on the market. The graphics are incredibly 
 realistic, right down to the dirt steins on the screen. This makes immersion pretty easy, because 
 the stealth gameplay will have you on the edge of your seat anyway. Speaking of stealth gameplay, 
 that really only applies to the higher difficulty settings, because on Solid Normal or below, you 
 can pretty much just blast your way through everything and everyone (though it's much easier, and 
 more fun to sneak past everyone) . On the higher difficulties, you had better sneak, or you are 
 screwed. 
  
  In terms of sound work, this game is nearly unmatched. The voicework is top notch (even though 
 the main character sounds as though he is burping through every single word of his dialogue) and 
 the sound effects are amazing across the board. Speaking of the characters, I want to add that 
 this game has one of the coolest ****ing characters in gaming history. His codename is Raiden, 
 and his entry cutscene is ****ing amazing. I wanted to go back and watch it ten or twelve times 
 because it was so awesome. Anyway, the other characters are cool too, and you will no doubt fall 
 in love with most of them, despite the fact that you wont understand what the bloody hell is going 
 on.
  
  So now for the easy part. Do I recommend this game? **** yes I do. This game is top notch from 
 start to end, and there is no better stealth action game on the market. The graphics are incredible, 
 the sound work is equally impressive, the storyline is massively confusing, and then gameplay is 
 incredibly immersive. All in all, sounds like a great game to me. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LordDespair
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 30, 2008 4:49 am PT
Review:  is a third person stealth action video game. Directed by Hideo Kojima, Shuyo Murata and Yoji Shinkawa, 
 Guns of the Patriots was developed by Kojima Productions exclusively for the PlayStation 3 video 
 game console. It is the seventh game in the Metal Gear series and the first in its fourth generation. 
 The game was released worldwide on June 12, 2008, ten years after the release of Metal Gear Solid 
 and twenty years after the US release of the first Metal Gear. The game has received high critical 
 acclaim, becoming one of the highest rated games on the PlayStation 3. It has also been a commercial 
 success, becoming one of the best-selling games for the PlayStation 3.
  
  In Metal Gear Solid 4, the player (Old Snake) must navigate the game world to progress, using stealth 
 in addition to traditional combat. It uses third person view with full camera manipulation, but 
 also allows the freedom to play in first-person mode, as well as an over the shoulder view which 
 can be switched from right shoulder to left for corner maneuvering. The Close Quarters Combat system 
 has been completely revamped.
  
  The game includes cut scene "flashbacks" (although some are not actually cut scenes, but still 
 photos of past events, locations or characters) that reference events in previous Metal Gear Solid 
 games and how they or characters relate to the setting of MGS4. Players can also watch mission 
 briefings through set camera angles or by freely exploring them with the Metal Gear Mk. II/III.
 
  
  Snake is also partnered with a robotic drone, the Metal Gear Mk. II/III, which allows him to communicate 
 with other characters, in addition to the CODEC radio system from previous games. It is also capable 
 of incapacitating enemies using a weak electric shock, as well as providing reconnaissanceThis 
 drone is reminiscent of Gillian Seed's robotic sidekick of the same name from another Hideo Kojima 
 game, Snatcher.
  
  Due to the lack of force feedback (an important part in previous titles) from the PlayStation 3 
 during much of the development, the game had been designed with a new feature: a white "Threat 
 Ring," that shows "hills" that display nearby enemies. As a series known for extensive use of force 
 feedback, when Sony announced the reintroduction of a new DualShock 3, MGS4 was announced as one 
 of the first major games to use the restored capabilities.
  
  Snake's health plays a small factor during gameplay. If injured on the battlefield, cuts and burns 
 remain on his skin. However, the developers wished to avoid putting the stress of maintaining Snake's 
 health onto the players, so he wears a muscle suit, allowing players to move in a similar fashion 
 to previous games.
  
  Snake has a meter and an index that replaces the stamina bar from Metal Gear Solid 3: Snake Eater. 
 The index, "Stress," is based on current fighting and climate conditions. This can cause Snake 
 to go into a "combat high,"that sharply increases his accuracy and reduces damage taken. However, 
 this effect will eventually wear off and could cause Snake to momentarily collapse. Smoking a cigarette 
 calms him down. The meter, "Psyche," slowly drops over time reducing Snake's accuracy and his ability 
 to recover his LIFE bar. Many items in the game  such as the iPod  will increase the meter, as 
 will consuming ReGain Energy Drinks, noodles, and military rations, or using a compress on Snake's 
 sore back muscles. Reading an issue of Playboy Magazine (in first person view) "curiously raises 
 Snake's Psyche".
  
  There is also a "Baseline Map" which is a radar map with a dynamic circle based on Snake's "presence" 
 in regards to the environment. Accessible through the main menu, the Virtual Range is a test facility 
 that allows the player to access the game's library of weapons as well as practice Snake's CQC 
 moves.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: SSSJDanny
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 30, 2008 1:31 am PT
Review:  Best Game ever, ties up the loose ends, and still makes you want to keep on playing.
  
  Pros:
  Graphics are beautiful best I've seen in any console (When people came to my house and 
 saw me playing it, they thought it was an actual movie)
  Sound is excellent playing it on 7.1 Surround Sound (neighbors calling cops, lol)
  Story is amazing, 
 You feel as if you really are playing as Snake (I felt the pressure in the room with the microwaves.)
 
  
  Cons:
  Like GameSpot said the only thing wrong with this game, was that if you are not to informed about 
 the series it will be "heavy handed story telling"
  
  My Cousin and I found an Easter Egg not too many people know about... Die in the last fight and 
 You'll see 2 options - Continue... Exist... - Choose Exist and You'll hear The Boss scream "No! 
 It's Not Over Yet!" and you'll have to choose again now this time it'll say - Continue... Exit... 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Christoph410
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 29, 2008 1:44 pm PT
Review:  When i played this game i said wow. Its brilliant, its the perfect game for metal gear fans, and 
 for everyone. I haven't met a person that changes my mind about this, even 360 owners admit it, 
 each console is good at something.
  
  The wii has the unique wii mote, its game plays are great, the 360 has nice graphics, great games (bla, bla, bla) , 
 finally the ps3 combines these. In this game is an example, because you can actually shake the 
 control for some actions, and of course the ps3 has incredible graphics, sounds, in a word: everything.
 
  
  When i began to watch videos about this game i said: man this game will be mine, and i was right, 
 'cause im playing it now!
  
  Since i played Metal Gear Solid i was charmed by it, so as you imagine i kept buying any game of 
 metal gear, and now while playing this game, i feel alive, i really do, thanks for the game Konami! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: stijnf
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 29, 2008 12:20 pm PT
Review:  First of all, i'm writing this review without having played the online version yet. if i do, i'll 
 probably add to the review. I'm not a long time Metal Gear Solid fan, i probably played 2-3 of 
 the games. 
  
  A big improvement compared to the earlier versions is the fact that the 1-2-1 combat gameplay has 
 improved dramatically. This gives you the choice whether to take on a mission sneaking and staying 
 away from enemies, or shooting your way through. 
  The graphics and sound are awesome. Shades and colours are very realistic. The music score and 
 sounds provide a superb in-game feeling. 
  The change overs from movie cut-scenes to real gameplay are the smoothest ever seen in a game. 
 Actually you don't even see the difference. Some of the cut scenes (e. g. Raiden vs. Vamp!!) are 
 simply amazing.
  MGS4 let's you play in very different settings. From jungle to country, to cities. The missions 
 are different, but each time you're able to tackle them in different ways. The boss fights (about 
 7) are great, not too difficult, but still very satisfying.
  
  The only downside are some of the movie cut scenes. I don't have any issue with merging video games 
 and movies, but you need to make sure the movies are at the same level. Let's be honest, some of 
 the dialogues are over dramatic and just too lengthy (yawn - yawn - skip - yawn - yawn) .
  
  But i'm not letting that last bit bring down the game. It's a must buy and together with GTA IV, 
 for sure the best game of 2008 !!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Solid_Snak3Xx
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 29, 2008 3:08 am PT
Review:  Hello, well this is my first review and english is not my first language so please dont be too 
 hard on me. With that all of the way i will commence my review:
  
  
  Four years have we MGS fans waited for this masterpiece to arrive, 4 years of agony, 4 years of 
 speculation and those 4 years came to an end in June 2008.
  I was one of the first at a local game store in the morning of that summer day. Eating my nails, 
 couldnt sleep the night before, nervous i grab my copy. Could not believe it, finally on my hands 
 it was. Paid for it and ready to go home. Home alone i was that day, i had the ps3 on since very 
 early on that morning so i just unwrap the game as a little 7 year old boy unwrap his biggest birthday 
 present.
  
  Finally it was on my PS3, the game that promised me GREATNESS and not less.
  
  
  I was so ready to play that i forgot about that 20 min install ( 5GB) i almost exploted, 
 but hey i waited 4 years 20 minutes is nothing right? WRONG those 20 minutes were 20 years.
  
  Anyways i manage to wait and finally i pressed start to BEGIN my epic game. WATCHED the first 
 cutscene; Oh this is so METAL GEAR I SAID i loved every minute of it, snakes old face, otacon 
 pimp looks somehow nerdy too, and i even liked that annoying Sunny girl.
  
  I have to say that i didnt enjoy the first act much. Why? because i was stupid enough to see all 
 the mgs4 videos, early playthrus, etc. so it was spoiled , nonless it was great even tho i felt 
 like i ve done it many times already.
  Act 2 WAS EPIC, loved it more than act 1, Wont go into much detail.
  Act 3 wasnt so good until 
 the very end ( = D) 
  Act 4 made me cry, going back to shadow mosses, the camara that falls down, finding that socom 
 gun again ohh all memories, felt like it was yesterday i was 9 years old and sitting in my living 
 room in Argentina playing mgs1 for the first time, what a feeling.
  Act 5 should ve been the most epic of em all since it is the final act, but IT WAS NOT, this is 
 the reasson i dont give this game a 10. 
  
  -Graphics wise this game is stunning, the character models, facials expressions of snake, eva, 
 ocelot, soldiers, Gekkos.
  Variety of level locations: the snow in shadow mosses, the city in act 3, south america in act 
 2 WoW
  
  Everything looked amazing
  
  - Gamplay: Oh my AWESOME, lots of ways to take down enemies, octo camo was very useful, cqc had 
 new moves.
  And the freedom you have in the game is great!
  
  
  - Sound: AWESOME!!! gun shots, surroundings, dialogo, all great quality. Must be played with a 
 5.1 surround system!
  
  
  
  Pros= unbelievable graphics, great story, great sound, 
  variety on gamplay.
  Cos= Snakes future unsure, didnt put an end to snakes life like said before, 
 last act a big let down, not many gekkos = ( 
  
  
  This game is definatly a buy for every PS3 game out there.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: AshuraXDemon
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 29, 2008 2:22 am PT
Review:  I swear if you are a fan of MGS this, will blow your mind! The people who gave this game a 7.0 
 or lower aren't Metal Gear Fans, they just bought the game because the MGS community is huge.
 
  The graphics are really realistic but some little low quality textures but it turns out good at 
 the end. The music is spectacular my personal favorites are Old Snake, Desperate Chase, Father 
 & Son, and Metal Gear Saga. This game is like a movie, yes but this game is more than that. Personally 
 I like it when you need to install every after each act, it gives me time to stretch and do etc. 
 This game will change you if you understand it. The gameplay has been improved since MGS1, it's 
 been already 20 years and I hope there will be more Metal Gear like this in the future. There are 
 tons of secrets, easter eggs, and unlockables that can make you entertained and play for hours 
 or days, it has one of those elements which make the game long lasting and fun, like that gum commercial.
 
  
  So I gave this game a 10/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lahdeedah
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 28, 2008 10:26 pm PT
Review:  Wow, I'm absolutely speechless. Where have a been?? I haven't played this game ever?!?! Are you 
 kidding me!? I've been missing out on a lot! Good thing I have a PS3 now. I can play all the awesome 
 exclusives such as MGS4!
  
  Metal gear solid 4 - the best looking game out there right now. The graphics are so realistic. 
 If you move to the left, your headband will go right. If you step on some grass, it will show what 
 normally happen if you step on some grass. The game is beautiful. The character models are so detailed, 
 every little hair is different, just as if it were real life. It's amazing - let's put it at that.
 
  
  Metal Gear Solid 4 has one of the best stories ever. If you have the previous metal gear, you would 
 understand the story better, but that doesn't ruin the story. The story is still amazing, and it's 
 interesting. It will have you wanting more. It's like you're actually watching a movie, and then 
 you get to play more of an awesome game! It's 2 in 1. It's great. You can skip if you're not the 
 type who likes a story. Did I mention this game has great graphics?
  
  You can either choose stealth to complete missions or you can just kill them all besides the ones 
 where you have to sneak around, but it's still fun either way. The AI is great. If it hears something 
 or gets suspicous, it will come and inspect it.
  
  MGS4 is worth FULL PRICE!! It is worth the amount it is. It's an amazing game. It's also like watching 
 a movie! What's more to ask for... great multiplayer? You got it! It's great, definitely worth it.
 
  
  Overall, Metal Gear Solid 4... is perfect. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dawsonboy07
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 28, 2008 5:41 pm PT
Review:  MGS4 deserves all its credit with its outstanding gameplay to its flawless story and scenes. We 
 are brought back to the classic MGS game where stealth is the key. The gameplay and visuals are 
 absolutely amazing creating the perfect PS3 exclusive game. The online play is also great, although 
 it can be slightly frustrating when having to wait for the long download rates of updates now and 
 again. Many people dislike the fact that MGS4s cutscenes are extremely long but imo, it adds to 
 the experience. The scenes are truly cinematic and amazing to watch which helps keep the player 
 on track with the games fantastic story. The boss fights are great and the many open choice of 
 gameplay adds to the experience. Seriously, you are missing out on one of the best made games EVER 
 if you have not got this. Who says Gekkos can't moo? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NOWISNAT
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 28, 2008 4:50 pm PT
Review:  I've never played the game before, but with a bunch of my friends raving about it, I'm going to 
 give this game a try. I've never even tried any of the previous games in the series. I wonder what 
 is attracting me so much? I think its when I tried the game at a mate's place, the whole thing 
 seems to play out like an extremely enjoyable interactive movie. Or maybe its because of the different 
 paths u can take thru the game: Would you stealth thru to your objective or rush in guns 'a blazin?
 
  
  I know this game has been out for a while now, but I guess I'm excited about it because i've never 
 finished it as the prices have been incredibly high. I've previously not wanted to buy this game 
 due to it being so expensive but with gaminglue opening soon, they have a listed glued on price 
 for MGS4 going for AUD 56 with free shipping.
  
  I'm definitely going to get this when they open and join the rest of you online. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zowbaid
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 28, 2008 1:42 pm PT
Review:  The thing I found to be really dissapointing in the game was the gameplay.
  
  Everything else in the game was perfect, couldn't have done it better myself. Graphics were amazingly 
 orgasmic. Audio and sound were breathtakingly realistic and story telling voice acting was great. 
 They did try to over act it and make scenes seem dramatic, but it was done by Japanese creaters 
 after all and they do tend to overact in all Japanese made games. Look at Devil May Cry or Onimusha 
 or Final Fantasy games, for example. But overacting isn't a bad thing, it just made it seem more 
 dramatic and heartfelt which is good. Also, this game had the best replay value of any game I have 
 ever played. I've beaten this game 12 times so far, and each time around I got to try different 
 tactics which just leaves so much room for imagination. Also, it's fun to explore around the game 
 because there are so many secrets and hidden things that are amusing to find, such as moving Mk. 
 II around in the Briefing cutscenes and getting additional equipment lying around.
  
  Now, to my negativites. First of all, I was highly dissapointed with the gameplay, after expereincing 
 great shooters like Uncharted and Gears of War with all we know about cover-based shooting. Metal 
 Gear Solid was probably the first game to come out with cover based stealth and shooting, but in 
 the 4th installment.. they just butchered it. Your view and aiming from cover was limited, and it 
 was really slow to move on the walls. Also, you couldn't shoot from overtop low cover or jump from 
 cover to cover, like you could in Gears of War and Uncharted. Those parts killed the cover system 
 because it felt really limited and didn't give me much of a reason to use cover except to conceal 
 myself with octocamo. Another complaint is the rediculously long load/install times. The previous 
 MGS games never required you to load, but in this one it gets tedious just waiting for the next 
 scene to load up.
  
  Other than that, the game felt fluent and great. Shooting was great as well as aiming. So many 
 other gameplay options you could appreciate, like rolling and going prone and rolling to the side 
 was fun.
  
  If I broke it down, to me this game would get.
  
  Graphics: 10
  Audio: 10
  Replay Value: 10
  Gameplay: 9
  
  Overall: 9.5 in my books. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ForgottenLives
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 28, 2008 1:17 pm PT
Review:  Every once in a long while, a game will come along and change all the rules. Final Fantasy VII 
 transformed the RPG genre, Resident Evil helped create a new sub-category of gaming -- survival 
 horror -- and Grand Theft Auto III single-handedly reshaped the gaming landscape. And now comes 
 Metal Gear Solid 4, a game whose potential influence on the current state of gaming is nothing 
 short of tectonic.
  
  It represents an artistic triumph for its director, game design legend Hideo Kojima, as well as 
 an enormous coup for Sony and its PlayStation 3. Metal Gear Solid 4 is a masterpiece, an unforgettable 
 game that shines like a beacon amidst a sea of mediocrity. It is not only the best Metal Gear game, 
 but one of the best games ever made, period. If you own a PS3, put this at the top of your to-buy 
 list. If you don't own a PS3, well, chances are you will buy one soon just to play this game.
 
  Long Time No See
  
  One of Metal Gear Solid 4's chief pleasures is its sweeping storyline, a tale that redefines the 
 term "epic" yet remains grounded by its intensely personal, human side. If you're new to the Metal 
 Gear Solid series, don't worry: MGS4 takes great pains to tell an accessible story that will enthrall 
 newcomers while providing plenty of surprises for hardcore series veterans.
  
  In many ways, MGS4 is the true sequel to 1998's groundbreaking Metal Gear Solid. The game shifts 
 the focus back to Solid Snake, a legendary stealth operative and hardened combat veteran. But these 
 days, things are different. Snake is dying, ravaged by a case of premature aging that's resulted 
 as a side effect of his modified DNA. Not only has the condition taken a toll on his abilities 
 but on his confidence as well. The masterful storytelling portrays Snake as a tragic yet noble 
 figure who grows increasingly disillusioned as the world crumbles around him. Snake isn't depicted 
 as a one-dimensional superhero in MGS4, but as an old man who's grown exasperated with the harsh 
 realities of war. This stylistic shift gives the game some serious emotional weight -- it's impossible 
 not to be touched by Snake's dilemma.
  
  As he stares his own mortality in the face, players are forced to do the same. This game explores 
 some heavy issues: death, aging, war, terrorism, and even the role of the US military. Even more 
 surprising is that it handles these themes without heavy-handed preaching or grandstanding. This 
 is remarkable stuff, particularly for a video game. Atmosphere is a great strength of MGS4: From 
 its opening moments to the final scenes, the game paints a grim world that's at the mercy of an 
 out-of-control war economy, a ruthless form of capitalism that thrives on bloodshed and weapon 
 dealing. 
  
  Snake's journey to the Middle East starts out as a simple assassination mission, but quickly evolves 
 into a far more personal quest. Past games in the series have been rightfully criticized for their 
 ridiculously long cinematic cutscenes and self-indulgent speeches. Luckily, Kojima has learned 
 his lesson. The cinemas in Metal Gear Solid 4 are utterly magnetic and, with only one or two exceptions, 
 devoid of the bewildering and bloated lectures that weighed down the earlier games. Voice acting 
 is another strength here, with David Hayter's role as the gravel-throated Solid Snake being a performance 
 for the ages. This is video game storytelling at its absolute best, and represents a new high water 
 mark for the craft, easily surpassing the superb BioShock and the subversive Grand Theft Auto IV.
 
  
  War Has Changed
  
  First, erase all expectations of what you think Metal Gear is and how it plays. Kojima and company 
 have gone back to the drawing board to craft a radically improved interface, and the result feels 
 like a mix of Gears of War and Call of Duty 4, with a dash of classic Metal Gear stealth for flavor. 
 This is an intense action game, but you'll need to think fast and stay cool to survive.
  
  The beauty of MGS4's gameplay is that it gives the player options. As in the other Metal Gear games, 
 you'll be charged with infiltrating heavily defended enemy installations and the method you use 
 is entirely up to you. You can choose the direct approach (shoot first, hide later) , the indirect 
 (hide always, shoot when you must) and everything in between. There's no "wrong" way to play MGS4. 
 If you want to play the game as a Gears of War-style shooter, prepare yourself for one of the best 
 shooters you've ever played. If you'd rather creep and crawl to avoid enemies as in the earlier 
 Metal Gear games, you'll be overjoyed by the game's tactical depth.
  
  The game's masterstroke lies in Snake's octo-camo armor, an active camouflage suit that mimics 
 Snake's surroundings. Octo-camo makes basic hiding and sneaking an automatic affair, and lets trigger-happy 
 players focus on the action while still maintaining a semblance of stealth. Kojima deserves major 
 credit for updating the classic Metal Gear gameplay with so many modern elements, from the over-the-shoulder 
 aiming style to the optional first-person camera, and integrating them seamlessly with a control 
 scheme that's simple yet deep. To play the core of the game, you only need to use four main buttons: 
 aim, shoot, crawl, and use. That the game squeezes so much functionality out of such a simple interface 
 is one of its crowning achievements.
  Who's The Boss?
  
  Of course, no Metal Gear game would be complete without an array of memorable boss battles, and 
 even here MGS4 surpasses the loftiest expectations. The chief villain is Solid Snake's brother, 
 Liquid Snake, who is residing in the body of another classic foe, Revolver Ocelot. But the most 
 prominent boss battles are between Snake and The Beauty & The Beast Unit, a squad of grotesque 
 cyborg abominations who are more than they first seem. You'll need more than raw firepower to take 
 out these metal-clad monsters, and each battle plays out in entirely unique, unexpected ways; thankfully, 
 the element of frustration that plagued past MGS boss fights has been eliminated. And by the end 
 of the game, the boss battles become so epic and so shocking that you'll literally be pumping your 
 fist in the air, wide-eyed and delighted by the spectacle. These are the moments that will have 
 Hollywood directors like Michael Bay shifting uncomfortably in their seats. Why watch the latest 
 big-budget action movie when you can play a game as powerful as this?
  If the core shooting and sneaking is the steak of MGS4, then the weapon customization is the gravy. 
 Kojima is a Pokemon addict who has reportedly collected every Pokemon in every game ever, and you 
 can see that influence extend to MGS4's extensive suite of weapons. You can find over 70 guns in 
 the game, from non-lethal tranquilizer pistols to grenade launchers and double-barrel shotguns. 
 Some guns are literally handed to you, others are hidden, and still more are scooped off enemies 
 or unlocked at the end of the game. Shopping is convenient, too, after you meet a weapons launderer 
 who will supply Snake with high-end firearms and ammo -- for a price, of course.
  
  In order to purchase these exotic weapons, you'll need to scoop up the fallen guns of enemies and 
 allies and cash them in for "Drebin Points." But it doesn't end with weapons. You can buy dozens 
 of modifications, from laser sights and flashlights to under-barrel grenade launchers and recoil-control 
 grips. This weapon customization system is brilliant for two reasons. First, it allows you to convert 
 sub-par firearms into more specialized weapons, such as adding a rifle scope and silencer to a 
 stock carbine to create a silent sniper rifle. Second, it encourages you to replay the game again 
 and again -- not that you need to be encouraged -- in order to unlock the highest-end weapons that 
 cost literally millions of Drebin Points. Even scooping weapons off of fallen enemies is addictive, 
 and it's often tempting to dart out of safety to grab nearby guns.
  Raising Hell With Cell
  
  But as impressive as MGS4 is on a gameplay level, it also amazes on a technical level. MGS4 
 is one of the most visually striking games ever released, and also the first game to show off the 
 hidden power of the PlayStation 3. Technically speaking, the game is a marvel of production. Artistically 
 speaking, it's a triumph.
  
  You won't need an HD TV to appreciate the game, either. Kojima has always famously downplayed the 
 importance of hi-def visuals, once telling me that he wasn't interested in HD because he prefers 
 a "dirty" look, which he feels gives his games a livelier atmosphere. This is probably why MGS4 
 goes in the complete opposite direction of other new-gen games whose graphics look almost too clean 
 and clinical. The world of MGS4 is smeared with dust, soot, and grime, giving the game a rich, 
 tactile texture that plays well on even standard definition TVs. Color is also used to great effect, 
 with post-production filters that saturate the game in deep greys, greens, and golds. This is a 
 visually striking game, even if you're stuck with a standard-def TV.
  
  But if you have access to an HD TV, MGS4 will show you the bleeding edge of video game graphics. 
 Leveraging the power of the PlayStation 3's octopus-like Cell processor, MGS4 renders some absolutely 
 phenomenal environments. The first act takes place in the dusty slums of the Middle East, and the 
 second act moves to the sweltering jungles of South America. Visual variety is a hallmark here, 
 and thanks to Snake's globe-trotting journey, the game never repeats the same look twice. The environments 
 are not only shockingly detailed, but also massive in scope: when you see the soaring peaks of 
 South America, you'll swear you're watching archival film footage. MGS4 has that effect on players, 
 effectively blurring, if not erasing, the line that divides games and cinema. It's absolutely remarkable.
 
  
  Full Motion Video
  
  Even more impressive are the game's characters, which are modeled after real-life actors and animated 
 by motion-capture techniques for an intensely realistic look. The facial expressions are particularly 
 extraordinary because they manage to convey meaningful emotions beyond just rage and fear. Seeing 
 MGS4's characters in action, you'll be struck by how empty, soulless, and one-dimensional most 
 game characters really are. If you want to know exactly what the game looks like, head to GamePro. com, 
 or any other gaming site, and watch some of the trailer videos. Kojima has fooled us again: These 
 aren't pre-rendered movies, as many had assumed, but in-game assets running in real time. The game 
 just looks sensational.
  
  Another new PlayStation 3 technology, Blu-ray disc, has proven to be an enormous asset in MGS4. 
 The massive 50GB of data storage means that the developers were free to create as much content 
 as they wanted without any compromise in quality. This storage advantage is particularly evident 
 in the game's striking use of audio. Mastered by Skywalker Sound, the experts behind George Lucas's 
 Star Wars films, the in-game audio is endlessly varied: it paints a rich sonic palette that heightens 
 the intensity of the action and the emotional resonance of the storyline. Gunshots sound eerily 
 realistic, explosions rumble with low-frequency reverberations, and wildlife chitters nervously 
 in the background. It's a feast for the ears and, like so much of MGS4, a new high water mark.
 
  
  The soundtrack deserves special mention. From the opening title screen to the end credits, MGS4's 
 masterful score represents another soaring success. MGS4's soundtrack stirs up your emotions with 
 ease, from passion to excitement to regret. The spine-tingly mournful "Love Theme" is a particular 
 standout here, but everything from the battle anthems to the cinematic score is simple phenomenal. 
 This is one soundtrack you won't forget -- here's hoping it ends up on iTunes sooner rather than 
 later.
  Battle Fatigue?
  
  There are a few blemishes. A new feature called "Stress" isn't explained quite clearly enough. 
 Here's how Stress works: intense combat or extreme conditions will raise Snake's Stress level, 
 which negatively affects his "Psyche" meter, which in turn reduces his healing rate and weapon 
 accuracy. The confusion regarding Stress and Psyche is a minor issue, though, and their relationship 
 becomes apparent as you progress through the game. And in the end, Stress and Psyche are effective 
 ways to help you bond with Snake's emotional condition in any given scenario. 
  Another small shortcoming is that MGS4 doesn't include a true tutorial or training mission, which 
 might have been a wise choice given that Snake has a large repertoire of maneuvers. First-time 
 players will want to pull up the "Briefing" menu to get acquainted with the controls, though the 
 basic shooting and moving is self-explanatory. You'll also spend a good deal of time poking through 
 your inventory in the middle of boss battles and protracted firefights, which can occasionally 
 disrupt the dramatic flow. These are tiny, almost inconsequential quibbles, however, in an otherwise 
 flawless game.
  Welcome to the Next Level
  
  There's not much left to say. Metal Gear Solid 4 is a brilliant, moving, exciting, intense action 
 game that succeeds hugely at everything it sets out to do. It sets new standards for graphics, 
 sound, gameplay, and storytelling, and it may be years before it is equaled, let alone surpassed. 
 You will not play a better game this year-maybe even this decade. If you own a PS3, buy this game 
 immediately. And if you don't own a PS3, well, it's time to start saving those nickels and dimes.
 
  
  In the end, everyone's a winner. The PlayStation 3 finally gets its "savior," Kojima gets his masterpiece, 
 and gamers get one of the best games of all time. And they all lived happily ever after.
  
  Overall
  The Good: * One of the greatest games ever created.
  * Satisfies in almost every way 
 possible.
  The Bad: * "Stress" concept is a bit confusing at first.
  * A quick tutorial mode would have been handy.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Marvelous0303
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 28, 2008 12:58 pm PT
Review:  This game was absolutely amazing. I'm familiar with the first two MGS games so I figured this had 
 to be equally good if they were still coming out with these games. I originally tried it months 
 ago and was like, "yeah its pretty much the same as the others but with really nice graphics", 
 BUT a good friend of mine said he was just like me with hating games that were slow because of 
 the stealth approach and not jump right in action. He told me "no you gotta play it, it's SICK! 
 and i was like "ahh alright" so I tried it again and could not stop playing.
  What I liked most about it had to be the perfect ratio between gameplay action and the movie cut 
 scenes. You were able to sit back and enjoy the game like you were watching a movie. This being 
 very typical of the MGS games, seeing that the intro of the game is always like how actual movies 
 open up; with the title, and character intro the sub text at the bottom of the screen. It's really 
 cool, it just like playing through a movie. All the character's were so great and cast very well, 
 even the SEXY bosses who were a little freakish and zomby like after being defeated but equally 
 intriguing haha!
  Take if from someone who is totally used to a beat 'em up, jump right in action gamer type of person. 
 If your not used to this genre you will not be disappointed or bored in ANY way with this game. 
 I was in love with it and couldn't put it down. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: uvanguliashki
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 27, 2008 2:41 pm PT
Review:  The game is a classic."War has changed". Snake has changed. Every thing has changed. From guns to 
 battlefield. The gameplay is outstanding! The graphics are thy best! The story... the story... it's 
 just impossible to describe. It is worth every bit of cent you will (or have) give (en) for it. I'm 
 sitting here writing this and thinking-what if i had an X-box 360? I'd have had Halo 3 and Gears 
 of War 2. Humph! Those games are mere ticks (sorry fans but that is the truth, I my self am a Halo 
 fan) compared to MGS4 (Metal Gear Solid 4) . This game is the reason I have a PS3 instead of a X-box 
 360. Back to the game. Ahem, so as I said, Snake has changed. He now has a few tricks up his sleeve. He 
 can craw (OMG, lol just kidding) . Yes you don't have to "hit the deck" if you wan't to move on a "lower 
 level". You can also now aim from an "over the sholder" view. You can also play the entire game in 
 "first person". Yep. Snake can also change the hand with witch he holds the gun with thus changind 
 the side from witch you aim from (doesn't work in "FPS" mode... I think) . Otacon and Raiden are back! So 
 are Naomi, Vamp and Liqud Ocelot. (SPOILER!!!) WTF!?!? BIG BOSS??? ZERO??? What is this, a hidden camera 
 show? EVA?! OH MY GOSH!
  (END OF SPOILERS) . So there you have it. Metal Gear Solid 4: Guns of the Patriots is a must have 
 game even if you aren't a MGS fan. Good night. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: painkiller2558
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 27, 2008 12:42 pm PT
Review:  this game is the best to date i have played it for a long time and have been on it for more than 
 20 hours more than 30 even but this game is addicting and the addiction is not a bad addiction 
 it is good if you have nothing else to do. the game offers high definition video and sound, i have 
 the hd cable so that makes it better i highly suggest it to all who can afford it... to sum it all 
 up, the best game on the market to date... i recommend to everyone age's 17+.
  and like i said it is a very good game lots of sneaking you can do to kill your enemy's and sniping 
 points if your good at sniping, also the octo camo it is state of the art camo and when you defeat 
 the octopus boss you get an addition to the octo camo it is a head camo that does the same thing 
 as your body camo does and that is change with your surrounding... blend in more like a geco your 
 lay down or get against a building and you are invisible to the naked eye... i hope this review 
 encourage's gamers to go out and buy this game it is awesome. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sweetpotatofry
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 27, 2008 12:19 pm PT
Review:  Different art mediums require different techniques in order to get the artist's point across. Lighting 
 effects in a painting, camera angles in a movie, imagery in a novel and pace in a song are a few 
 examples. The great thing about video games is that they are now entering a more artistic age, 
 so now games are much more than just "games"- they're experiences.
  
  Metal Gear Solid 4 is arguable, to date, the pinnacle of artistic excellence in a video game. The 
 cutscenes are well put together and often moving, the gameplay is an engaging mix of quick-paced 
 action and thought-provoking strategy, and on several occasions the two facets mix. There are a 
 couple of split-screen sequences that are unlike anything I've played through in a game, and the 
 boss fights are all heart-pumping experiences that culminate in some of the best cutscenes in the 
 game (the fight after act 3 was particularly exciting) .
  
  In terms of gameplay, series veterans will recognize and enjoy the stealth sequences that are both 
 familiar and refreshing at the same time. For most of the game you won't be sneaking through some 
 abandoned warehouse full of security guards- you'll be sneaking through battlefields avoiding soldiers 
 and gunfire. And what's great is that you now have a choice to fight or sneak, and thanks to a 
 massive arsenal of guns and gadgets, shooting is fun for the first time in a Metal Gear Solid game. 
 
  
  The graphics are spectacular, as I'm sure you've heard, the sound effects and voice acting are 
 spot on, and the music fits the atmosphere of the game, shifting from somber to hectic right when 
 it should. The problem? As fantastic as the cutscenes are, they take up too much of the game. I'm 
 the biggest fan of cinematic sequences in video games (the more the better, I think) , and I wouldn't 
 cut anything out of MGS4, but I do wish that there was a bit more gameplay to go along with it. 
 There's a lot there, but I think that if each of the five acts (especially the fifth) had some 
 more gameplay tacked on, it would benefit the overall package. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: supdup
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 27, 2008 10:39 am PT
Review:  When I first put MGS4 into my PS3 and started playing, I was amazed by how clean it was. There 
 were no stoppages or let-ups, 100% perfect the entire way through. While the production from a 
 technical standpoint was ridiculous, the voice-acting was lacking. It was sort of like they were 
 trying to make it too much of a movie, with real people. The only game I have ever seen trying 
 to do this was Gears of War, and they fell short as well.
  
  As for the gameplay, it's great but could be better. Hideo Kojima and the rest seem like they were 
 trying way too hard to make this realistic. But don't get me wrong, it's realistic graphically, 
 but at one point when Snake's psyche was so low that he couldn't even lift his weapon (my fault 
 though, sort of) , I thought that was way too extreme.
  Though there were some parts of the game where I just sat in awe (microwave tunnel) .
  
  The 
 audio in this game is, of course, ridiculously good. The sound when Snake is discovered when trying 
 to be stealthy always makes me jump and the music is tantalizing. The voice-acting, again; they 
 hired great actors, but tried too hard. 
  
  Don't even get me started on the presentation. It is UNRIVALED. The look on Snake's face when he 
 is stressed in the cut-scenes is insane. I could go on and on, but we need to get to the scores.
 
  
  There's not much replay value here, unless you just want to experience the story again. Which reminds 
 me, the story wraps up nicely. Though I haven't played many MGS games (only Sons of Liberty) , I 
 could keep up with the story. One problem I have is that the story, most of the time, tries to 
 be too epic and too engrossing, which derails from the experience.
  
  Presentation/Graphics:10
  Audio: 9
  Gameplay: 9
  Replay Value: 7
  Story: 8
  
  Remember, 
 this is just my opinion, so you can continue to believe what you wish. I personally felt that plenty 
 of work went into this game, but it did not turn out the way I thought it would. As I have said, 
 this is an outstanding achievement and is one of the best games on the PS3 to date.* 
::::::

::::::
UserName: snake_peacher
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 27, 2008 9:26 am PT
Review:  This Game Will Take You Into a world of action, stealth, emotion, and laughter.
  
  Remember when you Picked up the ps1 controller and ducked under the pipes to find some rats. to 
 press up against the nearset wall, distract the guards choke them to death then waited for the 
 elevator to come down again. so you can go up watch youtr brother take of on hind d. to play one 
 of the best games of your LIFE.
  
  Well In Mgs4 You Will Revive All those Moments In MGS 1, MGS 2 Mgs 3. and live the last Mission 
 Of Solid Snake.
  
  This game combines A Perfect Shooting game with Loads of guns and machines and a perfect sleath 
 game.
  
  you find yourself in the most difficult situations on the battlefield
  and its your choice to get out there alive By Blasting everyone with your rpg or by moving silently..
 
  
  The game is Divided In 5 acts Each One Amazingly Different
  with Lots Of Hours Of Gameplay.
  
  YOu will Encounter TOns of Secrets and Flashback Moments 
 to previous Games In Each and Every one Of The Chapters.
  
  If you are A Person that its a bit emotional Prepare to leak on your dualshock 3 And if you are 
 person that enjoys action and a great game
  prepeare to marry This game.
  
  exellent 100 of 10 :D 
::::::

::::::
UserName: aaron_clark
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 27, 2008 7:08 am PT
Review:  Konami have done it again! The latest installment in the Metal Gear series is phenomenal. Metal 
 Gear Solid 4: Guns of the Patriots was awarded the Best Game of 2008, and clearly deserves it even 
 with games such as GTA IV, Resistance 2, Burnout Paradise and so on, being in the race.
  
  Some of the elements which make MGS4 what it is include:
  
  Great Boss Fights
  Superb Quality 
 Cinematic Cut-Scenes which link into the game
  Some of the Best Graphics for a game to date
  Outstanding Gameplay
  Replayable Value
  Superior 
 Sound Design
  Amazing Animations
  Brilliant Storyline
  
  and the list goes on....
  
  
  Looking at the bad's from MGS4, well..... to be honest their really isn't any. Some people 
 have argued that it is more of a film than a game because a lot of the game is based around the 
 cinematics cut-scenes. Although the cut-scenes are outstanding you have the choice to skip them 
 if you just want to play the game, and that is still A* quality gaming
  
  
  Thanks for reading
  
  Aaron 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dj_omid1
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 27, 2008 12:23 am PT
Review:  MGS4 was probably one of the best games of the year. Well it won an award from VGA2008 for having 
 the best graphics. I have to say that Konami deserved it! The first time the MGS series came out 
 I didn't like to play it well I didn't like stealth games. So if you think you don't like stealth 
 games either, and you say that MGS isn't a good game, you're obviously wrong! First time i played 
 MGS4 at my friend's house and I was like WOW that is the kind of the game I like! MGS is a kind 
 of game where you can choose to do your missions Stealth or Normal and by that i mean like if you 
 want to do it the stealth way you have to like crawl and stuff but the normal way you just stand 
 up and FIRE! So anyway I recommend you to buy that game or even rent it! It's really good game 
 you should absolutely try it! Thanks for reading! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: UncoloredMATT
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 26, 2008 5:31 pm PT
Review:  Writers note - I'm a bad speller!
  
  Over 20 years ago, Videogame Designer Hideo Kojima released a game called Metal Gear; which revolutionized 
 the games we play today, but more importantly gave us the stealth genre.
  
  Metal Gear was a sucsess and with that came the sequal Metal Gear 2: Solid Snake. Then came the 
 release of the playstation, which marked Metal Gear's transistion from 2D to 3D; hence Metal Gear 
 Solid.
  
  Sequals followed, characters introduced and an aged Soldier became one of gamings most recognised 
 icons today. Metal Gear Solid was 2D to Solid, Metal Gear Solid 4 was Solid to Old.
  
  MGS4 follows the emotional final days of Solid Snake through an adventure that, PS3 owner or not, 
 must be experienced.
  
  In MGS4, War has become the Worlds fuel, like Oil was to the 20th Century. PMC's hired by organizations 
 to fight their battles for them, at the head of this chaos; is Liquid Ocelot who is in control 
 of the worlds largest PMC's. Solid Snake has been brought out of retirement (again) for one final 
 mission... and my god what a mission it was.
  
  MGS4 is a beautifully painted picture of a future ravaged by war. Bombs explode around you, People 
 scream in pain and its never looked so good.
  
  The games graphics are incredible. Enviroments look outstanding and Character models are the best 
 ever produced in a video game. From the flower petals floating in the gentle wind at the games 
 climax, to the emotion shown in Old Snake's face, furrowed by age.
  
  Gameplay is MGS at its finest, thanks to Ryan Payton's westernized control scheme. Gamers casual 
 and MGS hardcore alike will feel right at home with the new style of play, while still staying 
 true to its roots.
  
  The games music and sounds are mixed in flawlessly with the going-ons around you, the sybolism 
 and themes of each situation and even some old melodies bringing back some old memories from the 
 good ol' days. New players may shrug at this but those who were there from the beggining will cannot 
 help but smile. I most notablly felt like this in the middle of the game where memories from my 
 childhood come together. Without spoiling anything for fans who haven't played it yet, the best 
 is yet to come...
  
  This is my first GS review so i can't tell how much space i have left but Metal Gear Solid 4 is 
 a game that will be remembered for years to come, credited for the explosive introduction, the 
 epic battles and the emotionall ending.
  
  Metal Gear Solid 4 rightfully takes its place as one of the greatest games ever made.
  
  Rest 
 easy Snake.
  
  "This is good, isn't it?"
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: BladeDynasty777
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 26, 2008 5:09 pm PT
Review:  Metal Gear Solid 4 : Guns of the Patriots is one of the best game I've ever played! And this one 
 deserved to be the 2008 game of the year! Okay, now let's talk about the story. You will play as 
 Snake better known as Old Snake (Clone of Big Boss or Naked Snake on Metal Gear Solid 3 : Snake 
 Eater) . He is a war veteran. A soldier who wants to end the war and not pass to the next generation. 
 That was his last mission. Did he succeed? Play the game!
  
  Now let's talk about some characters from Metal Gear Solid 4 : Guns of the Patriots. Jack or better 
 known on his codename Raiden is back with his sword! And of course, He is on Snake's side. The 
 newest and funniest character is Johnny better known as Akiba. He had his first appearance on Metal 
 Gear Solid 1 but don't have that popularity. He don't have nanomachine on his body so he can't 
 be control by the enemy. Meryl is also back and she is now a badass! Otacon is here too. The weapon 
 seller Drebin, Roy Campbell, Rose Mary, Naomi Hunter, Liquid, Eva (known as Big Mama in this game) , 
 Vamp are here too. Snake will also faced some high-tech enemies like Gekko and Gekko Dwarfs.
  
  Okay, It's time to talk about the gameplay! The gameplay is really, really cool. I'm speechless. 
 You can also play FPS mode if you want and if needed LOL. Snake got some cool weapons, camo and 
 gadgets! He actually got an iPod. OctoCamo which allow Snake to imitate the color of his surroundings, 
 Solid-Eye which allow Snake to use Night Vision (NV) to see your enemies easily and to to your 
 enemies or foes feelings.
  
  It's time to talk about Metal Gear Solid 4's unlockables. You can play as Altair from Assassin's 
 Creed (Costume) , play as Big Boss' corpse (Face and Camo) , Beauty and the beast masks (Boss) , Raiden 
 mask, Drebin mask, and this is the funniest! Metal Gear Solid 1 (Ps1) mask, Young Snake with and 
 without bandana, Stealth item which allows you to be invisible and Bandana which allows you to 
 have infinite ammo when equipped. (See the Hints & Cheats to know how to unlock this items/Camos/Masks.) 
 Well that's all for now folks, hope you understand haha! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Warriorboy1990
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 26, 2008 4:38 pm PT
Review:  Metal Gear Solid 4 is the last and BEST game in the Metal Gear Solid series. The story completes 
 the Solid Snake saga. I give everything a 10! The graphics, sound, gameplay, etc. The graphics 
 were very solid, especially in high definition. The gameplay has probably the best thing in the 
 game! New additions in the game were added that weren't in the first three. You could move in first 
 person, you could shoot over the shoulder, roll in barrels, and you could run while you crouch. 
 There are also a lot of other things from the first three you could do in this game, such as hide 
 in boxes. As for the sound, it was the best in a game. The cutscenes and voice overs were amazing! 
 Most of the voice actors returned for their roles from the first three. This game changed my life 
 forever! This is the reason why you need a Playstation 3. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Vasot
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 26, 2008 3:21 pm PT
Review:  A Review from a Console and PC user 
  
  GOOD
  - Cinematic feel.
  - Nice graphics for consoles (PC still has better looking titles...) .
  - Great all around sound.
 
  ------------------------------------------------------------------------
  -----------------------------------------------------------------------
  BAD
  - Cheesy cross 
 plots and boring back story.
  - Bosses are easy.
  - Stealth system is below average.
  - Single player is kind of short.
  - Constant install times.
  - Metal Gear online sucks.
 
  - Short life value.
  
  CONCLUSION.
  As a Blockbuster title is great but the stealth part of the game needed more work. The game is 
 also kind of short and after finishing it i was not interested to play with it again.
  Also the online part sucks..
  
  Graphics = 8.5
  Sound = 8.5
  Gameplay = 7.0
  Life Value 
 = 6.0
  Final Score = 8.0 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Paragus1
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 26, 2008 2:43 pm PT
Review:  Recently I was talked into buying a PS3 and I was unsure if I had done the right thing by purchasing 
 one. I decided to try MGS4, I picked it up the day i bought my PS3. I can say with all confidence 
 that MGS4 is worth the price of admission to the PS3.
  
  This game is an epic masterpiece in pretty much every way imaginable. I would describe it as a 
 20+ hour interactive movie. This is a game that you will never forget. I had never played any of 
 the previous MGS games, and I still enjoyed this game immensely. The bar has been raised with this 
 game a level which will be unreachable for a long time to come.
  
  The story is deep and it pulls you in. The farther into the game you go, the better I found it 
 getting. Some of the boss fights create some very memorable situation, which culminates in one 
 of the best final boss fights you have ever seen. This is probably the first game I have played 
 that really had me feeling for the characters.
  
  The game features a bunch of unlockables and difficulty levels that give it a good replay value. 
 Every situation in this game seems to have many different viable ways to get through them.
  
  If you own a PS3 and don't have this game, you need to go get it right now and stop reading. 
 If you are thinking of buying a PS3 and need a reason, you have found it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Anderson310
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 26, 2008 2:22 pm PT
Review:  this is one of the best games the PS3 has to offer....... it will dieliver non-stop hour of entertainment 
 to the hardcore gamers who seek a challenge........ if ur thinking about buy it think no more cuz 
 this game is the best game you will play...... seriously...... ever wonder why snake has a eye patch?? 
 Wonder no more......... this game reveals everything u need to know about snake and make u doubt 
 every thing u thought u knew about him........ once u pick up this game u won't be able to put it 
 down...... so brace your self to be alienate from the world for at least 5 day.......... and for 
 all of u who don't own a PS3 this game will make up for the money u spent you won't regret buying 
 it or the PS3........... you won't believe the ending....... wouldn't want to spoil it for any one 
 so go out and buy this game!!!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: catboxcandy
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 25, 2008 2:47 pm PT
Review:  You're old in this game!! You even have to worry about your back pains!! And hideo kajima is crazy!!! 
 you spend about.... 5 hours i'de say just watching the characters talk about the stuff you just 
 learned and just dont care about!! You can tell that Mr. Kajima ran out of ideas when in the last 
 cut-scene, which drags on for about an hour, he brings into the story a clone of Big Boss!! Oh, 
 and Raiden is now a robot-ninja. Although most of the cut-scenes in MGS4 are boring, when it comes 
 down to general gameplay, this is a good game. The graphics are absolutely breath taking! There's 
 no difference between the cut-scene and gameplay graphics... on par with gears of war. MGS4 even 
 has a cool theme, which adds the tension and suspense of some parts of the game. The most important 
 part of a game, the gameplay, is very good, just like its predecessors. You're equipped with an 
 octo-camo suit, which allows you to blend in with your surroundings! and with this suit, you get 
 to do some good ol', old fashioned metal gearin'; sneaking around and killing your enemies with 
 the utmost stealth, and avoiding and waiting for the alert sign to die down. You even get to battle 
 a metal gear playing as Rex from the first Metal Gear Solid!!! But this game's strongest point 
 is in the boss battles. You battle a camouflaged 'octopus', a 'raven' at the top of tower, a 'wolf' 
 inside a blizzard, another 'mantis', and in the end, in front of a sunset, on the top of a battleship, 
 you battle your newly found brother, Liquid. 'Tis epic. Well this game tried to include online 
 play. I said "tried to" because i tried playing, but you have to create a separate account through 
 the game, just like the old PS2 games, but i got way too frustrated and said "F**K it!!!!!!!", 
 because it wouldnt work, so honestly, i cant really review the online part. So this game has its 
 flaws, but i would recommend it to most people because the part that counts most, the gameplay 
 is still as fun as ever. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jaycen
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 25, 2008 6:58 am PT
Review:  I'm all about top notch storyline when it comes to gaming... and when MGS1 was released, It blew 
 my mind... MGS2 stepped it up with another killer storyline and of course updated and addictive 
 gameplay... Once making my way through that epic tale I was disappointed to learn that MS3 would 
 be a prequel... That is, until I bought it and played it... Again a work of art worthy of a movie 
 franchise.
  
  MGS4 is the pinnacle "conclusion" that a fan of the series would expect, and then some. I rather 
 enjoyed seeing the original characters making a reemergence in full PS3 glory. I would highly suggest 
 to anyone new to the series to take the time to play MGS 1 - 3 in their entirety befor settling 
 into MGS4 as it's tough to go back after being spoiled by this one.
  
  Revisiting certain places from the past was also a great idea. I can state enough how this edition 
 really grabbed me...
  
  I hope this isn't the last time I see the title Metal Gear on a game... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: razielabc
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 24, 2008 7:20 pm PT
Review:  A Game (or more like Action movie) filled with a compelling story, unique characters, romance, 
 comedy, easter bunnies, suspense, action, sorrow, next generation gameplay which i finally awaited 
 from a playstation 3 game (even though during "movie sequences", i say movie because that's how 
 long they are, you wished you were in control) but they managed to balance it perfectly. It included 
 the best graphics of any game to date and was backed by some breathtaking, heart pounding audio 
 with perfect integration of High Definition surround sound. The voice acting was spectacular and 
 special effects were perfect. This game will pioneer the future of gaming and home entertainment. 
 no more storytelling through movies, MGS4 is a perfect example of the future of gaming and what 
 it's supposed to feel like as well as the capabilities of the Blu-Ray Disc. The perfect media to 
 the perfect story. The best US$60.00 TT$360.00 i ever spent in my life. its that good 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FloggingMollyLA
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 24, 2008 5:35 pm PT
Review:  Upon finishing MGS4, I was really sad that all the other latest games in my collection (things 
 like Dead Space, Fallout 3, Left 4 Dead, CoD4) will never engage me so engrossingly, I'll start 
 off with the story.
  
  STORY:
  The story 'flashes' back enough to fill you in if you had not completed any other Metal Gear game, 
 so no need to worry if you're jumping right in. Honestly you'll be 'watching' the game as much 
 as playing, but don't drop the controller because there is some interaction. I am not even going 
 to talk about the plot, It is too deep and its your own experience, but I'll tell you that you'll 
 get lost in it, it's that good.
  
  GAMEPLAY: 
  You can play this game any way you want. For instance, you can do most of your killing in stealth 
 if you don't like confrontation. Or you can use your trusty M4 to rack up headshots if you're the 
 shooter type. Or you can choose to buy all sorts of weapons and shoot, stab, explode, etc. This 
 game will not limit you ala Fallout 3, you can choose how to kill... any time. 
  
  But some missions will require you to sneak, some require you to take out foes in a firefight, 
 some missions you'll be shooting down machines with a mounted machine gun on wheels, and at one 
 point it will get a lot bigger then that. Other then that, stealth mechanics work flawlessly, and 
 gunplay/cover mechanics are smart.
  
  GRAPHICS:
  If you've seen much MGS4 videos you'll know that the most all of the cut scenes seem to render 
 in real time, in which gameplay will commence without a blink of an eye (without cutting out) . 
 I'm sure this is meant to immerse you into the action. To sum the graphics up: Looks phenomenal, 
 Plays phenomenally.
  
  SOUND:
  You'll hear everything from your stealth camo suit, knife stabs, gun shots, small explosions, people 
 screaming ----all the way up to flying robots (I wont elaborate for your sake) crashing down on 
 the ground, killing all in their way ---enough said. The music is fantastic and some of it derives 
 from previous games.
  
  OTHER THOUGHTS:
  The story is very dramatic/romantic/action-tic
  Might make some cry, but some parts will definitely 
 make all the hairs on your body stand up, know what I mean.
  
  Don't even get me started on the production value.
  
  I think I've already mentioned it, but 
 it's not essential if you have not finished the other MGS games before playing this, but you will 
 be missing out on a lot of Nostalgia.
  
  You need to be a very depreciative person to not love this game.
  
  HOPEFULLY I've covered 
 Everything while spoiling Nothing.
  
  Go.. Play... Now..... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cj_simmons
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 24, 2008 4:35 am PT
Review:  graphics: 10
  
  the graphics in mgs4 are top of the line. from the cg cutscenes to the in game gamplay there is 
 no other game on the market that can top mgs4s character models or envirement graphics. but the 
 truely amazing thing about the graphics is no gliches. most games that have really good graphics 
 have lots of frame rate drop, and places where characters will sink into objects. but not metal 
 gear.
  
  sound: 10
  
  the sound in mgs4 is truely amazing. this is a game where you will want to buy surround sound just 
 because the sound is that good. also, unlike a lot of games, there isn't any times where characters 
 say the same thing over and over.
  
  Story:10
  
  i ( an alot of other people ) feel that this is the best story in a video game ever. the cut scenes 
 are truely epic.
  
  however, people have diffrent tastes.
  
  but mgs4 story offers a very dramatic story with lots of action, drama, comedy, and even love and 
 adventure. ( if your thinking that there is no way that a single story offers all that, then go 
 play the game and see for yourself.)
  
  it can be a little difficult to follow at first if you've never played a metal gear solid game 
 before, but you will catch on by act 2.
  
  has a strong narative
  fully develops plot
  fully develops characters
  fully definds objectives so you no why your doing what your doing
 
  
  
  Gameplay: 9.5
  
  the gameplay in mgs4 for is nearly perfect. the biggest fault in previous games in the series was 
 the camera angles. well they fixed that problem fully.
  
  the only thing bad that can be said about the gameplay is when you try to make snake lay down you 
 use th same button to crouch. somtimes it take 3-5 pushes to make him lay down.
  
  but other than that the gameplay is extremely solid.
  
  
  Entertainment: 9
  
  mgs4 is 
 an extremely entertaining game. the boss fights are extremely creative and each totally different 
 from the last.
  
  the one flaw in mgs4 is the fact that it can get repetitive. it's not as repetitive as assaians 
 creed, but when your not watching epic cutscenes, or fighting really creative boss fights, your 
 just sneeking around trying not to be detected.
  sure the envirenment changes and it does change from time to time when you shoot gekko from a tank 
 or riding a motorcycle while being chased, but for the most part your just sneeking around trying 
 not to be seen.
  
  
  Overall: 9.7/10
  
  metal gear solid 4's amazing sound and graphics, epic story, unforgetable boss fights and solid 
 gameplay make this a can't miss experiance.
  
  this is a game that will make you get a ps3 just to play this game
  
  A Console Seller:
  
 
  the type of game that sells consoles just so it can be experianced 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shadowchronicle
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 24, 2008 3:05 am PT
Review:  Music-9 just missing a few touches, the music is great at times it just makes you want intertwine 
 with the game and be snake. When you get caught in the game the tingly tune comes up and snake 
 has to hide tis is the best out of the whole series. when I fight a boss a different tune comes 
 instead of the same old one
  
  Gameplay (controls) -10 if you just started playing the game you might have trouble with the controls 
 but lter you will find out how officient the controls work 
  Graphics-10 i just love the graphics I just wanna scream I love Metal gear 4 to the world. Snake's 
 camoflauge is PERFECT i just love how it looks when i'm sniping enemies with my snipe rifle. I 
 like the scenes in the game but sometimes there really long.
  Story-10 It makes sense it looks like it took time to make the story, plus the names snake, liquid 
 snake, solid snake plus the bosses made the game better
  Replay value-9Replaying it on hard great it will just stream to my head , release my feelings, 
 do the impossible
  
  Just buy the game if you like sneaking and actions
  
  Total score-10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: metallica4mayor
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 23, 2008 9:48 am PT
Review:  Its finally here Metal Gear Solid 4: Guns of the Patroits, but did Hideo Kohima deliver the goods? 
 The answer to that question is very short and simple: HELL YES! MGS4 is superb in every way. Graphics 
 phenominal, Gameplay is revolutionary, the cutscenes are stunning, AND mindblowing. Having 5 dificulty 
 selections for if you are a noob, or a ten year vet ( just like Johnny!) . This game will get the 
 2008 the game of the year award. I would love to go into the story but then i would ruin it. The 
 only bad thing about MGS4 could be a good thing, and thats the long cutscenes, but hey like i said 
 i wont ruin the story, so if you havent played it i have 2 things to say, 1.) Where the hell have 
 you been the last 6 months? 2.) Get your copy... NOW!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! And the online is f*cking awesome 
 too, theres like 1 match in a week that youll play that has lag in  
 Oh yeah it has an awesome replay value as well so ... go get it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nayroneal
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 23, 2008 8:53 am PT
Review:  I thought this was a petty good game, I have never been a big fan of Metal Gear so my oinion is 
 not worth much. I liked Call of Duty 4 a lot better than this game, it seemed to be too movie like, 
 which ironically I usually like. But it seemed forced and fake to me somehow, I know there are 
 a lot of great rating for this game but I just didn't see it. My little brother explained the Snake 
 story to me, he is a huge Metal Gear fan and thought this game was great. I could not agree less. 
 The graphics were right on, the constant smoking was very annoying. Is this guy a cancer patient? 
 I know he's aging but the only thing faster than that was how he lights up. Man, he was a walking 
 chimney. Resistance is my next stop, I really liked the first one, hopefully Two is even better, 
 until next time... deal with this time 
::::::

::::::
UserName: HEAVEN-Z-A-LIE
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 23, 2008 7:51 am PT
Review:  okay lats start with its story line 
  wow its just amazing for sure its the best in the seties i know it has a long story line but its 
 worth every sec in watching it has every factor to make it a great story its lil funy but still 
 serious i know its a lil hard to understand the story but when you do you'll know the true acinse 
 of a great game but be warned after this game you'll never enjoy another game again ( coz its so 
 great get it ) and now to the characters for starts they combined all of them 
  ( characters ) from mgs 1 to 4 and from all of them are cool but now am gone talk about there personality 
 first of 
  
  SOLID SNAKE: he's they guy who had the hard life thats what made him a hard core soldier but his 
 a lil funy and he's serious and he's the silent by the way theres a cool thing in the story about 
 snake the guys who played it will know what am talking about its regarding the unstilled score 
 between snake and his brother now lats move on to another one.
  
  VAMP: his an old fashion kind of guy and you'll notice in the game that he looks feelingless and 
 believe me you don't want him to hold a grudge on you.
  
  RAIDEN: he's the cool guy in the story and his realy strong he was a soldier in mgs 2 but that 
 not that strong in mgs 4 he was like a god to make a long story shurte he's realy cool guy .
  
  LIQUID SNAKE: his a real pice of work his the bad guy but am prety sure you know that he has 
 no marce and he was planeing to dominate the patriot systeme, but i like this guy he has a ultra 
 cool personality.
  
  now back to the game its indescribable by word you just have to play to love
  it top's any game 
 that's out there but i think god of war 3 will be its rivel we'll just have to wait and see , thise 
 game will scarr you for life .
  
  i finished the game over 29 time's and got everything you can in the game from emblem and weapons 
 and mask's etc... so if you need any help info or advice just post it or send it to me and plz 
 give your point of view 
  :) mgs for ever :)
  ;) well see you;) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ocelot1994
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 23, 2008 6:45 am PT
Review:  Me playing the MGS series was a mistake because i randomly chose a game from the shelve and MGS2 
 caught my eye.
  
  Loved every second of MGS2 so i got MGS3 and went back to MGS1 and couldnt wait for 4
  
  MGS4 
 is a masterpiece from start to end you get drawn into the characters emotions especially Naomi.
 
  
  The single player is where the meat of the game is and its awesome. its around 20 hours long which 
 is quite good and with so many hidden secrets and stuff you can replay the game alot of times.
 
  
  The multiplayer is also good but joining it was the only problem i found. You have to do some rubbish 
 konami account thing which takes 1 hour when u just wanna go online and play
  
  Also there a so many updates which can take up to an hour to download which can be very frustrating 
 when u wanna quickly go online for a game or 2
  
  Other than that MGS4 is one of the best PS3 games out right now and if ur even remotely intrested 
 in the MGS series YOU HAVE to have this one its a must buy for PS3 owners 
::::::

::::::
UserName: runhinrun
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 22, 2008 11:22 pm PT
Review:  Kojima Productions went out with a bang when they made Metal Gear Solid 4 their last in the series. 
 Solid Snake's story comes to a close in the most detailed and cutscene filled game in the series. 
 While Kojima-san is known to infamously make use of cutscenes to advance his story, MGS4 manages 
 to keep you immersed in the game but allowing you to use Otakon's miniature rex buddy as well as 
 multiple camera angles and other little easter eggs. You will not be disappointed if you are MGS 
 fan.
  
  Ryan Payton's influence over the reworking of the controls is by far one of the best improvements 
 in the game. You'll find that running and gunning is not as hard as it used to be. While you may 
 find that sneaking is a bit harder in this game, it's merely changed. You make use of NPC's militia 
 groups to act as a sort of dynamic cover. You trigger events to help your militia group move forward.
 
  
  I don't want to spoil anything, but chapter 4 is very nostalgic and is probably the best chapter 
 in the game.
  
  MP is probably the only mode that can be somewhat of a disappointment. But the spectacular story 
 in the main game is what you will want to play over and over leaving you only to wish for Kojima-san 
 to make yet another MGS. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: robertcain
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 22, 2008 10:38 am PT
Review:  The Metal Gear series was born way back on the MSX2 computer in 1988. It was a critical success 
 and by doing so created the stealth action genre. 20 years later and the famous saga is coming 
 to an end in MGS4. Does it deliver?
  ABSOLUTELY YES!! MGS4 tells the final chapter in the story of the legendary super soldier Solid 
 Snake who has been transformed into Old Snake because of a rapid ageing process. The story is told 
 through enourmously, detailed, real time cutscenes that span the story in slideshows and triggered 
 flashbacks from previous games. These are the longest in any videogame and it sometimes feels too 
 much to take in even for hardcore fans. But these epic cutscenes tie up every loose end in the 
 plot and they are the only way the saga can end. The gameplay is still stealth action but its been 
 tweaked to make sure that all flaws have been fixed to ensure maximum playability. Your objective 
 is to make it through the enviroment through stealth or run and gunning. There are many tools at 
 your disposal for both. If you sneak then equipment like Octo-camo, Solid eye and the Metal Gear 
 Mk 2 will assist you sparingly in the game. If you'd rather shoot then there are over 100 weapons 
 to choose from. Whichever way you play the enemy AI is intelligent and superb. Enemies will take 
 cover, flank, and get suspicious very easily. New enemies include the collosal gekkos and Haven 
 Troopers that leap from wall to wall. Some amazing moments include a thrilling bike chase through 
 prague and a spectacular battle between two mazzive robots. The controls have remained the same 
 however making it hard to pick up for beginners. You will have to hold one button while pressing 
 another and fiddling around with the analogue stick. Its not an issue but better controls could 
 have made the game easier to pick up. MGS4 is the best looking game I have ever played. The textures 
 are fully detailed and the game is completely lag free and doesn't suffer from framerate issues. 
 Loading times are quick and install times are only a few minutes long. Character models are brilliantly 
 made, they show off the power of PS3. Voice acting is stunning to listen to and every actor has 
 been called back to play their role, from David Hayter to Richard Doyle. MGS4 also offers online 
 mutiplayer for up to 16 players. Its quite fun once you get past the annoying downloading which 
 takes forever. Overall MGS4 is an outstanding fusion of story telling and gameplay. The game is 
 just what PS3 needed and one of the best of this generation. If you have a PS3 then you need MGS4. 
 It is a must have game although it has no trophies or co - op play. Hideo Kojima has outdone himself 
 to create what could be his last MG game. If it is then Kojima's company is going out with a bang. 
 HK I salute you sir! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rpm12345
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 21, 2008 10:42 am PT
Review:  No game I've played before can quite match the greatness of Metal Gear solid 4: Guns of the Patriots. 
 Jaw dropping greaphics and sound, immaculate and gratifying gamesplay and an absolutly incredible 
 story that beats the experience of even the best movie make this true. Lets start with the story. 
 The cutcenes in this game are very long, but nothing fixes this problem better than those cutscenes 
 telling a story better than any other ive experienced before. The story is just amazing, bring 
 out all of my emotions and leaving me thinking for huors after playing. Even though since I hadn't 
 played the first three games so it was confusing, just the structure of the story was just unbelivably 
 good. Next, gameplay. Wether you like sneaking or shooting this game has pleanty of fun, challenge 
 ad things for you. The game offers you manny different guns, from tranquilizing pistols to the 
 5 foot, 44 pound pwer house that is the rail gun and everything in between. You can even through 
 playboy magazines at enemies. You can allways find enough amo and restore items to get you through 
 but when there is just too much, there is sneaking. from the start of the game you are equiped 
 with octocamo, a suit that takes the color and texure of whatever snake is pressed up against. 
 although it isnt perfect and you will be spoted if you move while the enemies are starring right 
 at you, you can use it to get past enemies to some extent, or if you can't, its nothing that a 
 silenced headshot can fix. You will also later in the game aquuire face camo, covering up your 
 previosly un comoed head, further extending your sneaking abilities. Aso in the game are pleanty 
 of unforgettable boss fights. through out the game you will fight bosses such as four seperate 
 female soldiers in suits with theeir own unique powers, a vampire like guy who can heal any wounds, 
 soildiers that can jump from wall to wall, and obviosly, liquid. Each of these boss fights are 
 different in your own way, from using wind direction to predict attacks, to using night vision 
 to get past octo camo illusions to using cqc to stab a guy with drugs. Finaly, the graphics and 
 sounds in this game are flawless. everthing is perfectaly animated with such detail thats its sometimes 
 unnecesary. the sound is also flawless as everything sound slike it would in real life (if there 
 are rail guns in real life that is) no exeptions.
  
  Play this game, end of story. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Achaean728
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 21, 2008 8:02 am PT
Review:  Metal Gear Solid 4 is, hands down, the very best game I've ever played. Let me tell you why I'm 
 sold on it: I've never played any Metal Gear game whatsoever; I usually dont play and dont like 
 third-person shooters; I have NEVER liked any game that has stealth or sneaking in it (I get frustrated 
 with it) ; and finally, I've never enjoyed an online tactical shooter. Metal Gear Solid 4 has forever 
 changed my perception of these types of games. I am probably the last person who would have ever 
 enjoyed this type of game, but MGS4 was able to deliver an experience that EVERY gamer should strive 
 to find and experience for themselves. But enough of this, lets talk about the actual game.
  
  GAMEPLAY: Phenomenal. The gameplay is phenomenal. The third person mechanics work brilliantly 
 and plays very smooth. There are multiple ways you can play the game. You can stealth/sneak your 
 way around; you can kill everything in your path; or you can do a combination of both! I did both, 
 since it was quite satisfying. The selection of weapons is astounding. Everything from pistols 
 to shotguns to automatic rifles and machine guns, even grenade and rocket launchers. MGS4 has a 
 huge armory of weapons to choose from depending on your play style. You could even just stick to 
 stun grenades and a tranquilizer gun and not kill anyone if you wanted to do that! 
  The sneaking/stealthing aspect is quite entertaining and is done very well. You can utilize a box 
 or even a drum barrel to hide in and sneak around. Your camo suit also adds to the sneaking fun 
 allowing you to blend in with your surroundings.
  
  STORY: One of the best stories I've ever encountered in a video game. The story is full of twists 
 to keep you wanting more as well as emotion that seems to give it that personal touch. The story 
 sequences can be long (although not as long as many have complained about) but the story is so 
 riveting, I doubt many who have played the game will complain. 
  My ONLY gripe with the story (and really the game as a whole) is that if you are new to the series 
 (like I was) , do some reading up on the Metal Gear story as a whole. The story is still told very 
 well and they do a pretty good job of explaining some of the backstory to newcomers but if youre 
 new to MGS games, you'll often find yourself perplexed and confused IF you dont read up on the 
 story before you play or if you dont play the previous installments. If you do your homework (wikipedia 
 is what I used) , read the back story (takes like 30 min) , you'll better understand the story and 
 it'll be a hundred times more enjoyable for you!
  
  GRAPHICS: The best. Graphics. Ever. There were sequences where the planes or the tanks and even 
 the people looked real and photo-realistic! Not too many games can match the graphics of MGS4.
 
  
  SOUND: The sound is superb. The sound fx were top notch. Everything from explosions to gun fire 
 (right down to the specific sounds each gun would make) was done with the utmost accuracy. The 
 voice-acting is probably the best I've ever heard in any game to date. The music is phenomenal 
 and really helps to set the tone and pace for the game, especially when things really get emotional 
 towards the end! 
  
  TECHNICAL: I found no technical problems, glitches or hindrances whatsoever. The game ran seamlessly. 
 I was amazed at how easily the game transitioned from story sequences to gameplay sequences. No 
 lag, no framerate dips. For the shear size and scope of a game like this, I was pleasantly surprised 
 to find no problems!
  
  MULTIPLAYER: This is where most people will have a problem. Although, as a reader, you should note 
 that Metal Gear Online is really a separate online shooter that was included with MGS4, and the 
 fact that it was included was actually pretty nice of Kojima. Metal Gear Online is just what it 
 sounds like, an online version of the Metal Gear universe. Its a tactical shooter that emphasizes 
 goal-oriented teamwork over just "runnin and gunnin" tactics. Its that point that most people have 
 problems with. Most of you FPS players out there enjoy your COD4 and Halo "just run and blow stuff 
 up" tactics, so naturally when you come across an online game that rewards teamwork and tactics 
 and punishes those who just run and gun, you cant help but get frustrated. 
  Metal Gear Online is not a bad multiplayer game, I found that most people's complaints had to do 
 with what I just stated above. They simply had a false perception of what the game was. IT IS A 
 TACTICAL SHOOTER. Meaning, you need tactics and teamwork to be successful. If you go into a match 
 with that attitude, you'll have fun. On top of your deathmatch and team deathmatch game types, 
 MGO also throws in some sneaking/stealthing matches where players must hunt down one person who 
 is sneaking around trying to knock out the other players to collect their "dog tags." I found these 
 matches to be pretty fun and definitely a change of pace from your normal multiplayer deathmatches. 
 
  I will say, MGO is a great experience, but is not quite perfect. The leveling system for you character 
 is not very streamlined. Essentially, you have to kill people that are higher level than you while 
 consistently remaining in the top 3 of the match in order to level. Adversely, if you do poorly 
 and are killed by lower level characters and are in the bottom 3 every match, you can drop a level 
 or two. I think a simple system of experience points and upgrades would have been more ideal. But 
 overall, you wont be disappointed with MGO, just remember to keep in mind that teamwork and tactics 
 are essential to it, if you do that, you'll have a blast. 
  
  Lastly, MGS4 doesnt have trophies, instead it has emblems. Just like trophies, the emblems are 
 goal-oriented tasks for completing certain things during the single-player campaign (i. e. not killing 
 anyone, using X amount of weapons, beating the game in a certain time or on a certain difficulty, 
 etc) . This greatly adds to the replay value of the game. Your first playthrough will probably be 
 anywhere from 15-25 hours. Add that to the replay value with the emblems plus Metal Gear Online 
 (which I got about 10 hours of gameplay out of so far) , you'll have yourself a great time!
  In closing, MGS4 is a game every PS3 owner should play. Its a game that every other game out there 
 should strive to be. The only flaw I found, although minor, was with MGO, but that in itself is 
 really a separate game from MGS4 (its actually sold separately in Japan) . To put it frankly, MGS4 
 is a game you will NOT regret buying, and trust me, if this game can convert someone like me who 
 never liked games like this into a devout follower, its gotta be good! 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: donadiojr
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 21, 2008 5:29 am PT
Review:  I just finished it. I was a little hisitant to play it because I never played any of the previous 
 MGS's, but a little homework on the MGS Database got me up to speed. Now that i have played it, 
 i wish i didnt wait so long. this is easily the best game made for PS3, if not ever. immersive 
 story, great controls, just right difficulty (on Normal) , and an ending that didnt disappoint. 
 game production was perfect - not a single frame-skip, not a single crackle in the audio, and really 
 good voice/character acting. there was no such thing as a quick round of MGS4 before going to work... 
 no, everytime i turned it on, i was entrenched for atleast 2 hours. this game is a MUST PLAY, do 
 not pass it by. 
  when i first started playing, it was ok, but as the story progressed and I learned more about what 
 was going on, i felt myself getting anxious to get home to play some more. i was hooked. it was 
 like a TV series and i couldnt wait to see (play) the next episode to see what happens next. 
 
  go play it, buy it, borrow it, whatever. do it now. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: yoalex232
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 25, 2009 8:30 pm PT
Review:  solid snale is the best cgaractyer in gaming history. not only the gameplay is absolite but its 
 design and storyline is amazing i liked it alot cause its like the best game int the world to me. 
 METAL GEAR SOLID 4 GUNS OF THE PATRIOTS is the best game of 2008 because any other is dramatic, good, emotianal, 
 and actiony as metal gear solid 4 guns of the patriots solid snake, raisen, meryl, otacon, big boss, 
 and more chhracter are very good playing roles in this game. metal gear solid is the bets game ever 
 for the rest of the years to come in gaming history. METAL GEAR SOLID 4 GUNS OF THE PATRIOTS IS 
 THE BEST GAME  
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PSgamer99
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 20, 2008 4:27 pm PT
Review:  Simply amazing is an understatement when describing Metal Gear Solid 4. Everything about the game 
 is amazing. It simply adds upon an already great Metal Gear Solid gameplay system, stuns you with 
 beautiful graphics, and immerses you into a blockbuster storyline. If You have a PlayStation 3 
 but not this game, THEN GO GET IT. Its simply a must have for every PS3 owner. There's only one 
 gameplay aspect I don't like though, and that's how slow Old Snake is, though I guess that's to 
 be expected, but that doesn't hold the game back at all. Another great part of this game is the 
 inclusion of metal gear online (along with the expansion pack DLC) which is an excellent online 
 multiplayer game with tons of game types. Bottom Line: MGS4 is the greatest metal gear yet, and 
 possibly the best game of its generation. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zohec
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 20, 2008 2:41 pm PT
Review:  MGS4 has to win the best game of 2008 award cause its simply the best! The game has everything 
 you want which is why is so great. It was done in such a fantastic way that some of its parts can 
 make you happy, sad, angry or many other things. Both the story and the graphics are some of the 
 best I have seen in a long time, and its was also the perfect way to end the series. What I do 
 hope its that they keep on doing these types of games even if thet are not with the same main characters 
 like Snake. These series are awesome because they always have great story lines and they keep you 
 at the edge of your seat. And this game in particuliar had everything and more the other games 
 from the series had. It is the type of game where no matter how many times you play throught it, 
 you will always have fun with it and find numerous ways of passing it without doing the same thing 
 as the time before. That's why I think this game has to the winner for the game of the year cause 
 I know am not the only one that thinks so. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Top-A-Gamer
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 20, 2008 2:20 pm PT
Review:  Metal Gear Solid 4 Review!
  
  Basically it has solid gameplay and the graphics are good aswell.
  Also gives players a choice 
 if they want to go stealth and sneak or shoot your way through. lol im making it sound like a FPS 
 even though you can play FPS style whole way through the game.
  
  And also the game isint easy. so thats good aswell.
  Boss fights are great and exciting in different 
 enviroments.
  Also snakes new gadgets are just awesome.
  
  I g2g now so this is a sloopy review but i doubt any1 is even reading it.
  
  just quickly Metal 
 Gear Online is probably as good or even better then the story.
  
  Thanks for reading the review!
  
  lllllllllllllll llllllllllllllllll lllllllllllllllll llllllllllllllllllllllll 
 lllllllllllllll lllllllllllllllllllll llllllllllllll lllllllllllllll llllllllllllllllllll llllllllllllllll 
 llllllllllllllll llllllllllll lllllllllllllllllll lllllllllllllll llllllllll lllllllllll lllllllllll 
 l 
::::::

::::::
UserName: googiebrothers
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 20, 2008 12:20 pm PT
Review:  Yes, at first I hated it, with all the cutscenes and stuff. But listen, READ or listen to them. 
 Thats how you know what the heck is going on. So you know what to do. Anyway cutscenes are actually 
 kinda cool. Especially that lab lady and stuff...
  
  Story Line
  Play as old Solid Snake, in modern warfare as a spy/marine person. Wield different guns and a knife, 
 grenades, ipod, and a trash can lid and stuff. Spy, sneak, disguise, or be stupid and run out and 
 try to shoot them all to death.
  
  Graphics
  Truly revolutionary graphics which makes the action all the better. Snake now has wrinkles, creepy 
 right? This is the first MGS I every played but this game is awesome. Speaking of graphics, have 
 you seen raging raven or that lab lady in the cutscenes???
  
  Gameplay/Controls
  Pretty easy except for the shooting thing. It gets a hard thing to get used to.
  
  Sound
 
  Good voicework, sound effects and stuff. By the way, have you heard raging raven? have you seen 
 her? Seen her AND heard her?!!?!?!?! sounds dangerous (and she is) but looks say otherwise i guess....... 
 IDK iread it from somewhere so don't blame it on me.
  
  BUY  
::::::

::::::
UserName: pinz90
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 20, 2008 9:22 am PT
Review:  
  STORY
  
  You play as Snake who is in Metal Gear Solid 1 and 2. Snake is an old man and has a disease which 
 is killing him, he is called back to do one last mission! I don't want to spoile it for you but 
 he has to stop his evil twin brother liquid snake who is also ocelot! The story may be out this 
 world at some point but how it tells it is good, intense and sad at times (iam crying just telling 
 you) !
  
  GAME PLAY
  
  The game play is good and with date with all the other games. The stuff you can do on MGS is clever 
 and fun. Its easy to play, newcomers will have to play it for half an hour or less to get a grip 
 of the controls. The boss fights are good and exciting. Most of the game you will be doing stealth, 
 sneaking around killing.
  There are a few points where you'll either be on a vehicle and shooting or piloting a giant robot 
 which adds even more to the game play.
  
  GRAPHICS
  
  Even without an HD-TV I thought these were the greatest graphics I have ever seen on a game. You 
 can see individual strands of hair, texture on lips, small wrinkles and details in clothing, and 
 facial expressions are very convincing and realistic. Also a few cinema in the game mix real actors 
 with CG which adds to the realism. The frame rate is perfect and I've never experienced a frame 
 rate drop or any lag. The frame rate holds up especially good at points in the game where it is 
 split-screen (one half game play and one half cinema) . One thing is certain, and that is that this 
 game is the furthest graphically then any other PS3 game period! 10 out of 10.
  
  OVERALL
  
  Very few games come close to being called perfect. This is one of the only games 
 I think is utterly flawless. I played this game at least 20 times and completed it four times and 
 i cant really see one wrong thing with this game. That's why iam saying that this game is the best 
 game in the world! 
  Signing off PINZ 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Austin_4e
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 19, 2008 6:34 pm PT
Review:  STORY: The story is way too complex and long to explain all of the epicness in a single review 
 so I'll give a round-about quick explanation. Solid Snake (your character: from MGS 1 and 2) is 
 now an old man due to his genes short life span. The whole world seems to be covered in war. Liquid 
 (Snake's evil twin who died in MGS1) has completely taken over Revolver Ocelot's (partner of Liquid's) 
 mind and is trying to destroy GW (too complicated to explain) with a nuke to send the war economy 
 into turmoil and end the patriots (even more complicated to explain) . He also takes control of 
 JD (a huge system that controls just about everything involved in the war) and can send soldiers' 
 minds into chaos by means of nano-machines (injected into every soldier in the war to make them 
 perfect and emotionless) . His plan is promptly called "Guns of the Patriots". Now there is all 
 together about twenty-hours of back-story and cinemas within the game. This game also has one of 
 thee best and most emotional ending to a story I have seen, even I found myself a little teary 
 eyed. It is safe to say that this game's story is a flawless 10 out of 10.
  
  GAMEPLAY: The gameplay is the essence of perfect gameplay. Easy enough difficulties and controls 
 for newcomers to jump in, but rediculously hard challenges and difficulties for veteran players, 
 and just about everything in between. The gameplay is pretty much named in the cover art, Tactical 
 Espionage Action. A majority of the game is being extremely stealthy, sneaking around, killing 
 or tranqing enemies from behind. There are a few points where you'll either be on a vehicle and 
 shooting or piloting a giant robot which adds even more to the gameplay. The boss fights are extremely 
 epic and challenging. Each of the game's 7 bosses have different advantages over you and are satisfying 
 to the end. There are tons of cool gadgets and items you get such as: Solid Eye (Night Vision and 
 Scanning Mechanical Eye Patch) , Mk. 2 (An invisible bot that can stun enemies) , and even an Ipod 
 (listen to tons of music from MGS past) . Snake now has an extremely helpful and awesome OctoCamo 
 which allows you to automatically blend in with the environment. You can also download, unlock, 
 and collect tons of costumes and other camos. There are 69 weapons in the game ranging from weapons 
 like M4, Grenade Launcher, RPG, Sniper Rifles, Smoke Grenades, Rail Gun, and The Patriot. The gameplay 
 is a definate 10 out of 10.
  
  GRAPHICS: Even without an HD-TV I thought these were the greatest graphics I have ever seen on 
 a game. You can see individual strands of hair, texture on lips, small wrinkles and details in 
 clothing, and facial expressions are very convincing and realistic. Also a few cinema in the game 
 mix real actors with CG which adds to the realism. The frame rate is perfect and I've never experienced 
 a frame rate drop or any lag. The frame rate holds up especially good at points in the game where 
 it is split-screen (one half gameplay and one half cinema) . One thing is certain, and that is that 
 this game is the furthest graphically then any other PS3 game period! 10 out of 10.
  
  REPLAY VALUE: The game has five difficulties with 40 emblems to earn that unlcock insanely cool 
 items for other play throughs and most of the emblems require individual play throughs to get. 
 Also the story and gameplay is just so great you always want to play through it "just one more 
 time", but that habit is hard to break. Not to mention Metal Gear Online (which I haven't personally 
 played, but I've heard nothing but high marks about) . All these elements combined can equal well 
 over 100+ hours of replayability. I've only had the game for three weeks and I've already beat 
 it three times and got the Big Boss Emblem (hardest challenge in the game) . I still find myself 
 playing through it over and over again. Sometimes I'll play through just to watch all the cutscenes 
 like a huge movie. This is one game I just don't want to put the controller down (even at one in 
 the morning) . So once again a 10 out of 10.
  
  OVERALL: Very few games come close to being called perfect. This is one of the only games I think 
 is utterly flawless. No matter how many times I play it I can't find any reason to say something 
 against this game. You can't say too much cinema cause you can skip them. You can't say no depth 
 cause the story is the longest I've ever seen. You can't say bad graphics cause it went at highest 
 power as possible. You can't say gameplay is bad cause it is accessible to any gamer. So overall 
 this game is 10 out of 10, but if it were possible I would rate this game off the charts. Thanks 
 to Hideo Kojima and the whole MGS4 team for this masterpiece. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KrAzY_Croat
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 20, 2008 5:47 pm PT
Review:  It's been over twenty years since the introduction of the original Metal Gear hit the Nintendo 
 Entertainment System. After a great deal of successful and popular sequels, director Hideo Kojima 
 tells the story of Metal Gear Solid 4, the swan-song to the great Solid Snake. Solid's adventure 
 combines the most intricately woven narrative ever with renowned gameplay. 
  
  From the first cut scene to the last, Metal Gear Solid 4 is sure to astonish and inspire. When 
 fully realized, the considerable length of the story sequences will take up a good half of the. 
 These story sequences are miraculously crafted, with some of the greatest graphics and animations 
 to date. So well done in fact, that they do not become tedious or overdrawn, but instead make a 
 beautiful compilation even better.
  
  Perhaps the most technically impressive game to be created, Metal Gear Solid 4 eye-opening graphics 
 let's players experience the world like never before. The majority of conversations in life are 
 expressed non-vocally. In the highly celebrated story elements and real-time, MGS 4 takes this 
 into effect. The incredible facial expressions are unprecedented, allowing players to feel how 
 the game's characters feel, and to think what they think. With a beautifully crafted environment; 
 lush forest and rich textures, and together with intricately designed character models and weaponry, 
 MGS 4 is a sight to behold.
  
  As quoted by Hideo Kojima, Metal Gear Solid 4 is the final adventure of Solid Snake. Snake, now 
 suffering from expeditious aging, now must endure an old bod in addition to Liquid Ocelot's newest 
 dastardly plans. In an effort to avoid spoiling anything, it can be said that new plot strands 
 emerge, while others are sewn up. Friends that refuse to go away turn up, and these reunions are 
 violent, emotional, or shocking. Metal Gear Solid 4 can perhaps be accused of having a heavy-handed 
 story, but with the perfect voice acting and plot tie-ins, MGS 4 avoids any melodrama. The boss 
 fights are noteworthy. Appropriately visceral, difficult and lengthy. All boss battles require 
 some thinking.
  
  Despite even the highest quality of storytelling and visuals, a game will not be great without 
 great core controls. Luckily, gameplay is familiar to fans, and it has even become more refined 
 and evolved. To extrapolate, both gun play melee combat are more satisfying. Regarding close-quarters-combat, 
 the controls have become more graceful; making grabs and knife kills perfectly streamlined. Shooting 
 mechanics are better still, making shooting your way out of a situation just as enjoyable as sneaking. 
 The greatest part is, that the game doesn't force stealth or Rambo combat, leaving players to play 
 with their own style.
  
  Solid's arsenal is more impressive then ever before. Rifles, handguns, grenades, rocket launchers 
 and even rail guns are available. The sheer choice in weapons is huge, and the customization is 
 better than ever before. Many weapons allow such customization, and these upgrades include silencers, 
 under-barrel grenade launchers, scopes, laser pointers and flashlights. the only flaw with this 
 system is that not every weapon has accurate upgrades. The Colt M4 for example, forces you to come 
 back and use it from the large number of upgrades. An AN-94 Abakan on the other hand, can use all 
 the same perks, but only has a grenade launcher upgrade in the game.
  
  Snake's old bones doesn't hinder the basics. Solid can still crawl, hug and peek around walls and 
 hang from ledges. These mechanics are tighter then ever before, and just as important. Snake has 
 some additional, important perks to help his Conquest. The most obvious is the OctoCamo suit, which 
 takes the texture of surroundings when pressed up against them. Not only a cool effect, it greatly 
 helps avoiding the enemies gaze. The Solid Eye is the other major tool, as it expands the compass, 
 allows the use of night vision and first-person view. These are very useful, especially in the 
 epic boss battles.
  
  A constant eye needs to be kept on Snake's Health, Psyche and Stress gauges. These elevate and 
 descend as combat takes place. If well hid, Snake will regenerate these meters. And they're all 
 important. It's vital to regulate Psyche for example, to maintain optimal accuracy and concentration. 
 
  
  Regardless of tactics, the level design and intelligent A. I. create intense gameplay. If playing 
 stealth, hiding under a box or barrel might not be the best decision, as the soldiers might blow 
 your cover. In large firefights, enemy teams will use the terrain to their advantage, utilizing 
 cover and flanking mechanics. Later in the plot, a few set-piece battles further enhance the game 
 play. A motorcycle chase mimics film quality in terms of entertainment. Another features giant 
 robots that tear environments apart.
  
  On top of the benchmark single-player experience, MGS 4 offers sixteen player multiplayer. Deathmatch 
 and Team Deathmatch are present, as are rescue modes, capture and defend etc. The only real difference 
 between the solo and multiplayer mode is that they warrant difference tactics, multiplayer relying 
 less on stealth than shooting. The greatest mode is likely, a team deathmatch variant where one 
 player plays as Snake, and another supports him as the Mk II.
  
  The heavy-handed story might be too much for some. But for people whom enjoy in depth storytelling 
 presented in amazing cinematics and visceral action, MGS 4 doesn't disappoint. To say this is the 
 best game of the year is an understatement. You will want to see the this chapter in the saga through, 
 but as it comes to a close, you will wish it never ends. Metal Gear Solid 4 offers an invigorating 
 ride not soon to be forgotten. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: mrfrog52
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 19, 2008 11:52 am PT
Review:  This is the final chapter of the metal gear solid saga [ as far as we know...] and it goes out with 
 a bang. Awesome new gameplay mechainics, fantastic graphics, solid multiplayer, and and an incredible 
 storyline. What more could you ask for? The story follows Snakes last mission as his body is deteriating. 
 He has to defeat liquad before something terrible happens. I know it sounds simple, but remember, 
 this is metal gear. The graphics are the best Ive seen, and the new gameplay makes it Literally 
 a stealth action game, a mix of metal gear and call of duty 4. Overall, IF YOU HAVE A PS3, YOU 
 NEED TO GET THIS 
 
  
 
  !!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Siosal01
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 19, 2008 3:03 am PT
Review:  I've played all the Metal Gear Solid games. I enjoyed them. Possibly not as much as some people 
 but nonetheless, they were good. Metal Gear Solid 4 really does tie in all of the old games and 
 provides a satisfying conclusion. 
  
  Yes the cutscenes are insanely long but it is only in one or two that you feel compelled to skip 
 to the next part. New comers to the series will still enjoy this game despite not understanding 
 much of the story or the in-jokes. 
  
  The graphics are stunning. That is all i can say. I love looking at this game. The soundtrack is 
 spot on (although I feel an opportunity was missed in adding an ipod but not allowing you to play 
 your own music) . 
  
  It never feels too hard and options are always presented to you. so you never feel that the way 
 you did something was the only way. I'm pretty sure many people won't enjoy this game, but they 
 are well over shadowed by the many that will. This is a great reason to own a PS3 and definitely 
 brings promise of amazing things to come for the console. 
  
  You may feel this is a short game (once all the cutscenes are subtracted) but this is one of the 
 few games that warrants a second or third play through. A worthy purchase and a fantastic addition 
 to a growing library on the PS3. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: taplok
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 16, 2008 3:02 am PT
Review:  The true Game of the Year for 2008, and one of the all time best! A very good example of a game 
 with a great storyline and gameplay, plus excellent graphics & sound.. A combination of stealth, 
 shooting (1st person-view, 3rd person-view, sniper.) , Close Quarter Combat, customizable guns & 
 rifles, suits, camouflage, explosives, gadgets, and other items. It's full of action, drama, suspense, 
 mystery, a bit of humor, and the characters are very memorable especially SOLID SNAKE. 
  The Metal Gear Solid series is one of the best games in all the playstation consoles. Definitely 
 worth every penny that you'll spend, and will give you one of the most very memorable, immersive, 
 and exciting gaming experience of your life. You will not regret getting this game. A must have 
 exclusive for all PS3 gamers. If you still don't have it, get your own Metal gear solid 4: Guns 
 of the Patriots blu-ray disc now. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: jimbobb23
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 15, 2008 7:49 pm PT
Review:  I was playing the game a second time and there was a helicopter in the sky. I figured it was scenery 
 like in most games, but I had a weapon that I could shoot it with, so I did and it fell out of 
 the sky and crashed in front of me. This moment confirmed for me what I learned as I played through 
 the game... it is one of the greatest, most polished, most detailed games ever made.
  
  You must play it to believe it, but this game was fun for me pretty much every minute. I don't 
 think I was bored or wishing I was doing something else for even one second. It is amazing.
  
  And as I said above, I am not a real fan of stealth games or FPS. But this game is something 
 else.
  
  This game makes you realize what the PS3 can do and makes you realize that when games have crappy 
 graphics it just mean the designers were lazy lazy lamers. This game looks otherworldly amazing. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DM2438
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 15, 2008 7:21 pm PT
Review:  I have been a fan of MGS since MGS 1. Since that installment, the story has been expanded upon 
 in MGS 2 and MGS 3 introducing to new charaters (both allies and villians) and explaining the story 
 of Big Boss, Ocelot, Raiden, of course Snake, etc. The thing the MGS series has done is make a 
 movie out of a video game. The series has always has a score that seemed as if it was meant for 
 a high budget summer blockbuster. Characters have been introduced in such a way which makes them 
 all lovable and unique, villian or ally. Now we arrive at MGS 4, and there are no new characters 
 except for new machines. This is not a bad thing because now we can finally understand who these 
 previous characters are a little better, say goodbye to some of our favorites, and finally understand 
 what the prupose of all the MGS games.
  
  First off this game is clunky like all the other, but this time you are given more freedom in the 
 close combat and shooter department. The graphics are out of this world and the cutscene are classic 
 MGS. I will not lie, there are too many boring cutscenes in this game, but this make the more intense 
 and emotional cut scene even sweetier. I have never looked at the MGS series ,since MGS 2, as a 
 adventure game, but more or less as a movie. An MGS 4 takes this to another level due to the fact 
 that cutscenes make up half the playing time which is not a bad thing. Games today believe cutscenes 
 are a thing of the past making MGS 4 feel like a retro. Its like when the Mustang 1960 body style 
 was retroed. The level dynamic are forever changing making this game feel larger than it actually 
 is. The A. I. in this game sometimes feel stupid at points and random placed mines make the game 
 difficult to freely roam. Few levels sometime leave you lost like following a million foot prints 
 in the forest at one point. But nonetheless, cutscene involving interaction with villian such as 
 Ocelot, Vamp, etc. are just a epic as the ending of this blockbuster. Though snake is old, he feels 
 as young as ever. I was kind of skeptical of the age thing, but it makes the game feel that much 
 more meaningful especially for MGS fans. The in-game and cutscene music is just beautiful. The 
 ending is just something that I have never scene in a video game. I am a mature gamer and for this 
 arrive at this time in my life is a blessing. The game is just that damn good. I love movies, and 
 this movie does a great job at disquising itself as a game (Yes, you heard me right) . 
  
  Game is worth a buy and next to GTA IV, it is the best thing to hit the PS3 since its creation. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Furnish
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 12, 2009 12:06 pm PT
Review:  Metal Gear Solid 4 is sheer pleasurable game and the story plot will suck you in. No doubt it got 
 10/10 rating. 
  MGS4 is not a game for everybody though. above 45% of the game is presented by awe-inspiring synthesis 
 of dramatic long-cut scenes. Flashback can be trigger during the cut-scene relating to the previous 
 game series. This game is mainly known for its grand eye tearing story. Patience is necessary you 
 watch the awesome cut-scene or intending to skip them is better not to buy the game in first place. 
 
  It's game play have improved a lot from the previous games allowing more compelling upgrades to 
 your weapons, letting you chose 1st person mode and changing shoulders in 3rd person and you don't 
 always have sneak around enemies if not necessary.
  The stamina bar is replaced with "stress" meter based on current fighting and climate conditions. 
 When it is high, it will cause Solid Snake to go "combat high" enhancing accuracy and damage which 
 is taken by the enemy, most helpful in boss fights. But too much time in a high intensity gun fights 
 wear it off and cause momentarily collapse, or the vision may get blurry. Actions like eating noodles, 
 military rations, listening to the iPod or reading the Playboy Magazine will calm him down. Anything 
 which depends on curiously raises his 'Psyche' meter. Psyche meter help Solid's health to heal 
 quicker, increase sharpness of accuracy and other abilities.
  In this game Snake Solid is accompanied with a robotic drone MKII/III which allows the player to 
 communicate with other characters and also capable of incapacitating the enemy with a weak electronic 
 pulse, and sending it into reconnaissance will not break your cover.
  The "Baseline Map" delivers a dynamic circle based on Solid's presence regarding the environment 
 and enemy attention towards you. 
  In the main menu, player can enter a virtual range and practice shooting with the weapons in the 
 game and practice CQC moves. During the pause menu in the game, player can buy ammo and purchase 
 new guns in their convenience, instantly. Other facilities are included. 
  The graphics excellence is vivid, sound quality is surround type. HDMI supported, above 720p. No 
 graphical glitch and no control malfunctions. Mission Brief can be replayed in the main menu. This 
 is the best game where you will encounter no faults but only greatness. "Greatness is nothing until 
 it is lasting" Napoleon Bonaparte. 
  
  Look, So many Awards
  
  Following the high critical acclaim it received upon its release, Metal Gear Solid 4 has received 
 many awards from various critics and publications, including several Game of the Year awards/nominations.
 
  
  On December 26, MGS4 was named the overall Game of the Year by GameSpot and won in the Reader Poll 
 hosted by Gamespot. The critics praised every aspect of the game, "In every sense MGS4 delivers... from 
 a great story to outstanding graphics, incredible sound design, great bosses, everything." Associate 
 editor Kevin VanOrd praised MGS4 for finding "a perfect harmony between gameplay and storytelling." 
 "takes two different kinds of entertainment... both of which stand out as the ultimate form of entertainment" 
 "the fact that they can be combined into one seamless entity... that's something really extraordinary."
 
  
  IGN's Best of 2008 Awards
  
  Best Graphics Technology (PS3) 
  Best Action Game (PS3) 
  PS3 Game of the Year 
  GameSpot's Best of 2008 Awards
  
  Game 
 of the Year [104] 
  Best Graphics (technical) 
  Best Boss Battles 
  Best Story 
  Best Voice Acting 
  Most Memorable Moment 
  Best Action Adventure Game 
  Best PS3 Game 
 
  In a Poll hosted by Gamespot, MGS4 was declared the Readers' Game of the Year with 32% of the 
 total votes. 
  Giant Bomb Awards
  
  Best Graphics [105] 
  Most Satisfying Sequel 
  Best PlayStation 3-Only Game 
  Golden Joystick Awards
  
  PlayStation Game of the Year 
 
  GameSpy's Game of the Year 2008 Awards
  
  PS3 Action Game of the Year 
  PALGN GOTY Awards
  
  Game of the Year [106] 
  Best Visuals 
  PS3 Game of the Year 
  Spike 
 Video Game Awards
  
  Best Graphics 
  Best Original Score 
  Best Performance by a Female Human (Debi Mae West as Meryl Silverburgh) 
  GamePro: The Best (and 
 Worst) of '08
  
  PS3 Game of the Year (tied with LittleBigPlanet) 
  2008 Gamezine Awards
  
  Overall Game of the Year [107] 
  PS3 Game of the Year [108] 
  In 
 a Poll hosted by Gamezine, MGS4 was declared the Readers' Game of the Year with 35% of the total 
 votes. 
  X-Play Best of 2008
  
  Best Action/Adventure Game 
  MTV Game Awards 2008
  
  Best Boss Fight (Screaming Mantis Fight) 
  LeveL Magazine: Game of the Year Awards 2008
 
  
  Game of the Year 
  Joystiq's Top 10 of 2008
  
  Game of the Year [109] 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: jerkface7
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 2, 2009 2:45 pm PT
Review:  metal gear solid 4 is probaly one of the best games ever created if u have never played a metal 
 gear solid game before and u play this one u will want to play the rest of them espicaly the second 
 one. the reason i got it was because i got the pack that came with the ps3 and it was worth it. 
 it has the most realistic graphics ever its oblisly way more fun than grand theft auto 4 because 
 u can actualy costomize ur weapons like put a silencer or a grennade launcer on automatic weapons 
 and the envirment is so detailed down to the last bottle. if anyone won says that this game sucks 
 they must have been on meth or crack or there just retared. Metal Gear Solid 4 is better than gears 
 of war resistance cod 5 and 4 and grand theft auto four combined into one awsome game. Metal Gear 
 solid 4 the greatest game ever and it should win game of the year. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: HaXeR
Rating: 7
Date: Dec 15, 2008 4:42 pm PT
Review:  So, i'll admit, ive never been too interested in the MGS series. It just never appealed to me, 
 but around June of this year, when i decided to get a PS3, all i heard people talk about was "MGS4 
 THIS, MGS4 THAT, MGS4 IS THE GREATEST GAME IN EXISTANCE, MGS4 IS THE RETURN OF JESUS CHRIST TO 
 SAVE US ALL." So, i decided "What the hell, might as well give it a try." Even though i had never 
 played the previous games (although i HAD watched GT's Retrospective on the series before buying 
 it) , i bought the hype, i believed this was the greatest game ever.
  
  So, what did i think of it? I have mixed opinions. For one thing; this was NOT the greatest game 
 ever. Not even close. It might have been a DECENT game, at best, but not that great.
  
  Lets start with the pros:
  -Possibly the best graphics ive ever seen.
  -Great story that kept 
 me interested on the first playthrough
  -Great voice acting
  -Great characters
  -Blockbuster movie-like production values
  -Gameplay was fun from time to time.
  
  And now, 
 the cons:
  -Gameplay can be really tedious at times.
  -DID THE CUTSCENES REALLY HAVE TO BE SO DAMN LONG?!?! (i almost fell asleep during the last one)
 
  -After beating this game once, i had absolutely no desire to pick it up again at all.
  -Metal Gear Online just flat-out sucks. Konami, why the hell did you have to make your online service 
 completely seperate from the PSN? And the gameplay was just not fun. I'm pretty sure it was just 
 me, but after doing so well in the single player and then jumping to online, i got my *** handed 
 to me repeatedly. (and NO i wasnt playing on the easiest difficulty in single player, either.)
 
  -If this is supposed to be a stealth game, then how come i could i just run out in front of enemies, 
 shoot them repeatedly, and survive? Kinda eliminates the point of it being a stealth game.
  -The constant install times were kinda annoying, and really ate up my HD space.
  
  Overall, 
 if i were to rate Metal Gear Solid 4 as a movie, it would a 9.5/10. However, since it's a GAME, 
 i'm gonna have to give it a 7.0/10, and i feel that's really being generous. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sonic7777777
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 15, 2008 4:32 pm PT
Review:  This game is really fantastic. It gets really frustrating though in the beginning when your first 
 trying to learn all of the controls because theirs so much stuff you can do. Me and my friend both 
 quit playing the game after the first 2hrs of playing it because we got so frustrated. Then the 
 next day the only thing we wanted to do was play it! It's a really addicting game with lots of 
 stuff to do. You can comoflauge on anything and its really cool. The game in itself is a truly 
 compelling. The graphics, man oh man the graphics. Spike gave it the best graphics award and I 
 totally agree. Its got huge replay value and you can go through missions differently every time. 
 The sound as well is magnificent. If you have speakers on your tv, i mean big ones, its the best 
 sounding game out there. The story though is way too complicated and twisted. That's what gives 
 the game a strong suit for sure, but I think they could've done a great job with less poitless 
 stuff. But anyway, its an awesome game that ps3 people should really get their hands on. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fizik89
Rating: 5
Date: Dec 15, 2008 3:45 pm PT
Review:  Im going to make this review short, because in essence, thats how this game came to me; falling 
 short.
  
  If you want to watch a movie, you can rent this game. Like most of the other reviewers who posted 
 negative reviews for MGS4 this game was no joke at least half movie half game.. if not more movie 
 im guessing.. actually yah way more movie.
  
  For example, You watch a 20-25 minute cutscene, then you will play for about 10 minutes, just to 
 watch another massive 30 minute cutscene. I don't know if its just me who gets extremely bored 
 by this kind of gameplay or what, like usually cutscenes in games range from around 5-10 minutes 
 at max.. this movie/game made you want to fall asleep at points.
  
  This game was the biggest joke to me, definitely not a fan of old snake or this series anymore, 
 the first couple MGS were revolutionary; this game (if you want to even call it that) just plain 
 and simply is not. Terrible way to end it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BiancaDK
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 15, 2008 8:29 am PT
Review:  What a wonderful game this is! Ive replayed it so many times now, beaten it on hardest difficulty, 
 and i still come back for more!
  
  The graphics are pretty, the sound quality is quite nice, and the storyline is... more easily understood 
 and more gripping. You finally get some level of conclusion to the saga of Metal Gear, and if that 
 isnt enough to convince you to try this game on for size, i can let you know that there will be 
 epic dance moves included in the game and flirtatious bosses!
  
  I really cant say anything bad about this game, it is one of the best games i have ever played, 
 and ive played pretty much anything worth my while since Wolfenstein 3D and Super Mario Brothers 
 on the NES. An instant classic, and i mean it! It has raised the bar on so many levels, its probably 
 the most emotional game i have played to date, and you feel fulfilled when the credits finally 
 do roll over the screen. Hideo Kojima, me and you - im sure we could produce beautiful children 
 :P 
::::::

::::::
UserName: castrolsupra23
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 15, 2008 7:51 am PT
Review:  I placed a 10 for my score not because this game is perfect in every way, but because it is one 
 of the best game I have played so far. Although, I am a very huge fan of the series, I found some 
 parts of the cutscenes to be very long, boring even, sometimes. I'm not saying that I didn't enjoy 
 the answering many of the questions I had for the series but some were just too long. Sometimes 
 I forgot was I was going to do next because the cutscene took forever. The visuals in this game 
 are truly amazing. I can't even begin to imagine how long the graphics dude took to do all the 
 animation and environment. The sound is phenomenal. From the gunshots, tanks, explosion, and music. 
 Although the online was not the best in the world, I still play it until now December 15th of the 
 year 2008. Maybe not as much as when it came out, but I still play MGO to get some metal gear action. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ReapersXXXGrim
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 15, 2008 7:13 am PT
Review:  this game has proven that hideo Kojima is one of the best game directors of all video gaming history. 
 This is a great and fantastic way to end the series (belonging to Hideo Kojima) and how to top 
 the ice cream of all MGS fans, although the story is going to continue Konami is being sold over 
 to another company and he/she takening over is going to continue the story with Raiden and Sonny. 
 But enough about a game not even started on lets get back to MGS4 the weapons and camo setting 
 are brillient the controls are easy and superb although the aim id different then those of 2 and 
 3 it makes 4 much more easy. The graphics of the game is so good that it made my friend ask me 
 what film im watching. This is not suprising to me that the game has won game of the year twice 
 in a row, im sure that this game will be remembered by millions in the later years. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: crogamer_1
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 14, 2008 6:51 pm PT
Review:  This game is described so many times, so there is nothing that someone can say new. The main reason 
 why I reviewed this game is because of a lot of fan boys suggest you to buy ps3 because of this 
 game. Ok, if you are a mg fan boy maybe it's a good advice, but I must admit I have friend who 
 is big fan of first 3 mg games and when I said to him that you can wear as many weapons as you 
 want in this game, he said that in first three you couldn't and that it's stupid, like me think 
 either. I mean is it normal that old snake can wear more weapons then ratchet, lol? So I even couldn't 
 recommend this game to someone who is fan and especially not to someone who didn't play any mg 
 game before.
  This is my first mg game, and I liked the game. I like 3rd person games a lot because of health 
 reasons, first person shooters are great, but they have very bad influence on peoples health.
 
  I red that a lot of people said that this game is easy, well, I recommend them to play the game 
 on normal or higher difficulty, and then they will change their opinion. This game is very hard 
 if you play it on higher difficulty levels then easy.
  The story mode is nice, cut scenes are way to long, and if you are new in series like me, skip 
 them all, or you will hate and miss the game if you try to watch and understand them. I watched 
 them all and I wanted to stop playing the game because of this cut scenes 100 times. But I didn't, 
 and I finished the game a few times on different difficulty levels.
  This is sneaking game and not shooting game, and the point is to go from point to point stealth, 
 without alerting enemies. Of course there is some shooting parts, but sneaking is main point of 
 this game, especially if you play the game on higher difficulty level. If you play on easy level 
 you can pass this game with run and gun technique, but on normal or higher difficulty no chance. 
 When I said the game is sneaking, I didn't mean boring but interesting.
  Boss fights are very well done, graphic is very good, levels are nice, sound is good and weapons 
 are great like other items in this game. Stealth killing is very well done.
  I don't like mg online because it's not very good and it's pretty boring, there is just 5 very 
 small maps and the best way to kill someone is to shoot him in head or defeat him from box with 
 cq technique, which I find very stupid. I mean how is possible that I can not kill the guy in a 
 box from paper with light machine gun and he can grab me and kill me, and I heat him at least 50 
 times? Funny!!! Basically if you don't shoot someone in head you will need 50 bullets for one kill, 
 lol.
  Game doesn't have trophy support and fan boys said that it wouldn't be trophy support for this 
 game. I like trophies, and I think this game must have trophy support, because there is to many 
 people who wrote on forum how they achiewed some amblems and there is no way to check if they are 
 telling us true or?
  So there are 3 main reasons I rated this game with 8 and not with 10 (even I can understand why 
 gamespot and fan boys rated this game with 10) : Cut scenes are to long and could go away new mg 
 players, snake can wear all weapons and not just 2 and grenades like in normal game and I really 
 don't like mg online.
  I played about 20 ps3 games, and my advice to you is to buy first some of those games: Dead space, 
 Ghost Recon 2 or Uncharted. Those games are 3rd person shooters and those games are for everyone 
 and not just for fan boys. My first ps3 choice is game I play right now, Dead space  Masterpiece.
 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Death_Blade_182
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 13, 2008 10:55 pm PT
Review:  Plain and simple: MGS4 is THE game.
  
  Now, seriosuly, it is a very good game, full of awesine gameplay and graphics, all the Metal gear 
 action you would expect is here, althogh i feel the stealth element has been toned down a bit.
 
  
  MGS4 is full of epic moments which will probably make you cry if you've been an MGS fan for a long 
 time, and a very elaborated storyline which ends the series just perfectly (Although you won't 
 understand much of it if you haven't played the other Metal gear Solid games) .
  
  On it's own, I'd give it 9.0/10. But then there's MGO, which is basically playing Metal Gear Solid 
 online, just as the name implies. the multiplayer is freaking awesome, you'll definitivel have 
 a lot of fun.
  
  Overall, Metal Gear Solid 4 : Guns of the Patriots is the reason why you should buy a PS3. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: slaymanio1
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 13, 2008 1:56 pm PT
Review:  .The game is great but a little bit too short because for me the videos in the game do not count 
 even if they are interesting and blasted with pure action. The online only offers you 5 maps and 
 that is not a lot but you can still buy the gene expansion pack. The game is very fun. If you liked 
 Splinter Cell you will definitely like this game and you will put it before Splinter cell on your 
 game shelf. But seriously if you like very long games you will maybe disappointed. The online looks 
 like socom confrontation but it never lags and it's very rare that you will see a glitch in the 
 game and it has better graphics. The character detail is very cool and well made. You can compare 
 this game with an FPS because it's is one and a third person shooter. This is the Halo, Halo 2, 
 halo 3 killer and it's not a lie this game is not a disappointment. You will not regret of buying 
 this game. It has good A. I and enormous amount of weapons and weapons customisations for gun freaks. 
 Hope you enjoy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pop_can
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 12, 2008 6:30 pm PT
Review:  Metal Gear Solid 4 is the best game I have ever played. Everything about it is simply amazing, 
 and everything fits without flaw into the game. 
  The graphics are the best I have seen on any console, and even better than most PC games. The cutscnes 
 are rendered using the in-game engine, and transition seamlessly into gameplay. If my hud never 
 popped up when the cutscene is over, I would never know when they would end. Speaking of the cutscenes, 
 they are very lengthy and may be more than some people can handle. But the option to pause and 
 skip the cutscenes is a nice addition. Best graphics of any game released so far.
  The gameplay is also vastly improved. Instead of pressing a lot of buttons to aim liek in previous 
 games, all you have to do in this one is jsut hit "L1" to aim, and "R1" to fire. Its that easy. 
 The octo-camo suit is also a nice addition. To many fans of the previous games, it may seem cheap 
 to use a suit that gives you the best camo for every surface, but don't worry, it is perfectly 
 balanced and you can even save camo patterns if you want to go old school and select the camo for 
 the situation. This game seems to be tailored for every play style, you can go through being stealthy, 
 and it would work fine. You could also go in guns-a-blazin' and the game would still be fun. The 
 addition of Drebin and his shop is also a nice touch. While many say that it would make the game 
 too easy, its optional to use. You could go through the game without fireing a weapon (except boss 
 battles) and the game would still be fun. The fun and unique boss battles are also a great addition. 
 from teh first battle to the pure amazing epic final boss battle. Here is a little hint about teh 
 final battle, its nothing that you would expect from the Metal Gear Solid series, and its amazing 
 fun.
  This game is a must buy. Even if you didn't play teh other games in the series (I didn't) this 
 game will still be able to explain everything to you, tying up all loose ends throughout the series' 
 life span. Like I said before, the only bad thing about this game is that it ends, and we may never 
 see another game like this one again.
  There are many more features and goodies about this game that I haven't mentioned, like the supurb 
 online multiplayer, or the target room, or the camera which lets you take pictures in game and 
 lets you use them as a backround for your PS3. There is just so much in this game that you NEED 
 to buy and experience.
  
  A must buy for any PS3 owner, and the first real reason to buy a PS3 as well
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: kluc05
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 11, 2008 4:34 pm PT
Review:  Metal Gear is a series that entrances some and annoys others. It originated the stealth genre, 
 and took narrative video games to an unprecedented level. It's latest iteration is beautiful and 
 deep, but still has many issues that have not been fixed from the original, which is sure to frustrate 
 all but the most hardcore of gamers.
  
  As usual, I will start by stating the good.
  
  The story, when it sticks to the basics, is very good and very emotional. While you will certainly 
 spend more time watching than playing, it keeps you drawn in with frequent interactions (press 
 L1 to view things in first person, or X to see a flashback from a previous game) . 
  
  The voice acting is the best to date. All the actors pull off their lines with ease and really 
 help draw you in.
  
  The graphics may be the best I've ever seen. Character models are nearly flawless, and outside 
 of some lazy lip syncing, everything is very believable.
  
  The game finally has taken us to original-feeling places, ranging from battlefields to cities. 
 There is nothing quite as cool as crawling down the middle of a huge fire fight with nobody seeing 
 you.
  
  And now on to the issues, of which there are many.
  
  The biggest issue, which literally made me detract a full 1.0 from its score, is the fact that 
 the game STILL lacks a decent save system or checkpoint system. This is most evident when you are 
 caught by a guard, and have to choose between killing the pursuing patrols, hiding for 5 minutes 
 while they look for you and then go away, or exiting to the title screen and loading. I cannot 
 for the life of me understand why they did not insert a "Load Last Checkpoint" option, an option 
 which is present is literally every other game in existence.
  
  Boss fights seem to wave back and forth between awesome and repetitive. Nothing flashy really happens 
 in the first couple of fights, and you will find yourself basically running and gunning. While 
 the CQC moves are useful, they aren't that cool to watch, and are never useful against bosses. 
 I would have really liked to see a bit more substance to the fights, where things are blowing up, 
 and Snake actually seems like a bad ass, instead of killing the most brutal killing machines with 
 tactics that, for the life of me, seem identical to what others were doing before.
  
  The story is, in my opinion, the hardest thing to like. There are basic concepts that are excellent 
 and left me feeling very satisfied, but a lot of it was really really convuluted. More often than 
 not, my eyebrows were arched and my face was contorted into a ".... wtf? They expect me to buy that?" 
 In no way shape or form is the story believable. From the mooing mini-Metal Gears that bleed, to 
 the ever increasing plot of "nanomachines run the war!", this game gets more and more far fetched. 
 It has fast degenerated from Espionage Thriller to the levels of a Sci-Fi movie script. 
  
  This would be okay if Metal Gear wasn't originally coined as a more realistic game. The point was 
 that Snake had to sneak because it was more realistic and he would be killed, and now the plot 
 is so far fetched, you have to entirely suspend your disbelief to even contemplate it. I truly 
 wish this entire series would be re-done, with all the Sci-Fi elements left out. I don't exactly 
 want Metal Gear to go Splinter Cell, but this game is left out of my Top games literally because 
 of the absurdity of the plot.
  
  Possibly the strangest idea of the game is the title character himself. Solid Snake has degenerated 
 from veteran bad ass to damn near crippled. That would be okay, honestly, if they had given him 
 a better look. But the ridiculous mullet and mustache is just not bad ass. It's almost as if it 
 was an inside joke, but one that literally is present throughout the entire game. It's very hard 
 to feel awesome when you have your FaceCamo on and your mullet is literally flapping out the back 
 of it. The Old Snake thing could have been pulled off, but never would be as cool as sticking with 
 40-50ish Snake.
  
  Other little things could have been left out as well. The ability to carry every weapon in the 
 world is becoming more ridiculous as time passes. The game has a bit too much comedy in it, considering 
 the otherwise serious tones. The Metal Gear Mk. II or whatever seemed to be a filler. I never once 
 used it, and again it seemed too comical. 
  
  The Codec seems almost useless this time around, as you only have 2 numbers you can call. I really 
 missed having a series of people to call during boss fights to get their perspective on it. 
  
  Why this game was given a 10 is beyond me. Perhaps for die-hard fans, it is 10 worthy, but 
 for it get a 10, in my opinion, it would have had to fix a lot of issues.
  
  Don't get me wrong, the game is good. It's just not fantastic. It will likely make die-hard fans 
 love it, and make make newcomers justify not buying into the hype in the past. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Monstar23
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 11, 2008 9:12 am PT
Review:  The first game that I got when I bought my PS3 was MGS4. The main reason for my purchase of the 
 PS3 was for God of War 3 and MGS4. From the second that I started up the game, to the ending of 
 it, MGS4 had me in a trance. It is by far the best looking game that has come out (except for crysis 
 duh) and I can say with all certainty that MGS4 is the best game that I have ever played and arguably 
 the best game to come out so far. You will find your self at times just looking around at your 
 surroundings in the game because of how realistic everything is in game. The boss battles are highly 
 entertaining and at times difficult and frustrating. The best part for me though in the game is 
 the final showdown with your arch nemesis Liquid, I am not going to ruin anything, but it is definitely 
 one of the best moments in gaming history. Also the online play is addictive as well, a lot of 
 fun to have online with this game. I have been a fan of the MGS series and this is the best in 
 the series. I can not speak enough about this game because it truly is the pinnacle of games. If 
 you have a PS3 MGS4 is a must own. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DarkStar4565
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 10, 2008 9:33 am PT
Review:  THE GOOD
  * Great audio/visual presentation
  * controls are much improved over MGS3
  * Shooting is satisfying
  * Sharp AI and terrific voice acting.
  
  THE BAD
  * Slight framerate 
 inconsistencies
  
  MGS4 is the fourth and final chapter in the renowned MGS franchise. The game wraps up the whole 
 MGS franchise and manages to do so in a spectacular way. From the begining cutscenes, to the climatic 
 boss battle at the end, you will be taken on a wild rollercoaster ride that will leave you begging 
 for more.
  MGS4's basic gameplay elements are somewhat the same as other games in the franchise. However, 
 one major addition has been added. Players now have the option to either go in guns blazing or 
 infiltrate stealthily. This makes for some intersting battles. However, most fans of the series 
 will probably go for the stealthy approach. you also get to use brand new gadgets. The octocamo 
 suit is probably most suited for the stealthy players as it turns its color and texture to match 
 the surroundings. The other new gadgets are the metal gear MK II and the solid eye. the MK II is 
 a tiny robot that you can control. It can even knock out your enemies with an electrical shock 
 and it also has the ability to turn invisible. the solid eye is an eye patch that can be used as 
 a binoculars or a night vision goggle. 
  The graphics in MGS4 are absolutely top-notch. From the dynamic HDR lighting to the razor-sharp 
 textures you will be astounded at the level of detail found within MGS4. The environments are large 
 and varied and look gorgeous. In addition, the character models are some of the best that has been 
 seen on consoles and they are topped of by terrific voice acting and superb production values. 
 However, in large environments on the battlefield, when billows of smoke fill the screen, the framerate 
 dips occasionally, and there are few muddy textures.
  MGS4 is a game that exceeds the hype that was attached to the title. It's gameplay breaks the mold 
 thats to be expected from the series. And it wraps up the entire series with a huge bang. MGS4 
 is truly a masterpiece and a game that will be remembered for a long long time.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: adnan_altaf
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 10, 2008 8:54 am PT
Review:  So finally I played MGS4 and what an experience it was. I've said it before and I'll say it again... 
 MGS4 is and will always remain the most technically advanced game of this generation!
  
  Story: Even though not the best plot in the mgs series but still a solid story. A nice way to end 
 an epic legends story! The only con is that those who haven't played previous mgs games will find 
 it a little confusing.
  
  Direction: Hideo Kojima has proved it once again why he's the king of the gaming industry. His 
 direction is far better off than several big names of Hollywood. Every second of every cutscene 
 shines and make you feel proud that you're an owner of such an amazing product and only few games 
 have ever given that feeling. Now the gameplay I don't know why people are crying about how short 
 the actual gameplay is. Personally I felt it was longer than mgs3 which of course is another masterpiece 
 of PS2.
  
  Sound: The sound effects and voice over is excellent. No complaint there.
  
  Graphics: I'll just say this, MGS4 is the best looking game!!! Its graphics are better than Crysis 
 and this is a personal opinion.
  
  Replay Value: I've just finished the game but still I want to play it again from the beginning.
 
  
  This is my first ever review for a game that I'm writing on gamespot. Even though I don't count 
 MGS 4 as my best game but consider it worthy enough to be the only game for which I've taken out 
 time to write something about. My final comments.... if you're a owner of PS3 and you haven't played 
 this game yet then you're the biggest fool of this planet.
  
  Good bye Snake. Live your remaining life in peace. You deserve it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xx9607xx
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 10, 2008 4:05 am PT
Review:  This game is the best in the series. It has it all. The gragpis are just insane along with the 
 model details. The weapons are accurate in evey way. There are allot of weapons along with many 
 add ons like scopes front grips grenade launcher ect. The new camo that blends in with anything 
 is so much fun to use. The only down side i had with this game were the cut scenes. Dont get me 
 wrong they kept me interested and they were just amazing but i think that there were just way to 
 many of them and they were just to long i didnt feel like it was a must have in a game but its 
 nothing that big to make me say this game doesnt deserve a good score. Multiplayer is so much fun. 
 It reminds me a little bit like GRAW but with a metal gear twist. You must check it out to get 
 the full experiance. Any metal gear solid fan will be happy to play this and be more then enterained, 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: WilsonDean1990
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 9, 2008 9:10 am PT
Review:  MGS4
  I have had past experience with Metal Gear games as i own them all so when i heard that MGS4 was 
 in develepment, i was truely amazed. My personal experience with MGS4 is that the graphics are 
 outstanding. The in game graphics compared to cut-scene graphics are basicaly identical, this is 
 one of the main features to the game. This is helped with the amazing storyline which is Metal 
 Gear. I was stunned how every effort was made to tie up loose ends from past Metal Gear's (I wont 
 spoil anything) and i mean EVERYTHING. I don't want to say too much about the game itself as it 
 may spoil it for others. Long story short this game is the ultimate game for PS3 and fully uses 
 the PS3's capabilities.
  
  MGO
  The ultimate experience for all Metal Gear fans. When Subsistence was released, they brought out 
 a version where you could play online the game was based around Metal Gear Solid 3: Snake Eater 
 and to be honest wasn't that good of a game. However, when MGS4 was released a new version of online 
 gameplay was released. This version was identical to the gameplay in MGS4 and for that reason it 
 was a success. It allowed the use of all the techniques that snake has (apart from Octocamo) which 
 made it a fantastic game for sniper and full on confrontation battles.
  
  BEST GAME EVER 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Tidus_345
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 8, 2008 12:17 pm PT
Review:  Metal Gear Solid 4: Guns of the Patriots is, quite simply, by far the best game i have ever played. 
 It is packed with all the old faces from previous games in the series, an extensive range of weapons, 
 the (kind of) new 3rd person camera to make gameplay even more enjoyable as well as playing host 
 to the most realistic graphics in a PS3 game to date. Let's start from the beginning (don't worry, 
 no spoilers will be included in this review) , the tagline for this game (A Legendary Soldier. A 
 Final Mission. The Ultimate Sacrifice.) is enough to get tongues wagging about this being the final 
 game in the saga, and thusly a must-have for any fan of the series. 
  
  The story is as in-depth as ever and for this reason no one new to the series should even consider 
 attempting to play this game (even experts of the series won't be 100% sure of every plot detail 
 by the time they've finished lol) . This does add an extra incentive to replay the game and experience 
 the masterpiece all over again. Indeed, if you do decide to replay the game, you will start the 
 game with all weapons, cammo suits, items, etc. that you ended your first run through with. You 
 can even attempt the daunting yet enticing Big Boss mode which challenges you to complete the game 
 within 5 hours (skipping all of the cut-scenes is a necessity i'm afraid) , avoid any alerts and 
 not kill anybody. I know what your thinking... easy right? :)
  
  The list of weapons in this game is as lengthy as the story and gives you plenty of options as 
 to how you play the game. You also get the aid of two very nifty (and extremely usefull) little 
 gadgets during this game; the Metal Gear MK. II and the Solid Eye. The MK. II (as it's commonly 
 known as throughout the game) is a metal gear (robot) that can be used to stun enemies, scout unkown 
 paths for enemies that may lie ahead and collect items including new cammo suits. The Solid Eye 
 is the glowing device covering Sanke's eye on the front cover the MGS4 case. It is used to switch 
 how you view the game; you can see enemies within a specific radius on a radar, view items and 
 enemies easier from afar or enter night-vision mode. These are both invaluable gadgets that are 
 probably slightly underated.
  
  One thing that you will need to do throughout the game is keep Snake chilled. He has a new stress 
 meter (replacing the stamina meter in MGS3) that indicates Snake's stress level which can (and 
 will) deplete even during cut-scenes. You can help Sanke relax and restore his stress meter by 
 listening to an ipod, smoking cigs and avoiding extreme temperatures.
  
  On the subject of cut-scenes, this game features some of the most immense cut-scenes you'll ever 
 see in a game (which is good as, like all MGS games, you spend most of your time watching the game 
 as opposed to playing it; not a bad thing at all) . Also, you can manipulate cameras during cut-scenes 
 by, when prompted, pressing the L1 button to see what Snake sees (a few tongue-in-cheek innuendos 
 are present) and you are, at the end of a cut-scene, plunged straight into the action with no loading 
 screen, or dodgy change-over (it's hard to describe, you have to play the game to understand what 
 I'm talking about) . Cut-scenes also include a flash-back which can be triggered by pressing the 
 x button when prompted to remember old faces and plot points. The final boss battle will forever 
 be present in gaming legend as it beautifully intertwines cut-scenes and user-controlled gameplay 
 to deliver a battle you won't forget any time soon.
  
  In conclusion, Metal Gear Solid 4 is a gaming masterpiece that is a must-have for any die hard 
 gamer and especially for any Metal Gear Solid fan. And at a it's current price, about 30 pounds 
 the last time I checked, an absolute bargain. There are just not enough superlatives to describe 
 this game and the insignificantly few bad points that this game has (I can only think of the story 
 line maybe being a bit too in-depth) are not really worth mentioning, as I'm sure none of the fans 
 of this game will. Basically, if you could only have one game for the PS3, it would almost certainly 
 be this! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wox232
Rating: 5.5
Date: Dec 8, 2008 8:46 am PT
Review:  After Konami's numerous stellar MGS titles to date, I really expected more out of this. You may 
 have heard people say that this game is basically just a movie, and they would be absolutely correct. 
 It's a very solid story, which is all that saves it from a 1.0 rating really, because the game 
 has very little gameplay, and has thrown what made the earlier titles popular completely out the 
 window. I could never recommend this game to buy, but maybe rent it if you like a good movie. This 
 game suffers from the famous 'rush to review' syndrome, where it gets great scores from reviewers 
 who haven't spent enough time with the game. Apart from the drawn out cutscenes, which get to be 
 exasperatingly dull towards the end, replaying this game would be like watching a murder mystery 
 for the second time. There's no replay value at all, in other words. I like Metal Gear Solid, and 
 I've really enjoyed the earlier games, but this is a game that falls way too short of the series' 
 standards, and I'm disappointed that it was released with so little game in it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: EyeShatteredSky
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 7, 2008 9:45 pm PT
Review:  The story in this game is something that just has to be witnessed! Every question is answered, 
 twists and turns are around every corner, and some of the scenes will leave you awe-struck long 
 after you finish the game. I would suggest though that you play some of the previous Metal Gear 
 Solid titles to fully understand the brillance of the story. But even if you're not one for plots 
 and prefer straight up action, MGS4 has got you covered in that department as well. 
  
  There are a plethora of ways to approached your objectives and even more satisfying ways to execute 
 them. There's so many guns to choose from and a mindblowing amount of upgrades for each one that 
 taking down an enemy never gets old. Whether you nail them in the back of the head with your standard 
 pistol, or blast 'em away with a powerful shot from your trusty railgun, to just a simple slit 
 of the throat. There's a little something for everyone! But it's the scenarios in which an intense 
 cutscenes roles as you play that will truly take you're breath away.
  
  
  From story, to unforgettable action, Metal Gear Solid 4 Guns of The Patriotes is a title that just 
 can't be passed up. Play it. Love it. Remember it for years to come! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: teacher4tc
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 7, 2008 9:40 am PT
Review:  This Game here I was very impressed with the game play and graphics and over all the plot, You 
 would definetly have to be a MSG Fan in my opinion to understand the story of Snake and his brother 
 and the rest of the family, But you could still play this game and have a great time!
  
  I was very impressed with the graphics so real and so clear, alomost like being there depending 
 on the size of your LCD Screen of course. The weapons and all the equipment is this game was TOP 
 NOTCH and most definelty in stealth mode almost through the entire game. I mean here is one thing 
 I will share not a spoiler just a fact, If you walk to hard you are CAUGHT! As you play the role 
 of Snake and go through your mission I am sure in my opinion you will be on the edge of your seat!
 
  
  The downside of the game and why its not a 10. I do belive in my opinion the movie play was to 
 long and the load times were a little longer then I would have liked, But when you have graphics 
 like this game provides you will have longer load times. The other side I did not enjoy was the 
 online play, in my opinion very slow and just 3rd person with PS2 Game Mode. But again in my opinion.
 
  
  I would recommend this game to those who enjoy stealth/roleplaying missions and some neat twists 
 along the way!!! SO enjoy and game on!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: naydaslayer
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 6, 2008 7:25 pm PT
Review:  Not the most addictive. That is why it got a 9.5. Other than that, it is the most beautiful game 
 I have ever seen. The levels are gorgeous, the gameplay rocks. I just love sneaking up from behind 
 guys, putting em to sleep with the old dart gun, waking them up, then slicing their throats. Just 
 flat out fun. Another part that was great was the boss battles. Rigorous, but not frustrating. 
 I liked being able to customize my weapons. The gadgets you use are sly and exciting. What other 
 game can you blend into walls, call upon a robot, then put a guy to sleep, then shoot him in the 
 head with a silencer? Did not even go for the multiplayer, looked somewhat boring and hard to use. 
 I also think the clips were a bit to long, but nothing too bad. I thought it was kind of fun to 
 watch because the graphics were so great. This game is just a masterpiece. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Macdaddy0
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 6, 2008 10:33 am PT
Review:  There's no other words to describe this game besides, SOLID. The large choices of weapons and their 
 wide range of customization through scopes and silencers make even the shooting range a place you 
 can play at for hours and hjours on end. Nearly every aspect of this game is legendary. I had no 
 idea it was possible to own Square Enix in story telling while at the same time making a better 
 online play game than Socom. Someone please tell me how that was possible? This game gave me goosebumps 
 from its gameplay and story it was that amazing, I'm 17 now, but when I'm 40 and my homies get 
 the playstation 6 and ask me to come over to see it, I'm gunna have no problem blowing them off 
 because I'm at home on my obsolete ps3 kicking liquid ocelots face in on top of the titanic. If 
 you like ps3 shooters and don't have MGS4, something is seriously wrong with you and it is quite 
 possible your going to want to see a doctor. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: X_MGS4_Fan
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 6, 2008 8:47 am PT
Review:  This game is so amazing... The story, gameplay and graphics. Everything is just perfect in this 
 game. The AI is amazing and the thousands of weapons that you can make in this game. This game 
 got one of the highest game ratings on IGN and Gamespot.... The epic thing is, that it also has 
 online multiplayer. I played for about 100 hours after I finished the story... That is truly the 
 game of the year 2008 :D and even if xbox360 fanboys rate this game down... It's still the best 
 game EVER :D lol
  So go out and buy this game. It's really worth your money :D
  And Yes I am a Ps3 fanboy... but I also love Gears of War and ofcourse the xbox360 :D I just don't 
 get why everybody is comparing those two games ??? Gearsof War is a hardcore third person shooter, 
 and Metal Gear Solid is more tactical. So no matter what system you have GET THIS GAME :D lol 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ramirez204
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 5, 2008 7:13 pm PT
Review:  The game is a masterpiece for the fans because take all the plot and fusion at one, for that reason 
 if you dont know metal gear, this game isnt for you, you'll see a lot of videos and that can 
 be boring for you. The game has great graphics, extremely nice bosses and definitely, as always 
 a perfect soundtrack, the game-play is amazing with a comfortable and a good control of your character. 
 This is the first time in a metal gear game that you can buy weapons and custom, this is great 
 but I think that isnt a good idea that you can do it at anytime, in the middle of the war, it's 
 my only critic for this game for everything else is a masterpiece and if you are a fan of metal 
 gear games you must buy the game. I really enjoy when I play this game, I want for you the same, 
 enjoy the game.
  
  PD: Excuse my poor English, thanks.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: ps3wizard45
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 5, 2008 1:31 pm PT
Review:  From the cinmatic begining to the climatic, epic ending Metal Gear Solid 4: Guns of the Patriots 
 never ceases to stop amazing. The first thing you will notice is the visuals. They are an amazing 
 blend of beautiful art and pure technical excellence. The game also features some of the best and 
 most cinematice, high quality voice acting and sound effects ever, that give character, weapon, 
 and practically everything else a distinct sound you could call out from a mile away. Something 
 the Metal Gear Franchise is known for is its incredibly complex story and it some how MGS4 does 
 a great job of wraping it all up and exlplaining just about every last detail through incredibly 
 entertaing cutscenes. MGS4 does bring some changes to the MGS series such as a new shooting mechanic 
 that works fantastic and the "Octocamo" suit wich is an expansion of the MGS3 camoflague system, 
 wich also works well. Not only are new mechanics introduced, but new characters aswell, like Drebin 
 893, a weapons dealer or the Beauty and the beast corps, wich are proably some of the best bosses 
 in the gaaming industry. Overall MGS4 is a simply amazing package that should be played by anyone, 
 regardless if you are a fan or not of the series. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DrunkMonkeyFist
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 5, 2008 9:43 am PT
Review:  Even though Snake puts on a few wrinkles on the latest & in my opinion the greatest edition of 
 the series , he does it very well. Snake & the MGS series at this point is like a fine aged wine 
 . It is written and so beautifully and rendered it makes ones jaw literally drop.
  Graphics - 10 Top notch
  Story - 10 , I would give it more if i could .. just because the game 
 does such a great job of integrating previous MGS storylines into this one.
  Control - 9.0 why not a 10 ? because there are times where controlling Sanke has some issues.. still 
 an awesome improvement over previous MGS titles.
  Replayability-8.5 you will most likely be playing the game thru at least a second time or more.
 
  
  All in all , after having played the series since the beginning , I can assuredly say that this 
 one is the best in the series, and the crown jewel on the PS3 game exclusives . 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: zilo1907
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 5, 2008 5:46 am PT
Review:  The game is just fantastic. The best game in the series. This years MGS looks amazing. Every little 
 detail has been put in the game. From tiny dust particles to rubble its all there. The story is 
 the best in the series. Its very confusing if you haven't played the first 3 installments but if 
 you have you'll be right at home. I won't say anymore about the storyline because of spoilers. 
 The gameplay mechanics have been revamped. You can decide on playing it stealthy or go on an all 
 out killing spree. You can also customize your weapons like adding a suppressor or laser-sight. 
 Like any game there is a down side. the boss battles are amazing but some of them are too easy. 
 Also the game should have been longer. I was expecting at least 60 hours of gameplay. Maybe if 
 Kojima had a 100gb blu-ray. Even though the boss battles are on the easy side the amazing story 
 and gameplay will keep gamers and fans hooked for hours. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Titans23
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 4, 2008 11:01 am PT
Review:  I'm going to make this nice and short, because you shouldn't be reading this you should be playing 
 it! The graphics are 10/10 best graphics to date especially if you have hdmi. the details are amazing 
 you won't believe your eyes the first time you put this into your PS3
  the gameplay is amazing you can either sneak through the whole game or go in like Rambo and take 
 everyone out
  the story will make you think about it for months after your done with the game, it's a very deep 
 story which will have you clinging to your seat.
  not to mention that the online play will catch your attention for a while too, but for sure the 
 best thing about this game is the campaign.
  stop reading this go to a game store and pick it up now you definitely not regret spending your 
 money on this game, matter of fact your probably regret beating the game because you won't want 
 it to end! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: johaness_00
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 3, 2008 4:20 pm PT
Review:  This game was great. You never realize how good it actually is. You play through it and then play 
 a different game then it hits you how much was in there. MGS4 keeps calling for you to play it 
 again even when there is a bunch of neat games out. You will definetly go back for more. The video 
 quality is the best I have seen out there yet. The Story just drags you into it and you just play 
 to see how it ends. Worth every penny and great for any collection. The video cutscenes seem long 
 but are a must have in this game you have to watch them. Gameplay is awesome there isn't any problem 
 there. You can choose to play the way you want. If you run and gun you can or if you choose to 
 sneak you can. There is multiple ways to get through every level and seems that there is no wrong 
 way to play. I played the sneaky way and it just gets under your skin in a good way. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Hatak
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 3, 2008 12:16 pm PT
Review:  I had only played Metal Gear Solid 2 before i played 4. I wasn't all that impressed with the 2 
 because it relied too much on the stealth elements of the game, and had a crappy camera system. 
 
  
  I got pressured in by a friend to buy Metal Gear Solid 4. Although I went into the game not expecting 
 anything different, I was truly surprised with how awesome the game had become. The game contained 
 everything that people liked from the other games as well as new and improved aspects that were 
 bad in the previous games. 
  
  Metal Gear 4 adopted a more tradition third person shooter style while still maintaining its own 
 unique features. The camera system is much improved, gun fighting is much easier and more fun, 
 and the game doesn't require you to stick to stealth the whole game in order to beat it. 
  
  What i liked most about the game, was that you could play the game literally anyway you wanted 
 and could still beat it. If you want to blast your was through the level; you can do that. If you 
 want sneak around the enemies; you can also do that. I also really liked that there was a huge 
 amount of weapons in the game. 
  
  The one thing i didn't like was the amount of dialog that was vomited out in this game. It took 
 some 20 odd minutes before you got to actually play the game! And the cut scenes lasted well over 
 an over. This game felt more like a movie! Also being that I I had only played a little bit of 
 metal gear 2. The story seemed completely bananas crazy to me. As Yahtzee said "to understand what 
 goes on in the mind of Hideo Kojima, you would need to perform some sort of brain surgery and the 
 complete box set of the x-files." 
  
  Although the storytelling aspect of the game is very heavy, the rest of the game is absolute perfection! 
 I would recommend this game as a must have! It is definitely one of the best games of the year! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GoDofWaR7845
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 3, 2008 11:20 am PT
Review:  this game is just.... how i should say this? best game of the year, if not best game of the century. 
 i'm serious. this game just takes you to a world where there are so many questions that you ask, 
 amazing visuals, fantastic cut scenes, great action and gameplay, easy controlls and this game just 
 feels RIGHT! the single player is amazing, probobly the best i ever played, the cut scenes? if 
 you dont watch them youll be missing out, if you do, its not terrible, they are actually worth 
 watching. even if you havn't played any other MGS game (like me) i still suggest you BUY this game, 
 the story will just tell you everything, but if you are one of those who wants to go from the begining, 
 thats even better. the online in this game is good, i cant say its the best, but its good. very 
 fun and easy to play, over 1 million users, customization, alot of weapons, good ways to interact with 
 each other, and just plain fun. this game is worth for the online alone but you get an even better 
 single player mode. BUY THIS GAME! 10/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xxbbllplayaxx
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 2, 2008 4:28 pm PT
Review:  I pretty much bought my PS3 because of this game and all I can say is I will never regret buying 
 it. Fan boys will always say this game is overrated but belive me they must be on something because 
 this game is amazing. Best game ive ever played. Idc if the cut sceenes are long because the story 
 is fantastic it really makes you wanna see whats going to happen next. So if you love MGS and your 
 thinking about getting a PS3 go for it, You wont regret it. Its deffintiley game of the year for 
 this year and probably one of the best games to date and so far in history. Even if you do not 
 like action games or stealth im sure you will like MGS4. Theres only one word to describe it AMAZING 
 !!!! I hope my review helped you decide to get this game, or to decide whether or not to buy a PS3 
 or not. My opinion if you like the MGS series its a must buy 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Conako
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 30, 2008 1:33 pm PT
Review:  This game included all means of enjoyment and entertaining from the story and style of play and 
 the exciting atmosphere as you will experience them.
  Each one must be a PS3 owner to have it. simply!!!
  
  I don't like the long story, which is 
 great but i found it boring sometimes. the online mode is great but not as Call of Duty games for 
 sure. Have Fun!! :) My rate for this game is 10 of course.
  and still Metal Gear series are an legend game.
  
  Thank you,
  
  By: Conako.
  
  Metal 
 Gear Solid 4Metal Gear Solid 4Metal Gear Solid 4Metal Gear Solid 4Metal Gear Solid 4Metal Gear 
 Solid 4Metal Gear Solid 4Metal Gear Solid 4Metal Gear Solid 4Metal Gear Solid 4Metal Gear Solid 
 4Metal Gear Solid 4Metal Gear Solid 4Metal Gear Solid 4Metal Gear Solid 4Metal Gear Solid 4Metal 
 Gear Solid 4Metal Gear Solid 4Metal Gear Solid 4Metal Gear Solid 4Metal Gear Solid 4Metal Gear 
 Solid 4Metal Gear Solid 4Metal Gear Solid 4Metal Gear Solid 4Metal Gear Solid 4Metal Gear Solid 
 4Metal Gear Solid 4Metal Gear Solid 4Metal Gear Solid 4 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GFares
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 30, 2008 9:01 am PT
Review:  Guns of the Patriots tells the story of Old Snake, the prematurely ageing, terminally ill and newly 
 moustachioed covert agent, as he hunts down his genetically-engineered twin brother and nemesis, 
 Liquid Snake (now inhabiting the body of Revolver Ocelot, of course, but we must gloss over such 
 details or we'll still be here next week) . Liquid is attempting to subvert and destroy the ruling 
 Patriot conspiracy and bring the world - currently overrun with mood-controlled private armies 
 fighting meaningless wars in the name of the war economy - into chaos. Well, if there's one thing 
 Metal Gear Solid 4 isn't, it's compromising. Kojima has barred no holds in an extraordinary, kitchen-sink 
 finale to the Solid Snake story. Plausibility is stretched to extremes as every character you can 
 think of (and several you never would) makes a cameo appearance in this melancholy epic. Features 
 that would be a tent-pole selling-point for other games are frittered away as Easter eggs and one-shot 
 surprises. Such is the luxurious length and mind-numbing detail of the cut-scenes and codec conversations 
 that you could put the pad down for almost half the game's ample length. (One character actually 
 asks you to do so at one point, resulting in a typically self-aware and genuinely hilarious joke.)
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: ajhu_2003
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 29, 2008 7:10 pm PT
Review:  The day i got this game in my hands my first thing was to see what happens in the final episode 
 of Solid Snake as i have played the previous versions.
  
  First things that you notice is that the controls are made lot simpler which now is more like a 
 pick and play game and the smoothness from switching FPS to TPS looks sweet. The Story line's great. 
 All the action cutscenes is something that even Hollywood movies haven't tried it out.
  
  Gameplay :- 10/10
  
  Absolutely sweet. Core gameplay on MGS series remains. Introduction to 
 Third person is another good aspect to concentrate on other gamers. And support for Dual Shock 
 is very good.
  
  Graphics:- 10/10
  
  This game can be actually compared to more that a CGI movie. Forget the jaggys its the stunning 
 visual design every seen. Well some aspect the game looks even better than Crysis!
  
  Sound:-10/10
  
  Best sound track in video games. And the addition to a ipod which feels and 
 works like a real one is another good choice made by Sir Kojima. The weapon sounds are the most 
 real in video games that you ever heard!
  
  Replay Value:-10/10
  If you have completed MGS 4 there is MG Online which helps you challenge other players in a different 
 Multiplayer style. But the single player is still repeatable in different aspects of gameplay. 
 You can complete the game in full stealth or you can play it a action game or you can play it a 
 "One man Army" or "One man Show" and this works gr8.
  
  Learning Curve:-10/10
  
  If this was Metal Gear Solid 1 or 2 i would have give it 3 when compared to 4. The controls are 
 lot more easier its just like pick and play game. If your a previous MGS 4 fan you won't take your 
 hands of the DualShock controller.
  
  
  If you still don't have this game i suggest you download the demo for PSN store and it could change 
 your mind. Its a game with hell lot of cinematics and radio sequences. Your actually spending money 
 for a more than 10 hours of movie packed cutscenes and great style action game.
  
  
  Worth the wait! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Trickedoutps3
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 29, 2008 5:35 pm PT
Review:  This is a great game, don't get me wrong. However, I did have a few problems with it, but let's 
 first talk about what it did right.
  The graphics the graphics the graphics. Everyone talks about it being the best graphics on a game 
 yet and they are pretty close to right.
  The gameplay layout is great. Switching weapons and such is very easy and comprehensive. However, 
 like most MGS games the actual gameplay is a little akward. I always feel like you are limited 
 to the things you can do in the movement department. Yes, you can run, jog, walk, crouch, crawl, 
 and slink but I feel like there is just a little more speed and agility the creators could have 
 given us.
  Ok, now I know they are trying to tie up loose ends and give some details on everything, but I 
 mean come on, I believe I watch about 3 hours of cutscenes. It was kind of annoying because you 
 saying "ok this scene has got to be about over and then you find yourself saying that same thing 
 15 minutes later in the same scene."
  
  Overall, this game nailed it in the graphics department and dilivered to the hardcore MGS fans 
 (which I am not one) . However, if you have never played a MGS game you will be lost and it will 
 take away from the fun. I know I gave it a 9, but if this was towards hardcore MGS fans it would 
 be a 10 and as for those people who have never played MGS it would be about a 7.5. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jameshegarty
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 29, 2008 1:05 pm PT
Review:  Metal Gear Solid 4 is one of the best games of all time. I loved the original and this just improved 
 upon it in every sense. Although i dont agree with MGO. It has an amazing story with a relatively 
 long campaign so that it does not end too fast. It has the best graphics of any ps3 game and great 
 customization for all weapons. It takes all of my favorite characteristics of splinter cell and 
 cod4 and mixes them together. Although it is not a fast paced cod4 the gameplay is amazing and 
 has no letdowns anywhere. Sometimes the movies feel long if you dont care for a storyline in your 
 games. The AI's are extremely smart and dont get in your way in getting through missons as many 
 other games have shown problems with. Overall if you buy a ps3, no matter the type of games that 
 you like this game will not dissapoint and it has great replay value. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ishan316
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 29, 2008 5:45 am PT
Review:  POSITIVES: Brilliant visuals and smooth, striking textures, concrete AI, awe-inspiring cut-scenes 
 (which make up more than half of the play duration) , fresh gameplay mechanics, unique level-bosses, 
 enemies and characters, good physics, mission briefing, Drebin's bedtime stories, a plethora of 
 weapons and items, solid multiplayer, a Solid Old Snake!
  
  NEGATIVES: Nothing in the story for series new-comers like me, weapon and item-switching is a disaster, 
 no information as to how Old Snake carries so many weapons  or  if he doesn't carry them, where 
 do they spawn from (because I'm game for realism) , there is always an attacking-way-out rather 
 than sneaking, there is nothing "TECHNICALLY STUNNING" whatsoever
  
  Let's get this straight, when you play Guns of the Patriots, no need to charge your controllers 
 in advance, as you'd spend most of the time with your Dualshock 3's on your lap watching gritty 
 and over-the-top cut-scenes than playing the game. 
  
  The previous MGS game that I played was Sons of Liberty, and must say it is awe-inspiring to see 
 that a game has evolved thus far and grown to show the developers across the world how the true 
 power of current-gen media storage formats is to be utilized. But it is indeed a no-no for a videogame 
 to be over-pretentious, like Guns of the Patriots, so that when any series newbie like me finishes 
 playing it, they end up feeling they just watched a very protracted motion picture rather than 
 played a game. The game would've felt and looked much better had there been more gameplay in it, 
 rather than the developer's exaggerated display of his motion capture prowess, keeping little or 
 no thought of the gamer. But MGS 4 really impresses with its graphics and visuals, and is in no 
 doubt a game that every action gamer should definitely own.
  
  However, the only reason for the overwhelming excess of non-due praise that this game has critically 
 received is that MGS fan-boys review it, and make a mountain out of a molehill. The game is grand, 
 but certainly not ideal or perfect and not more so an upheaval in the gaming industry, as it has 
 been presented to be.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: AngusRedeemer
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 28, 2008 11:24 am PT
Review:  I got the PS3 at the end of my exams... the very same day, this game came out, making a decision 
 for a game was tough. Thank god my final decision paid off :)
  
  The story mode is... undescribable, unbelievable. Playing with stealth has never been so exciting, 
 boss fights have never been so challenging and interesting, and the story-telling and directing 
 is perfect, spot-on. If story-telling was ever this beautiful, I would have dug my head in hundreds 
 of books! The action is so tense, it'll leave you struggling for breath.
  
  The only dissapointing thing about this game, is the online feature, which can be cool, but only 
 for a while. Where Call of Duty online is fast-paced and exciting, Metal Gear Online is slow and 
 more tactical, and some matches just seem to drag on forever.
  
  So to conclude my review, if you're a fan of stealth / Metal Gear Solid / Splinter Cell games, 
 you will not be dissapointed :) If you're new to the series, then I'm not so sure... I can imagine 
 some people getting lost in the whole complicated story that spreads-out through all 4 games in 
 the series. I would recommend that you play at least one of the previous games before venturing 
 into this one.
  
  Making fascinating games like this is why Konami are well-known in the gaming industry, not for 
 making shoddy, half-assed football games...*COUGH* Pro Evo 2009! *COUGH*. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bigflu
Rating: 3.5
Date: Feb 3, 2009 8:38 pm PT
Review:  This isn't really a game but more like a long, boring movie. Way too many "cut scenes" and not 
 enough gameplay. I really can't stress that enough. There were times when the movie scenes were 
 over 20-30 minutes long .... which is just too long ...... just to get you to a 5 minute part of 
 the game where your objective was to walk from one place to the next. 
  
  Another disappointing thing I found was that any individual choices that I made had no effect on 
 the game outcome. For example - When your told your objective is to get out of the building quickly, 
 I got out fast. But the game would not advance me until these ***clowns that I had to work with 
 were out of the building as well. After waiting for them to exit the building for 10 minutes, I 
 went back in and found them waiting on me .... so that we could systematically go through the procedures 
 the game wanted me to go through .... which meant shoot our way out of the building. So why tell 
 me to exit quickly then? I did what we (team) was supposed to do ... and yet I had to go back and 
 "go through the motions" so to speak.
  
  The game was also extremely slow and easy. I found little challenge. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Clientel
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 27, 2008 10:22 pm PT
Review:  As i said , MGS4 or Metal Gear Solid 4 isa game worth buying for the PS3 for it is filled with 
 story, character, and superb action and graphics... The game also features plenty of great action 
 such from the boss fights to figthing HEAD ON with metal gear... Whoever owns a PS3 , and enjoys 
 a sense of love , action , and story should really consider buying the game... (If you havent bought 
 it already ) This game is truly a masterpiece, is nothing else left to say... MGS4 is pure fun 
 that you would want to play it over and over again... There are no let downs whatsoever in the 
 game. Considering this game is truly wasting your time on playing the worlds greatesst game ever 
 to set foot on the next gen consoles... 11/10 would truly be a better score... All the characters 
 portray an important part in Metal Gear Solid 4 , practically all the characters have a connection 
 to Snake one way or another , this is good cause the characters that we all enjoy... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: el_rika
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 27, 2008 4:50 pm PT
Review:  This one is indeed for the history books.
  
  
  MGS4 is beautiful, is intelligent, is pretentious, is sad, is funny, is 
  cheesy, is fast, is 
 slow, is manga, is Hollywood, is theater and it is 
  ultimatelly an achievement that will probably remain unique for many years to 
  come.
  
  
 Great graphics, amazing sound, addictive gameplay, innovative stealth 
  mechanics, through the roof production values, Hollywood level cutscene 
  direction complete 
 with the latest shaky camera tehniques, state of the art 
  Motion Captured animations, quality VA, all these are part of the MGS4 
  package and all would 
 be utterly meaningless without the actual story, which 
  is an inspiring and entertaining experience from start to finish, that sticks 
  with you long 
 after you've finished this game and many others.
  
  At its surface, the game tells/continues the story/rivalry of two brothers 
  (Solid and Liquid) , 
 one good and one bad. In MGS4's universe, nanotehnology 
  is fully mastered and the world is run by a shadow organisation called "The 
  Patriots". This 
 is basically the stage where the play takes place, litteraly ;)
  The story takes you to 5 distinct locations throughout the game each representing a different stage 
 in Liquid's world domination plan. I'm not 
  gonna go into specifics as i really wanna keep this mini-review as spolier 
  free as possible, 
 but i'll only say this: prepare, as you'll be in for quite 
  a ride, both epic and lyric.
  
  There are action sequences that will litterally leave you breathless and 
  sweating, there 
 are over the top sequences that will leave you with a big smile on your face and thinking out loud 
 "ok, now i've seen everything", and there are dramatic moments that will leave you with misty eyes 
 even if you are a bold tatooed bad ass gangsta's cousin. The game plays with the gamer's emotions 
 by going from humouristic and cheesy to profound and dramatic in the blink of an eye, always keeping 
 the distict charm present throughout the game and series. 
  
  There is no other story focused game on the market comparable to the level of professionalism displayed 
 in the MGS4's story sequences. Every shot, every zoom, every focus shift, everything is motion 
 picture level and the fact that they are rendered on the fly by the PS3 is even more mind blowing. 
 I am a videographer myself and in all honesty MGS4's cutscenes could easily be the subject of study 
 at the Film School, they're "that" good.
  The story is very elaborate and succedes in creating believable characters 
  and motivations. 
 The phychology is very deep and deals with a lot of different situations and profoundly humane 
 character reactions when faced with the given contexts. There's heavy emphasys on exposition, in 
 the classic manga style, but in the end, all the more rewarding. As with all trully great stories, 
 there are things you are told and things you are left to discover for yourself. There are alyways 
 pieces of the puzzle scattered throughout the game wether they are in the form of a word or simply 
 a look which can change the meaning of an entire scene.
  There are many layers of depth in both main story and sub plots as well as 
  many themes and 
 anti war messages that really make you ponder on the futility of it all when related to the real 
 life we live in.
  
  Ok, so MGS4 is great, 
  
  there's a catch though (actually 2) . 
  1. You "can not" play MGS4 casually. An hour today, an hour next weekend. No way. It is the type 
 of game that needs the gamer's full attention. You need to really put the rusty braincells to work 
 and keep the pop-corn and Coke (the drink) handy, believe me you'll need them.
  2. You need to know the previous games. Best way is to actually play them but you can download 
 the cutscenes too, either way, without the previous games you'll miss half of MGS4's story and 
 most of it's emotional value.
  
  
  Almost everything about MGS4 is mind blowing, wether we are talking about its story, gameplay or 
 tehnical achievements, this one is for the history books.
  I said "almost" 'cose there are some issues, like the individual chapter 
  installations, some 
 stiff animations here and there, lack of movie theater 
  and some other stuff that ultimately should really not bother anyone as they 
  do not affect 
 the core experience all that much if at all. 
  
  
  Should you buy it ?
  
  If you are a fan, than you probably already played the game so you don't 
  need me to tell you 
 about it, if you are new to the series, i say rent it, 
  buy it or borrow it, but play it one way or the other. Who knows, it might become the greatest 
 gaming/media experience for you as well. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: desyple
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 27, 2008 9:01 am PT
Review:  Metal Gear Solid 4 is a masterpiece, that's the simplest way to put it. This game ends the story 
 of our beloved hero solid snake and does a great job doing it. Everything about this game is amazing. 
 The game play is very smooth and easy to jump into with a good cover mechanic and the guns shoot 
 great. The stealth is great as well with the implementation of the octocamo it adds a new element 
 to the word stealth. The story is what is truly a masterpiece. Every act does an amazing job of 
 bridging the whole story together. By the end of the game you will be in awe of the final battle 
 the only word to describe it is EPIC. There are a lot of cut scenes in this game but that is only 
 because they are needed to progress this truly amazing story. Now before you buy it there are many 
 installs but they are small and only take 2-3 minutes. The game also comes with metal gear online 
 which is basically MGS4 but online the only difference is the more combat focused on squads. There 
 are problems online but points cant really be subtracted for that since basically its just a bonus 
 add on to the main part of the game and also since its a stand alone product in japan. However 
 Konami is doing a great job of releasing new downloadable content on a steady time frame. Either 
 way this game is truly a masterpiece and any gamer no matter who they are should pick up a ps3 
 just for this game and to witness the stunning ending to Solid Snake's saga. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ryu_San
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 27, 2008 8:59 am PT
Review:  And so it ends. Exactly 10 years after "Metal Gear Solid" debuted on the Playstation, Kojima puts 
 an end to his most beloved saga with "MGS4: Guns of The Patriots". What to expect from the final 
 chapter on such a riveting saga: a glorious goodbye or a cynic "see you soon"?
  
  The game splits in 5 acts (plus prologue and epilogue) ; 5 acts, as defined in classical drama: 
 each posing as a logical narrative unit, with beginning and end, occurring in different places 
 in time and space, and in this case, with a different art and gameplay style. Each act tends to 
 echo a different MGS, which adds a sense of closure and nostalgia to the saga, placing the player 
 in different emotional states that connect with past experiences. Overall, the game plays like 
 an evolved MGS3, with smoother controls, a decent camera angle that facilitates both combat and 
 stealth, and with a lot more action sequences. Stealth is still key, and the game entices you to 
 use it, while at the same time, refrains from penalizing you when you don't. The first 2 acts are 
 the most interesting gameplay-wise, as they put the player in the midst of a war, allowing you 
 to either take advantage of it, sneaking by unseen and unheard while the 2 sides fight each other, 
 or to simply join a side and start waging combat with your newly found war buddies. Everything 
 works well, adding to the sense of a real war, and the levels are designed in a more streamlined 
 way, that favors of a more slick and linear experience, thus simplifying the somewhat cumbersome 
 nature of MGS3's mechanics. The only letdown lies in the game's bosses, that mirror almost precisely 
 those of the first MGS. They're uninteresting, shallow replicas that are never embodied as fully 
 developed characters and their battles rely too much on straight forward shooting, lacking the 
 brilliant, twisted mechanics of MGS1and 3's bosses (Psycho Mantis, The End, etc) .
  
  But let's face it, the only reason for playing "MGS" is the story, all else falls secondary. It's 
 what has guaranteed the saga's place in the hall of greatest videogames in history. This is thanks 
 to its unique blend of traditional Hollywood action blockbusters' spirit, ripe with plot twists 
 and over the top cinematics, with its anime-like aesthethic (courtesy of Yoji Shinkawa) , and a 
 lot of philosophical/socio-political ramblings to please the more intellectual players. Still, 
 the premise in MGS4, to wrap things up once and for all, ending the gigantic plot conundrum of 
 "Sons of Liberty", always sounded overly ambitious and very hard to achieve. There was just so 
 much left to unveil: the true identity of the patriots, their relationship with Liquid, Solidus 
 and Ocelot, the meaning behind the whole back story of MGS3, and even the ultimate purpose of the 
 actions of the player throughout the series - what was Solid Snake really fighting for? Let me 
 reassure you that Hideo Kojima answers this questions with the style and grace we've come to know 
 him for. Yet, he does this in subservient fashion, as a slave to a greedy mob, trying at all costs 
 to wrap things up in a tidy, simple, pleasant way that won't upset any fans. Every character, regardless 
 of its importance (or lack thereof) , makes a comeback, all with their complete storyarchs, but 
 zero risks are taken, and every petty, insignificant detail is fleshed out explicitly; a remembrance 
 of what George Lucas tried to accomplish in the second "Star Wars" trilogy. It's a shame, because 
 players have imagination and intellect to fill in gaps, and should be more often greeted to do 
 so, specially when it's obvious that Kojima has the ability to make you think about important matters 
 in subtler, nuanced ways. In the end, the pleasing fan-game ends up shattering most of the mystery 
 in Kojima's insanely mad world, in similar fashion to a magician who reveals his tricks in the 
 end of his act, transforming wondrous, mystical magic into a form of elegant trickery. Because 
 that's what remains in the end, a sense of deceit, as you learn that Kojima, as a lying Hitchcock, 
 has tricked you once again into believing a strain of lies which he now unveils. But if some are 
 riveting and change the way you view certain characters and even past events (begging you to play 
 previous entries one last time) , some just feel cheap and idiotic, showing lack of premeditated 
 thought. Of course, all these twists result in a series of plot holes, that range from the insignificant 
 to the blatantly obvious, adding to the unwelcome sense of malicious deceit that settles in. In 
 "Guns of the Patriots", even dead characters make a comeback from the dead to please the fans 
 Sure, if you're a big fan of "Metal Gear", you'll probably dismiss this, as you'll be engrossed 
 in the narrative weaving, adoring every fan tailored reference, but if you're really interested 
 in narrative depth, you'll be left somewhat disappointed that the series ends (?) in such a hasty, 
 incongruous way.
  
  Continuing with the pretentious nature of the overarching plot of the series, there are a lot of 
 interesting themes underlying MGS4's depiction of the future, and most of them with a controversial 
 nature: capitalism and its impact on state's sovereignty and global power structures, war and its 
 shadowy motivations, genetics and the ethics of science, cultural and family legacy and its impact 
 in the world, just to name a few. As always, expect long dialogs, though fortunately, unlike previous 
 works, the Codec medium is almost completely absent, relinquishing its seat to fully acted, technically 
 stunning animation sequences. Yet, like in every magic act, substance can be of little importance, 
 as style and form can often determine the impact a work has on its audience, and thus, its perception 
 and efficacy. And this is where Kojima's act vanishes in smoke: MGS4's cinematic tone, instead 
 of going back to the subtlety and seriousness of the first MGS, opts for the grand, operatic, flamboyant 
 style of MGS2 and 3, completely in tune with modern wacky japanimations. Well, in reality, it surpasses 
 his predecessors, as "Guns of the Patriots" tries to encompass even more styles, genres and tones 
 than any other game/movie/book known to Man. You'll get sad, dramatic scenes followed by cute monkeys 
 burping from drinking coke and coughing from smoking tobacco; bittersweet, nurturing moments of 
 bonding followed by the most outrageous action sequences with coreographies that make "Advent Children" 
 and "Devil May Cry" look like slow ballets; you'll get fart jokes in between "Private Ryan" war 
 sets - if you can name a style, then most likely, "Guns of the Patriots" has it: from comedy to 
 tragedy, drama to action; sci-fi to noir. The problem with this virtuoso fruit salad is that all 
 of its elements lose their ability to attain their objectives, as the players' mindset becomes 
 too fragmented to sink in such a wide array of emotions. Eventually, this murders characters in 
 the eye of the spectator, as you'll never know if you're supposed to take things seriously or not. 
 It' becomes hard to watch such multifaceted characters treated in such a dictatorial way, destroying 
 their credibility and connection with the audience just for the sake of a few laughs or sentimental 
 sighs.
  
  Above all, the game fails when compared to its long legacy. Looking back at the first "Metal Gear 
 Solid", with its consistently dark aesthetic, and its wonderful cast of morally torn characters, 
 it's hard not to wish MGS4 would be different. Remember the sobriety of MGS's tragic tale - a group 
 of people forced to wage war with one another, played like human puppets, suffering at the hands 
 of fate and powers they could never understand. The depth of its storytelling, the great use of 
 sound and cutscenes, the revolutionary gameplay and AI.. Sure, there were some crazy anime elements 
 (Mantis' flying around comes to mind) , but they were toned down, and usually served as ways of 
 rendering character's inner struggles and beliefs, a meaningful hyperbole of what passed inside 
 them, if you will. In 4, every eccentricity is hollow and out of context. Balance and focus are 
 what MGS4 lacks the most: its outrageous tone and fan pleasing desire just ruin the delicate narrative 
 structure other Metal Gears' possessed. It's still a brilliant game, and certainly one of the best 
 to have been released since "Bioshock", but it poses as a mere shadow of its ancestors. In a way, 
 it's a good thing MGS4 ends the saga, for it was becoming a titan larger than its own author; but 
 on the other hand, it is a bittersweet farewell, as you look back and acknowledge the differences 
 between this iteration and what MGS once meant for a small, artistically poor medium. Let's just 
 hope that Kojima can impress us with his magic in the future, as he breaks free from the shackles 
 of Big Boss' legacy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fredyellowone
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 25, 2008 1:54 pm PT
Review:  For me, MGS4 is the worst MGS in the serie. Obviously, the graphics are totally incredible. But, 
 on the other hand, there's too much of everything.
  Wait, i give this "opus" 9.0 out of 10, wich is awesome. But MSG1, 2 and 3 got, in my heart, better 
 reviews for a lot of reasons.
  
  First, the story is complicated the way we like it. However, theres too much story resolving here. 
 Like if MGS franchise was on the verge of extinction, the plot turn around every foe, person, camarade 
 we met in all the previous titles.
  All our questions are answered. No magic remains. Nothing to build around. No more mistery.
  
 
  Second, there is no codec this time. That is very bad, because that was my favorite part of all 
 those back MGS.
  
  However and despite the fact that MGS4 was build with the intention to give the fans "all they 
 have deserved", we still talk about a formidable game.
  Just add a little more unanswered questions, PS3 trophies, codecs, and we will have the best MGS 
 ever. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chaoticdoom
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 24, 2008 4:59 pm PT
Review:  First of all, I have never played any of the other games in this series, but when this game came 
 out i could not resist. It is true, i was confused at parts of the story because i had no background 
 info, but i enjoyed this game none the less. Having said that, i can only imagine how absolutely 
 great it must be for a life long fan of the series.
  
  Now, on to the game. The one thing that sticks out to me thinking back on the game is the cutscenes. 
 Some lasted upwards of an hour, and all were fantastic. I really can't tell you much of the story, 
 but what i experienced was one of the best told stories of my life. Game play is intense when it 
 needs to be, and and involved similarly. I have nothing bad to say about it, nothing at all. 
 
  
  In conclusion, knowing that i have not played any others, know this: the ending was no well done, 
 i was nearly overcome by emotion due to the depth and greatness. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: doc18
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 24, 2008 11:46 am PT
Review:  Some of you may not know that Snake has in fact been around with us since 1987, having played the 
 original on my dad's NES, i loved it even if i found it extremely difficult at the time. Growing 
 up i continued to play the Metal gear solid franchise, and they were without a doubt the best games 
 i ever happened to buy. 
  
  Metal Gear Solid brings a conclusion to the series, which is in some ways a good thing but i for 
 one will mourn the loss of a great series of games, when in three years times there is nothing 
 on the shelves in Game but utter garbage, Lair to name but one example.
  
  This Metal Gear Solid is perhaps Kojima's most ambitious yet, in terms of story telling, and Innovative 
 game ideas. The newest idea introduced into MGS4 is the octocamo. Building on the success of MGS3, 
 this new camo is the camo of the future, it mimics and surface that Snake touches, before playing 
 the game you think, This Octocamo would make the game to easy, however that is a bad assumption 
 as in fact i have completed it 3 times now and each time i was challenged.
  
  Other ideas, new to the MGS series but which have been around for a while is being able to move 
 when in first person and an over the shoulder camera, these are both extremely useful as MGS4 tends 
 to be slightly more action orientated then the previous games, however that isn't to say that you 
 can't go throughout the whole game without killing someone. ( a challenge you must complete if 
 you wish to unlock the big boss face camo) 
  
  On to the game itself. MGS4 is set in a variety of locations, from the streets of europe, to the 
 middle east, to the middle of a jungle. The main story is Solid Snake is trying to take out Liquid 
 ocelot, essentially being hired by Colonel Roy Campbell as an assassin. However the first thing 
 you will notice when you start playing is how old Snake has become, although only set a few years 
 after the events of Big Shell ( MGS2) he looks more like a grandad then a 30 something hero. Although 
 i mourned the loss of young snake, feeling that old snake was going to whip out a zimmerframe at 
 any second on the battlefield, i quickly was proved wrong by just how capable he still is, this 
 is helped by his octocamo suit, which doubles as a body enhancing suit.
  
  Each enviroment is great to play in, my favourite personally was the middle eastern levels, as 
 there were a variety of routes you could take to acheive your objectives and it really did seem 
 like you were in the middle of a warzone.
  
  The enemy AI is the same as the previous games, random to say the least, although sometimes extremely 
 clever, such as tracking footprints in the snow level or kicking people if they think you are playing 
 dead, they are deliberately stupid in that sometimes you can crawl right past their leg without 
 them even noticing you.
  
  The supporting AI, such as all the NPC's that will help you, are generally a lot smarter, although 
 you may instill a rage of four different emotions within them depending on your actions through 
 the game. For example within a rebel fighter, you can instill rage, fear, sorrow or joy, depending 
 on how you have helped his comrades. If he sees you and is angry, either kill him or run like hell 
 because he isn't going to want to talk to you.
  
  The graphics in MGS4 are perhaps the most breathtaking i've seen, both artistically and technically, 
 bombs and mortar shells drop all around you without a hitch in the frame rate, intense fire fights 
 in some of the most beautiful areas take place around you, soldiers drop dead in front of you, 
 hit by a lucky pot shot, blood spraying out as they drop to the floor. The enviroments are also 
 highly detailed cracks in paint and lighting are points that i particularly noticed when playing. 
 An interesting note is that the game seamlessly switches in between cutscene and in game as they 
 both run on the same engine, this doesn't mean the cutscenes graphics are bad, on contrary, they 
 are brilliant to watch, it just shows how good the graphics are for in game in MGS4.
  
  The gameplay in MGS4 can be played a variety of ways, although i tried to combine both stealth 
 and action, you can play it as a FPS or as a stealth game such as splinter cell, the game leaves 
 it entirely up to you, and rewards you for which ever path you take in the form of emblems. Admittedly 
 playing guns blazing is slightly more difficult then taking the sneaky option, however the game 
 was just so good i always ended up trying out both in certain areas, trying to see which one would 
 be most effective.
  
  The boss fights in MGS4 are bigger, better and even badder then before, you fight against the beauty 
 and the beast squad, metal gear ray (while your in a metal gear rex) and liquid ocelot, these boss 
 fights are dispersed everywhere and all are memorable for their individual reasons, it is haunting 
 the first time laughing octopus dissapears and turns invisible, and you can only locate her by 
 her souless maniacal laughing.
  
  Multiplayer on MGS4 is amazing as well, its always fun playing team sneaking or sneaking (where 
 one person plays as snake) as well as the standard team deathmatch, deathmatch and MGS's twist 
 on capture the flag. I found that there were very few latency issues but Konami really holds the 
 multiplayer back through not using the PSN servers, this means you have to create a Konami ID, 
 and often for no reason at all, your game could crash in the middle of a multiplyare game, losing 
 you all the points you had acquired in that game so far. Thankfully though this is rare enough 
 that it is still playable and extremely enjoyable.
  
  MGS4 employs a different ranking and upgrade system from other games, instead of upgrading the 
 guns you start with, you upgrade your skills and your proficiency with a certain class of gun, 
 e. g. assault, smg, lmg, sniper, handgun, you can mix and match skills to create a playing style 
 that suits you.
  
  MGS4 is a must buy game, whether you are new to the franchise or a series veteran, the entertaining 
 single player (although the movies were a bit long, my first playthrough took 23 hours and the 
 movies took up around 2/3rds of that) and the even better multiplayer, combined with the brilliant 
 graphics and the entertaining story by Kojima, makes this the best MGS game to date.
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Yakacles
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 23, 2008 7:24 pm PT
Review:  A 10 out of 10 is a perfect and as such they are (or at least should be) near impossible to get. 
 For a game to be perfect, it has to have not only no flaws, but must exceed every expectation. 
 This is the only game I have played that is a 10.
  Graphics:
  Every aspect of this game is beautiful. From the lush environments to the detailed characters and 
 weapons, this game is simply stunning. The game tranisitions seamlessly from cinematic to gameplay, 
 and features graphics that look real. The best description I can give of how beautiful this game 
 is is from a time when a friend of mine walked in while I was playing and asked "why are you watching 
 some show on the middle east?"
  Audio:
  The music that this game has is easily a match for the stunning graphics. every song perfectly 
 co-ordinates with the mood of the story and heightens the experience. The variety of songs includes 
 ones from past Metal Gear Solid games for those long time fans of the series. This is the only 
 game that I went and got the sound track for, as well as the only game with music that so perfectly 
 meshed with the gameplay. The voice acting is equally good, featuring some very good voice talents 
 that really sell the characters and the story. The voice acting itself can be somewhat dramatic 
 at times, but no more dramatic than is appropriate for what is occuring in the story.
  Gameplay:
  This is a game where you get to do EVERYTHING: from killing people hand to hand or 
 with a gun to piloting a giant robot. the range of gameplay is nicely structured and means that 
 you will never get bored. Where this game really shines is in the story. Following the last mission 
 of an old soldier, Metal Gear Solid 4 concludes the Metal Gear Solid franchize with a continuous 
 climax. The story itself may be somewhat confusing to those who have never played the series, and 
 the cut scenes are VERY frequent (especially in the early game) but it all seems so appropriate. 
 The story is excellent and frighteningly plossible, and will leave you with your mouth open at 
 every turn. This game is truly a Masterpiece on the order of anything in an art gallery.
  
  10/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: slaxl
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 22, 2008 11:33 am PT
Review:  
  This is a wonderful game. Can't say anymore, except to recommend it to anyone. Besides the lengthy 
 CG, its a great experience for any gamer. The story, the music, the action, the overall game is 
 just wonderful. 
  
  If u can - get it and play it. It's sad to know that this is the end but all things must come to 
 an end. I wish there was somewhere to go review the cut scenes because i'm not gonna lie i skipped 
 some of them and wished i didn't. Lots of Guns, lots of action, lil romance? - hahahah - there 
 are some sad parts in it too. Really opens up emotions - it's like watching a movie. The flashbacks, 
 the problems, the friends, the enemies. All seem to have a purpose and are not just tossed in. 
 
  
  Our legendary hero has come to an end. And he has gone out with a bang. We have all returned to 
 zero. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Paladin_King
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 21, 2008 4:09 pm PT
Review:  The Introduction
  
  Metal Gear Solid 4, by this point, is an incredibly well known game. It's the game that may very 
 well be largely responsible for the PS3s surge in console sales. It's renowned for its huge scores 
 and it's being a conclusion of a beloved legacy and franchise. It's known as well as for its incredibly 
 long cutscenes and amazing graphics, both of which are unprecedented in gaming. I find myself in 
 the odd position of being yet another voice giving this game a ten. That said, you might find that 
 my rationale for doing so is quite different from others. This is mostly due to my belief in a 
 "perfect 10" game being nigh impossible. Read on!
  
  The Pros
  
  The characters, the character development, the epic scope of the plot; it's all absolutely impeccable. 
 The storytelling, the writing, the voice acting; it is all absolutely top notch. This is a game 
 that will truly make you CARE about the characters. That said, while narrative-wise, it is a game 
 that is tremendous in itself, it also pays tremendous respect to the past. If you've even played 
 a single Metal Gear game in the past, regardless of how long ago, this game is the emotional equivalent 
 of a Mike Tyson punch to the gut. If Snake's adventures ever played a role in your life up until 
 this point, you will feel that past and those memories dredged up.
  
  That's not say that it's not a fantastic narrative in itself - it certainly is. Part of this can 
 be attributed to the sky high production values. I'm not sure if we've ever seen a game with production 
 values this gargantuan. The score is stirring and powerful, the effects are grand, the graphics 
 are tremendous artistically and technically, and the acting is solid. Even more splendid is the 
 amount of work Konami did in truly crafting a world. For instance, you'll often see life action 
 advertisements or, at the beginning, surrealist talk-shows. They craft a world that is in the near 
 future, but as said, is oddly surrealist and postmodern in the most postmodernist sense. Despite 
 being the last game in a series, Metal Gear Solid 4 does more to realize the world of that series 
 than all of the other games that came before it combined. This alone makes the world somewhat accessible 
 to newcomers. Furthermore, the new characters are excellent (Dreben rocks and the four beast characters 
 are legitimately creepy) and long time absent favorites like Meryl shine. Returning characters 
 are all developed so that you'll love them all. For instance, even the most stalwart Raiden hater 
 will be overjoyed to see him and his new badassery. 
  
  I won't wax any longer on how great the graphics and sound are. They are top notch - enough said. 
 What I will dwell on a little though are the levels, artistically speaking. It's been a while since 
 I've played a game where each level feels so distinct, each one perfect in its own way, each having 
 an entirely different feel and playstyle. The wartorn Middle East in the first Act is already well 
 known, as it should be. However, contrasting this with the film-noir streets of western Europe 
 is astonishing. The playstyle changes, the environment changes, and even the lighting changes from 
 act to act, with the afore mentioned film noir act featuring a brown/hazy sort of nightime street 
 pole atmosphere. The levels all play different and are all lovable in their own way. I won't even 
 begin to bring up the emotionality of one of the levels being a "return to an old favorite."
  
  Gameplay wise, Metal Gear Solid 4 excels with respect to its versatility, moreso than any previous 
 Metal Gear game. Aside from an early bit in the final Act, you can truly, honestly, get through 
 this entire game action-style, guns blazing. Similarly, with a little extra effort, you can of 
 course sneak your way through as well. The choice is always yours, from enemy to enemy. This is 
 clearly the game's strongest suit.
  
  Furthermore, the ID unlock system for picking up guns/buying guns and the whole system for buying 
 equipment in general is mercifully easy and very accessible, serving the game well.
  
  A special shout must also go to the new Octocamo system in Snake's suit. The camouflage system 
 truly changes the way you'll approach the game, making you be mindful of your surroundings more 
 than ever, as well as encouraging you to lie prone, or to lie motionless where necessary.
  
  A mention must also be given to the boss fights, which are often ingenius, and pretty much 
 all a ton of fun. The first bossfight with Laughing Octopus will have you smiling at the sheer 
 genius of the fight's structure. On the other hand, the bossfight with Liquid, though nothing remotely 
 special on a gameplay level, will remain on many gamers' "favorite bossfight ever" list for years 
 to come purely due to the cinematic nature of it. Also, the first fight with Liquid is nothing 
 more than pure fanservice that will have even the most casual fans dropping their jaws. Oh... and 
 the game also has the greatest motorcycle chase sequence in any game ever. 
  
  The game naturally balances its sense of humor and epic story well and will tug on your heartstrings 
 to the utmost. Gameplay wise, the game is solid and story wise, it's untouchable. 
  
  The Cons
  
  As I said, the gameplay's greatest feature is its versatility. Beyond that, it's 
 merely solid. It's not groundbreaking (outside the Octocamo) , it's not genre defining, it's not 
 revolutionary. It's just very solid. It's not particularly innovative or interesting in many ways.
 
  
  For instance, in the age of dynamic recoverable health, the reliance on rations and food items 
 is starting to show its age a little.
  
  Also, CQC, though very deep and interesting, still feels a bit awkward and difficult to get to 
 grips with/learn. 
  
  As far as the bossfights go, though I did say they were all very good, some were a bit underwhelming/too 
 easy. Perhaps the final bossfight and the fight with Vamp may be seen as a bit guilty of this, 
 but honestly, i'm not complaining. They were great, story-wise.
  
  Regarding the story, it also, despite how good it is, can be pretty inaccessible to newcomers. 
 Essentially, the more well-versed in the franchise you are, the more it'll all mean for you, which 
 can be frustrating. Of course, this is a Metal Gear game, which is already a guarantee for occasionally 
 confusing storytelling.
  
  To be fair, these are the only complaints I have regarding the game. There is just very, very little 
 to complain about. It's just so solid. Again, the worst thing I can say is that it's too solid. 
 It doesn't do enough new, it doesn't take as many risks outside it's perfectly implemented versatility. 
 Once you make you choice though... it's nothing earth-shattering. It's just the most rock solid 
 action-stealth game you'll ever play.
  
  The Conclusion
  
  So why'd I give it a ten? I think a large part of it comes from those huge cutscenes. This game 
 isn't a game. It also isn't a game trying to be a movie. Rather, Metal Gear Solid 4 represents 
 a strange bread of hybridized entertainment, where the game and film medium find themselves perfectly 
 blended. It's hard for me to explain, but Metal Gear Solid 4 is less of a game and more of an experience. 
 It is the only time where I feel that this cliched phrase can be truly, honestly, and utterly aptly 
 applied. 
  
  It's best summed up by the Liquid battle i mentioned. Gameplay wise, it's just very solid, nothing 
 earthshattering... but when you fuse it with the cinematic nature of it, the hearkening back to 
 the past involved in it, the interspersed cut scenes... you get one of the greatest boss fights 
 of all time, if not THE greatest bossfight. The game simply cannot be judged solely in its capacity 
 as a game, and it certainly can't be judged as a film either.
  
  Metal Gear Solid 4 is in the end, quite frankly, one of the most epic products ever produced by 
 the gaming industry. It is only fitting that the last game of a foundational and integral gaming 
 franchise that really pushed the medium forward finds itself pushing that medium so much as to 
 transcend the very idea of being a "game."
  
  For that, Metal Gear solid gets a ten. I said no game is a perfect ten. Metal Gear got a ten by 
 being something else altogether. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Darkman2007
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 21, 2008 6:20 am PT
Review:  as a fan of the series, i couldnt wait to play this when it came out, i wasn't dissapointed one 
 bit. the game mechanics are somewhat different than the previous games. such as a better aiming 
 system. this game works in a way which allows you to both sneak around the battlefield, similar 
 to before, or to turn this into a shooter. thus it can appeal to many types of people. 
  
  the drebin shop system allows you to collect guns found on the battlefield, if you already have 
 that particular gun, it will be converted into credits which you can spend on new weapons or ammo, 
 some people didnt like it, saying the game becomes too easy, if you dont like the system, dont 
 use it.
  
  the story is truly awesome, i wont reveal too much but this is Solid Snake's last mission. the 
 story does saturate the game, especially at the end where you watch the game almost as much as 
 playing it, which might deter some people, but for MGS fans like me, its great. some parts are 
 very emotional and make you feel sorry for what hell snake goes through on his last mission.
  
  the graphics are absolutly awe inspiring, its probably one of the few games on PS3 that really 
 show its full potential, i cant remember seeing games that look better than this. on any console. 
 
  the soundtrack is also great and fits the themes of the game.
  
  replayability wise , its the same as other MGS games, with extra items to unlock with various achievements 
 in the game such as no alerts, no kills etc.
  one should also mention Metal Gear Online, where you team up with other users and do various modes, 
 such as finding snake, and just plain shooting at each other and racking up points, as well as 
 other modes.
  
  overall this is a masterpiece of a game on the PS3, the only game in the series which matches the 
 first MGS in quality and greatness. if you like stealth games, shooters and like epic stories in 
 games, than you should check this out 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DARKESTxNME
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 20, 2008 1:25 pm PT
Review:  Solid Snake is back and this time he's in for the end.....
  
  The single-player mode is very powerful with emotional twist that makes you feel the impact, that 
 youll see what Snakes going through..., you wont be disappointing with the single-player at all, 
 unless you haven't played none of the previous titles... youll be left hanging there thinking, 
 WTF its going on? but the ending is phenomenal and very powerful.... cutscenes are pretty long including 
 the last scene... beat the game around 17hrs i rush through the game. (2nd time) for secrets and 
 difficulty to the max (its balanced and fair) 21hrs! A long Game.... Sadly it ends... Rest Snake!
 
  
  Graphics are absolute Amazing better than any game ive seen except for the upcoming Killzone2. 
 Ive havent found no famerate drops or pop-ups at all. Impress.
  
  Sounds/Music: I'm very picky when it comes to soundtrack and sound effects... Incredible and memorable. 
 No annoyance hear.
  
  Controls gets complicated at first like always but it turns out to be second nature... including 
 combat.
  
  My favorite! MetalGearSolidOnline (MGSO) 
  This is pretty hard to review because is if you like or not multiplayer in my perspective. MGSO 
 is very impressive, tons of option, customization, characters, and MatchMaking, well-done. Ranking 
 lets you unlock maps, weapons, gadget, clothing etc.
  It takes awhile to level up to the higher levels and difficult opponents you will fine most of 
 the time.... MGSO is something you haven't seen before which makes multiplayer special !
  
  MGS4 in my perspective is more than a instant classic is a masterpiece.... Snake is resting now 
 and we solute!
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: nick_spot
Rating: 6
Date: Nov 20, 2008 6:13 am PT
Review:  I played until Raging Raven and the game had done nothing for me so I sold it along with my PS3 
 - it was the only reason I bought the PS3 in the first place. The story is ridiculous but that's 
 not the reason I was disappointed. I just found the game boring and not stimulating like I was 
 expecting. I found the comical style silly and the colour scheme of the graphics was more bland 
 than stylistic - lots of shades of grey. The environments and level design were also uninspiring. 
 Weapons and items are uninteresting and collecting new ones for the first time don't give you a 
 sense of powering up. You can sneak around but it was frustrating when getting caught and much 
 easier to just shoot the enemies and run past them, defeating the purpose of the stealth aspect. 
 Apparently the game improves significantly after Raven but I wasn't prepared to give it the benefit 
 of the doubt. 10 - 20 hours worth of play is enough to decide if I want to keep playing or not. 
 But in saying that, buy it, you'll probably like it, but not my cup of tea. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jaredcrazy3232
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 20, 2008 12:01 am PT
Review:  Think Citizen Kane good. This game pulls at your emotions better then the movies that do it best. 
 I have never in my life been pulled emotionally by a game, MGS3 was close to doing this. This game 
 takes a piece of you and never lets go. When I played this game I thought of Shakespearean tragedies, 
 and just how much they pull you in. This is Kojima's masterpiece, and he knows it. Everything is 
 answered in this game, all loose ends are tied and the only question I have is where does the MGS 
 universe go from here? 
  
 
  
 
  There are games and then there are games that will stay in the hearts of others, this is that 
 game. Just play it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Midgetyman567
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 19, 2008 6:53 pm PT
Review:  Metal Gear Solid 4 has possibly become one of the greatest if not the greatest game ever made by 
 anyone. Metal Gear Solid 4 has a moving but complex story that takes a lot of time to understand. 
 The single player mode will have you playing the game more than once for you to understand the 
 plot. But the main attraction here is the multiplayer. MGO will let you go beyond the single player 
 campaign you spent hours on and fight real players in an online 16 player battle. MGO has many 
 modes to keep things fresh. Team deathmatch, Deathmatch, team sneak, rescue mission, base mission, 
 and one more that i cant remember. Ive basically been a couch potato since playing it and probably 
 will until Metal Gear Solid 5 comes out. So If you know me, dont be suprised if you dont find me 
 for another 3 years. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CursemarkChris
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 28, 2008 6:59 pm PT
Review:  Well in know im late on this but i just got my new plastation 3 , and had to get this. Well lets 
 just say this, as I was playing this game I coulnt really find out out why this game was so graet, 
 but I could find out how it was absoltely awsome. Graphics are so amazing that if you have the 
 full 1080p, its hard to tell if its fake or not. Gameplay is highly addictive and envoirnments 
 are gorges. I didnt see to many glitches or frame rate issues at all, so every thing is nice, and 
 smooth. The coolest thing about this game, are the cut scenec which are absolutelt breatetaking, 
 and can pretty much pass off for being real people in them. Although you could skip them, youd 
 just be missing out on somthing amazing.
  While graphics are satisviing, gameplay is great too, with a great asinal of wepons and gadgets 
 to use you will never get tired of playing. There are plenty of places to hide, and cover yourself. 
 Like climbing under barrels, and sneaking around, until you get discoverd by the enemy, whom are 
 pretty smart. Altogether Metal Gear Solid is a superb gmame that everybody who owns a plastation 
 3 should have. I give this game a 9.5. Great game Konami!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: stingblah
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 3, 2009 9:31 pm PT
Review:  THIS GAME CHANGED MY LIFE.
  
  
  I have NEVER played MGS before in my life. All i knew was that Snake was some sort of super spy. 
 I went on youtube and caught up with the story, then went out and bought this.
  
  First off, let me just say that I am not a huge fan of shooting games. I like a game with a story.
 
  
  However, from the first time I started up Metal Gear Solid 4 it was MUCH more than just a shooter. 
 If you wanted, you could go through the entire game firing very few bullets. Fight or flight -- which 
 will you choose? Both are equally as fun!
  
  There are HUNDREDS of weapons available. Everything from stun-sniper rifles to playboy magazines 
 to 'distract' unsuspecting enemies (: P) to highly lethal RPGs are available. If you decide to sneak, 
 the suspense of whether the enemy will notice you is awesome. By the way, the AI in this game is 
 so smart I couldn't believe it.
  
  The story is so good that I was about to shed tears towards the end. I truly made an emotional 
 connection with Snake, and every other character in the game.
  
  The sound is simply amazing. The sounds in the battlefield are so engaging. The voice acting is 
 just brilliant.
  
  Graphics: do I need to say anything? this game looks better than some DVDs I've watched!
  
 
  Great gameplay, great story, great audio, GREAT visuals. Oh, and AWESOME ENGAGING ONLINE PLAY! 
 I've played the online portion of this game more than all the other games I own added up.
  
  IT IS F*CKIN GREAT. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hogowagh
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 18, 2008 7:24 am PT
Review:  I love this game it so fun not that long but so fun is it worth getting a ps3 yes it is. So my 
 x box 360 broke I stooped reviewing game for a while but than I got a ps3 which did not impress 
 me but than wow those games that came out were so good one of than was mgs 4 got it first day it 
 came out this game is a strategy game well any one can figure that out right it feels a little 
 like resident evil because u can buy weapons but thats not first time that this is in a game boss 
 battles are so good and fun its a little bit unbelievable but it is here and it fun. I relay don't 
 have nothing to this game its perfect the cut senses are little bit to long and there lot of tham 
 but its still a interactive movie so what you excepted. So I recomand this game so get it. If you 
 hate every mags game you will love this one its great or u a friend of splinter cell believe me 
 this game is beater so get it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: simpaticoman
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 18, 2008 3:22 am PT
Review:  I am a bit sad. Probably my favourite videogame character of all time (Followed by Kratos) is not 
 to be seen again ... probably. 
  We have spent so many good times together. Running from a a russian copter. Destroying harriers. 
 Sinking oil tankers. Confronting the biggest Mechas you will ever witness. Running away from the 
 Shagohod (Well in this case is big boss the character, but you feel like it has a lot to do with 
 Snake)
  Ending credits with someone trying to reach you via Codec. Confronting Mantis and beating him changing 
 in the real world the ... well I let something unveiled for the new generations of gamers.
  I have laughed and cried. I have learnt on modern weaponry and on war. I have learnt on million 
 gatchets I will never see again on a videogame.
  This videogame for the non diehard fans of the series is an epilogue. With tones of questions answered. 
 That's part of the cinematic experience of MGS. You can leave it unseen if you like. However you 
 will be missing some precious moments created by my digital god: Hideo Kojima. Long live you and 
 games like MGS.
  If you are looking for a proper review look for it somewhere else. I am too sad to miss a great 
 digital companion. I am sad not to hear Snake's voice anymore. 
  
  PD: Who knows... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cosmix11
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 17, 2008 7:45 am PT
Review:  The Metal Gear saga sure knew how to stand out in the ocean of videogame ip's throughout the history 
 of videogames. Be it 20 years ago, when it's creator Hideo Kojima added a whole new genre to the 
 industry, 10 years ago when it immersed the gamer into it's first truly cinematic game, or 5 years 
 ago when it added a whole new depth to the series. The games all featured an epic, twisted and 
 a lot of times, confusing story, neverbefore seen gameplay, memorable characters and one of the 
 most loved hero ever, Solid Snake, so it is no surprise that when Metal Gear Solid 4: Guns of the 
 Patriots, everyone expected nothing below excelent, especially considering it's precedents and 
 being Snake's last adventure. So did it manage to deliver all of those promised ? God yes, it did.
 
  
  Metal Gear Solid 4 single handedly managed to change my mentality of how a great video game should 
 be made, setting a new standard, period. It delivered such a near-perfect experience, that even 
 with it's ( small ) flaws, it still blew me away, practically almost reaching the limits of interactive 
 entertainment. If someone would ask me to show them the pinnacle of video games so far in matter 
 of storytelling, complex characters and amazing atmosphere, I'd show them MGS4 without any hesitation.
 
  
  Alright, alright. I know you think I'm a little too entuziast, but play it and you will actually 
 see that every single word that I've just said is true, without any exaggeration. But what makes 
 the game so good you may ask ? Well, almost every-Goddamn-thing.
  
  The year is 2014, 5 years after the Big Shell incident, and the veteran soldier Old Snake is called 
 out for one final time by his ex Colonel Campbell to finish it's mission of terminating Liquid 
 Ocelot. Wait. Old Snake ? Apparently, Snake is the victim of a rapidly accelerating aging proces, 
 with an unknown cause. But even with his problem, Snake's accepts to take on the role of an assassin 
 and kill Ocelot, who's mind seems to have been accaparated completely now by Liquid Snake's thoughts.
 
  
  Throughout the game, you will find yourself reaching places from the dusty, torn by war Middle 
 East, to the jungle of South America, to Eastern Europe and some other places you've already explored 
 in the past and some you've only heard of as a concept. While theoratically there aren't that many 
 places to explore, you will find out that those zones are quite large, giving you different possibilites 
 of exploring and sneaking, with surprises at every step. For example, I haven't even noticed a 
 building which holded a musical treat until my forth walkthrough. 
  
  Of course, this mission Snake's final mission isn't really a walk in the park, and given his condition 
 too, he will need all the help he can find along his way. Familiar faces make their appearance, 
 however due to the passing of time, their personalities are now more complex than ever. Meryl Sylverburgh 
 is now not only a fully grown soldier, but also the commander of her own group named Rat Patrol 
 Team 01, Otacon is trying to confront the past, and of course, the most unprevisible personality 
 is that of Old Snake's, which has to confront his brother beforing passing away from the life he 
 didn't have time to live. Even the most overseen now have a more important role, like Johnny Sasaki, 
 which you've encountered in the past MGS games as the guy with diarheea problems. Don't expect 
 to see only friends around though, as you will meet again with some enemies that just won't die, 
 despite someone's desperation, and also some shocker people will make their appearance, surely 
 to make you say "is that... holy crap, it is !". Besides these characters, you will make some new 
 friends too, like Drebin, the gun launderer, which will not only help you with the weapons you 
 need, but will also save your butt.
  
  The gameplay in MGS4 has also been redone to be more user-friendly to the average gamer, but let's 
 face it. The over-the-top style was getting pretty old, and in MGS4 it is absolutely necessary 
 to be able to sneak and explore in a third person view, or even a first person view, as there is 
 a lot more to travel than in past MGS games. Snake now has a bigger list of moves than ever before, 
 which can sometimes be a good thing, but can also confuse you sometimes, which may lead to doing 
 something you didn't want to. But that's not a problem, as if you will get spotted, you now have 
 a lot more freedom of shooting, so you can counter attack when you need to, or if you want you 
 can just go on a rampage. The weapons can be found on the field of battle from dead soldiers, but 
 you will find out that they're ID Locked. To be able to use them, you'll need Drebin, who will 
 unlock them for you in exchange for Drebin Points. These points can be gathered by exchanging weapons 
 that you find on the run but you already have, so you don't need anymore. This way, it's a win-win 
 situation. There are over 50 weapons in the game, some more special then others ( special gear 
 earned by so you won't be bored or be left without a weapon that suits your tastes. Besides weapons, 
 Snake's gear also consists of some very new special gadgets, which are absolutely necesary to survive, 
 the most important newcomer definetly being the OctoCamo. The OctoCamo is Snake's principal suit, 
 which takes the color and texture of it's surroundings. The more he blends with the enviroinment, 
 the more chances he has not to be seen. Another useful thing you'll get is the Solid Eye. With 
 it, you will be able to see the soldiers stats and emotions, have infrared vision, useful for tracking 
 footprints and seeing in the dark, or use them as binoculars. Also, the Metal Gear MK 2, a robotic 
 contraption designed by Otacon will be helpful if you want to see what's ahead of you, or shock 
 some unsuspecting enemies. 
  You'd think that if this is a sneaking game, all you'll ever do is try to slip away from guards 
 unseen, but you'll actually be treated with a variety of gameplay designs. One moment you'll find 
 yourself trying to run for your life, the next moment you'll be trying to follow someone in a city, 
 and after that you'll have to try to protect someone from a swarm of female soldiers, and it keeps 
 getting like that. Unfortunately, all of them are just scenarios that involve basic sneaking or 
 shooting, but it's entertaining nonetheless. Not very entertaining for Snake though, as he is a 
 little too old for this, and makes him stressed. When he is stressed out, Snake won't be able to 
 shoot very well, adding a new strategy to the gameplay. This will make you decide if you should 
 retreat to cover or go guns blazing.
  
  While it's all great in terms of story and gameplay, it's in the presentation where MGS4 truly 
 shines. Everything, from the cutting-edge graphics to the professional soundtrack, form together 
 such an unique atmosphere only a Metal Gear game could have. The visuals are something truly amazing. 
 With incredibly realistic designed characters, great textures everywhere and even small details 
 have been taken care of, like the text on the Metal Gear MK2 or the color of the Solid Eye's light. 
 The good thing about this game is that it doesn't limit itself to a two color pallete consisting 
 of yellow and grey, like you'd usually find in all the recent games, instead trying to do a different 
 atmosphere for every place you visit. For example, in the Middle East the dominant color will be 
 a dusty yellow, with the sound of bullets flying by your ears, while in the South American region 
 you'll see yourself surrounded by the color green most of the time, with birds and rats making 
 animal noises. There are a couple of low-res textures here and there, but nothing too noticeable. 
 
  
  The sound is also top notch, with heavy names like Harry Gregson-Williams and others managing to 
 immerse the player in whatever happens in the game with the power of the sound. Also, the inclusion 
 of an iPod as a gadget is a great thing, allowing you to listen to music from the past Metal Gear 
 titles, from the 8-bit era those from MGS3: Subsistance, and even some remixed goodies. And in 
 some moments the music can create such atmosphere, that it can even make a hardcore fan to have 
 tears in their eyes. 
  
  The game certainly has it's fair share of replayability, with different costumes, emblems and iPod 
 songs waiting to be collected, and if that's not enough for you, you can always pop in a match 
 of Metal Gear Online.
  
  Not everything is perfect in the world of Metal Gear Solid 4 though, as there are some flaws that 
 can sometimes make it a bit annoying. One of the biggest problems it has is with the loading times. 
 I understand that the game is big, and it had to be broken into different acts. I even understand 
 having to install after each and every act, but having to load during the gameplay can really diminish 
 the overall gameplay experience, especially during certain chasing scenes, when adrenaline is pumping 
 through your gamer hands. Another issue is with the cutscenes. Even though they look amazing, and 
 present beautiful movie-game transition scenes, they're sometimes too much. I know you can't have 
 a MGS game without it's signature long cutscenes, but this time it's really got over the edge, 
 with one of the cutscenes even being over one hour long. Also, while it may not be a problem for 
 some, the story can be very confusing for others, and even if they'll try to understand it, they'll 
 find themselves overwhelmed by the amount of information they're given.
  
  Metal Gear Solid 4 told the final story of everyone's favourite soldier, Solid Snake, completing 
 all the puzzles the past games in the series may have left unsolved. If you are a true fan of the 
 series, you will definetly not be disapointed by this ( supposedly ) last Metal Gear Solid title, 
 as it is one of the best game of all time.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: BryceHartell
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 17, 2008 12:38 am PT
Review:  In MGS4 you take control of the legendary soldier, Solid Snake. But Snake has changed. He has suffered 
 from accelerated ageing and is now far past his prime. The story focuses around Snake and his friends 
 trying to stop Liquid from taking over the world.
  
  The story is to be frank, breath taking. About half of the game will consist of movies and cut 
 sceens, so if you're not a story driven gamer, this probably wont be the game for you. The story 
 is extreamly complicated and you wont fully understand it untill you finish the game. But by god, 
 when you finish it you will be very satisfied. Some of the video scenes are long dialogue based 
 while others are amazing action sequences.
  
  Along the way you will meet many of the characters from previous Metal gear games, including: Otacon, 
 Naomi, Mei Ling, Meryl, Vamp, Psycho Mantis, and of course Raiden.
  
  The graphics in the cut scenes are amazing, and show just what the limits of modern technology 
 can achieve. What's more amazing is that the video graphics are the same as the in game graphics.
 
  
  Gameplay wise, Snake has all his usual tricks. The tranq gun and cardboard box make a return. But 
 new items like Octocamo (a suit which automatically changes colour to match your surroundings) 
 and Metal gear Mk II (a small remote controlled robot) give MGS4 that 'new' feel. In total there 
 are 69 different weapons, and many different items aswell.
  
  There are aslo great boss battles throughout the game. The bosses are comprised of the B&B core. 
 A group of female soldiers with super powerful mechanicle suits. These battles are fast paced and 
 very rewarding.
  
  MGS4 also introduces online multiplayer for the first time in Metal Gear history. It features several 
 different game modes and maps, and also has very customisable characters.
  
  The actual campaign is very short. if you skip the videos you could probably complete it in 5 hours. 
 But the videos are what makes this such a great game. This is without a doubt the best video game 
 story of all time.
  
  There are of course a couple of problems with MGS4. It was designed so the player could approach 
 it either from a stealth perspective, or they could go guns blazing. but the latter doesn't really 
 work. In several parts of the game, enemies will continuously respawn, making you resort to stealth 
 to complete the level. The second problem is the AI. If the enemy spot you they will chase you 
 and call for back up. But once you hide for a while, they will give up the hunt and return to their 
 same patrol pattern as they had before, even if you have just spent the previous five minutes going 
 nuts with a machine gun. it's as if they completely forget you were ever there.
  
  But these issues don't distract from the fact that this is not only one of the best playing games 
 on the market, but it is undoubtably the most enthrawling story ever told through a video game. 
 Legendary creator Hideo Kojima should be very proud, as he has created one of the most phenomenal 
 games of all time. MGS4 is a must own.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: crzy_ruroo
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 16, 2008 12:56 pm PT
Review:  I loved the game ALOT... and i loved the miniserires in between even though they were long, but 
 it didnt bother me... what bothered me was when i was done with the game i felt like i havent played 
 at all.... its a great game but not alot of gameplay. i mean i finished the game in 3 days and i 
 was left wanting MORE. the flashbacks r cool but sometimes they would distract me while the characters 
 were talking, coz i would be so focused on what im looking at and it making so much noise while 
 i press X that i wouldnt be able to hear what some characters would be saying.
  
  I got so emotional towards the end, i even cried with the otacon and naomi scene (trying not to 
 ruin it for those who havent played it yet) and i also cried for Raiden when he came to the rescue... oohh 
 i love raiden, he so HOT. Vamp is HOT too in a dirty/devilish/vampirish way too.. heh
  
  It has alot of humor, specially when psycho mantis is up and he talks about sony joystick.. HILARIOUS
 
  
  I'm very impateint when it comes to games but this game taught me to lower my heart rate and blood 
 pressure hehe. I learned patience, sometimes i would lie dead for a while or crawl really slow 
 to get to a spot, thats how patient ive become.
  
  Gameplay is very unique, there are soo many things you can do with snake, but you have to be very 
 careful with who sees you or ur alert goes up. yu have to be sneaky and queit. teaches you how 
 to really figt in a war, however a war on ur own. 
  
  Also try to use up ur weapons and not stick to 2 or 3 like I did. i stuck to my customised weapon 
 and the p90, i didnt even bother with the others. 
  
  when you meet Drebin, a weapon launderer who helps u on ur missions, you will have the sense that 
 he reminds you of someone... and ur right... its Dennis Rodman in a suit
  
  All in all, the game is vibrant, the story is fulfilling, and as always it keeps you wanting more...
 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Evil_penguin21
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 16, 2008 10:49 am PT
Review:  I love this game!!! My friend has it and I went to his house to play it... what an amazing game! 
 This Metal Gear Solid is easily better than any of the other Metal Gear Solid games. It is a fantastic 
 game and I cannot find a single thing wrong with it. It is perfect and flawless. The story is killer 
 (just like it always has) , the graphics are awesome and top of the line, and the game itself could 
 not have been a greater way to say good-bye to one of the most coolest game characters, Solid Snake 
 (or Old Snake if you like) . Also, this game totally makes up for how Raiden used to look girlie 
 and weak. Now he is a total bad-a$$! If you have not played this game then you have truly missed 
 out. While the Metal Gear Solid series is legendary by itself, this game is definitely a legend 
 in it's own making. It really does define how powerful the graphics can be on a PS3. Every single 
 twist and turn in the plot makes you hungry to keep on playing to find out what happens next. This 
 game alone is a perfect reason to buy a PS3. It is a perfect game and I recommend it to any gamer 
 no matter what type of game genre they like. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lostlynx17
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 15, 2008 10:21 pm PT
Review:  Well if you don't have this game then I would suggest you buy it like NOW. It's a very good game 
 with a good plot and a pretty good online to match. However I do no believe it deserves a ten. 
 I will explain this in the review though. SO lets start things off with the story. The story in 
 this game is AMAZING the story alone is enough reason to buy this game Hell they should make a 
 book out of it. However How is the story told is a whole different question. Game play. The game 
 play is really good WHEN YOU GET TO PLAY IT. I mean the controls are awesome movement is right 
 on the stealth is perfect and the shooting is good to. But this games has so many cut scenes that 
 it holds back this whole experience. I mean come on the last chapter is a complete cut scene. And 
 it's not that the cutscenes are bad because they aren't and thats probably the reason you will 
 keep on going on in the game it's just the fact there is so many. I mean sometimes in this game 
 i just skipped a cutscene and went on wikipedia to see what happens. This is what holds me back 
 from giving this game a ten. Replayability. Kind of yes there are medals instead of trophies and 
 you may want to hoard them. However chances are you will be skipping the cutscenes and that does 
 get a little annoying. However there is reason to replay this. Online it's kind of like socom but 
 also isn't and really i didn't like it however a lot of people loved so this is probably just a 
 me problem so i won't let that hold this game back. So all in all this is a very great game and 
 should be played by everyone who has a PS3. With it's Awesome storyline it is guarantee you will 
 be sucked into this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rcsnow
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 15, 2008 10:11 pm PT
Review:  Presentation:
  
  - A story worthy of a feature length film, with action that keeps you engaged from the second you 
 hit the start button 'til the final credits roll.
  - A brilliant mixture of storytelling and gameplay.
  
  Graphics:
  
  - Incredibly detailed 
 and visually breathtaking, with amazing camera angles, MGS4 is one of the most beautiful titles 
 ever made. 
  - Mind-blowing audiovisual presentation.
  
  Sound:
  
  - Haunting melodies, the re-introduction of classic themes via iPod, and perfect line delivery 
 by actors -- this is an aural delight from start to finish.
  
  Gameplay:
  
  - Not only does MGS4 include new gameplay mechanics, it shatters the mold of what's expected from 
 the series. Stealth, action, or balanced play: the choice is yours in how you explore this MGS 
 world.
  - Tight and compelling shooting mechanics
  - Gratifying stealth mechanics.
  - Lots of cool gadgets and weapons that you can tailor to your own style of play. 
  
  Lasting 
 Appeal:
  
  - There are dozens of secrets and Easter Eggs, along with tons of ways to approach any combat situation. 
 Plus, when you're done with the single player, MGO will keep you engaged for weeks on end.
  
  ----------
  
  OVERALL: 10/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: beaner_bimmer
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 15, 2008 9:31 pm PT
Review:  I have and never will be a huge fan of MGS. But I have enjoyed many different aspects this franchise 
 offers with this newer installment. My only wish regarding this game is knowing more about the 
 story. From a newer players perspective this game dishes out challenge and intrigue. but my tendencies 
 towards run and gun dont mesh with MGS4. glad to say this title keeps up the intensity factor while 
 giving you the option to take the most advantageous tactical route. i find just the option to do 
 so refreshing. Replay is high due to the ways to approach situations, instead of of traditional 
 avenues of gaining replay value.
  
  Other than that this is one gorgeous game, will be great to show off the potential of the PS3. 
 My only complaint is the contols. It's easy to get used to, but if you play any other game it will 
 take a while to "relearn" all of what snake is capable of doing. 
  
  Only other complaint is cutscenes. A bit long and involving, only furthering my contempt with myself 
 for not respecting this franchise sooner. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BobRea
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 15, 2008 12:47 pm PT
Review:  Let me start off by saying that Metal Gear Solid 4 isn't for everyone. If you don't like long, 
 movie-quality cut scenes, then this game isn't for you; but if you want a totally immersive cinematic 
 game experience with technical prowess on nearly all fronts, then Metal Gear Solid 4 is the game 
 for you.
  
  Metal Gear Solid 4 is easily one of the most technically proficient games to date, from the amazing 
 character models, from cut scenes seamlessly switching into game play, and some of the sheer sizes 
 of some set pieces, to all the things that are going on at once.
  
  The story as like all the other Metal Gear games: complicated. But if you've played the other games 
 and had a decent grasp on the story line, you should be okay with MGS4's story. The game introduces 
 a new character, Drebin, a gun launderer, who acts as an outlet to unlock weapons dropped from 
 enemies, buy ammo, and buy new guns.
  
  The game play is as solid as ever, and for the first time, has a cross hair aiming system, which 
 works beautifully in third person mode. The game is meant to be played as a stealth game, but you 
 can also go guns blazing, although you will most likely die more often with this approach. The 
 game is also filled with humorous items such as Playboys and cardboard boxes that players of the 
 other games int he series will be familiar with.
  
  The game also has a fair diversity of environments, ranging from the Middle East, South America, 
 Eastern Europe, and Alaska. The pacing of the game is very nice and some set piece battles such 
 as a couple vehicle chases and the chance to control a Metal Gear are extremely fun and rewarding. 
 
  
  By the end of the game loose ends are tied up, and there really aren't any questions left to be 
 asked in regards to the plot. The game has plenty of replay value whether it be Metal Gear Online, 
 or playing through multiple times on higher difficulties to unlock new camos and weapons.
  
  Overall, Metal Gear Solid 4 is an amazing game that no fan of the genre should miss, and is 
 a must buy for PS3 owners.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: BrandonaterR
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 15, 2008 12:19 pm PT
Review:  Metal Gear Solid 4 was remarkably fun even though I had not played the previous games in the series. 
 The character's personallities were well built and the story was just outstanding. You play as 
 Old Snake the whole game but he is equipped with many things, including his camo suit that can 
 camoflauge with anything that you touch. There are quite a few boss fights and the game is filled 
 with cutscenes to give the game a movie-like effect. I thought that the Online was a bit disappointing 
 though. Overall, the campaign made up for it and this is why the Ps3 exclusive is a must have and 
 is worth the money. MGS4 MGS4 MGS4 MGS4 MGS4 ,. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Acexx
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 17, 2008 12:32 pm PT
Review:  Seriously, I spent 60 bucks on this game, hyped up by everyone saying it's the best game ever. 
 When I popped this baby in, I had to wait for an install, took a while, but it's ok considering 
 the size of this game. When I first started I was just thrown in to battle without any knowladge 
 how to play the game, so I had to experiment. When I got the hang of it, it took me a while to 
 figure out what to do, and I found out a little about the game. Then it was a cutscene, ohhh the 
 half hour cutscenes. They are entertaining to watch, and you learn about the game, but seriously, 
 I thought this was a game not half movie half game! There's even something that looks like some 
 freaking school presentation, giving you lessons on the things in the game, but they could have 
 done something more lively. Maybe half of the cutscenes are entertaining, I enjoyed watching Raiden 
 chop those Gecko's to pieces. After it was finally over I got to play some more, the gameplay is 
 ok, but not anything outstanding to me.
  
  All in all the game is ok... but I don't see why everyone is rating it 10's and is saying its a 
 life changing game. This game to me is an average game, maybe because I never played any of the 
 previous MGS's, so I didn't know what to expect. I beat the game, but I should have just turned 
 the game off when the first credits started rolling, because what happened after it ruined the 
 whole game for me, I had to sit through a half hour cutscene which I had no idea of what was going 
 on, and I got really bored and it spoiled the whole game for me. I wouldn't recommend getting this 
 game, maybe renting it to see if you like it. I don't know, others might have different opinions 
 but this is mine.
  
  All in all this game brings nothing new to console games that should stand out from the rest, I 
 beat the game, only captured by the story, while the gameplay was really boring, I don`t know what 
 others see in this but I certainly don`t see anything amazing about this game.
  
  
  Story - 10
  Sound - 9
  Graphics - 8.5
  Gameplay - 8
  Voice Acting - 10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Daft_Dog
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 13, 2008 7:47 pm PT
Review:  Single Player
  
  PROS:
  
  -Exelent game play and graphics
  -Gripping story line
  -A ton of customizable weapons
  -Stunning Enviroments
  -Perfect musical score
  -Packed with 
 easter egg's and unlockables
  -Octocamo is spot on and work realy well
  -Great cut scene's packed intense moments
  -Finishes Solid snake's saga
  
  
  CONS:
  
 
  -Cover system could have been improved slightly
  -Snake's final mission : (
  
  ________________
  
  Multiplayer
  
  PROS:
  
  -Verry wide choice of weapons
  -Verry 
 wide charicter customization
  -Some of the game modes work realy well
  -There are some great map's
  -Downloadable content
  
  CONS:
  
  -Some of the game modes 
 are a little slow
  -You can only get more maps through purchase of an expantion pack
  -Have to buy additional online profiles (after the first free one)
  -Would be better with more 
 people allowed in one match
  
  ________________
  
  Final Thought
  
  Metal Gear Solid 4 : Guns Of The Patriots is an imense game with some brilliant features and exelent 
 enviroments the entire story will keep you fixed to your ps3 system. And the boss battles are something 
 new while the Multiplayer has only a few maps and the only way to get more maps is though purchasing 
 an expansion pack. The online experiance makes up for it
  all in all MGS4 is an exelent game i would recomend to any one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Keledron
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 13, 2008 6:09 am PT
Review:  Metal Gear Solid 4 was easily one of the most anticipated games for PS3 since the first screenshots 
 trickled into the presses, and for good reason. Since the game's inception, Hideo Kojima was promising 
 what would be the ultimate masterpiece of the series, that it would tie up all remaining loose 
 ends, and leave you begging for more.
  
  MGS has always had a reputation for showing off the power of the systems for which each game were 
 made. They've been known to come up with some of the most creative situations, and all of them 
 have blurred that line between playing a video game and living some alternate reality.
  
  MGS4 is no different. While it contains all the features from previous games (camoflage, stealth, 
 running and gunning, finding and creatively using powerful weapons) everything has been improved 
 on an enormous scale. Where Snake simply 'found'/aquired weapons in the past, this time all weapons 
 are linked to 'chips' in the person they're made for (think RFIDs) . For Snake to use a new weapon 
 it must be 'unlocked'/hacked, and this is done in a pretty creative way. 
  
  And speaking of weapons, there are so many in this game its easy to lose count. Its easily more 
 weapons that all the previous iterations of the series combined and then some. Each weapon has 
 a distinctly different feel and behavior, so you're sure to find one that suits your tastes.
  
  Weapons and the like are great, but it all means nothing if there's not a good reason for you 
 to be shooting them in the first place. The story is easily what makes MGS4 one of the best games 
 ever created. Its hard to even call it a game, its more of an entertainment experience. The story, 
 like most in the MGS saga, is one full of conspiracy, grim overtones, and incredible plot twists. 
 
  
  This is definitely not the game you want to pick up if you're playing MGS for the first time. Find 
 a way to get ahold of all the 'Solid' games and play through each, the story and the game itself 
 will be leagues better if you do. 
  
  If you have played the previous games, to say you're in for a treat is an understatement. The cast 
 of this story is staggering, the familiar faces will have you cheering when each enter the screen 
 for the first time. All of it part of an incredibly told story that, along with the reward of an 
 ending almost a half hour long, will leave you ready for another run through.
  
  Graphically, at the time of release, there were none better for the PS3. While this may have changed 
 somewhat, it is still easily one of the best looking games on the system. The attention to detail, 
 and the feel of each of the environments you'll go through, all make you feel like you're right 
 there along for the ride.
  
  The sound is an increidble acheivment all around. The entire soundtrack is intense and gritty. 
 Each weapon has a distinctly modeled sound (and thats impressive considering just how many there 
 are) , the voice acting is some of hte best in ANY video game as well.
  
  If you're one of the few with a PS3 who have not yet played this game, what are you waiting for! 
 If you don't have a PS3, this is seriously the game that would make you happy you got the system 
 in the first place. 
  
  With one of the best stories ever told in a videogame, and plenty of candy for fans of the previous 
 games, the final story in the saga of Solid Snake is one that no one should miss.
  
  That's my take, take it or leave it.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: inchabolas
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 12, 2008 3:23 pm PT
Review:  Pros: 
  
  +Very satisfying story 
  +Incredible voice work 
  +Incredible cinematics 
  +Eagle eye attention to detail 
  +A lot of gameplay elements 
  +Memorable Music Soundtrack 
 
  
  Cons:
  It dosnt have 
  After three and a half long years of waiting, Metal Gear Solid 4 finally drops down on the Playstation 
 3. With a lot of questions to answer and some mighty big shoes to fill, Metal Gear Solid 4 is easily 
 one of the most anticipated video games ever made. For the Metal Gear fan, the game is absolutely 
 fantastic. Continuing an already mesmerizing story, Metal Gear Solid 4 proves to be one of this 
 generations greatest games. 
  
  Metal Gear Solid 4 is the conclusion to Snake's story. The game is told through some gorgeous cutscenes. 
 There's a lot of detail to the characters faces, their actions and it has some fantastic voice 
 acting to boot. You'll want to grab some popcorn, though, because there are definitely a lot of 
 cutscenes in Metal Gear Solid 4, and some of them are really long. If a cutscene is getting a little 
 long, though, it would be a grave mistake to skip it as you might miss some important parts of 
 the story. And if there's any Metal Gear Solid game one should be playing for its story, it's this 
 one. 
  Metal Gear Solid has always been about stealth. The same is true of Guns of the Patriots. The difference 
 being that you're also in the middle of a war and there are two sides fighting against one another, 
 the PMCs and Militia. You're able to help the militia and doing so can have its rewards, such as 
 characters being willing to give you items or being able to go through certain areas more easily. 
 Although, you can also turn the Militia against you. 
  
  There have been some improvements to sneaking around, though. The camouflage system has returned 
 but it's much better. Rather than having to go into the menu constantly, Snake's camo will change 
 automatically to blend in with the environment and help him evade enemies. You can also hold up 
 enemies just like before, only this time you can perform body searches while holding them up rather 
 than having to shake them down. You can also restrain them to the ground to knock them out. If 
 you really need to get by an enemy and you're running out of options, you can always play dead. 
 This also works when you get spotted and knocked down by an enemy. 
  
  There's also the implementation of the Solid Eye. This is more vital to sneaking around than anything. 
 It works very similar to the radar in Metal Gear Solid Portable Ops, showing you how much noise 
 you or your enemy is making. Also new to here is the threat ring. The threat ring surrounds Snake 
 at all times and will begin to act up depending on how close an enemy is to him. All of these seem 
 like they'll take forever to get used to, but you'll quickly adapt. Just like previous games in 
 the series, if you're spotted, you'll have to escape from the enemy and hide. 
  
  There are also moments where you can take control of a Metal Gear Mk II, a very small version of 
 Metal Gear that is controlled by Snake. This little guy allows Snake to scout out the area ahead. 
 You can also use the Metal Gear Mk II to stun certain enemies. 
  
  Lastly, Snake has a psyche gauge. This is very similar to the stamina gauge in Metal Gear Solid 
 3. The gauge depletes depending on how stressed or exhausted Snake is. You can refill this by eating 
 certain snacks like Rations or Noodles, but you can also refill it by resting for a while. But 
 there are plenty of factors that affect Psyche. For example, if Snake has been in the sun too long, 
 you'll have to move him into the shade. If he's been in cold water, you'll have to get him out 
 of it. As his psyche gauge gets lower it becomes harder for him to perform certain actions, such 
 as being able to aim properly. In other words, from time to time Snake will need to rest. Though 
 there are also certain points in the game where his psyche gauge is restocked automatically. 
 
  
  You won't always be in stealth mode forever, though. There will be times when you have to fight, 
 and the shooting mechanic works much better in Metal Gear Solid 4. When you're thrust into combat, 
 the game plays very similar to a third person shooter. Allowing for more precise aiming and no 
 longer forcing you to go into first person view to land a well placed shot. There's also a weapon 
 shop where you can purchase, upgrade or customize weapons to your liking, another element that 
 works to your liking and gives Metal Gear a lot of customization. 
  
  All this variation in gameplay means that Metal Gear Solid 4 has several different ways to approach 
 it. Combine it's various gameplay elements with a selection of difficulty levels to up the challenge, 
 and Metal Gear Solid 4, like the three before it, becomes a game you'll want to replay again and 
 again. Sometimes it's just fun to mess around with your enemies or just to see how else you can 
 go about a certain area. 
  
  Visually, Metal Gear Solid 4 is incredible to look at. There's a ton of detail in the environment, 
 and the atmosphere is also a good one. You're very much immersed in the world of Metal Gear Solid 
 4. There are a couple of load times that can be annoying, especially the installation. The camera, 
 while it's great, can sometimes be a pain. It's easy to control, but sometimes you'll find yourself 
 fighting with it. 
  
  Music wise, there's a memorable score to Metal Gear Solid 4. There's a lot of voice work as well. 
 Much of it is great, although at times you will get the feeling that some of the voice actors and 
 over-acting. On the whole, Metal Gear Solid 4 is a beautiful looking, (and sounding) game. 
  
  Metal Gear Solid 4 is an amazing experience. The amount of gameplay here is incredible, and 
 the fact that there are so many ways to go about each area is also a lot of fun. For Metal Gear 
 fans, and no metal gear fans Metal Gear Solid 4 is easily the reason to own a Playstation 3. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BigBoss126
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 12, 2008 9:28 am PT
Review:  Metal Gear Solid 4 in one word Mindblowing.
  
  Story: Superbly done. The cutscenes may be long but look so damn good you stop caring straight 
 away. The Metal Gear Solid series is not brought to an honorable end, but one worthy of legend. 
 There are at least ten scenes that you will not forget, if not more.
  
  Gameplay: Perfect. If you feel like shooting your way through most of the game then it doesn't 
 feel any less perfectly done than the stealth elements, which are, perfect. Snake's octocamo is 
 handy and the AI isn't a bunch of incompetent twits. Weapon customisation isn't just there to make 
 your gun look pretty, a flashlight on your M4 actually binds the enemy for five seconds. 
  
  Graphics: Holy Crap. The graphics of MGS4 can probably not be overstated, and if they can it's 
 nigh impossible to. Everything looks the best it can, and faces look so good that they might actually 
 fool someone into thinking they were real for second.
  
  What I'm getting to here is that MGS4 IS the one game that everyone MUST buy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nimrod11477
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 11, 2008 8:28 pm PT
Review:  What can I say, Metal Gear Solid has been and will be a series others are compared to now and for 
 years to come. Any franchise that wants to put together a compelling and thought provoking story 
 needs to take notes from Hideo Kojima and what his staff has done time and time again.
  The controls have improved greatly since MGS 3, and the OctoCamo simplifies the camo system while 
 creating something unique (and visually appealing) . The AI has become somewhat more 'intelligent,' 
 and the addition of two warring parties in some of the Acts improves the overall game play.
  One aspect of the game I was upset with was the Beauty and the Beast Unit. Two of these fights 
 were fun, one was alright, and one was annoying. Maybe I'm too spoiled as an MGS fan, but I was 
 also upset by the lack of depth these bosses had story-wise, especially given the MGS1 bosses their 
 names allude to.
  The game is split up into 5 Acts, and besides Act 3 (which can drive you crazy at times) they are 
 all great. Any MGS fan will be delighted by Act 4. It was beautiful, nostalgic, and the last half 
 of it was just plain RIDICULOUS.
  So, if you have a PS3 and haven't played this game, what have you been waiting for???? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dancoia
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 11, 2008 5:13 am PT
Review:  Metal Gear 4 is an amzing game with great graphics fantastic gameplay and a brillant story but 
 even thouhg this sounds all good there some flaws. I kind of felt like the game was just tooo short 
 and simple. It felt like they gotten rid of most of the stealth and just replaced with the only 
 time you need to use stealth is on the harder difficulties on easy mode you can just charge shooting 
 everything. Another annoying thing about this is the fact this feels more like metal gear 4 the 
 film. Although metal gear is well known for having these really long and fantastic videos in this 
 one there is just too much once your half through the game you might as well put your pad down 
 because of all the videos and no gameplay. And the ending is just a bit outrageous at by the time 
 the movie ends you will be an old man it takes so long. The new weapons system is a nice added 
 feature to the series how you can upgrade your weapons and buy weapons and ammuntion its kinds 
 of like combing dino criss 2 with the metal gear franshise. The new octoco camo stealth is a really 
 cool feature how you canfladge your self with any part of the sceneniry. THe story as welll is 
 really well made and does fill in a lot of loose ends. Overall i would say that his game is good 
 but I would recomend playing the other metal gear games in order to understand the plot. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Generalmojo
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 10, 2008 1:00 pm PT
Review:  This game is probably the best game when it comes to story telling!
  Gameplay
  and Action!
  everything u wanted was shown at this masterpeice
  Kokima's Masterpeice!
  Gameplay 
 Story
  It has it all.
  
  Realy i would give this game a 9.9 becuase the ending made me cry in front of my sister (very embarassing!)
 
  Online is meh!
  u will need a GOOD internet to play this and have the patience to sign up!
  i have the patience, 
 but no good internet : (
  
  Graphics wise its the best ive seen
  a bit behind Uncharted but yeh - this games online rocks!!
  also with a good aray of weapons 
 (70+) im sure it will keep any1 satisfied!
  
  Replay value!
  ive played it roughly 7 times without getting bored
  
  overall Mgs4 was a great game with a 
 lovely ending
  im making this review short cos 1. to get it over and done with!
  2. I need to pee!
  well done Kojima
  Have a well earned rest snake
  
  Big Boss and The 
 Boss!
  - I Salute You!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chainvector
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 9, 2008 4:31 pm PT
Review:  Metal Gear Solid 4: Guns of the Patriots
  
  What can I say, Kojima has done it again! It's like his work just gets better and better and better. 
 This game can only be described as an addictive masterpiece. After you play through it once, you 
 will do so again several times over. The graphics in this game is simply superb, it's like watching 
 a live action movie unfold before your eyes. The game-play is the mixture/hybrid of first person 
 shooter and third person stealth action game. The game controls are easy to master and should take 
 a max of 20-30 minutes to do. The games combination of graphics and audio provide a cinematic game 
 experience that moves between game-play and cut-scenes with you barely noticing it. If you have 
 a PS3 this game is a must have no matter what type of games your into. Remember its only on PS3 
 :D 
::::::

::::::
UserName: George__1992
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 9, 2008 4:21 pm PT
Review:  The game has everything... name it to yourself and yes it has it... worth the 60$.. like an epic movie... the 
 gameplay is addicting.. the charachters are unforgettable.. action packed... forget what people say 
 about the cutscenes, the cutscenes are better than most movies these days.... just buy the game... enough 
 said.. the only thing wrong with this game is that it ends.. HIDEO KOJIMA God bless you for creating 
 this masterpiece of a game, you should move on to directing movies... the boss battles are awesome.. 
 the ending will have you in tears.. a fitting swan song to solid snake one of the best video game 
 characters ever thought of. look just buy the game.. i will probably be playing this game like 10 
 years from now.. my grandkids will be playing this.. this does not sound like a review because the 
 game is perfect.. literally, there is nothing wrong with it.. maybe this might not be your type of 
 game but i cannot imagine a person who does not like this game.. the graphics are at its best showing 
 the ps3's full capabilties, the sound is even good. Just buy the game im serious, this should be 
 experienced by everyone, this was the reason i bought the ps3 and that is why you should buy it 
 too. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kingdraco41
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 9, 2008 1:05 pm PT
Review:  I was only disappointed by this game in one way - the Multiplayer mode (or lack thereof) . The storyline 
 is as good as an award winning novel, the graphics are flawless, and the controls are user-friendly; 
 but you can only play multiplayer online, which frustrates me because I want to fight against my 
 friends in my own house (i sure hope that multiplayer is only online or else I would have given 
 this game a ten point oh) . Else-wise, I do love the sneak possibilities and the different (yet 
 real) weapons that the game gives you. In the end the only other thing I found disappointing (other 
 than the multiplayer mode) was the lack of new technology and gameplay styles. This does not subtract 
 from the total value of the game itself, but without new ideas, the game feels like just another 
 first person shooter. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Burning-baby
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 9, 2008 6:34 am PT
Review:  Solid Snake's stark existence and plangent trepidation, eloquently play's to the folly of the game's 
 antagonist, and his own malaise. How else would a series built entirely on the contention between 
 two characters subsist, then to have a commendable narrative? There's a cosmic gap in eminence 
 when comparing a game's story such as MGS4's to just about anything else, with the one exception 
 perhaps being GTAIV. There's never been such an acerbic, and lethargic antihero put into a game 
 as this, and I doubt there will ever be again, not with this much history, and following. Poised 
 from beginning to end, dread to conclusion, lurid and beautiful, a man's seamlessly morose drive 
 to decimate another... experience it.
  
  
  Few games offer such prolific game-play ideas, and delicately evince them as wonderfully as MGS4 
 has. Clearly an archetype for a clustered, manic, genre, to follow and model their own games after. 
 While culminating great ideas and expertly pasting together old ones, Kojima and his team curate 
 a defining masterwork, with just a few hitches spotting an otherwise impeccable canvas. Among the 
 more noticeable issues include, low res textures, long loading/install times, and some poor acting, 
 but as with some plot-lines it shouldn't be taken all too seriously. Overall MGS4 is a rewarding 
 and defining punctuation mark on a remarkable series for fans and newcomers alike. 
  
  - Burning Baby
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lionheart377
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 8, 2008 7:41 pm PT
Review:  I have been a Metal Gear fan for quite some time and I was very excited when this game was announced. 
 There was one problem though, I didn't have a PS3 or the money to get one. I dedcided that I should 
 go next gen for this game, so I worked and worked until I had enough, and I bought the MGS4 bundle. 
 I can truthfully say that if this was the only game on the system I would still buy a ps3. From 
 start to finnish, this game is a masterpiece and I haven't found a game quite like it since. The 
 combat has been vastly improved and the graphics blow my mind everytime I start up the experiece. 
 There are a surplus of guns and each and every character is well thoughtout and is easy to connect 
 with. The story is a perfect end for an amazing saga of games, and I have to admit I almost cried 
 at the very end of this game. I really don't know what more to say about this game, it is absolutly 
 outstanding. You have to play this game and experience one of the greatest titles of all time. 
 It's great for those who love the series and those who just are getting into it. I have beaten 
 the game twice and I'm on my third go, and I have spent over 20 hours on the great mutiplayer, 
 which takes everything great about the combat and expands upon. This is, without a doubt, the most 
 epic game out on the market right now. If you have a PS3, buy the game, if you don't have a PS3, 
 buy one and then get this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: josephalan3
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 8, 2008 2:33 pm PT
Review:  This game is one of the best games you can ever get. The story answers all the questions and every 
 character still standing is in and ready to make an appearance in the game. The story is great 
 but only about 10-20 hours long if you just skip the cut scenes. But, there is online which is 
 really fun. You can customize your own person and play in a Death Match, Team Death Match, and 
 more. The cut scenes are long but they are really exciting and will keep you on the edge of your 
 seat. There is replay value like trying to get all the guns, camouflages, and try to beat it different 
 ways. You will absolutely love this game if you are a fan of the series. Be sure to at least try 
 this game and maybe download it on the PlayStation Store for free. Overall this game is one of 
 the best games and it certainly is a fantastic way to end a serious. Be sure to pick up this game. 
 See you online!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: odys1994
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 8, 2008 1:36 pm PT
Review:  let's start metal gear solid 4 (guns of the patriots) is a amazing dramatick storytelling game 
 who will 'capture' you for many many hours. metal gear solid 4 also have very very nice 'alive' 
 grafiks and great sound who make the game so realistic, you can can think some times that the protagonist 
 is not snake and that it's you! ok now let's get to the multiplayer mode. metal gear solid 4 has 
 a amzing multiplayer mode (metal gear online) . metal gear online makes you feel that you are in 
 a team of soldiers who help eath other to complete your mission to extinguish the enemy forses. some 
 times you will get a signal that an other teammate need's help and other time that the enemy attack 
 your territory. then you must fitght breave and try to win the enemy if you make it you are the 
 winner. my opinion is that if you have a playstation 3 you must not lose this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Wopenka_11
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 7, 2008 11:27 pm PT
Review:  I've chosen to review this game late because I wanted to have a proper understanding of the game's 
 story and gameplay.
  
  This game has the power to blow anyone away. The opening is stunning as is every other scene and 
 level of the game. The gameplay has changed a fair bit since now its third person, giving those 
 of whom who have played Splinter Cell a very familiar feel. The sound effects are pretty good but 
 the graphics are suberb, there are many moments in the game where you stop and just awed by the 
 graphics of the gameplay and the Cutscenes. The story is fantastic as well as the multiplayer part 
 of the game MGO. 
  
  A game being so good isnt without problems. But its different for MGS4 because the problems only 
 come if your a n00b or if you dont like going into depth about characters, world and story. MGS4 
 has many cutscenes and usualy are pretty darn long, the upside to it is none of them bore you (unless 
 you dont like what I've mentioned before) . MGO is something that frustrated me at first due to 
 the insanely hard nature of the combat, I play MGO a month later which made if hard for me because 
 most people that play MGO at the time are pros and people who have played it since launch. But 
 after a month I became a pro, and it is lots of stealth online multiplayer fun.
  
  To all MGS fans this is the one too have. Its something us fans say about every game, but being 
 the last adventure of Snake its a must have. The game will not disappoint you and it is definently 
 worth spending the money to get a PS3 for if you havent got one already. And to anyone curious 
 about character relationships, the world as for told by Hideo Kojima in the metal gear solid world, 
 some the the things that are said, I reccommend download MGS4 Database after finishing MGS4 as 
 this would unlock most or all MGS4 files in the database. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mohamilton1011
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 7, 2008 6:54 pm PT
Review:  omg omg omg omg omg omg omg omg omg omg omg omg omg omg omg omg omg omg omg omg omg omg omg omg 
 omg omg omg omg omg omg omg omg omg omg omg omg omg omg omg omg omg omg omg omg omg omg omg omg 
 omg omg omg omg omg omg omg omg omg omg omg omg omg omg omg omg omg omg omg omg omg omg omg omg 
 omg omg omg omg omg omg omg omg omg omg omg omg omg omg omg omg omg omg omg omg omg omg omg omg 
 omg omg omg omg omg omg omg omg omg omg omg omg omg omg omg omg omg omg omg omg omg omg omg omg 
 omg omg omg omg omg omg omg omg omg omg omg omg omg omg omg omg omg omg omg omg omg omg omg omg 
 omg omg omg omg omg omg omg omg omg omg omg omg omg omg omg omg omg omg omg omg omg omg omg omg 
 omg omg omg omg omg omg omg omg omg omg omg omg omg omg omg omg omg omg omg omg omg omg omg omg 
 omg omg omg omg omg omg omg omg omg omg omg omg omg omg omg omg omg omg omg omg omg omg omg omg 
 omg omg omg omg omg omg omg omg omg omg omg omg omg omg omg omg omg omg omg omg omg omg omg omg 
 omg omg omg omg omg omg omg omg omg omg omg omg omg omg omg omg omg omg omg omg omg omg omg omg 
 omg omg omg omg omg omg omg omg omg omg omg omg omg omg omg omg omg omg omg omg omg omg omg omg 
 omg omg omg omg omg omg omg omg omg omg omg omg omg omg omg omg omg omg omg omg omg omg omg omg 
 omg omg omg omg omg omg omg omg omg omg omg omg omg omg omg omg omg omg omg omg omg omg omg omg 
 omg omg omg omg omg omg omg omg omg omg omg omg omg omg omg omg omg omg omg omg omg omg omg omg 
 omg omg omg omg omg omg omg omg omg omg omg omg omg omg omg omg omg omg omg omg omg omg omg omg 
 omg omg omg omg omg omg omg omg omg omg omg omg omg omg omg omg omg omg omg omg omg omg omg omg 
 omg omg omg omg omg omg omg omg omg omg omg omg omg omg omg omg omg omg omg omg omg omg omg omg 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: danthegamer32
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 7, 2008 4:11 pm PT
Review:  Metal Gear Solid. The mere mention of this name is enough to bring back happy memories in many 
 a Playstation gamer. The series has been going strong since the release of the original Metal Gear 
 Solid (MGS from here on) back in 1999. now, in 2008, the series is reaching it's epic conclusion, 
 and what an ending this is. All loose ends that were released during the last three games have 
 been tied and there are twists in the plot that not even a huge fan of the series could see coming. 
 This is somewhat of a double-edged sword though. While the story is the main and one of the best 
 parts of the game, it is merciless in it's telling, leaving people who are unfamiliar with the 
 series' story in the dark. There are small flashbacks during key moments during the cutscenes, 
 these will not help new comers as they don't allow for the emotional attachments to the characters 
 they should feel. 
  
  Beside the complex, emotional, well-directed story there is a massively fun game to be found here. 
 Gameplay consists mostly of you trying to sneak around the enemy in a battlefield where there is 
 nowhere to hide. To keep yourself from being seen and turned into Swiss cheese, you are equipped 
 with the OctoCamouflage suit which changes colour when you lie still on the floor or lean against 
 a wall. The effect of this suit is very impressive and is fun to master. As well as your camouflage, 
 you also have to worry about your stress levels because Snake is getting old now and needs to look 
 after his fragile, possibly flaking body. Stress is caused by being in battle or staying conditions 
 that are too hot or cold. Too much stress causes your Psyche gauge to fall and when that falls 
 too low, Snake will die. This gauge is quite easy to restore however so it makes it feel a bit 
 tacked on. Shooting will take up a lot of your gameplay time as well as sneaking. When shooting, 
 the game basically acts as a third-person shooter. You're only ever forced to shoot during boss 
 fights or certain on-rails sections that are amazing experiences due to how well they are done 
 and the different conditions for each of the fights. One boss for example likes to turn into objects 
 found in the environment and it's up to you which item is the boss in disguise. There is a huge 
 arsenal of weapons to choose from and even customise, so long as you trade in the guns you find 
 on the field for points with your gun launderer.
  
  
  The sound in this game is on-par with the best of Hollywood. Dramatic music that gets you in just 
 the right mood and voice acting that gives even some of the cheesy lines a great layer of depth. 
 The guns sound just right and the mechanical sounds from the various robots in the game make them 
 sound very threatening. It's lucky this sound is so good, otherwise the lengthy cut-scenes would 
 simply not work as well as they do. In fact, it's not an unusual thing in this game to have cut-scenes 
 as long as 45 minutes, and then there's the hour and a half long ending...
  
  
  MGS4 comes packaged with Metal Gear Online which uses the same game engine to run what is basically 
 a series of red vs. blue game types, like capture the objective, team deathmatch and sneaking mission, 
 where one team has to capture an objective while invisible and only armed with a tranquillizer 
 gun. The game is very fun, although matchmaking can take a very long time to find a game. It is 
 also restricted to the region you are playing in, so Americans can't play with people from Europe 
 for example.
  
  
  
  Overall then, MGS4 is a brilliant game with a few short-comings. It was clearly designed for and 
 aimed at fans of the series so people new to the series will be be left in the dark somewhat. The 
 lack of interactivity is also an issue due to the lengthy cut-scenes, although most of the time 
 they are full of action and are a joy to watch thanks to the brilliant directing, fantastic voice 
 acting and the best graphics on a console, bar none. An added online game is also a big plus.
 
  
  Truescore: 9.2 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Crusader-Z
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 7, 2008 3:04 pm PT
Review:  This game is... well, the best game in the PS3 I have ever played!!! The story distracts you from 
 playing the online because story mode is really amazing. It frustrates me because there is no rumors 
 for a sequel!!! If there's such thing as 'MGS5' I would totally buy it. A fun game for everyone (personally) ... The 
 only thing that got me pissed off is the alert thing.... it bugs me!!! Also the cut-scenes.... I finished 
 this game about... 5 times...3 time I played it on Big Boss Hard... And, I should say that the cut-scenes 
 are action-packed (some) and informative (some) . But this game definitely should get a 10... This 
 game is a contender for X360 shooters.... same for Resistance 2....
  Metal Gear Solid 4 should be a classic about.....50 years from now... Why? I don't know.... there's 
 a lot to talk about of this FREAKING AWESOME game.... So, if you just got a PS3 or if you want the 
 price of this game to go low... Well, you might as well to wait..... LEET!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thedevildweller
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 7, 2008 10:15 am PT
Review:  Metal Gear Solid 4: Guns of the Patriots Review by Simon a. k. a. TheDevilDweller
  
  
  The Good:
  EVERYTHING
  The Visuals 
  The Game-Play
  The Story
  The Sound Effects
  The 
 Voice Acting
  The Boss Fights
  The Weapons
  The Soundtrack
  Really, EVERYTHING
  
  
  
  The Bad:
  This is really on one thing that I can think off. And that is the end of Solid 
 Snake. 
  
  
  
  Intro
  Well here we are. My ultimate review on Metal Gear Solid 4. The game I've been waiting for, ever 
 since day one. And after playing it, I really do feel that a great weight has been lifted fro my 
 shoulders. I've only given two games a 10/10 in my life, Final Fantasy VII, and Metal Gear Solid 
 4. I'm very strict when it comes to rating game and when I give a game a 10/10, it really mean 
 something. Metal Gear Solid 4 is fantastic in every way. Read on to find out. 
  
  
  
  Plot  10/10
  The plot carries on years after Metal Gear Solid 2: Sons of liberty. This is indeed 
 Snakes last mission, and just as the back of the cover stats, A Final Mission, the Ultimate Sacrifice. 
 
  
  Deaths clock ticks for the legendary Solid Snake as he is ravaged with age due to his genetic curse. 
 However, he still has the will in him to fight his final mission. Snake's brother, the second clone 
 of Big Boss, Liquid Snake lives on in the arm of Revolver Ocelot who is now entirely overwhelmed 
 by Liquid.
  Set in the near-future, war has become control. PMCs (Private Military Contractors) have build 
 armies and forces of the likes of which could taken on even the United States army. The 5 largest 
 PMCs are in control of one large dummy corporation, Outer Heaven run by none other than Liquid 
 Snake. Snake is stirred out of retirement by Otacton and Colonel Campbell who try to convince him 
 to fight against Liquids plans of creating perpetual war where the soldier will never have to search 
 for work again. Only a clone of big boss can destroy a clone of big boss. Snake is the only one 
 who can do it. As Campbell rightly states, Snake is "The worlds only hope".
  Snake is dispatched by the UN to an [unnamed] Middle Easter country [Perhaps Zanzibar from MGS2?] 
 to infiltrate with a group of rebels to go up against Outer Heaven's PMCs. With an AK and a cloak 
 he makes his way into the Middle East only to be greeted by a huge metal beast resembling the feared 
 Metal Gear. According to Konami Productions, MGS4 will tie up all the loose ends the past 20 years 
 of Metal Gear/Solid gaming has handed to us all in this one, and final Playstation 3 hit. Only 
 for Playstation 3.
  
  Solid Snake's final mission. A Metal Gear Solid to end it all.
  
  
  
  The Graphics  10/10
  The Graphics are beyond fantastic. Metal Gear Solid 4 really does 
 show off the power of the PlayStation 3. Every small detail is just outstanding. Character rendering 
 and special effects are just spot on.
  
  
  
  Game-Play  10/10
  The game-play is incredible. There are so many cool things you can do. There are a lot of weapons 
 that can be customised. The game-play is just massive you have to see it to believe it. 
  
  
  Sound Effects  10/10
  I've always said that Metal Gear Solid has one of the best voice acting 
 and sound effect than any other game. And in Metal Gear Solid 4, it's just as better. It's really 
 does feel as if your play a film.
  
  
  
  Lifespan  10/10
  The game will probably take you about 15 hours first play through. It is possible to finish the 
 game in less than 5 hours but it's just to good to rush through even if you've played and finished 
 the game 100 times. Although the story mode is quite short, most of your time will be on multiplayer 
 mode which I have to say is fantastic. 
  
  
  
  Overall  10/10
  Overall Metal Gear Solid 4 truly is a Godsend and it makes me even me proud to own a PlayStation 
 3. I am a fan of the PlayStation of course and I would have definitely gotten the PlayStation 3 
 on matter what but to tell you the truth, Metal Gear Solid 4 is the real reason why I have a PlayStation 
 3. A game that I would DEFINITELY recommend to everyone. Even if you don't like playing games like 
 Metal Gear Solid 4, you should find someone would has the game and sit back and watch them play 
 it. We'll feel like your watch an actual film. 
  
  Simon.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: FTUnion_Leader
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 7, 2008 6:06 am PT
Review:  This game will probably be a classic when it gets older, why? Because it's so awsome! Great controlls 
 and great game play make this game superb! I've played many games, and so far I like this best. 
 I'm usualy a Xbox360 fan, but when it came to MGS4, I had to give the PS3 it's props. The only 
 problem with this game was all the cut scenes, it's more like a half movie half game. If you love 
 anime, you will love this game. It's got the great feel of an anime adventure. I love the graphics, 
 they're so much better then the previous MGS games. This game is definatley worth the tons of money. 
 The MGS4 PS3 80GB bundle is the best bundle one can buy. MGS4 is PS3's best like Halo3 is Xbox360's 
 best. I recomend to anyone who likes great shooters, get Metal Gear Solid 4: Guns of the patriots. 
 So do your self a favor if you have a PS3, and go get MGS4!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LordMaceX
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 6, 2008 1:41 pm PT
Review:  Metal Gear Solid 4 is the last in the line of the Metal Gear Solid series and therefore it must 
 close the story. Due to this you may want to play through the first three before looking into the 
 fourth or you will miss a great amount of detail and will spoil a lot for yourself. So before you 
 go any further decide if you want to know details or the story in the fourth game before playing 
 through the first three you have been warned haha.
  
  Solid Snake now aging rapidly is contacted by his old colonel Campbell. Now retired Campbell has 
 a special mission only Snake could complete and at the mention of "Liquid" Snake he was very interested. 
 Wars now are pretty much controlled and performed by PMBs which are hired mercenary companies. 
 All of which who are hooked into a computer system that monitors their vitals, increases combat 
 efficiency, and can suppress any emotion. Snakes mission is to head to the Middle East in a war 
 zone and track down the location of Liquid who has been sighted in the area.
  
  Liquid who is in control of nearly all the PMBs is orchestrating large scale proxy wars with a 
 hidden motive. These proxy wars keep the world in constant need of soldiers and constantly in a 
 state of chaos. Liquid aka "Liquid Ocelot" is controlling revolver ocelots body through the transplanted 
 arm that was graphed onto his body. While trying to find a way to track down Liquid, Snake prepares 
 his "last mission" while in search for a way to stop the rapid aging. Many look down of the storyline 
 of the MGS series, personally I cannot fathom this and see it in the exact opposite way. One of 
 the best continuous storylines in gaming in my honest opinion especially for games outside the 
 genre of RPGs, it is the only game in the espionage action and FPS genres that actually has a storyline 
 worth paying attention to.
  
  Now there are many who will disagree or argue with my opinion on it's storyline so I will keep 
 it quick. The storyline of the MGS series is of amazing detail giving an in-depth view of almost 
 everything in relation to the games. Being in a genre that in my perspective has no storylines 
 worth noticing exceeds my expectations by far while still keeping the best gameplay of the genre 
 in my opinion as well.
  
  Now for people who aren't die hard MGS fans the most important part is gameplay and since gameplay 
 doesn't give spoilers well here we go. Taking Metal Gear Solid 3's gameplay and expanding on it 
 10 fold they created what I like to call gaming perfection. The new stealth system that uses "Octo-Camo" 
 works similar to the camouflage of MGS3 but more similar to a chameleon. You can also move a lot 
 more fluently while in a camouflaged state showing off Snakes espionage skill. With the many different 
 ways to attack or disarm your opponents it makes the game much more unique and entertaining to 
 play through.
  
  Unlike most of the other stealth/espionage titles MGS allows you to play fairly aggressive at times 
 and gives you some breathtaking one on one boss fights. This allows you to develop your own play 
 style from aggressive to stealthy although of course to complete the game you will have to use 
 both. Besides other storyline bosses the main bosses without giving away anything is the Beauty 
 and the Beast core. These are women who are twisted by deep seeded emotions to take on a more primal 
 animal form and then fitted with the technology and the skill to make them the perfect killing 
 machines. The boss fights vary in style from stealth fights, sniper duels, chasing battles, or 
 aggressive battles giving you some amazing battles and a great variety of them.
  
  Graphically I found MGS4 to be just as astonishing as its fantastic story and gameplay. With great 
 quality each character and environment looks realistic to a level I have never seen before and 
 I never knew was possible. Pushing the PS3 graphics to a level no game has yet it has no equal 
 on the consoles in my opinion. An important feature they spent a lot of time on developing was 
 the online play, although I didn't play a lot of it was impressively done and surprisingly entertaining. 
 I hope that in the future I can try it more and I would suggest you at least to try it out.
  
  The music of MGS4 was well done with a large variety of music developed to set the mood for 
 the plot. Although good as it was I think MGS3's was a little better but I have exceedingly high 
 expectations for this game even when it comes to music. The sound quality was great setting up 
 complex environments full of characters, explosions, and gunfire creating a virtual battleground 
 with unparalleled realism.
  
  Possibly my favorite game in a long time MGS4 did not disappoint; it has great gameplay, an amazing 
 storyline, amazing graphics, and a lot of replay value. The look and feel of the game is truly 
 showed by the genius of Hideo Kojima and realized in his ambitions. I would rate Metal Gear Solid 
 IV a perfect 10 out of 10 and suggest everyone who enjoys games to play it. The combination of 
 great graphics, gameplay, and storyline proves that MGS4 is a masterpiece and excelling in all 
 categories it is truly a jack of all trades. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gameguy1213
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 6, 2008 11:16 am PT
Review:  MGS4 is the 4th and final installment in the Metal Gear solid series that started in 1998. I didn't 
 really start playing the MGS series until the 2nd game and i didnt play the 3rd game. If you dont 
 know what is going on, you need to download the MGS database off the playstation store because 
 to enjoy the game like i did, you have to know what is going on in the story. The story is what 
 makes this game that much better. If this story was put into a movie, it would probably win a few 
 oscars. That is how good the story is. It will keep you guessing until the very end, even through 
 the credits. The gameplay is excellent as well, even though there is more cinematics than there 
 is gameplay. if you are only looking for gameplay and you dont want to sit through cinematics, 
 dont bother getting this game because you wont be enjoying the best part of the game. The graphics 
 are the best i have ever seen in a game, not only the cinematics but the gameplay as well. In conclusion, 
 this game is a masterpiece and anybody that is looking for an absolutely amazing game that has 
 a phenomenal story, look no further than Metal Gear Solid 4. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kamilinho19
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 6, 2008 1:19 am PT
Review:  Must-have for all ps3 owners :D, awesome game with great story and great online :D in my opinion 
 11/10 is not enough :P This game is the ending of Solid Snake story and only one thing that i dont 
 like in this game is the ending.. Snake is left alone for himself... After beating this game i 
 started to play online mode :D it's the best online game i ever play!!! No quake no call of duty 
 no red alert play mgs online and you will know what i mean :p this game is right now the best game 
 on the ps3, for me it's system-seller!!! for this game you should buy ps3 i'm sure every fan of 
 this series wont be dissapointed, i forget to told about graphic which is very very good :D cutscenes 
 looks great and you feel power of ps3, i heard rumors that installs almost ruins this game ,i think 
 thats not true few minutes for install are acceptable for me ,it dont piss me off and i think its 
 nothing to care about :p 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jamiemckie
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 6, 2008 12:25 am PT
Review:  Just completed this game after 18 hours (no spoilers) Maybe the best game I ever played of this type. 
 Why 9.5? well I have played all the mgs titles to conclusion and am a big fan of the cinematic 
 story lines they bring to gaming however without recking it for you this story drags goes back 
 on itself and concludes with over an hour of plot, yes it even continues after the credits.... TWICE. 
 And although the story is good to often is seems to double back on itself for no apparent reason 
 as if the writers changed their mind but didnt want to lose what they had done. However this was 
 a fitting end to in my view the best tactical shooter ever                                     
                                                                                                
                                  
::::::

::::::
UserName: ayhokkuu
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 5, 2008 6:42 pm PT
Review:  do i think it deserves to be the number one game of all time? absolutely. probably more then just 
 the best of the best, but the infinite best for all time to come. am i over exaggerating? HELL 
 NO. GREAT storyline, STUPENDOUS gameplay, and TERRIFIC features, this game is beyond a must. every 
 gun feels just right, and the ability to customize your weapon is beast. the storyline is also 
 REALLY good, but if you haven't played any of the other mgs's then you won't understand A THING. 
 And to top it off, not only does MGS4 come with, well, MGS4... it also has a much more addictive 
 and interactive, AND longer lasting Metal Gear ONLINE. yes that's right. Metal Gear Online. You 
 create your own character from bottom up, then go out for war. you can get loads of weapons, and 
 at the weapon-picking-menu you can still customize your weapon (you get three, main sub and thrown) . 
 anyways this game is great and if you like GTA, or shooting games of all kind, screw that ANY GAMER 
 OUT THERE should, no no, HAS to play this game. p. s. it's coming out for the 360 soon :D 
::::::

::::::
UserName: The_Dark_Snake
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 4, 2008 12:57 pm PT
Review:  
  Metal Gear Solid 4: Guns of the Patriots, is certainly the best game of the year for the PlayStation 
 3. It is a wonderful game to be remembered. Believe me, it is no exaggeration.
  
  OK. Analyze MGS4 is an easy and difficult at the same time. We can say that everything that is 
 interactive is great, but it would be very generic.
  
  Let's start with the history of the game. In it, you control again, Solid Snake, which because 
 of its aging received the codename the Old Snake. His mission in the game is stop Liquid Ocelot 
 to govern the system of nanomachines, called S / O / P /. Ultimately, he could control nearly all 
 soldiers on the battlefield. MGS4 is the end of the series, then this means that all mysteries 
 are solved. That means that every character still alive participate in the plot. Speaking of which, 
 the plot of the game is equal to that of a movie. If you like games that resemble films, then this 
 is your game.
  
  The gameplay is intuitive, but it may take a while you get used to, even being a fanatic for MGS. 
 Here, Snake will have new equipment in his sneaking mission. The main one is the OctoCamo, an outfit 
 that lets you copy the texture and appearance of the place around you. The Solid Eye is also of 
 great help. He may be a radar, a monocle of nightvision and can also serve as binoculars. It helps 
 you enough to detect enemies and items. The Mk. II is a small biped robot to escort the area around 
 you and can neutralize enemies with greater security. Speaking of enemies, the AI of the game is 
 absolutely amazing. If the enemy suspicion of his presence he will you look like a real squad would. 
 His weapons vary greatly. Speaking of weapons ... Snake now has an arsenal of 69 weapons at your 
 disposal. case is without ammunition, you can go to Drebin's Shop and buy more. So know that the 
 gameplay is excellent.
  
  MGS4 is probably the most good-looking game of the year. You note the dust, sweat, the stains of 
 blood, and the sound is realistic. This gives you the feeling of being the battlefield. I personally 
 recommend playing it with the HDMI cable, to have a great experience.
  
  The online mode is good. The creation of his character has several options available and the gameplay 
 is exactly the same as the SINGLEPLAYER.
  
  Metal Gear Solid 4 is not recommended, it is mandatory for all the lucky owners of the PS3. And 
 really, the game of the year. This masterpiece will be remembered for long. Solid Snake deserves 
 his last salute.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: you-and_i
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 3, 2008 11:44 pm PT
Review:  It`s awesome great graphics great game-play it`s just great! The octa-camo is awesome stand to a 
 wall and you are the same colour you can turn into a statue. Got extreme boss battles awesome story 
 but it`s sometimes boring watching all those videos it`s instead of watching a whole film! I really 
 like it online it`s fun, you can play as one against others or more! You choose to be friendly with 
 the militia or not you can get a militia costume too! It`s a lot of fun! There is also a girl called 
 Sunny which turned out to be Olga Gurlikovich`s daughter. You can buy weapons from drebin by getting 
 drebin points! Oh raiden that freak has become like a robot ninja! BUt at least he still saves solid 
 snake by fighting with the sword Olga gave him with his mouth and killed a lot of other enemies. You 
 can exchange rations for ammo with the militia! The evil one in this plot is Ocelot or liquid in 
 thids case again! Oh you can custimize certain type of weapons there also appears vamp the romanian 
 wizard with knives!
  
  Timothy Xuereb 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DAKYON
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 3, 2008 7:43 pm PT
Review:  Ok guys I will go directly to the point. metal gear solid 4 is a great game but the only flaw is 
 the multiplayer online mode. First the good points.
  
  Good
  
  The graphics are just amazing, the way everything moves its so organic and nice. Even if you look 
 at their lips when they talk you can notice its move just perfect !
  
  The gameplay is really nice, you can choose whether sneak and go through the levels as a spy avoiding 
 fights or just the bloody way shooting !!! And even though this game is in a third person perspective 
 you can change to first person perspective but its not that great
  
  The sounds effect are nice but nothing out of the world, but at least the weapons sounds just like 
 they have to sound. Great !
  
  The story is just HUGE and interesting , so huge that even myself that have play through the single 
 player campaign many times don't quiet understand everything because its my first time in playing 
 this game and series. So yeah you will enjoy the story even though its confusing for newbies to 
 the series ( like me lol ) .
  
  Bad
  
  The only downside of this is the multiplayer online mode. The problem is that when you try to shoot 
 at someone in a third person perspective its hard to kill them, the fastest way is to shoot at 
 their heads its pretty hard ( of course you will get good at it but it will take a long long long 
 time and you will get bored ) and if you try to shoot in a first person perspectives its just a 
 mess, the weapon move all the way up and down, up and down, up and down like a seismic meter ( 
 lol ) making it very hard to you to aim properly.
  
  The other thing is that there is no regeneration health , so its hard to have a nice killing spree 
 in a match.
  
  And finally, to get nice weapons you need to get point by killing other players, sounds a good 
 idea but its not actually because once you are doing bad you loose your good weapon not to mention 
 that if you play against good players you will never get points which means you will never get 
 a good weapon and again you will get bored of just dying, dying, dying !
  
  Well my score is 9.0 almost perfect if it wasn't for the online thing 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Carl_W21
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 3, 2008 4:42 pm PT
Review:  WOW - thats all I have to say but that's not much of a ,
  review. So I put it on and I'm watching a cut scene and my dad walks in "whats this film your watching?" 
 ye, that's how good it looks. Past story lines have been so intense in the series but this one 
 just blows them all away, what goes on in Hideo Kojimas head I have no idea but this game is crazy 
 ass sick. The new weapons system through Drebin is the best thing that has happened to the gameplay, 
 the way you can mod them is great you can just suit it to how you want, stealthy ? how about a 
 silencer, cause some chaos ? here put this grenade launcher on your shotgun :D, the new stealth 
 camo suit is great too, in MGS 3 where you changed outfit in new surroudings could have got irratating 
 if it was in MGS4 but now its the same but automatic its a great idea. The boss fights, well I 
 still think MGS 1 is still unbeaten in the best boss fights overall, MGS 4 the boss fights are 
 clever the way the bosses use their specialities but the final fight is the best over the full 
 series and the music just engrosses you into the fight. Overall best game I have ever played enjoyed 
 it so much and replay factor is really good with all the badges they have put on. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Orand
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 3, 2008 7:17 am PT
Review:  In this 4th installment of Metal Gear Solid, you take on the role of an aging Solid Snake. The 
 years of nanomachines have taken its tole and the gameplay is effected by this. You must make sure 
 you take this into account, especially on the higher difficulties, as a groan at the wrong time 
 can spell disaster even for the most veteran of soldier.
  
  Still a stealth mission game, you still should try and make it through the missions as quietly 
 as possible to get the complete effect of the game, but for all of you run-and-gunners MGS4 can 
 still be alot of fun.
  
  Weapons are much more difficult to aquire, as you must unlock them from the local arms dealer (Drebin) , 
 before you can use them. However you need to find them first. Not too hard a task on the easier 
 difficulties, but when you get into the game on the more difficult settings you will notice how 
 much of a challenge this can be. 
  
  Smart tactics play a role in MGS4. Old Snake knows a thing or two about hiding places, and you 
 will find some new ways to sneak about as the game goes along. 
  
  I especially liked the adjustable difficulty so that first time players of MGS have the ability 
 to get into the game before getting frustrated and throwing the controller. The Graphics are outstanding 
 and the storyline is one of the best I've seen for any game in the genre. Plenty of surprises. 
 Addictive Gameplay. Hours of Storyline. All in all, I highly recomend MGS4 for your personal collection. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shappy1010
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 3, 2008 5:58 am PT
Review:  The review on gamespot was written by a fanboy, not a gamecritic. To hand out a 10 to a game which 
 has far lengthy B-movie cutscenes and a story, which at its very best doesnt make much sense 
 even to the most devoded hardcore fan. The worst element of MGS4 is the unbalanced (very linear) 
 gameplay, its not really very good as a shooter, and as a stealth game it ultimately fails as 
 well. 
  .
  Yes, MGS4 has excellent production values, it looks fantastic and its not a waste of money. You 
 will enjoy this game, but games should be about immersion, about playing who you want to be, about 
 making choices, with the lack of any interaction whatsoever during the unfolding events of MGS4 
 it too frequently feels like a waste of the obvious talents who worked on this game. Old Snake 
 is perhaps getting old, and bringing this series to a close is probably Hideos best decision, 
 too bad the gamer is not allowed any in this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: solidsnake10123
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 2, 2008 9:15 pm PT
Review:  metal gear solid 4 is the best game i have ever played. it had fun bosses and lots of fun things 
 to do. one of the best things was that there were lots and lots of guns and hidden itmes being 
 able to buy ammo and guns is a graet part of the game. i say to anyone who is thinking of buying 
 this game you should plus i got a ps3 mainly for mgs4 and i have played it over and over again 
 becuase i never get board of the game next to the online
  okay sometimes there are pepole who lagg and can get you in a cqc chock hold with out even geting 
 close to you thats the only thing i have ever noticed that i didnt like about mgo but it is good 
 fun like you can talk to pepole and you can buy guns depending on how many pepole you have killed 
 and it is good easy fun you can be in clans and so forth anyway thanks for reading my review on 
 mgs4 and mgo 
::::::

::::::
UserName: King_of_Gamez3
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 1, 2008 10:28 pm PT
Review:  Alright, you should probably know by now that this game is simply outstanding. 
  
  Gameplay: This game is a action adventure stealth game. Your main objective is basically going 
 passed the enemy's without getting spotted and there are many ways to do this. You have your new 
 OctoCamo suit which basically turns into the textures that are around you. There also has some 
 other stuff from the old MGS like the cardboard box and some new things like the solid eye. Use 
 all these gadgets to your advantage and try not to get spotted. This game also has some great shooting 
 elements to this game. You can shoot either first person or third person. The A. I is also awesome. 
 
  
  Story:
  Outstanding story. The story telling through the epic cut scenes is great. Although some cutscenes 
 are over an hour, its worth it. The cutscenes are action pact and hookes you right into the game.
 
  
  Graphics:
  One of the best looking game ive ever seen. Texture and animations are perfect. Look for your self 
 if you dont believe me.
  
  Sound: 
  Sound design and Voice acting are both terrific. The cut scenes are filled with action and it simply 
 coudn't of done it without the excellent sound design. The voice acting it also pretty great. 
 
  
  Overall AMAZING game. There is really nothing bad to say about this game... its just perfect and 
 yes i mean PERFECT. This is a MUST play... if you dont play this you are going to miss out big time 
 on one of the years best.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: SteelEdge23
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 1, 2008 3:56 pm PT
Review:  Well to start off this review off, let me just say that this is a great game for the PS3 and i 
 personally hate the PS3 since it turned into a washout console but this game, THIS GAME is what 
 brought back its popularity.
  
  When a friend of mine lent me his metal gear solid 3 game, my first impression was that it was 
 going to suck. When I played through the game, I was starting to understand and wanted to play 
 more. I had asked him for metal gear solid 1 and 2 as well and they ok, since I played a more modern 
 graphic game and those were pretty old graphic. I finished playing those and asked if there was 
 a metal gear solid 4. When he told me that it was only available to the PS3, I was saddened.
  
  Seeing as my friend has a PS3, I had decided that I would go over to his house and play metal 
 gear solid 4. I was shocked to see the graphics engine to improved and so accurate. The game felt 
 like a movie with its long cut scenes but that's what metal gear solid was about. The game detail 
 was so perfect that it matched the capabilities of a HD movie. The in game graphics are also well 
 done. I was amazed by the detail in this game and the storyline is incredibly detailed.
  
  All in all, I would say that this is the best metal gear solid game I have played. 
  
  
  
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mohan_bpl
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 1, 2008 11:12 am PT
Review:  This is one of the best games i've ever played. Not long though but makes u feel very satisfied. I 
 doubted i'll like the game as it is my first mgs game i finished and never liked the other old 
 ones. But this one starts very beautifully and kept me playing and never made me stop. The boss fights 
 are amazing... now I truly know why so many sites gave it 10/10.... I've finished GTA4 and it comes 
 no where close to it... Gta 4 got it mostly becos of its features and freedom in the city to do 
 a variety of things but this is pure storytelling and flawless gameplay... and i haven't tried the 
 mgo yet cos it had lots of patches to download so kinda thought do it later but looks promising 
 and definately worth the every single penny and this is reason everyone should get a ps3.... there 
 2 or 3 good teases about the 360 in the game about the size of the game.... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dashizy666
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 17, 2009 6:22 am PT
Review:  I played every metal gear solid game prior to this one, and the story is one of the best stories 
 not only in gaming, but it outclasses most action films today. And I mean every word of that. the 
 MGS saga doesn't flourish on just a great story. It is one of the most action packed game series 
 period. Only this time MGS4 goes beyond its predecessors. The camera perspective it akin to Resident 
 Evil 4 but better. The coolest part of the game it that you can purchase ammo from a black arms 
 dealer as opposed to finding it. It feels like cheating but I'm not complaining. Oh, and the best 
 part is that the amount of weapons in the game is just staggering. You won't use all of the weapons, 
 but you'll find one that will fit your taste, like the rail gun which makes the 50 cal. look like 
 a be be gun.
  Graphic wise it is arguably most beautiful game this generation next to gears of war, and COD 4. 
 It probably outclasses both combined. The cut scenes are eve candy and the script is great with 
 the small exception to Ocatcon which is a little corny. I know he's a nerd but his dialogue could 
 have been written better. That one small complaint and its petty. Other then that the game is a 
 perfect as you can get. 
  But it's the cinematics that really draw you into the game. The story itself is mind blowing and 
 the cinematics do the story justice. What I really like is when there is a cut scene, and there 
 is an instant transition to the action without a loading screen. Which has never been done to my 
 knowledge.
  You see I'm a former Xbot and I sold my xbox. Not only because of the RROD but rather I feel that 
 in the long run the ps3 will have better exclusive games then this. It is only a matter of time. 
 And I'm telling you that there is no way that this game can be done on the 360. MGS4 is a system 
 seller without a doubt. Like my review to resident evil 4, the rating system isn't high enough 
 to this game justice. And it is a deserving pick for game of the year. OH I'm not one to go gaga 
 over a computer generated chick like some on the 360 do with Cortana in Halo. But I have to say 
 that Naomi is one sexy beast. In fact every player model is beautiful. But Naomi takes it to as 
 whole new level. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Adam314-
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 31, 2008 6:39 pm PT
Review:  I can't believe it this is the best game I've ever played. EVER! It has stunning graphics and it 
 lets you choose how you want to take out your enemy. There are so many ways it hurts my head. A 
 lot. I was shocked when i got to the end. It had such a great ending I thought I was going to have 
 a heart attack. (The game may talk about ways not to but i still almost did.) I would recommend 
 this game to anyone who had a ps3. I wish this game never ended. I love this game so much. I love 
 it so much i was about to go play it but first i need to finish this review. I can't believe people 
 gave this game a 1. It deserved better from people. Anyone who says gears of war is better deserves 
 to be hit in the head with a shovel and buried under millions of copy of copies of gow. Let's see 
 how much better gears of war is now. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FireBirdPheonix
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 31, 2008 3:45 pm PT
Review:  Metal Gear Solid 4: Guns of the Patriots is a third person stealth action video game. Directed 
 by Hideo Kojima, Shuyo Murata and Yoji Shinkawa, Guns of the Patriots was developed by Kojima Productions 
 exclusively for the PlayStation 3. It is the seventh title in the Metal Gear series and the first 
 in its fourth generation. The game was released worldwide on June 12, 2008, 10 years after the 
 release of Metal Gear Solid and 20 years after the US release of the first Metal Gear. In this 
 game the player is in control of Old Snake and must make his way through a large field that is 
 usually patrolled by hostile npcs. They must do this while remaining as stealthy and secretive 
 as they possibly can. It uses third person view with full camera manipulation, but also allows the 
 freedom to play in first-person mode, as well as an over the shoulder view which can be switched 
 from right shoulder to left for corner maneuvering. While this game still has the CQC aspect, it 
 has had a complete overhaul since MGS3. During the game's cutscenes, there are flashbacks that 
 can be activated by pressing the button that is displayed on the screen. These are not so much 
 flashbacks as they are memory aids and they show things that have happened in the previous Metal 
 Gear Solids that some players may not remember or have never seen before. These are shown so they 
 relate to the storyline of MGS4. Players have the choice of watching the mission briefing and moving 
 around with the Mk 2. Snake is also partnered with a robotic drone, the Metal Gear Mk. II/III, which 
 allows him to communicate with other characters, in addition to the CODEC radio system from previous 
 games. It is also capable of incapacitating enemies using a weak electric shock, as well as providing 
 reconnaissance. Due to the lack of force feedback (an important part in previous titles) from the 
 PlayStation 3 during much of the development, the game had been designed with a new feature: a 
 white "Threat Ring," that shows "hills" that display nearby enemies. As a series known for extensive 
 use of force feedback, when Sony announced the reintroduction of a new DualShock 3, MGS4 was announced 
 as one of the first major games to make use of the restored capabilities. Snake's health plays a 
 small factor during gameplay. If injured on the battlefield, cuts and burns will remain on his 
 skin. However, the developers wished to avoid putting the stress of maintaining Snake's health 
 onto the players, so he wears a muscle suit, allowing players to move in a similar fashion to previous 
 games. During some of the cutscenes, Snake will do some strenous activity that will cause him to 
 lose stamina or health. ou can regain this by pressing x very fast.
  
  This game has been a great addition to the MGS series and will be remembered as one of the greatest 
 games in the minds of MGS fans.
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: luigi2k7
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 29, 2008 4:37 am PT
Review:  I hadn't seen alot on Metal Gear Solid 4, just he odd trailer here and their but i knew it was 
 going to be something special, and how right i was. the Story telling in this game is just superb, 
 i loved the long cutscenes and it really was a great way to portrsy the story, with the flashbacks 
 and other firstperson views in the interactive cutscenes. 
  The gmaeplay was also very good, it was easy to manage inventory and the idea of the drebin shop 
 was a good one. it helped buy new equipment and unlock the id taggeed old equipment.
  There is alot of replay value in the game seen as there is so many costumes and equipemnt that 
 came be unlocked by playing throught tha game and doing ceratin things like not killing an enemy. 
 
  The Metal Gear ONline is a good addition which alos keeps the game going after the single player 
 story is over, their is a gruling registration process but after that there are a few gametypes 
 and its fun msot of the time.
  
  Overall i loved this game and it exceeded any expectations i had of it. The Story in the game is 
 by far the best i have played to date and will be hard to match or even beat. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Swoosie
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 27, 2008 8:48 am PT
Review:  I am not a Sony Fanboy, and I haven't played any Metal Gear Solid title before MGS4 (except for 
 MGS Acid on the PSP, but that doesn't count...) , so I had no pre-conceptions going in. I've played 
 and loved some story-based action shooters like Half-Life 2, Bioshock (if that's a shooter?) , etc. 
 But I've also played plenty of action/adventure/shooters that I considered very bland and uninteresting 
 like FarCry, Call of Duty 2/3/4, and Halo 3.
  
  That said, I found MGS 4 to be a great title: fun, exciting, as easy or as hard as you'd like (based 
 on your own settings in the game) , immersive, and just an entertaining experience. If you do into 
 it without expecting the "greatest game ever", you're likely to enjoy yourself.
  
  Pros:
  1. Visuals are top-notch, though I think it could use a little more color to punch things up. Your 
 character's animation is amazing, and in general things look great without major slowdowns or frame 
 dropping during big battles.
  2. Audio is excellent, with voice overs for most things, and a very well done musical score throughout. 
 Your character's voice over is about as corny as it gets, but I think that's intentional and part 
 of the game's charm.
  3. Difficulty can be whatever you'd like. For a game like this, I actually like to keep it pretty 
 easy, as I get stressed-out during combat easily. I wanted to experience this game without too 
 much replay of battles, and on its easiest setting the game is very easy. I tried a bit at higher 
 difficulty, and it seemed appropriately difficult. 
  
  Cons:
  1. The story is a combination of ridiculously cheesy and melodramatic. I like that the game pokes 
 fun at its own fakey drama, but I couldn't really get into the story other than enjoying the cinematic 
 qualities of the cutscenes, and just enjoying the story on a superficial level. You will grow to 
 love the corny caricature people in the game, despite their cheesy world. 
  2. Enemy AI can be pretty spotty, which I don't mind since I like games easy. That said, it's a 
 little odd when enemies allow me to pour bullets into them without moving or returning fire. Some 
 would charge, then suddenly turn around and walk slowly away as I shot them.
  
  Overall, the game equivalent of a "popcorn movie", MGS4 will keep you entertained provided you're 
 not looking for a life-changing game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: II_Seraphim_II
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 27, 2008 2:35 am PT
Review:  Graphics:
  This game is easily one of the most beautiful video games to grace consoles. While Gears Of War 
 may have the high poly models and insane textures, Metal Gear Solid 4 brings about a complete graphical 
 package that is unsurpassed by any game before it or after. This game truly brings an epic blockbuster 
 movie feel to its presentation. Everything from the greatly emotive player models and the scenery 
 looks beautiful. While there may be some dull textures here and there, the overall games looks 
 amazing. Characters all look and react realistically and the animations are spot on. The game world 
 is filled with small details that truly make it seem far more vibrant and the visual effects are 
 in full force. Depth of view is in full force in this game and some well placed motion blur smoke 
 and lighting are all carefully placed to give the game an artistic and beautiful feel to it. Cut-scenes 
 are expertly choreographed and directed making every single one a blast to watch. This game clearly 
 blurs the line between video games and movies when it comes to visual presentation and artistic 
 value.
  
  Gamep-lay:
  The game-play borrows from the previous iterations and manages to evolve it to the next level. 
 The stealth we have all become so accustomed to is still there in full force, except this time 
 the game gives you far more options. Its completely possible to play the majority of the game as 
 a Third Person Shooter much like Gears of War or to take the more tactical stealthy approach of 
 the previous Metal Gear games. This game is all about choice. Each objective has multiple routes 
 of varying difficulty and the game even implements a weapon customization aspect. As you play the 
 game, snake will automatically pick up any weapons on the ground which are automatically sold to 
 your resident gun launderer "Drebin". With the currency you get from selling weapons (Drebin Points 
 (DB) ) you can unlock new weapons, purchase ammo and buy customizations to your current weapons. 
 This leads to a lot of game-play options depending on which weapon you chose to use and what customizations 
 you chose to have on it.
  Another game changing aspect is the Octocam. The Octocam brings back the idea of camouflage introduced 
 in MGS3 but makes it far more intuitive and less cumbersome. Just by leaning up to an object or 
 lying on the ground still, Snake's Octocam suit will automatically change pattern to blend in with 
 the environment. The game also introduces Metal Gear Mk. II which is a small remote controlled robot 
 that can help to knock out enemies or take weapons from the battlefield and even scout ahead for 
 the player. These are just a few of the improvements that make this game vastly superior to the 
 previous iterations. The game also takes on many different game-play elements to keep the gamer 
 interested at every turn. Each Act tries to shake things up and through the course of your journey 
 you will have done some sneaking, all out gunning and even some truly amazing chase scenes and 
 even get a chance to pilot the might Metal Gear Rex! 
  
  Controls:
  The controls are tight and responsive and you even get an option to change sensitivity and whether 
 or not you want the X and/or Y axis inverted. The controls are intuitive and you will have them 
 down in a matter or minutes despite all the various game-play elements and things you can do. The 
 CQC maybe a little too sensitive at times and you might mess up a few times when trying to accomplish 
 something, but its a minor gripe.
  
  Sound:
  The sound is spectacular. This game has one of the most touching and beautiful soundtracks to ever 
 grace video games. Each song is carefully placed to produce the right emotional response at the 
 right time. Everything from the eastern sounding theme song "Old Snake" to Middle Eastern sounding 
 "Love Theme" is beautifully composed and well placed within the game. The weapon sounds sound perfect 
 and the ambiance sounds are also very well done. Everything sounds very crisp and lively. Apart 
 from the music, the true show stealer is voice acting. The voice acting in this game puts every 
 other game to shame. The people actually understand the characters they are portraying and each 
 voice lends a sense of individuality to each character. In short, you couldn't hope for any better!
 
  
  Story:
  Oh boy... the story. This is what the whole game is about, the story and let me be the first to 
 tell you that it does not disappoint! MGS4 manages to do what everyone thought was possible, tie 
 up all the lose ends from the entire series. Every major character from the past decade of Metal 
 Gear Solid gets a mention in this game. Everyone has a role and they are all connected to the larger 
 story of the MGS universe. This game is truly a game that's meant to entertain and thank all of 
 its loyal fans. Throughout the entire game, many references to previous MGS games are made and 
 various characters from Metal Gear games finally get their well deserved conclusions to their story. 
 No one feels left out and nothing feels rushed. This game shows respect to every single character 
 it has ever introduced and its overall story. Its hard for anyone to come away from this games 
 story and feel disappointed. The story also happens to be a major emotional roller coaster. By 
 the end of the game expect to have shed many tears as we see our heroes confront each dilemma head 
 on.
  
  Replay:
  MGS4 is a great game and very replay-able. After beating the game once, and super hard mode (The 
 Boss Extreme) is unlocked allowing you to try again. Also the general open aspect to the game-play 
 means you might replay the game just to try another tactic, so maybe you could go guns blazing 
 rather than stealthy this time around. To be quite honest, its worth replaying the entire game 
 again just to watch the amazing cut-scenes again. Also MGS4 ships with Metal Gear Online. Despite 
 the arduous sign-up process, it it quite enjoyable. The multiplayer uses the same mechanics as 
 the single player through various game modes which have you killing, sneaking and so on. Overall, 
 its a solid and enjoyable addition, but pales in comparison to the excellent single player.
  
  Conclusion: This game is what every other game tries to be. This game redefines video games 
 position as artistic media. This game is a finale that excels at at everything and easily trumps 
 the competition. Its one of those rare gems that manages to be spectacular and also add extra goodies 
 for long time fans. While fans will get more enjoyment from this game, everyone will enjoy it. 
 This is a game that shouldn't be missed, no matter who you are. Its a milestone in video game making.
 
  
  Scores:
  Graphics - 10/10
  Game-play - 10/10
  Controls - 9/10
  Sound - 10/10
  Story - 10/10
  Replay - 9/10
  Final Score - 10/10
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: MrWeymes
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 26, 2008 7:32 pm PT
Review:  This is the first game I have ever given a 10/10. I've never believe in giving a game a 10/10, 
 because I believed that by giving it that score, you are saying the game is perfect. I understand 
 that is not the case. A 10/10 means that a game is so great, that the minor flaws do not detract 
 from the overall experience at all. No game is going to appeal to everyone. Some people may absolutely 
 despise any stealth elements, so moments in this game may bother them. No game can be made for 
 everyone. As far as the stealth action genre is concerned, Metal Gear Solid 4 had so contenders. 
 
  
  Gameplay - The gameplay in Metal Gear Solid 4 is superb. You are thrown onto a battlefield between 
 two warring factions. Neither are your direct enemy, so killing them is not neccesary. You may 
 choose to kill anyone in your path however, or you can take the stealthy route, and not kill a 
 soul. It's all up to you. That's one of the many things I love about this game. If you're too impatient, 
 you can play this as you would an action game, or if you're more into not being seen, you can play 
 this as a full stealth title. You are awarded different badges based on how you play the game, 
 so that should encourage you to play multiple times. Regardless of badges, this game warrants a 
 couple of play throughs. The boss battles in this game are amazing. Each battle plays out very 
 differently, as the bosses have unique skills. Without question, these boss battles are very memorable. 
 I don't want to spoil anything, but besides the excellent third person stealth/action, there are 
 a couple of other segments that have you playing the game differently. These segments were amazing. 
 One is actually the best experience I've had this generation. Another thing I should mention is 
 the octocamo. The octocamo allows you to blend in with the enviornment around you. This changes 
 the way stealth games are played. Your heart will be pumping as an enemy soilder walks feet away 
 from you as you press yourself up against the mound of dirt.
  
  Graphics - When you first turn Metal Gear Solid 4 on, you may be a little disappointed with the 
 graphics. You may think to yourself, "this is it?" This game is very unassuming at first, but it 
 actually has the best graphics I've seen this generation. The animations for both Snake, and the 
 characters around him are excellent. The explosions, and other effects fit very well with the art 
 style in the game. The in game cutscenes are the best I have seen. The draw distance is great, 
 and there are no enviornments that are throw aways. Every enviornment is unique, and very enjoyable 
 to explore. Of course, every person has an opinion on which is the best enviornment, but they are 
 all well designed, and benefit from a unique look, and feel. My only minor complaint is that the 
 in game CQC isn't very impressive. When you watch it in the cutscene, it's the most amazing fighting 
 style, but when you actually control it, the animation just seems kind of bland. I suppose they 
 didn't want Snake to seem as a superhero, though, as the punch, kick combonation would do the trick 
 in reality.
  
  Sound - There are no complaints here. The music compositions in this game are nothing short of 
 great, and the voice acting is among the best I've heard. The gunshots, and sounds of the battlefield 
 all sound great in my opinion.
  
  
  Overall - Metal Gear Solid 4 is not to be missed. The story is intelligent, and interesting. The 
 cutscenes are very long, and if you don't want to watch them, you don't have to, just press start, 
 and skip, but I can't see alot of gamers not watching atleast a few of the actions scenes. They 
 put most films to shame. The gameplay is excellent however you decide to play. The controls take 
 a little getting used to, especially if you're not familiar with the franchise, but once you get 
 a hold of it, they're great. I can't see any reason why a fan of either stealth, action games, 
 or both would not own this game. It's the best game I have played in the genre on this generation 
 of consoles, and I don't see any game taking the crown anytime soon. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: furu13
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 26, 2008 12:37 pm PT
Review:  Reviewing this game is really simple, its just the perfect the graphic is beyond perfect actually 
 it helps you forget about the 42" LCD price.
  
  the music is better than any other game the effects are so real and made other shooting games look 
 like Cinderella.
  
  the extra items are wicked, i mean IPOD / playboy /cigs!!! who would've thought
  
  The imaginary 
 weapons that you earn after killing a sexy chick!!! i mean thats what i call rewarding....
  
  the only 2 negative points about this game are 
  
  1 the never ending videos and all the 
 details that made star wars look cheap, it just keep on going till it kills every chance of you 
 giving it a real chance
  
  2 his illness...
  i mean this poor health due to some aging acceleration , who came up with such a smart idea and 
 found common grounds between both conditions, a super hero and who can barely walk... and the syringe 
 boost... crap 
  
  finally the sexy ladies are something innovative and they just kept me going while watching the 
 boring ass videos...
  
  cheers! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gokunami
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 17, 2008 4:11 pm PT
Review:  This is how war or military should be. One on one with natural, yourself and the enemies. Kojima 
 knows how to say so long and thanks to his fans of MGS. This is a must if you've played the others. 
 I got the boxed edition and it looks great with its counter parts. Snake is older wise but a little 
 sluggish so I used that to my advantage throughout the game. He really takes a beating this game 
 but gets the job done. His point is made and he will live on forever as the Patriot. Old villians 
 with a new style same old weapons basically but the geographically landscapes in this game were 
 Fantastic. I'm not talking about the NBA or Fantastic 4. I dont want to put this game down nor 
 the saga but it is time to move on. I will never forget you Snake nor what we have been through 
 together. I will come back one day soon to play you again. In fact we will hang out one weekend 
 and we can start all over again from the beginning (MGS) until the last (MGS4) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: johnnytrace
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 25, 2008 4:22 pm PT
Review:  No I'll be brief and not say much. Metal gear solid is the BEST video game of all time. It captures 
 the element of war, and it's perfectly accurate. For instance, if you walk near a crow, the enemy 
 will hear you and attack. Also, the plot twist in the series is huge.
  
  The Good: The controls, camera, gameplay, perfect graphics, the plot, excellent ideas, everything! 
 We'll be here for days if I continue. 
  
  The Bad: Bosses are a little bit too easy on any difficulty and Maybe just MAYBE, a little too 
 long.
  
  And the things I put in the bad still doesnt alter its perfect rating because it doesn't change 
 anyones feel of the game and you may not notice. If someone were to try and make this game better, 
 it would be impossible. Even the hour long cutscenes dont matter. Its perfect. I would give Metal 
 Gear Solid 4: Guns of the Patriots ***** of ***** 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cloud9856
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 25, 2008 2:36 pm PT
Review:  This is the best PS3 game released, its long, great story, Lots of guns, i Don't know how this 
 game is bad to what people say, anyone who hasn't even played MGS1 2 or 3 will not like this one, 
 First off, in this game you can buy weapons, in 1 2 and 3 you find weapons, and in this one you 
 can buy and find weapons, and take any weapon on the ground, but you need to buy it once you pick 
 it up or save it for later to buy for it to work, instead of Changing Your Camouflage, it automatically 
 changes, in 3 you had to change Camo all the time, this game went back to the rations heal you, 
 in 3 nothing except Life med healed you, 
  
  They bring you to a lot of cool places, and at Act 4 you go back to Shadow Mosus island, and the 
 game is just awesome, 80 out of 10, and if you don't agree your wrong, and if you don't like it 
 its probably cause you have a small dick 
::::::

::::::
UserName: drcsyntax
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 25, 2008 7:42 am PT
Review:  Metal Gear Solid 4, the "final" tale of Solid Snake; opens just as Metal Gear should and ends with 
 an epic battle that only Metal Gear could provide.
  
  The series has always provided excellent story telling, and MGS4 is no different; always using 
 in-game graphics, there's never a reason to stop and wonder "What would the game look like if it 
 was all like the CGs!". The voice acting during these said cut scenes is also spot on; and helps 
 to capture you in the moment of each conversation.
  
  The storytelling itself will make this game confusing to anyone who hasn't followed the series.... from 
 day one. There are references dating as far back as the first Metal Gear on NES; and the references 
 continue building all the way up through Snake Eater. This game works towards trying to answer 
 all the questions left unanswered from the first MGS through Snake Eater; including the ongoing 
 search for the patriots. (And if you catch it, you'll know why people have to say LaLeLuLeLo)
 
  
  One thing that seems to have changed immensely in this edition of Metal Gear; is the codec scheme; 
 in previous games there were long conversations via codec; where you couldn't really see the other 
 person in the conversation, and it was basically just sitting and listening to the two characters 
 talk; this time around, not only is the codec a video stream of the other character, but there 
 are FAR more conversations held face to face, rather than over radio.
  
  The visuals in the game are simply stunning; ranging from the landscapes to character emotions, 
 I've actually yet to play the game on my HDTV, so I won't go too deep into graphics. (But come 
 on, it's Metal Gear)
  
  The difficulty of the game seems to changed based on how you play it; you can put it on easy mode, 
 but if you don't know how to sneak and keep out of sight, the game can still be a challenge. The 
 game incorporates a threat ring to let you know where enemies are based on grooves showing on the 
 ring, this feature was implemented since at the time of production; dual shock was considered impossible. 
 The threat ring works nice, but I personally miss the good ol heart beat sensor.
  
  Enemies will react to foot prints, walking sounds, gunfire; moved objects, corpses, sleeping enemies, 
 and shipping box with Snake inside. The AI isn't GENIUS, but it's smart enough to call backup and 
 make it that much harder for you to disappear again.
  
  Bosses in this game aren't as polarized as previous installments; which I'm not too critical about; 
 and they're all throwbacks to the first bosses in MGS, with a cameo from the almighty Psycho Mantis.
 
  
  All in all Metal Gear Solid 4 provides some closure to many chapters in the Metal Gear series thus 
 far, and can only leave one to wonder; what is Konami planning for MGS5? And without Snake as the 
 main character... who will buy it? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: killer3450
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 25, 2008 5:28 am PT
Review:  The game starts off introducing the new hedgehog concept for MGS: "No Place to Hide" with all guns 
 blazing. It is no exaggeration to say that it completely reinvents not only the MGS series, but 
 the Stealth Action genre as a whole. If you thought sneaking by one armed guard is exhilarating, 
 try sneaking pass dozens of rebels and PMCs with guns firing from every direction, mortars pelting 
 every inch of the ground, and grenades exploding at any given moment, just in case you didn't have 
 enough to worry about. Most four letter expletives don't even come close to describing the sense 
 of awe on the first playthrough. For the entirety of the first three acts, intensity and change 
 are the name of the game. The change would be in the form of every aspect of the story, the fully 
 controllable 3-D camera (a big switch from the traditional birds-eye view camera) , and the new 
 and improved, Western influenced shooting controls. Every change, however, is perfectly place and 
 nothing is overdone. The gameplay, through the entire game, is perfect and nothing less, also the 
 story line was excellent and gave a great series the well deserved ending the metal gear solid 
 series needed. the stories great characters and personalities gave you a great connection to the 
 characters, which created a better storyline
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: pigman01
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 31, 2008 3:54 am PT
Review:  Metal Gear Solid 4 Review
  
  Pros:
  Astonishing cut scenes
  Beautiful graphics
  Multiple gadgets and weapons to choose from
  Multi player is highly addictive
  Voice over's 
 were well played
  Story was strong and amazing
  
  Cons:
  Lack of playing time compared to cut scenes
  Customization was somewhat limited
  
  The Metal 
 Gear Solid series have improved immensely on the fourth installment in its series, Metal Gear Solid 
 4. Since the first time MGS 1 was played, 20 years ago, the genre of stealth games has changed. 
 Not only in MGS 4 is stealth a vital entity of the series, it has converged into an action game 
 that doesn't need stealth to advance throughout the story. The Metal Gear Solid series has ameliorated 
 from its predecessors.
  
  When Metal Gear Solid 4 came out it had dazzled the minds of almost every gamer and fan of the 
 Metal Gear series. Just after the trailer had been released to the public, many gamers had to get 
 their hands on the game. The graphics were phenomenal; the facial structures of each character 
 were original. People could see each wrinkle, the sweat, and the individual hairs on the head. 
 All the guns were specifically designed for players to recognize what was what with out picking 
 it up. The scenery was exquisite, each tile on a building, and each leaf on a tree. It all was 
 there. All of this was only in the game play; the cut scenes took the visual graphics to another 
 level. The cut scenes also had these same features as the game play but seemed more realistic. 
 The view of these videos just makes players feel as if they too are in the story and are surrounded 
 by beauty of MGS 4.
  
  The story of MGS4 simply was extravagant. The game was basically a movie at times. With a vast 
 amount of cut scenes that draw people into the story and clamps on to the imagination of people 
 and has them wanting more. Not only does it have phenomenal graphics and one of the most captivating 
 stories for a video game, it gives players. MGS 4 not only has a fantastic story and wonderful 
 graphics, it also has a large variety of weaponry and people can decide from discreet and sly to 
 deafening and calamitous. From pistols to, AK47's, and all kinds of explosive, MGS 4 has it all. 
 They even had things that players could use to disguise themselves with like a box and a barrel. 
 Both box and barrel are amusing and witty, but what confuses me is how the A. I. wouldn't notice 
 a moving inanimate object. But it still gave players a good laugh.
  
  The story starts with everyone form the first games separated and thinking Snake was dead. But 
 he's not. He is alive; the only problem is that he is aging faster than everyone else so he's dying 
 slowly. Snake and Octocon, are looking for Liquid, on their way they meet up with old characters 
 such as Naomi Hunter, Meryl Silverburgh, now the leader of Rat Patrol Team 01, a military unit 
 sent to investigate PMC activities, and Raiden, who is a Cyborg but he was once known as Jack in 
 the story prior. And new characters like Drebin, who is the black market salesmen, and Johnny aka 
 "Akiba" who is part of Rat Patrol Team 01. As Snake moves on he works together with his old friends 
 to stop Liquid from taking over, with his army and a legion of technologically advanced, psychotic 
 women of war. There are 4 women; Laughing Beauty, Screaming Beauty, Crying Beauty, and Raging Beauty. 
 These women are basically the bosses in the game. As Snake moves on, he is taken back to places 
 that the first MGS games took place. By the time you get to the last levels the game starts to 
 add some twists to the story. Fans of the series may flip out when they see some of these twists 
 towards the end. Then by the end of the game, everything seems to all fine and dandy with the war 
 over. But the twists continue, and at the end is where fans may truly relish with excitement.
 
  
  The many gadgets, which were introduced into the game, had been exciting to use. They give players 
 a chance to play in stealth mode more thoroughly. Such as the MK1, which is a small robot controlled 
 by Octocon to help Snake and communicate with him. It may also be used to scout ahead and find 
 objects without being spotted by the enemy; another gadget was the solid eye, which is quite useful 
 because it helps with night vision, zooming in, and giving details of people and things surrounding 
 you. The solid eye is possibly the most used gadget in the game, because without it, it would be 
 hard to distinguish between friendly people and the enemy except for the whole thing about if 
 they shoot you or not. And it also helps players find items on the ground that players would have 
 missed without it. Later on in the game the MK1 becomes the MK2 because the first one is destroyed. 
 But it's about the same as the first one, just in a different color. And the camouflage suit was 
 a nifty gadget to use. It gives the players a way to maneuver through the game by stealth means 
 rather than guns blazing. But some players prefer the guns.
  
  Even MGS 4 has an online multi player system. Both addicting and difficult, multi player also has 
 a customization for online players. With the ability to purchase and earn more customizable parts 
 for ones online character, from the Konami account made at the beginning of "Metal Gear Solid Online: 
 "MGSO", gave the game a more unique look. I've been online for possible 40 hours in total. And 
 I have learned a lot from different players. Within the multi player world in MGS4, MGSO has a 
 variety of online games, from team death match, to capture the flag, to a form of sneak. This is 
 with one team invisible with but only a knife and a tranquilizer and the other visible with normal 
 guns. But many of the people are quite skilled in MGSO. The system has an online class. This is 
 where more skilled players teach new comers the basics of online gaming and prepares them for what 
 is to come. And this helps people if they are having a tough time playing and need some help.
 
  
  The only issue with the game was the length of the cut scenes and the lack of playing time that 
 players get from the game. MGS 4 is roughly 12 hours of cut scenes and only 6 to 8 hours of game 
 play. Not that the cut scenes are bad or anything, players would rather play more of the game then 
 just watch a film that's why people buy a video game. The cut scenes themselves were miraculous 
 and players will be stunned to watch these thought out and well planned films. It was as if the 
 game wasn't a game at all but was really a movie. But the game would have been better to have more 
 playing time.
  
  MGS4 is a stupendous and first-rate game. It has improved from its formal years and finishes the 
 story, finally putting things to rest. The series of MGS will be considered a classic for a long 
 time, and MGS 4 ended in the best way that series could. And any MGS fan will agree that the game 
 was amazing and deserves the credit. For people who have not played Metal Gear Solid 4 or any of 
 the games, they should so that they too can experience something tremendous.
  
  Fun Factor-10
  Visuals-10
  Audio-10
  Online-9
  Value rated-10
  Overall-10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BIOJECT
Rating: 7
Date: Oct 24, 2008 11:43 pm PT
Review:  I've played every game in the Metal Gear Series including the MSX ones and the gameboy Metal Gear 
 and not one game in the series ever disappointed me until MGSIV. I'm used to the long-winded plot, 
 especially the complicated ones like at the end of MGS2 and I've always loved the stories in each 
 installment and the characters that inhabit them. For some reason, MGSIV fell flat on its face.
 
  
  Metal Gear Solid IV is meant to be the concluding chapter in the Metal Gear series that ties up 
 all lose ends and has gamers crying when it ends while utilizing the most polished MGS gameplay. 
 In many ways, MGSIV fulfills everything I've mentioned. The game does conclude the story and the 
 gameplay is polished to a brilliant shine.
  
  MGS4 basically has a story that is stuffed with filler, cheesy moments, and plenty of pointless 
 fanboy jerk offs. A good analogy is Star Wars Episode 1 Guido and Anakin scene as well as C3PO. 
 Neither C3PO or Guido were really necessary in Episode 1, but they were included to get cheap reactions 
 from fans. Well a lot of equivalently lame scenes happen in MGSIV just for the sake of telling 
 the audience "oh hey remember that one reference from the previous game?"
  
  MGS4's largest story flaw is that it's clear they never had answers for the mysteries they came 
 up with. Practically everything in the game was explained with nanomachines or just pure coincidence. 
 Worst of all, Naomi Hunter's character hijacked way too many scenes, which only made Snake's goals 
 even more pointless.
  
  In terms of gameplay, the game is perfect with the exception that there isn't enough areas in the 
 game to fully utilize everything available to you and you basically have to gimp yourself if you 
 want to make the game challenging or play it stealthy. MGS4 practically deviates away from the 
 Stealth gameplay and rewards you for going the action rambo route every time. This may be okay 
 for some, but when I play MGS, I play it for its stealth gameplay. 
  
  In conclusion, Metal Gear Solid 4 is a big disappointment in comparison to the perfection that 
 is the rest of the series. Perhaps if the game had an editor to cut down all the pointless scenes 
 in the story, more levels to utilize all the gameplay introduced, and reduced the availability 
 of weapons to keep the stealth gamaplay intact, MGS4 would be drastically better.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: satgamer
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 24, 2008 11:21 am PT
Review:  You probably know about this game, its the most coolest game in the world they say. I agree with 
 that. If you are a gamer who loves the story more then the game-play then this is the game which 
 you should get! Cut scenes should have the feature though to be played again in the extras menu 
 because there could be a chance that you have to stop but don't want to miss anything out. Overall 
 the game-play is one of the funnest I ever played, the online is amazing but can be slightly slow 
 if its not wired, and the story is so interesting that you wont notice how long it is. (except 
 if you are in a hurry)
  So if you don't have this game already then get out there and get it if you like action games and 
 loves to look at movies!
  
  For people who love action and movies the rating would be: 1000000
  
  and no matter if you 
 don't like action or movies its worth the money because in my opinion its a 9.5! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: beavisbond
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 24, 2008 10:44 am PT
Review:  I enjoy playing the Metal Gear Solid games, but this here is probably one of the best. The storyline 
 in the game kind of remains on the same line as like all the other ones, they tell it in the same 
 way. Although the only thing that I don't enjoy about this game or any other MGS games, is that 
 a lot of cutscenes are too long and boring. Some of them seems like it has nothing to do with the 
 game. But otherwise, the graphics are very impressive! Especially when you have a big 'o 1080p 
 HDTV! It's probably one of the best graphics out there. The gameplay itself is a lot of fun! I 
 love playing stealth games. My favorite would have to be the Splinter Cell series. I do like the 
 new camera angle that they added to this game, makes it a lot easier to see the battlefield. The 
 sound/music in the game is great! It's not the best but it's great! Another thing in this game 
 that's kinda corny to me is some of the character's themselves. Some of them are not realistic! 
 Actually it's like that in every other MGS game. But that's just me. I don't really care about 
 the characters, it's the gameplay that count's right? So anyways I didn't know what to give the 
 game an 8 or 9 out of 10, so I give it an overall score of 8.5 out of 10! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: re-quest
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 24, 2008 8:50 am PT
Review:  Metal Gear Solid 4. Is it a game? Yes, it's a game. Is it good? No. It's awesome!!!
  
  Metal Gear Solid 4 will give you tons of joy. There's so many things to do in this game that you 
 have to play it very several times to unleash it. The fun thing in this game is to "play" with 
 the octocamo (your spy suit) and your enemies. When you understand the controls completely you 
 can do several things to the enemies that are not seeing you. I'll name some of them: you can kill 
 them secretly, you can start a "battle" with them showing yourself, you can can pick up the tranquilizer 
 gun and put them sleeping and you can do CQC (Close Quarters Combat) . Seriously, CQC is one of 
 the funniest things you can do in this game.
  The boss battles are fun too and you need a lot of strategy with this ones.
  
  So, if this 
 game is so awesome, why did I gave it 9.5? Easy. If you are new to the MSG series (like I was) you 
 will not understand the story. Of course, if you're like me, and you don't care about it, just 
 want to play it, you will certainly like it.
  
  Metal Gear Solid 4 is a full action-packed game that you don't want to miss! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: skate_n_game
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 23, 2008 7:04 pm PT
Review:  As a stalwart Metal Gear fan, but a completely objective gamer, I could have easily seen MGS4 become 
 a massive success and deliver on all fronts (Like it did) , or crack under all the pressure and 
 get run over by the hype train. However, Hideo Kojima and his team at Kojima Productions have made 
 a game that again, will be remembered for years to come, and a conclusion to a story that I will 
 remember for a lifetime.
  
  The game starts off introducing the new hedgehog concept for MGS: "No Place to Hide" with all guns 
 blazing. It is no exaggeration to say that it completely reinvents not only the MGS series, but 
 the Stealth Action genre as a whole. If you thought sneaking by one armed guard is exhilarating, 
 try sneaking pass dozens of rebels and PMCs with guns firing from every direction, mortars pelting 
 every inch of the ground, and grenades exploding at any given moment, just in case you didn't have 
 enough to worry about. Most four letter expletives don't even come close to describing the sense 
 of awe on the first playthrough. For the entirety of the first three acts, intensity and change 
 are the name of the game. The change would be in the form of every aspect of the story, the fully 
 controllable 3-D camera (a big switch from the traditional birds-eye view camera) , and the new 
 and improved, Western influenced shooting controls. Every change, however, is perfectly place and 
 nothing is overdone. The gameplay, through the entire game, is perfect and nothing less.
  
  After the first three acts are over, MGS4 finally starts giving 20 years worth of answers to the 
 Metal Gear canon story. Every answer to every question is provided in Classic MGS fashion, through 
 cutscenes. Now that is not a bad thing at all, unless you are short on patience or have ADD, because 
 every scene is lovingly crafted and contains the absolute best Mo-cap I've ever seen in a game. 
 Bar-none. The characters seem very lifelike and human. This and the incredible graphics engine 
 creates an effect so realistic, that if you squint, you'll almost swear you are watching a movie. 
 Back to the story, I won't go into detail because that would be doing everyone a disservice, but 
 all I can say is, that it is very satisfying and has many deep themes almost on par with that of 
 MGS2. A very fitting ending to the MGS series.
  
  As for the final part of the product, MGO, is a solid, though somewhat uninspired online offering 
 that can be tedious at times (Team Deathmatch) , but highly fun in the modes unique to this game 
 (Team Sneaking and Sneaking) . I enjoy and play it on a regular basis right next to my COD4 and 
 Halo 3, but alas, it is not for everyone, as you encounter elitists often and the registration 
 process is time consuming. Nevertheless, it is a great online game if you have great patience.
 
  
  There you have it. Metal gear Solid 4: Guns of the Patriots is a Masterpiece. It is the culmination 
 of 20 years of gamemaking experience, a deep, thought provoking story, a Legendary fictional Hero, 
 and a vision of how such an epic series should end. Buy this game.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: METALSNAKE1
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 23, 2008 4:35 pm PT
Review:  Metal Gear Solid 4: Guns of the Patriots
  9.5/10 
  Metal Gear Solid. A series often associated with words like: amazing cutscenes, cinematic story, 
 and revolutionary gameplay. Metal Gear Solid 4 is no exception to the series and delivers on all 
 fronts. The 8 hours of cinematics are enthralling and touching, Snake and Otacons journey is full 
 of emotional happenings and is sure to keep anyone hooked. The gameplay is of course, exceptional 
 and often times had my mouth hanging open in surprise to the brilliant sequences of action doled 
 out through each act of the game. Also, the sheer amount of weaponry in the game is mind boggling 
 and intimidating at first. It's quite uncommon for a Third Person action game to have this many 
 weapons to choose from, and not to mention customize. Adding scopes, laser sights and grips is 
 an awesome addition to this game and makes you feel like you share Snakes fascination and intimacy 
 with guns. Another nod to this games excellent production is the out of this world voice acting, 
 especially David Hayter's performance of Snake. Every character was right and felt real, which 
 really pulled me into the emotional aspect of each characters journey in the game. All of the included 
 characters from the series like Meryl, Ocelot, Naomi and Sunny were fantastic.
  Before I get into the criticisms of this game I have to mention again the cutscenes. The experience 
 Hideo Kojima has created is a one of a kind experience, and the reason I say that is because some 
 people have said "I don't want to watch cinematics I just want to play the game". I agree in one 
 respect that maybe some of the scenes could have been interactive, but Metal Gear Solid 4 and its 
 predecessors are the only games that offer this much cinematic material that you have to watch 
 (which I loved by the way, didn't you know?) If you want to just play a game and not watch too 
 many cinematics (I actually wanted more by the end) then I suggest that you go and play any other 
 game out there (except RPG's) . There are hundreds of shooters out there that lack story and have 
 minimal cutscenes, so I think it's okay that 1 out of those hundreds of shooters actually brings 
 us an over the top, awesome, lengthy (that's a good thing, I paid for a long game) experience.
 
  Now that's off my chest, let us get to the shortcomings of this game. First let me say that these 
 shortcomings don't amount to anything too serious but do keep the game from being a true masterpiece 
 in the Metal Gear Solid franchise. 1) The Acts were inconsistent gameplay wise, and the last two 
 acts felt rushed. Act 1 and 2 implemented the two factions and how you could help either one or 
 the other but i don't think the game was long enough for that to be implemented well enough, you 
 can only help the rebels so much before the game switches gears to Act 3. And Act 4 could probably 
 be beaten without the use of a gun at all. 2) The Beauty and the Beast Unit were amazing fights 
 for sure (Sniper Wolf beast was perfect) but compared to the other bosses in the series like the 
 Cobra Unit or MGS1's Foxhound, these seem too disconnected from the realistic storyline as if Snake 
 was having delusions a grandeur, and they didn't have those amusing James Bond villain-esque quirks 
 which made those boss fights especially memorable. And 3) This may seem odd to some but I thought 
 the Old Snake idea came way too early in the series. Don't get me wrong I absolutely loved the 
 story and idea that you are playing as a vulnerable man on the brink of suicide, but it presents 
 a problem for the series for me. Seeing as there has only been 1 3D game in which Solid Snake was 
 playable the whole way through (MGS1) it seemed strange that all of a sudden we play him as an 
 old man. MGS2 was Raiden, MGS3 was Big Boss and not very many fans have played Metal Gear or Metal 
 Gear 2. I just don't see how Solid Snake is a tired idea at this point when most fans have barely 
 even played as him. I do however see Mr. Kojimas rationale, seeing as he's been involved in all 
 the games so far but that doesn't mean he couldn't have handed the younger Solid Snake down to 
 someone else. 
  
  Pros: Excellent voice acting  Superb gameplay  Movie like cinematics (3 movies worth!)  around 
 70 weapons to choose from
  Cons: Questionable pacing  Old Snake is cool but too soon for the series  final Acts are too 
 easy and too short.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: JKusanagi
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 21, 2008 8:24 pm PT
Review:  Well its time for the last chapter of Solid Snake's story, MGS4 for PS3 system. I had to give my 
 opinion since i'm not comfortable with the average score given by users.
  
  MGS4 takes every aspect of gameplay from his prequel, Metal Gear Solid 3: Subsistence and improves 
 them.
  
  In terms of gameplay, you get many options to attack your enemys, close, medium and long range 
 attacks.
  
  You get CQC system wich is some kind of "judo" to deal with nearby enemies, from taking hostages 
 and dispose of enemy soldiers while your protecting yourself with one of them, to knocking them 
 to the ground and even cutting their throat.
  
  Talking about weaponry you won't complain, there are tons of guns available and many of them can 
 be customized, from attaching a portable granade launcher to a machine gun, a scope, laser sight 
 or a light. Some people complain about "lack of customization options" though, while its not one 
 of the most impresive features in the game, i find it just right and in some cases even perfect, 
 especially considering most of the games don't even have customization.
  
  About the story, it is presented in real time cutscenes, some of them are very lenghty but as you 
 watch you'll see its worth it. Every cutscene it's perfectly made, from motion capture, graphic 
 detail, great music and one of the most impresive voice acting.
  
  One other thing in the game are installs, yeah the game has 3 minutes installs everytime you switch 
 between one of the 5 chapters, during this time you can't move anything in the game, just watch 
 Snake smoking while reading some advices improvement, not just in the game... also in real life. 
 Kinda weird, but works for me, since once the install is finished, you get to see it was worth 
 it in every aspect, so i let this pass.
  
  The game has tons of replay value, since it has many unlockables, also you can always play the 
 game in different ways, and i'm not just saying "1st pass sneaking, 2nd shooting everyone", but 
 also taking new paths, since maps are very big, you can always take a new way to reach your goal, 
 you'll always get to the same place in the end, but that doesn't keep you from seeing new things 
 on your way.
  
  If any of the previous reasons doesn't convince you to play more MGS4 (or if you simply want more) 
 there's also Metal Gear Online included, an online multiplayer game with MGS4 mechanics. Here you 
 can choose from various types of gameplay, from Deathmatch, Team Deathmatch (wich are what you 
 would expect) to Team Sneaking wich is about sneaking in other teams base and getting a figure 
 to return it to your base and there's another game mode, where one guy uses Snake and another player 
 supports him with MK II, a robot controlled by Otacon (Snake's friend) in MGS4, so, there are also 
 2 teams wich would be trying to catch Snake but also battle between them.
  
  A masterpiece any Metal Gear fan (or news to the franchise) can't let go.
  
  My overall opinion:
 
  - Great story
  - Great gameplay
  - Great sound
  - Tons of replay value
  - Tons of detail
  
  Definitely must try! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TXMostWanted
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 20, 2008 11:44 pm PT
Review:  Guns of the Patriots is a technical masterpiece that will please MGS fans as well as some newcomers. 
 The game delivers the bells & whistles on nearly all aspects of the game. Here's why the game rocks 
   
  The GRAPHICS are obviously polished & insanely detailed, from the 3D renedered facial hair of Otacon's 
 face to the organic environments of the South American Stage. 
  The GAMEPLAY, while drastically different from previous installments, is the best hands down. Customization 
 is deep for a stealth action game, the gunplay is fun for once, and the different approaches to 
 completing a level are varied. 
  The SOUNDTRACK is also high quality. It's definitely moodier and somber than its other titles, 
 but Harry-Gregson Williams still delivers a soundtrack worthy of any Hollywood enthusiast. 
  The STORYLINE is quite simply a miracle: even though Hideo Kojima didn't even know the answers 
 to so many things as he made the games, he was able to tie up all the answers to the loose questions 
 as well as add new story elements into one great package. 
  BONUS CONTENT, like extra downloads, trainning arenas, & hidden goodies help keep the replay value 
 up really high!
  
  So everything was a technical masterpiece that all developers should strive for when it comes to 
 delivering a great video game. However, here is what made the game less than perfect.
  
  The MULTIPLAYER is absolutely horrible! Bullets don't hit your target, the glitches are abundant, 
 loading times are ridiculous etc. To put it siimply, play MGS for its single player portion and 
 wait for a couple patches before trying this.
  While the storyline is great, not only is it WAY TOO LONG!! but it felt like "gameplay, movie, 
 more movie, gameplay etc." It should have been like MGS3 cinematics, where it seemed to flow together.
 
  Also, the GAMEPLAY BALANCE is somewhat off. What I mean by that is you only really get to exploit 
 all the gameplay aspects with the first two stages. After that, your either stalking someone, fighting 
 robots, or watching too many cutscenes, so really all the stages should've been like the first 
 two in the game.
  PLUS, the gameplay is too short (w/o cutscenes, you can finish the game in less than six hours 
 if you run through it) . 
  Last, Guns of the Patriots, while original & innovative, also seemed to have recycled way too much 
 of previous game materials (SPOILER: Not too many new characters for one thing, you visit Shadow 
 Moses island again, You infiltrate an arsenal gear again, you go stalking through a jungle again, 
 their are cinematics that were obviously ripped off from previous games etc.)
  
  To me, having played all the games, I think the best one was MGS3: it was a freaking long game 
 (in terms of both gameplay & cutscenes) , it had the best storyline I've ever read or watched (the 
 Boss!! duh) , the characters were brand new and great, and the soundtrack was the best (fast-paced 
 007 style!) . What MGS4 has over MGS3 is a better gameplay & graphics. Otherwise, MGS3 is better. 
 Still, Guns of the Patriots is my favorite this generation so far and it sends off Solid Snake 
 to a bittersweet yet insanely awesome farewell *tear 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pooplip
Rating: 6.5
Date: Oct 20, 2008 12:25 pm PT
Review:  Let me start by saying that I haven't played it online yet so this review is only for the offline 
 content.
  This game was pretty good. Great graphics, lots of weapons and weapon add ons. I really did like 
 many of the extras in the game.
  The game has 2 main problems. It's like watching a bad CG movie mixed that you have to play along 
 with. Some of the cut scenes are 20 minutes or more. They are visually beautiful but I feel that 
 there are times where you have to watch this painfully long, convoluted and poorly written movie. 
 I was getting board waiting for the cut scenes to be over and I would much prefer just playing 
 the game. Yes you can skip through the cut scenes but I still want the full impact of the story 
 I just need so much of it. 
  My other problem is that the maps are sectioned off into very small areas that have to keep loading. 
 Even when you get into a nice big city area it is broken up into about (7) 3 block x 3 block areas.
 
  There was one other thing that should have expected, but hated anyway. The amount sneaking around 
 that you have to do gets so annoying. I think this works only because the maps are so small that 
 if you could run or even walk though the areas you would be done in half the time. That being said 
 I would love to see some more open world huge map GTA style games. If you know of any let me know. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ca5hmon3y
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 20, 2008 6:15 am PT
Review:  As my title suggests, this game is simply breath taking. There genuinely were moments when i really 
 wanted to find somebody else in the house to come and watch the story unfold.
  
  The first tastes of the metal gear series I got was back on the PS1 and thought it was great, and 
 although I played MGS 2, I never had the same feeling. For this and other reasons I missed the 
 intermediate games leading up to MGS 4.
  
  But to give a game a perfect 10 it has to be something really special... so is MGS 4 perfect??? 
 I think yes. 
  
  There are so many special parts to this game, different types of challenge from breath taking bike 
 chases or fighting as metal gear, the compulsory bare top fist fight and the retro flashback level 
 from MGS1... and they blend together seamlessly. 
  
  While the story is linear compared to the open story of Farcry 2 for example, it is a fantastic 
 story. The characters are fantastic and the twists and turns will keep you guessing, even if by 
 the end you will be wondering which characters can still comes back from the dead ;)
  
  That story though can be played as snake however you like. It is possible, but not advisable in 
 a stealth game, to gun your way through most situations... Equally possible is to play the entire 
 game without killing a single person. In fact, it is one of the main challenges.
  
  And this is what it boils down to for me, the reason why the game is so good... it's because I want 
 to keep going back to it. Take a game like Assassins Creed, beautiful game and great to play through... but 
 I don't have any desire to play it through again, unlike MGS 4... which I will go back to again 
 and again.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: SnakeEater187
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 19, 2008 1:55 pm PT
Review:  Metal Gear Solid 4 is just a game that has made history forever in gaming. The graphics are incredible 
 and the story, of course, is the best. All the detail in the game is awesome and the characters 
 look so real and as well as the guns. The settings and levels are amazing and the campaign is just 
 to hard to get bored of. All the characters fit perfect in this game and the voice overs are the 
 best. The online multiplayer is so much fun and highly addicting and you just can't get enough 
 of it. All the character customization is so good and all the online game types are just so fun. 
 It's just to good to be true. Kojima is just a genious to be able to make such a perfect game. 
 This game is definitly the game of the year for 2008. If you have a PS3 you must have this  
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: linkinpark494
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 19, 2008 12:38 pm PT
Review:  WOW WOW WOW WOW. This game is one of the best games in the Metal Gear universe and the whole gaming 
 world.
  
  First off I am going to warn you, you are not going to like this game if you have not played the 
 other Metal Gear Solid games and enjoyed the story. This games story mode is based heavy on the 
 plot. It is a very great story if you played the other games. The cutsceances are actually very 
 long, the longest one being about an hour and half, but they are all skippable. I won't tell you 
 anything about the story because if I told you anything I would ruin the whole game.
  
  Second, The gameplay is amazing. It is a stealth based game so if you are seen by the enemy they 
 will attack you, run to cover and call for backup sending you in to alert mode. In alert mode the 
 backup will look for activley. All you have to do is either hide somewhere without being seen until 
 the timer rruns all the way down then repeat the procces in Caution mode were the enemy doesn't 
 search for you as hard. or kill all the enemies in the area, not recomended because some places 
 have an infinetly respawning amount off enemies. 
  
  There is a camoflauge system in the game, which is repersented by a percetage rating the closer 
 to 100% the more hidden you are. Your camoflauge is called your Octocamo, which is a suit invented 
 by Otacon that copies the texture of the ground which helps you blend in with the ground, wall, 
 etc. You can save camo patterns if you like them, because there are some cool ones you can find. 
 After the first boss battle you unlock an extension to your octocamo, the face mask which increase 
 your camo rating while it's on. It does exactly what the octocamo does just it covers your face. 
 
  
  Just because this game is a stealth game doesn't mean that there isn't any toys to play with. You 
 have all types of weaponrey, like tranqulizers, handguns, submachine guns, assualt rifles, sniper 
 rifles, Light machine guns, sniper rifles, handheld explosives, and rocket launchers. There is 
 not one gun for each type ther are many, and almost all are customizable.
  
  The Ai in this games is amazing. Lets say you shoot someone wihtout a surrpresor equiped to your 
 gun. The other AI will hear it take cover call HQ for backup and send you into automatic Caution 
 Mode. And the enemey will look for you they will not just already know were you are. And the AI 
 takes cover, flanks, throws grenades like a real human would.
  
  The graphics are also some of the best this generation. Shadows react nicely, faicial expressions 
 are nice, and overall detail and scale is absolutely amazing. And in the cutsceances all character 
 detail is amazing, from wounds, tans, shapes, and movements which are fluid instead of being stiff.
 
  
  There is a online portion to this game also, called Metal Gear Online (MGO) . This online is very 
 fun and addictive. In realitiy it is not one of the best online games in the world but is definetly 
 one of the top. The maps are big and are greatly playable. The onine portion is more trigger happy 
 then the single player mode, so don't worry about your octocamo unless playing Team Sneaking. In 
 online you make your own character with his or her own name. You also can have friends in MGO without 
 them taking space from your PSN friend list. There are very few cons about this online portion, 
 one of them being when someone lags, it's horrible, they skip around everywere and will be on you 
 faster then hell. Another being that headshots are too easy. If you have the crosshairs pointed 
 anywere near the upper body, you have a good chance of getting a headshot. But once you get on 
 MGO you will find yourself plaing for hours.
  
  So Metal Gear Solid 4 is one of the best games that I have ever played. From it's graphics to it's 
 amazing gameplay to it's addictive online gameplay, it is one amzing game. You will most likely 
 play through it and not touch it for a while but once you put that Blu-ray disc in t your PS3 you 
 will be playing it for hours. See you guys on MGO. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BigQz
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 18, 2008 8:11 pm PT
Review:  Metal Gear Solid 4
  Where do I start?
  How about the beggining of the game.
  As soon as you start playing you are drawn into the world of MGS4. The player is instantly immersed 
 in the stunning graphics, the game's design and the compelling story. The opening sequence sets 
 up the game to be an amazing experience and as you progress it only gets better and better. 
  
  Even if you havnt played the MGS series - although the story is a little confusing at times 
 - you still become emotionally attached to the characters. Mostly to do with how realistic they 
 move, act and sound. The story is very detailed and once you understand it, it is quite engaging.
 
  
  MGS4 prefectly blends action and stealth in such a way in which it is difficult to describe. It 
 is truly an exhilarating experience to play MGS4 and the gameplay is downright fantastic. 
  
  The cutscenes in this game are a little bit on the long side but they are great. They are fun 
 to watch and then the cutscene slides seamlessy back into gameplay. The overall effect of these 
 cutscenes makes MGS4 feel like your playing a movie.
  
  Everything about this game is spectacular and polished to perfection. You havnt played a good game 
 untill youve played MGS4. It is honestly one of the greatest games in so many different ways. A 
 must have. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lopop911
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 18, 2008 1:55 pm PT
Review:  First, let me start off by saying that MGS4 is a technical achievement. This is a game that shows 
 just what the PS3 is capable of and how far video games have come in just the past year. The art 
 direction coupled with the programmers' efforts created the most wonderful looking game I have 
 ever seen. 
  MGS4 isn't just a spectacle, though. It has great gameplay, as well, and an epic storyline that 
 is captivating to the very end. Gameplay might be complicated to newbies of the Metal Gear series, 
 but within maybe half an hour, you should feel right at home with the extremely sharp, responsive 
 controls.
  Value is very good in this title. Not only does it include about a 20 hour single-player experience 
 that is possibly the best that there may be at the time, but there is also a multiplayer package 
 included, that while not as great as the single-player experience, is still a great addition. 
 
  Everything in this game is extremely polished. The cutscenes that some have criticized for length 
 (these cutscenes, in my opinion, are very well-written and many times are interactive, so i had 
 no problem with them) look absoleutely amazing, and when only environments are shown can look like 
 the real thing. However, there are a few gripes that I had that stopped me from giving the game 
 a perfect 10. 
  First of all, I felt that the difficulty levels were not balanced enough. While the easisest difficulties 
 were very easy, the following difficulty was much harder, and there was no middle ground. Also, 
 some of the animations were a little stilted. For example, when Snake crouches and runs, it looks 
 a little unnatural. The only reason these things stick out is because of how amazing and spectacular 
 the rest of the game was. Overall, MGS4 is the best single-player experience to be found on the 
 next-gen consoles. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DanteKilla
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 27, 2008 6:20 am PT
Review:  I understood all of the storyline yet ive neva played any of the others properly before. The cinematics 
 are great and the gameplay is extremely clever, the only problem i think with the story mode is 
 that the bosses are quite easy, especially raging raven and crying wolf because you could if you 
 wanted to just wait for your health to replenish itself until it is at the top even though you 
 probably wouldn't have to unless you were on the highest difficulty. But apart from that the game 
 kept me intregued until the very end. 
  
  NOTE- YOU DONT HAVE TO HAVE PLAYED THE OTHERS TO ENJOY THIS. I NEVA.
  
  The online is in one 
 word 'WOW.' THe modes are great, team sneak and team deathmatch being my favourite and you can 
 play in moreless whatever way you like. If you want to go around stealthly with your cqc, sniping 
 or runnig in the middle of the battlefield on a killing spree. It is great because of the classes 
 you can choose, even though they probaly could have given you a little more skill points than 4, 
 but it kind of make you use what you have chosen. For example if you havent got cqc skill on, it 
 isnt a god idea to use it, TRUST ME. Mind you you can use guns even if you havent got there skills 
 on.
  It makes you keep fighting people your level or above because if you dont, say your a lvl 7 against 
 lvl 3's, and lose then your level WILL GO DOWN. 
  THe only problem online is he fact that there is only 5 levels free and you ave to pay for alot 
 of expansions.
  
  All in all the game is well worth 40 over any other game. I have around 40 ps3 games including 
 Call of Duty 4, Oblivion (hated it) and rachet and clank and for me MGS 4 is by far the best online 
 and offline.
  
  GRAPHICS-9/10
  SOUND-10/10
  GAMEPLAY-10/10
  VALUE-10/10
  ONLINE-10/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KaosDemon
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 17, 2008 12:12 am PT
Review:  Even though i didnt even own a ps3 I brought the game because i just had to. My cousin had a ps3 
 and he was willing to lend me it so I could play this all so great game. Im happy with what Kojima 
 have done he's done a good job, and i think you should buy it as well even if you havent played 
 any of the older versions a day in your life You'd love it with its stealthy type action of a game. I 
 just so happened to start the game on normal mode to get a feel of it and try to beat as much of 
 the modes as possible. The goods the bads... and all that extra stuff
  let me write about all the good things on this game.
  The graphics amazing it looks as if everything 
 were real like especially during the cut scenes, the idea of having the octocamo suit was also great, the 
 storyline is also amazing, containing alot of action, sad scenes... and sad to say the end of snake, and 
 the returning of old levels and some people from the other games.. the voice acting was neatly done 
 as well. Game play was great. The bads i actually really dont have nothing bad to say... i just hate 
 the fact that you had to sneak throughout half the game but its something i dealed with.. and the 
 loading scene.. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SoraOwnsAll
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 16, 2008 7:52 pm PT
Review:  Kojima yet again releases a masterful game known as Metal Gear Solid. If you haven't played the 
 other games in the series, I recommend you should, because this ties together all of the other 
 games into one unique masterpiece. Now, this is Snake's final mission, which is quite truly his 
 best
  
  Story (10/10)
  The game picks up 5 years later after the Tanker incidents in Metal Gear solid 4, with Liquid/Ocelot 
 planning an insurrection against the world. If you haven't played Metal Gear Solid 1 - 3, I recommend 
 you should, as most of the story revolves around past events. Snake has also grown old for some 
 unknown reason, which is revealed as you play throughout the game.
  
  Graphics (10/10)
  Absolute perfection. Everything in this game looks extremely realistic (Character models, environments, 
 weapons, etc.) One of the true eye candies is gotten from reloading a weapon in First Person View, 
 it looks as if you are the one exchanging the clip for another. Even the shadows and the sky looks 
 good.
  
  Sound (10/10)
  Everything sounds realistic, from a little knife cute to huge explosions to the sound of passing 
 helicopters/jets. They all sound as if you are actually there. There is also an iPod in the game, 
 which delivers its own musical score from previous games in the series.
  
  Gameplay (10/10)
  The Gameplay has stuck to how it was first made, with just a few additions. 
 Some of the additions are crouchwalking, over the shoulder view aiming, laying on your back while 
 on the ground, etc. One of the biggest additions that changes gameplay is the OctoCamo suit. Whenever 
 you sit still for more then 2 seconds, it automatically changes to whatever you are pressed up 
 to, which adds a new level of stealth to the game.
  
  There are 5 gameplay difficulties to this game : Liquid Easy, Naked Normal, Solid Normal, Big Boss 
 Hard, and The Boss Extreme. Do not play on Liquid Easy though, as that is a walk in the park. Try 
 around Solid Normal first your first play through, then go up to Big Boss or The Boss Extreme as 
 you see fit.
  
  There is also the Solid Eye, which lets you see enemies health / psyche, and it is also Night Vision 
 Goggles/Binoculars in one, instead of having two different items for them. Another additions is 
 the Metal Gear Mk. II, a little robot that Otacon uses which you can choose to control if you want. 
 It has Stealth Camo and a Tazer that immediately knocks out any enemies you hit with it. You can 
 also use it to spy on the battlefield/pick up items if you want to.
  
  There is also Drebin's shop, which becomes available after you meet up with him in the middle of 
 Act 1. You use Drebin Points (DP) gained from picking up weapons or doing good throughout the acts 
 and receiving the bonus at the act results screen (No kills, no recovery items used, no alerts, 
 etc.) DP can be used to purchase weapons and ammo from Drebin's shop at any time during the mission. 
 You can also purchase custom parts like suppressors, grips, scopes etc. to go on some of your weapons.
 
  
  For people who have never played a MGS game before, this game is based on stealth. Do not try to 
 go head on into areas, because causing an alert causes waves of enemies to swarm to your location 
 and shoot you till you're dead. The best thing to do if you do get seen is to just hide it off, 
 wait until the "Evasion" phase pops up, and then you can start moving.
  
  Replayability (10/10)
  There is tremendous re-playability in this game. There are 40 emblems 
 in this game, which can be achieved by doing certain tasks (no alerts, no kills, etc.) which may 
 take a while to get. On top of that, there is also ribbons you can get on the emblems, which shows 
 that is the highest rank you achieved on that certain play through, which this adds another 40 
 times through the game to be 100% complete. And on top of that, there is also online play, which 
 is very good, besides from the lag you may sometimes run into.
  
  Final Score (10/10)
  This game truly deserves a 10. It is just about perfect, in every sense of the word. This game 
 is a true must buy for die hard fans and newcomers to the series alike. Hell, you should buy a 
 PS3 just for this game, it's that good. This is one of the most entertaining games you will ever 
 play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Another_Brick
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 23, 2009 8:31 am PT
Review:  Graphics (10) : Metal Gear Solid 4 has the most impressive graphics I've seen this year on the PS3. 
 Regular game-play is stunning and cut-scenes are visually breath-taking. The game has an amazing 
 cinematic feel and the graphics are a major part of that. Sometimes the camera feels broken  when 
 crawling around in tight spaces  but overall MGS4 is a great looking title.
  
  Story (10) : MGS4 delivers; I can say that the story is very involving, though a bit complex and 
 a little confusing  this is my first MGS title since MGS2: Sons of Liberty. The story adds to 
 the games amazing cinematic feel. Originally I had felt that the downside to the story was the 
 long cut-scenes, but after playing through the game, they are an extremely enjoyable aspect, though 
 they are still long to a fault.
  
  Sound (10) : The sound is top-notch. Lots of ambience and everything in general sounds clear. I 
 wasn't a huge fan of the voice-acting in-fact it could have been much better, but, everything else 
 sounds so good. MGS4 has a superb soundtrack that seems to be a series staple.
  
  Game-play (10) : After replaying through MGS2, I've realized that MGS4 is an entirely different 
 experience, though one that stays true to the franchise. The game is relatively short, about 12-20 
 hrs, if you know what you're doing, but has amazing replay value, with 5 different difficulty levels. 
 MGS4 is a lot of fun to play and you'll find yourself snickering at some of the subtleties added 
 in by Kojima. 
  
  Overall (10/10) : MGS4 is the best game this year for the PS3. It's made me regain hope for the 
 next-gen, despite an otherwise uneventful 2007. MGS4 is near perfect in every sense. *This is a 
 re-adjusted review, after completing the game, I have decided to give MGS4 a perfect score as the 
 game literally delivers in every aspect, MGS4 is MUCH better then GTA IV could have ever been and 
 is a game every PS3 owner should buy!* 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Big-BossSnake
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 14, 2008 10:53 pm PT
Review:  Metal Gear Solid is one of the best games I ever played and I never ever saw such a great story 
 in a game and in a movie.
  STORY-I can't think of any games i ever played or saw to have such a great story, this story is 
 simply one of those stories that inspire you and might even make you cry.
  Solid Snake (now called Old Snake) an war veteran is suffering from a rapid growth desise, is sent 
 on a final mission, not a mission of a hero but of a hired hit, to kill his arch nemeses, Liquid.
 
  About half the game is cutscenes and each cutscenes are long so you can freeze it or skip it.
 
  The cutscenes are pretty interactive, you can see flash backs by pressing X or see what Snake 
 is looking at by pressing L1, in the briefings you can use the MK2 (a small robot used to assist 
 Snake) and look around the room and move.
  If you just want to get in the action and don't care about the story you will lose hours of the 
 games time skipping scenes but the game will still be worth to get.
  If you didn't play the other Metal Gear Solid games the story may be dificult to understand, so 
 thats why I recomend downloading Metal Gear Solid 4 Datapad from the PlayStation shop, it's free 
 and wont spoil anything of the story for Metal Gear Solid 4.
  STORY=10
  PRESENTATION-Metal Gear Solid 4 has one of the best graphics on the PS3, everything looks really 
 good though sometimes close up it doesn't always look so good.
  PRESENTATION=9.8
  SOUND-All the sound, the music, the voice acting, the gunshots and the effects all sound amazing!
 
  You have a in game Ipod which allows you to listen to great music and to an exclusive radio show.
 
  The sound is so good that i can't think of anyting bad to say.
  SOUND=10
  GAMEPLAY-The Metal Gear series is not a shooting game that your ment to shoot anything that moves, 
 insteadyour ment to sneak through the game, for Metal Gear Solid 4 that is no exaption, while the 
 game is ment for you to sneak it still gives you the option to shoot through the levels.
  You don't only have to worry about your health status, but you have to keep an eye out for your 
 mental health.
  If you mental health is low then you might lose some control of Snake and his health will heal 
 slower.
  The contrals are pretty straight foward and simple and plays like most shooting games.
  GAMEPLAY=10
 
  OVERALL-Metal Gear Solid is a must have game for anyone who has a PS3 and it has a story you will 
 never forget.
  OVERALL=10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lunchboxx10
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 14, 2008 6:15 pm PT
Review:  I'm not sure why this game is rated a 10 on this site. I'm just going to list the good and bad.
 
  
  The Good:
  Lots of weapons to use w/ good customization
  cool camo changing suit
  lots of people around because you fight during wars
  most of the boss fights decent
  actually 
 has a 3rd person multiplayer online
  the ending
  
  The Bad:
  Cutscenes take up too much of the game ( not 90% though like some people say)
  Aiming is bad
 
  Can't really use all of your weapons
  Nothing really innovative like old boss fights (ex: psycho mantis)
  snake is in denial the whole 
 time and doesn't act like a badass
  
  
  overall to me the game was a disappointment but not horrible. it might be fun to play again later 
 on sometime. Metal gear online is not that good. The aiming makes it hard for you to kill people. 
 stick to call of duty 4 for online multiplayer. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mrgray187
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 14, 2008 11:50 am PT
Review:  presentation: absolutely incredible animation and visuals. best graphics of any videogame so far. 
 10/10
  
  sound: music is well composed and well suited for the game. sound effects are top notch and as 
 realistic as they come. 10/10
  
  gameplay: one word. awesome. easy to control, little to no glitches. the game has next to no camera 
 issues and the difficulty of the game is perfect. 10/10
  
  replay value: definately a game that can be played and enjoyed more than once. boss battles are 
 fun and highly entertaining. incredible story that you just do not want to end. 10/10
  
  Personally I love this game. The series is awesome and this could possibly be the best so far. There 
 is no reason why anyone can't enjoy this game. It will not disappoint. Unless you're not a fan of 
 the genre. But overall I think the game is perfect for its time and definately recommend it to anyone 
 who has doubts about buying it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: andele77
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 14, 2008 10:30 am PT
Review:  If you have played this game there is no need for me to explain just how cool it is... But ill 
 go ahead and sum a little of it for you lol. if your one of those people that think its just all 
 story sequenses then you oviously haven't played this amazing game. But it doesn't really matter 
 cause im sure the only people that say that are 360 fanboys haha which are most likely reading 
 this thinking.... "dang i should have got a ps3" If your a MGS fan from the start then you will 
 deff get hooked from the start. Its had to find a game that will have cool bosses now days but 
 dang this game has it all. Other then that go buy this and see for yourself what a game should 
 really be like these days. I do have to admit I was dissapointed that this will be the last one, 
 but it sure as hell went out with a bang.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: HRHParkerJones
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 13, 2008 9:51 pm PT
Review:  it's taken a while for me to get my head fully around MGS4 - mainly as i've been playing 6-7 other 
 games at the same time!
  
  without question, if you own a PS3 - get this game! if you don't own a PS3 - buy one - and get 
 this game!
  
  superb graphics - excellent game play - immersive sound - and finally - the story we all love - 
 wrapped up into one neat little ball - with a terrific ending.
  
  stop reading this - go play the game.
  
  
  
  okay 
 - if you're still reading - you'll need to know this is no run and gun game. take it seriously, 
 take your time and look around. make use of the surroundings and objects you find.
  
  it's sometime worth going back to check for ammo, weaponry that can be sold for supplies etc...
 
  
  NOTE: if you've played this and thought you beat it... play it with the sleep gun and no alarms 
 or kills!
  
  i dare you! have fun.
  
  cheers, simon 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mickstar28
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 13, 2008 7:40 pm PT
Review:  Metal Gear Solid 4 is one of the best games of our new console generation but it is not because 
 of its gameplay. This game plays out very similarly to previous MGS games, the gameplay has been 
 refined for sure but the core mechanics of how you interact with the world through Snake is the 
 same. This is not a bad thing at all but it fails for me when you consider the environments. They 
 are designed with a similar scale to that of previous games also. I believe that this game could 
 have been made on the Playstation 2 and it wouldn't be too different than this version. One thing 
 is for sure though that it wouldn't look, sound or feel nearly as beautifull as this game does. 
 
  
  The devil is in the details with MGS4, the sound design is absolutly fantastic, it pushes the benchmark 
 to what games should sound like, musically it works very well, the opening piece 'Love Theme' is 
 so outstandingly perfect in setting the tone for the whole game and is a genius work of art in 
 its own right.
  
  Graphically this game has blown me away, although not initially. At first I didn't think too much 
 of it, I thought it looked good but not amazing, and then I started noticing things, tiny things 
 like flowers, Snakes tie, Otacons jacket, how every object has been crafted with such care of attention 
 to detail. Everything feels real and reacts realistically within the world and I found myself towards 
 the end of the game questioning if some custscenes were CG or not. This is thanks to the absolutly 
 marvelous lighting, the sunrise in the exciting climatic battle adds its own unique mood to an 
 otherwise cliche setting.
  
  When I was younger I played MGS for the PSOne, loved it but, I never got a PS2 so missed out on 
 2 and 3, this caused me some concern so I made sure to check out the mgs retrospective on gametrailers 
 to catch up on what I missed. I'm glad that I did or I would have been lost in the plot.
  
  Old Snake is great, at the start of the game he's told he only has 3 months left to live and you 
 can tell through the acting and script that he's worried about this, but he dosn't fuss, he has 
 a duty and a new mission, his final mission. Snake is at the heart of this story and by the end 
 of the game you experiance first hand just how strong a man he is, not only phisically but in his 
 power of will. Impressivly there is still a vagueness left in his character where the player can 
 input some of his/her own personality into him. 
  
  Otacon shines here too, he has matured into a respectable and wholly believable person, from a 
 geeky Otaku to a still geeky but grounded and sensitive man. One character who really did it for 
 me though was Raiden, kicking absolute ass as a cyborg ninja. His fightscene with Vamp should go 
 down in history as one of the best ever.
  
  Ok so, the game looks and sounds amazing, it plays a little old school but, that's what you're 
 here for right? There's a lot of gameplay styles to explore here still, the AI adjusts well to 
 how you play, if you like to shoot things then waves of reinforcements come in to satisfy your 
 need for bullet dodging but if you like to keep it classic and stealthy the brilliant Octocammo 
 suit becomes your best friend, stealing the texture of the surface you are up against so that you 
 are less easy to spot. It's a shame though, that you stick out like a saw thumb even when blended 
 into a surface but the enimies will not see you even if they are right next to you. Maybe this 
 is not true for any difficulty over normal.
  
  There's one more aspect of this game that is very important. The cinematics. I was told before 
 that there are two 90 min cutscenes here, so I was preparing myself for them every time the camera 
 cut away but by the end of the game, I hadn't noticed them. The cinematics are so very well directed 
 I just wanted more of it. There are some that are the longest during the briefing sessions, these 
 are drawn out and relaxed conversations, they feel like really flash powerpoint presentations at 
 times, but the music and acting kept me entertained througout.
  The ending, can get a little too uh, I don't know what the word is but its kinda like in Lord of 
 the Rings 3 where it ends about 10 times and each ending is gayer than the next but, it's the end 
 of a 20 year saga man, let the mr Kojima have his moment.
  
  Pros - Snake, Graphics, Sound, Story, one fantastically inspired flashback
  
  Meh - Tried and 
 true gameplay mechanics
  
  Bad - Levels are small enclosed arenas of espionage, this forces the game to behave as it always 
 has, larger more expansive or rather, seemless environments could have benifited the game more, 
 especially considering that the enimy simply forget you exsist every time you enter a new area. 
 
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Giantsallstar10
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 13, 2008 2:28 pm PT
Review:  This game is perfect in every way. Some people may say that it sucks because ther is alot of videos 
 but the videos aare extremely interesting and fun to watch. The point is this is goin to be game 
 of the year no matter what. The difficulty levels can range around from rly easy to extremely dificult. 
 The greatest game ever! The greatest game ever! he greatest game ever! The greatest game ever! 
 The greatest game ever! The greatest game ever! The greatest game ever! The greatest game ever! 
 The greatest game ever! The greatest game ever! The greatest game ever! The greatest game ever! 
 The greatest game ever! The greatest game ever! The greatest game  
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: brokeirishman
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 13, 2008 12:20 pm PT
Review:  Absolutely the best game out on PS3 right now. I've loved playing through all of the Metal Gear 
 Solid games, and where I had an occasional complaint about the previous installments, Metal Gear 
 Solid 4 delivered handsomely and created an experience that was absolutely incredible. The story-telling 
 kept me on the edge of my seat wondering what would happen next, and the game was highly addicting. 
 I don't know if it's because I played the game so much, but it did seem to be over far too quickly. 
 Other than that, there is not one single thing wrong with this game. The music score was phenomenal 
 as well. I thoroughly enjoyed being able to pick up songs from other Metal Gear Solid games to 
 listen to on my iPod. The customization of games enhanced the combat, so I could use a rifle and 
 shotgun at the same time without switching. Sheer brilliance. Also, using the octocamo suit made 
 the stealth much more believable and highly entertaining. The on-line multiplayer is some of the 
 best I have ever encountered. I have absolutely nothing but good things to say about this game. 
 If you don't own any other game for the PS3, make sure you buy Metal Gear Solid 4. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheAcejoel99
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 12, 2008 10:53 am PT
Review:  If ever a game deserved a 10 this is the game, it ranks up there with the best of the best. The 
 single-player is deep, complicated, cinematic, fresh and lengthy. The visuals (depending on your 
 point of view) are worthy of a 10, I do. This is the best looking CONSOLE game of all time, and 
 it almost never trips up in the framerate department. It is just amazing from begining to end. 
 The sound/music is top-notch and is praise-worthy, the way it blends realistic and non-existent-futuristic 
 noises from robots and things, while melding it with the visuals and outstandingly tight and responsive 
 controls is a marvel to behold. But it isn't perfect. No game is perfect, but it can surpass all 
 other games to a certain extent that to give it anything less than a 10 is criminal. The visuals 
 may be amazing, but there are a few moments of slowdown, and bland textures. And MGSO (metal gear 
 solid online) is disapointing overall. It just dosen't flow well, it isn't laggy, or broken, there 
 are no problems except the gameplay of metal gear just dosen't fit any kind of multi-player. It 
 isn't bad, it just isn't fun, but if you just pretend that the multi-player dosen't exist, you 
 will be better off. The game is a must buy....... which means you MUST buy it...... if you don't 
 have a ps3, then buy one, and then buy MSG4........ now. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: malachi_27
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 26, 2008 3:12 pm PT
Review:  It's hard for any professional video game editor to give a video a "perfect" score. And alas, I 
 am no video game editor. No, only in my dreams. I have never given a game a perfect score because 
 although there is no game that is perfect, there has been nothing that has really engrossed me. 
 Metal Gear Solid 4: Guns of the Patriots has to be the game that has taken over months of consideration 
 as to what score it should receive.
  
  First and foremost, if you're reading this review, you and I both know what seems to be the major 
 problem in Metal Gear Solid 4; the cutscenes. Even though you may have read every other reviewers 
 thoughts on the game's cons, but I will tell you this, the cutscenes are not terrible (that is 
 an understatement) . The cutscenes may be long, but they're not a snore fest. You shouldn't even 
 be gaming if you have no patience or good taste when it comes to well put together plots! Metal 
 Gear Solid is for the hard-core gamers, not the casual "I just wanna game that is fun and hard 
 'cause I'm awesome at games when I wanna be..." I mean no disrespect for those that completely 
 disagree with me in this category, but the cutscenes are so impressive and well constructed, how 
 could you get bored watching them?
  
  No matter what television set you're playing Metal Gear Solid 4 on, it will look beautiful always. 
 If you have 420p, don't worry, there is still much detail and eye candy for you. Those that have 
 1080p, feast your eyes on the best console video game ever. What this game brings to the table 
 in terms of visuals is much realism. I believe that a lot of next-gen games over due it sometimes 
 (the Unreal engine for example) . The environments are something that you would actually see in 
 an absolute world full of hatred and war. Color is needed where it is necessary and lack of color 
 is necessary in certain locations. The amount of detail in the character models is amazing, you 
 can make out the characters' pores on their faces!
  
  The series has been known for for many, many years is its stealth-action gameplay. Guns of the 
 Patriots stays completely true to that, but those that like to run-n'-gun will also enjoy the combat 
 as well. Those that like the FPS genre, though, when playing this game, might find Snake (the game's 
 protagonist) a little slow with walking speed. There are many things to distract your enemies with 
 to sneak past them. Seriously, you'll be surprised in the things you'll find in the game... This 
 game is not short on weapons either. By taking different routes in the game, you also find different 
 weapons. When you pick up enemy weapons, you will not be able to use them because they are "locked." 
 Later on in the game, you have the opportunity to fix that.
  
  To make the plot as simple and easy as possible, I'd have to tell you this: Solid Snake is looking 
 for Liquid Ocelot. Some may be in confusion. Snake has been the series' hero ever since. He is 
 like a super-toned hero that fights for the US military against world threatening domination. Liquid 
 Ocelot has been the series' antagonist a few times. He is Snakes brother and fights against what 
 he believes. If you are unfamiliar with the Metal Gear Solid series like I was, you are going to 
 learn all about characters from the previous games in this one. It's a shame if you don't know 
 who the some of the characters are from the series because they supposedly make surprising reappearances 
 in the game. They all tie into the game's plot which is very nice how Kojima and company was able 
 to do that. It is worth mentioning that the game does get confusing at some parts of the game, 
 and you may actually have to look up the part of the game if you can't figure it out.
  
  The game's soundtrack isn't necessarily orchestral, but it fits the dark, depressing mood the game 
 sometimes brings. It's great that the game has some comical relief too. It's not something that 
 you would want to pick up at a store, but it is something that you may just stop and listen to 
 in-game. The voice acting is some of the best I've ever heard in a video game. They have some great 
 actors here, and their talents shine brightly.
  
  Metal Gear Online is a new feature to the Metal Gear Solid universe. It's basically the online 
 mode for this game. It is very nice because you get a lot of options, and it's lag-free. It's very 
 unfortunate that you have to pay for extra features such as masks, characters, modes, and locations. 
 I don't buy into that stuff because I never really thought as online play to be anything more than 
 what you do after the campaign is over. Konami is really making it something more than that though. 
 If you take advantage of all that Metal Gear Online offers, you'll be stuck on it for weeks (even 
 longer than that most likely) . Even if you don't buy the extra things, you will still have a ball 
 because people will still play with you, and you will still have some fun. The biggest complaint 
 that I have with this system is actually setting up to play Metal Gear Online. You first have to 
 make a Konami ID that has to be different than your Game ID that you MUST create in order to play. 
 It can become a hassle just to remember both of those IDs.
  
  As you can see, the replay value is high not only because of the online, but also of all the medals 
 and easter eggs there are to earn and find. By just a few shortcomings, Metal Gear Solid 4 is the 
 easiest game to recommend in so many years of gaming. Picking up Metal Gear would be one of the 
 best decisions of your gaming life right.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: The_Dunc_man
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 11, 2008 8:03 pm PT
Review:  Metal Gear Solid 4 is the final chapter to one of the best game series in history. We all know 
 Metal Gear Solid is a stelth game and it is the best you will find. The Metal Gear series invented 
 the stealth game and to date is still the best. The main gameplay is based on stealth but also 
 has everything a great 3rd person shooter does. Lets start with the stealth. To evade your enemy 
 you can choose to use Octo Camo which your suit changes colour to match a wall or the ground. There 
 are alternatives such as hiding in a regular cardboard box or hiding in a locker. Enemies react 
 to sound so you can knock on a wall to distract them. If you are seen by an enemy you have to evade 
 them for the time of three timers, which is hard to do so don't be seen. Now onto the shooting. 
 The shooting is excellent and you get no feeling it was just thrown into a stealth game. Many may 
 argue the shooting in previous Metal Gear Solid games was hard to handle (especially Metal Gear 
 Solid 3) . This game has the shooting of Ghost Recon Advanced War fighter 2! Maybe even better! 
 It is and over the shoulder view and with the option of first person. The shooting handles extremely 
 well. You is a choice of over 80 different guns which are all customisable, the best of which the 
 M4 custom. In all the shootings excellent. Metal Gear Solid 4 is argueably the best looking game 
 ever made. You will find the cut senes are full of great looking characters and extremly detailed 
 enviroments. But the most impressive part is that the same crisp, clear graphics in the cut senes 
 are the graphics in the game play. The sound affects are great and suit what they are used for. 
 I have yet to mention one of the best parts of this game. That is the storyline. The story is about 
 Solid Snake's final misson. Snake is now an old man because of rapid aging and is sent to stop 
 Liquid from taking over the PMC. Metal Gear Solid 4 consists of many very long cutsenes, the final 
 one lasting over an hour. Some say Metal Gear Solid games are more like a movie than a game, but 
 the combination of the cutsenes and the gameplay make you care about the characters and make you 
 want to know what will happen next. If you are a owner of a PS3 and you haven't played this game, 
 go out right now and buy Metal Gear Solid 4. I am more than impressed with this game and so are 
 the critics. Metal Gear Solid 4 is my choice for being one of the best games of all time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tofudan
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 10, 2008 11:20 pm PT
Review:  MGS4 is an impressive game. the graphics are stunning and the stealth-action gameplay is almost 
 perfect. this is easily the best metal gear game from a gameplay standpoint... the over-the-shoulder 
 view is a vast improvement over perspectives used in previous metal gear solid games and the gun 
 play is fun and rewarding.
  
  where it starts to fall apart for me is the story. normally i might find myself berating a game's 
 lack of a narrative or underdeveloped plot... but MGS4 has the opposite problem... it doesn't know 
 when to stop. everything is so over the top and convoluted, twisted storylines cutting across multiple 
 games and twenty years of game development. there are important, relevant, gripping themes being 
 explored (war economies, nanotech) and yet the narrative dissolves into sheer silliness so frequently 
 that it undercuts what could be powerful and makes it merely interesting or curious.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Cloud_Tifa_seph
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 10, 2008 4:10 pm PT
Review:  Let me start by saying this-This game, was awesome. I'm gonna break this review into several parts.
 
  
  
  Overall Gameplay: This game had great over all gameplay with a few kinks. The controls were layed 
 out in a very intuitive fashion, my only problems being that sometimes going back and forth between 
 crouch and laying down, crouch and standing could end up being awkward. The weapon system was great, 
 also awkward at first, but easy to get used to (this also applied to items-holding R2 to switch 
 weapons, L2 for items) Like MGS3, the % Camo meter helped you stay stealthy, along with the new 
 and improved, self registering octocamo. 
  GRADE: 9.5
  
  Graphics: Not much to say here except that the developers did a great job with both ingame and 
 cutscene visuals. (NOTE: The flashbacks in the cutscenes were accessed by tapping 'x' rapidly when 
 prompted, and alternate views were accessed by holding L2) 
  GRADE: 9.0
  
  
  Story: The story of this game worked out great with the previous games. Having watched every cutscene 
 and reading several synopsises of previous games, I can easily say that the story elements of the 
 game sometimes got in the way of gameplay, but still were a major part of the game.
  GRADE: 9.0
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: aldocas
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 10, 2008 3:47 pm PT
Review:  MGS4, best of the series and most epic game in the PS3
  
  The metal gear solid sagas have been revolutionary and MGS4 was not an exception. I can say metal 
 gear solid 4 was the best of them!
  It keeps track with the old fashion metal gears but it adds perfectly the next generation concepts 
 creating the most solid game yet in the PS3.
  despite stunnig graphics and blockbuster action, metal gear keeps you on track with beautifully 
 cinematic and a twisting finale.
  
  overall this game has it all, every detail was developed with the most care posible, the customization 
 of wepons was fantastic, the action and the adventure was just right. The only bad thing is that 
 it ends whoever it had to for it to become a legend..
  
  I recommend this game to all types of gamers, this is one of the best games out there.
  EPIC!!! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: UnknownRandom
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 2, 2009 8:18 pm PT
Review:  right now i chose 2 review this game after killzone 2 came out for a reason
  at this point, there will be many people who refuse 2 say that MGS4 is the best game 4 the PS3 
 out there, but im going 2 explain why MGS4 is still the best after 10 months later
  
  let me start off with the game's PROBLEMS
  one problem that many people complain about is the 
 long cut scenes
  BUT i would have 2 disagree with those people
  MGS4 does have very long cutscenes, but what i believe is that some people overlook the fact that 
 THERE IS A "SKIP SCENE" OPTION!
  Hideo Kojima (metal gear solid creator) tried to tie up ALL loose ends in the MGS series 
  and 
 he tried doing this thru cutscenes
  another problem that people don't like is that the game has 2 install between acts
  well i personally 
 dont mind waiting 2 minutes 4 the game to install
  but i actually dont have an explanation 4 y konami did this
  but i guess they had 2 have a good 
 reason
  another problem that i find annoying is the color of the target in the middle of the screen (the 
 target that is used 2 aim with)
  depending where u point that thing, bcuz of its color, it might b hard 2 see
  this generally 
 is not that bad in single player mode, but in MGO there are a few maps that are nearly the same 
 color as the aiming target
  AND THE LAST PROBLEM to me is that the game felt a little short
  sure the entire story was explained, 
 but i believe more could have happened 2 old snake while he was in the middle east or in south 
 america
  there should have been more missions to do in the acts
  OR maybe konami should have invented a way that allows the player 2 just roam around the areas 
 of the game without affecting the story
  
  NOW FOR THE GOOD THINGS ABOUT MGS4
  OK, number one,............ the fact that konami answered all questions about the metal gear solid 
 series
  number two,........... the graphics
  before killzone 2 came out
  i strongly believe that MGS4 was the best looking game around
  and today is the second best
 
  number three,............. THE SOUND DESIGN!
  nowadays, people argue that Killzone 2 has better sound,
  but just by the first scene in MGS4
 
  it is possible 2 see that the sound is excellent
  u can even pinpoint enemy locations just by hearing where enemy sound is coming from
  which means 
 your ears become just as important as your eyes
  number four,............. the action or stealth option
  never before has a game offered this many 
 styles of fighting
  they have an excellent stealth system AND the action is perfect as well
  the enemy A. I. is very 
 smart in MGS4 but i think killzone 2 might have a SLIGHTLY better A. I.
  and if u prefer sneaking, factors like sound, visual contact, and even scent needs 2 be carefully 
 monitored as these might ensure your hidden statis
  number five,............... THE AIMING
  to aim in this game is as easy as breathing
  the aiming is very fluid and easy 2 control
  and 
 bcuz the aiming is so good, u can score headshots from a huge distance bcuz the nice aiming helps 
 u make tiny adjustments 2 hit targets from a distance
  number six,.............. MGS4 is one of the handfull of games that gamespot gave a perfect 10
 
  number seven,............. THE ONLINE MULTIPLAYER!
  this game has a handfull of amazing features
  and only a few problems
  BUT ill review MGO seperately 
 since people consider MGS4 and MGO 2 b different games
  WELL thats all that i have 2 say about MGS4
  dont 4get 2 check MGO reviews too
  and look 4 
 me
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: hardvectorman
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 9, 2008 6:04 pm PT
Review:  If you did not to get a PS3 let me tell you MG-S4 is the reason to spend the money for a system. 
 It is my opinion this is the best game on the PS3. I think the game is little to short for my taste. 
 But it is still a great game. I really like the control system for the game it give a lot by letting 
 you play instead of lot of command task. The graphics or great to best looking game on the PS3. 
 In my opinion this game is a perfect 10 on the score charts. I know there are longer game out there 
 but none as good Metal Gear Solid 4 So don't wait around go out and pick it up and have the time 
 of your life. Also if you have a good flat screen TV that when you will see the power of the PS3 
 not many games out there has really push the system to the limit yet but this game does. One more 
 thing i think when the new maps are added to online part of the game it will shine even more than 
 it does now. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: realjay
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 9, 2008 12:19 am PT
Review:  I have been playing metal gear since the first one. I was hooked from the beginning. This metal gear 
 gave me personaly the same classic feel as the others but a different feel, where it felt like i 
 was playing something different. I loved it. To the graphics, the gamplay and espically the story 
 line. Metal gear once again hooked me in and kept me in. The story put me in tears at times. After 
 twist after twist it kept me hooked. From beginning to end the intersting and long followed story 
 line deliverd. This game was great and anyone who misses it ,is missing out.... thank hideo kojima..... An 
 i really hope others enjoyed like i did. Metal gear was more then a game it was an epic tale. THAT 
 FEELS LIKE YOUR RIGHT THERE. I have beatin all the metal gears and by all means this one is the 
 best. I was not disapointed at all. It was great and like i said not just a game an  
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: halokila
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 7, 2008 11:12 pm PT
Review:  first of all, WOW. Ya, so i got this game included with my ps3 and wasn't expecting anything big 
 when i opened it up. What a dumnut i felt like when i actually got to playing it. lol. So Ya, when 
 i get to the first cinamtic "movie", my jaw just dropped at how real this game looked. Consider 
 that i haven't played any other MGS game except this one. I know im probably missing out but i 
 might get that pack with all three. Most importantly, the gameplay. i was so immersed with the 
 whole "stealth" concept. I just had to finish this game. After 28 hours, i looked at every nook 
 and cranny every level had, i came to the terrific ending, which in my opinion has to be one of 
 the best, if not THE best, ending in a game i have ever seen. just remember, if you got a ps3, 
 this is a MUST OWn!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mido321
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 7, 2008 8:57 pm PT
Review:  this is like one of the best games of all time... i played Metal Gear Solid games from. the original 
 PlayStation one... and i fell in love whit the whole espionage.. There is allot of gun's to use... 
 and i love fighting the boss is in all the game.. but the bast boss fight wold haw to be from original 
 Metal Gear Solid... Using the SVD to kill Wolff... I like the Crying Wolff fight ing mgs4.. It's 
 not to hard to kill her.. but i had allot of fun looking for her in the snow... using the night 
 vision... the finial fight was good to just because of the time songs from all the Metal Gear games..
 
  
  Metal Gear Solid
  Metal Gear Solid 2
  Metal Gear Solid 3 snake eater 
  Metal Gear Solid 4 Guns of the Patriots 
 I do recommend buying Metal Gear Solid 3 Subsistence 
 it comes whit two discs one of them is online but the server is offline... But you get to play the 
 original MGS from Nintendo the original Nintendo.....@@!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mezzo20
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 7, 2008 8:51 pm PT
Review:  Let me get straight to the point.
  
  I recently just beat MGS4 for the first time, to put it simply: it was **** amazing. Spectacular. 
 Breath takingly awesome. Pretty nearly perfect, if there were ever perfect games. **** GTA4, I 
 don't understand why so many ppl enjoyed it, MGS4 was a hell lot more entertaining for me.
  
  See, Gameplay wise, I understood why some people stayed away from the MGS series in the past, 
 they didn't have the patience to sneak around and stay hidden, what I love about MGS4 is that they've 
 really taken that out. You can basically beat the whole game without sneaking around, and I really 
 dig that. You can fight alongside the Mercenaries, you'll need to sneak through some areas, but 
 nowhere near as much as before. I also like the new weapon implementation system they've added, 
 I like how you can customize any of the weapons you like (ex. adding a shotgun or grenade launcher 
 to your M16) .
  
  I also like how everything is cut up into "Acts", the level system is also different and I liked 
 where they went with it. Visually, I haven't seen a better game. The levels look amazing, down 
 to the tiniest detail. The faces of the characters are amazingly rendered and the way (Old) Snake 
 moves around is great.
  
  Now I understand why some people might be turned off from this game, the story is over the top 
 and can be confusing for some people who haven't followed the Metal Gear series. From the 4 Beauties 
 down to Liquid Snake possessing Ocelots body, its crazy, but thats why I love the game series and 
 Hideo Kojima. He's pretty ballsy.
  
  Oh and the cutscenes aren't THAT long. That was exaggerated about this game, I don't mind sitting 
 through 40 minutes (max) of a story line, if you like the game, you'll enjoy the cut scenes. Out 
 of 16 hours of gameplay, there's about 3 hours of cutscenes? That still makes the game longer than 
 most games out there.
  
  My only real complaint about this game is that its not long enough, but thats always my complaint 
 with most games these days. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: marvel93
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 7, 2008 4:03 pm PT
Review:  this is the best metal gear solid game in the series well thats what i personlly believe
  the graphics and gameplay are reveloutionary and definatly beat any other ps3 game and many xbox 
 360 games out yet and probably most of the ones coming out soon aswell, the game has great replay 
 value with the difficulties and the medals to unlock
  and also the online gameplay is addictive aswell the metal gear online community is great and all 
 the and all the maps were well thought out for the game
  
  also the story line was excellent and gave a great series the well deserved ending the metal gear 
 solid series needed. the stories great characters and personalities gave you a great connection 
 to the characters, which created a better storyline
  
  it is also the only game i know that can use the same bosses for every game and still create a 
 surprise for the player all the time 
::::::

::::::
UserName: HarenWrightJosh
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 7, 2008 3:26 pm PT
Review:  To start I really can't compare this game to any other ps3 games because this is the first game 
 I bought and the only one so I own up to date (i got my ps3 two weeks ago) ... but i can tell you 
 this, it oneof the best games ever!! Up to know my favorite games were CALL OF DUTY 3 and JAMES 
 BOND EVERYTHING OR NOTHING FOR PS2 and a lot of you may think what?!?! Everything or Nothing!?!?! 
 C'MON!!?!? but that's just me. ANYWAY BACK TO THE GAME. THE gRAPHICS LOOK EXTREMELY WELL AND THE 
 GAMEPLAY WAS AMAZING, I FELT LIKE I WAS PLAYING A MOVIE BECAUSE THE STORY WAS SO GREAT. HEN I SAW 
 THE REVIEWS ALL PERFECT, ESPECIALLY IN GAMESPOT, I though t it was exageration but it's not. I for 
 one like ACTION ADVENTURE GAMES TO BE THIRD PERSON BUT THE GAME HAS THE CHOICE FOR FPS MODE FOR 
 ALL OF YOU FIRST PERSON LOVERS OUT THERE AND I KNOW THERE A LOT. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dark_sageX
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 21, 2008 1:54 pm PT
Review:  Finally, video game genius Hideo Kojima brings us his final master piece in the form of Metal Gear 
 Solid 4.
  The game is definitely everything we all had been hoping for, incredible story, intense combat, 
 interesting new features and will overall be enough to get you to buy a PS3.
  
  Story: It is the year 2014, the world economy is in shambles and with current military strategies 
 many organisations will soon face an economical crisis, that was when PMCs (Private Military Companies) 
 were introduced.
  Not only has PMC provided for cost saving military strength but with the aid of the next generation 
 nanomachinse PMC soldiers are far more capable than regular soldiers in the military and on top 
 of which the nanomachines can help keep the soldiers under complete control thanks to the ID control 
 systems installed in every nanomachine, which were secretly controlled by the Patriots. 
  Many countries have applied for PMCs that they effectively replaced regular military power.
  
 Liquid, who escaped from the big shell 5 years ago incident went into hiding but was finally found 
 in east Malaysia, planning a world insurrection by controlling all PMCs in order to start his war 
 against the patriots.
  With the world practically under the control of PMCs Solid Snake, who now suffers from rapid aging 
 due to the Foxdie implanted in him during the shadow moses incident, seems to be the only one capable 
 of stopping Liquid.
  With the help of Campbell and Otocon Snake once again sneaks into the battlefield to seek and assassinate 
 Liquid in order to save the world and once and for all rid the world from the Patriots.
  
  Game design: The story in MGS4 is incredibly deep with plenty of cut scenes, codec conversations, 
 twists and full of surprises so you can put all doubts to ease.
  Cut scenes are very long but thankfully you can choose to pause it among skipping it.
  Graphic 
 wise the game is incredibly detailed with fantastic character models, animations and effects, though 
 you will need to wait for around 30minutes for the game to install but after that you will enjoy 
 a smooth experience that will make you happy you own a PS3.
  Like every MGS before it you will be sneaking around places, as well as looking around for all 
 sorts of goodies, except that you will be sneaking in active battlefields.
  Local militaries and PMCs will constantly be fighting one another and if either of them find you, 
 you will have a hard time escaping as they are relentless and have incredible AI and will hunt 
 you down for a while.
  Apart from the main story there are other content you can look forward to, among them being Metal 
 Gear Online and other sweet features.
  
  Game play: You will play as Solid Snake (or now referred as Old Snake) , you will be sneaking through 
 red zone battlefields.
  As Snake you will be able to crawl, crouch, roll and perform CQC among many other techniques. 
 
  Because of ID control Snake won't be able to freely use weapons procured but that problem can 
 be solved early in the game, further details may spoil plot.
  Because there are so many explosions and enemies to avoid sneaking is almost impossible, thankfully 
 Otocon developed the Ocotocamo system.
  Like the camouflage system in MGS3, Snake's Octocamo can blend him with his surrounding environment, 
 making him nearly undetectable, difference being that the Octocamo can automatically adjust to 
 every environment and you won't have to go to the menu to switch between different camos (though 
 that option is also available on the menu screen) . Otocon will also provide you with 2 other main 
 features. 
  One which is the Solid eye, the Solid eye has 3 visual modes, a night vision mode, a scope mode 
 and a radar mode, each of these will come in handy when checking around for enemies.
  The other feature is a brand new mini bipedal robot called Metal Gear mkII. 
  The mkII comes 
 equipped with its own camouflage and can be used to conduct recognisance as well as knock out enemies 
 ahead.
  I would really like to talk about other features but that would risk spoiling the game's plot so 
 to sum it up the game play mechanics is very deep and satisfying.
  
  Sound: Voice actors return from previous games for the last time in this final chapter and they 
 couldn't perform any better, the dialogues are also well written.
  Sound effects are great and the sound track is simply awesome to listen to.
  
  Metal Gear Solid 
 4 is truly an epic game and is a game worth getting a PS3 for, the graphics are incredible, the 
 game play is fun, the story is crazy innovative and is overall a satisfying ending to the series, 
 however there were a few minor things that can be bothersome.
  While the radar can give you an idea of enemy location they are not accurate and can make it questionable 
 as to why they didn't include radars like they did in MGS1 and MGS2, MGS3 was an exception since 
 it took place in the 60s but sine the game takes place in the year 2014 a detailed radar should 
 have been expected.
  The bosses also seem way too over powered, for most of them around 3 to 4 hits will enough to kill 
 you, and that's just in the normal difficulty setting.
  While story telling is great cutscenes are far too long, its a good thing you can pause or skip 
 them.
  
  Frankly speaking MGS4 may be a dream game for fans but as for beginners it is not really a great 
 motivator and can seem incredibly frustrating.
  Fans who have waited for this game will certainly love everything about it, others will need time 
 (and I mean lots and lots of time) to get adjusted.
  Metal Gear Solid 4 is truly Hideo Kojima's finest work and deserves the best of recognition.
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gocrunks
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 7, 2008 12:15 pm PT
Review:  This game lived up to expectations and more. It's above a ten personally. Hideo Kojima made an 
 epic and this game ended the series incredibly. It's inclusions, gameplay, secrets, graphics, and 
 just about all of its other components were excellent. Not only is it a definite for game libraries 
 and collections, but a must play. If you can't play it, watch it played well. Look up a video of 
 it being played all the way through and watch what I mean. The dynamic bosses and surprise appearance 
 of a less focused on character from the first METAL GEAR SOLID game, but not forgotten once you 
 see him was wonderful. Some of the enemies proved to be annoying from time to time, but they weren't 
 problems as to they couldn't be beaten or that they were difficult to beat, just annoying from 
 time to time. And Raiden was exceptional in the game. He proved to be a magnificent ally and characters 
 in this one. Much better than in the previous game he was in. And the appearance of a very well 
 known and remembered boss from the first game was also pretty hilarious, consider what happens 
 involving him. The game overall was beyond incredible. An epic. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: the_mighty_boos
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 7, 2008 9:09 am PT
Review:  MGS4 is one of the most entertaining, engrossing and detailed games I have ever played. From the 
 realistic and awe-inspiring graphics to the crazy but perfect storyline, MGS4 impresses on every 
 level. There are only a couple of faults with this superb game, and I shall list those now...
 
  Firstly, it isnt the longest game in the world. It has 5 chapters, all of which take place in 
 different environments and each take roughly 2-3 hours to beat if you dont rush (not including 
 cinematics) . 10 hours doesnt seem too short, but because the game is so enjoyable it will seem 
 like it was over much too quickly (this is rectified however by the huge amount of replayability 
 and things to do that you will have missed the first time round, so dont worry too much) .
  Secondly, there are a few reoccuring install phases that happen every time you start a new chapter. 
 These dont take too long, and the first time you get one you will be quite amused, but soon they 
 become a bit of an annoyance.
  So those are this games faults out of the way. Thats right, MGS4 only has 2 faults and they are 
 pretty small ones. Of course I am quite an MGS fan, so my opinion might be slightly biased. For 
 example people might not like the lengthy cinematics, but I personally thought all of them were 
 exciting and well directed. Some people may also find the story to be, well, rubbish, but I think 
 its perfect MGS brilliance, and it ties up all the loose ends that previous games have left undone.
 
  There are so many wonderful things about this game that it would take me too long to list them 
 all. The gameplay is mastered to an almost worrying degree, the music and sound effects are memorable 
 and emotional, the graphics are sharp and stylish, the online mode is a brilliant game in itself, 
 and the little details that you will discover throughout the many hours spent on this game will 
 astound you every time.
  If you are an MGS fan, then you already know this game is essential. Go buy it. If youre not, then 
 you are seriously missing out as this is most probably the best game ever made. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: computer111
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 7, 2008 9:10 am PT
Review:  Snakes Final Mission... If The Amazing Graphics Dont Get You Then Surely The Absolutely Defined 
 Story And Plot Will. With It Immense Action This Game Really Is A Salut To Kojima Himself. This 
 Game Deserves Every Good Point With Long Hours of Gameplay... As An Addition, Online Mode Will 
 Bring Out The True Snake In you... Extreme Combat Situations Require Teamwork Leaving You Au struck 
 From The Experience. Story Mode Is Just Amazing With Tonnes Of Bosses And Many Facial Masks Connected 
 to Motion Changing "Camo". In My Opinion, I Have Never Been An MGS Fan Until After This Experience 
 Making Me Want There To Be MGS5 Although Main Character Might Be Akiba Stunning Sound Tracks Match 
 The Setting OF the Story Making It A True Masterpiece. The Best Part Of The Story Is That It Fits 
 In With Previous MGS Titles From Which I Researched, With Over 80 Customisable Weapons And Online 
 Character Design What More Could You Ask for? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AtillaTheHun
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 9, 2008 1:45 pm PT
Review:  When i first seen this coming out for the PS3 i was amazed that but abit sad since this is the 
 Last Metal Gear Solid episode.
  
  In my belief, Kojima has done a great job with this game and the rest of the MGS's, this is the 
 best game known to man!
  
  Their is so much detail into the game it self - the people look so realistic.
  
  The story 
 of this game is really quite a twist, very dodgy as many would say, but its good to see it for 
 your self.
  
  If your 1 of the people who love the Metal Gear Solid system - story - game play - weapons, ETC 
 then this is 1 of the games for you!
  
  But i will say the story isn't as long as it was on MGS 3 Snake Eater! or even MGS 1
  
  The 
 multiplayer on this game is crazy! though its really fun and enjoyable.
  
  MGS is such a great game, just completing it will give you that deep pang in your heart if you 
 have been through the main series - MGS 1-2-3 and now 4
  
  Its almost heart breaking many people haven't understood this game very good, play it, complete 
 it and sell it -.-
  
  Just so everyone knows - You Cannot be Raiden nor use a ninja sword -.-
  
  Though apart from 
 Some of the annoying things like cardboard boxes blocking your way or something like that, its 
 a great game.
  
  The scenes have mixed emotions as you would expect from an MGS series, some can get really upsetting, 
 others are funny, joyful and happy and some times pressuring but all emotions make the game even 
 better as if it were real.
  
  The best game in the world, the best scenes in the world the best gameplay and a great story line.
 
  
  Thank you kojima! for making another great game, nothing can beat this game in my views
  
  Gameplay - 10
  
  Story - 10
  
  Scenes - 10
  
  Graphics - 10
  
  Actors and sound 
 - 10
  
  I recommend this game to every single person on the earth!
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: robotb95
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 6, 2008 12:08 pm PT
Review:  First things first this game is very emotional. The end of the game nearly brought me to tears. 
 It accurately pictures what war can do to your life and how it will make a lot of impact in your 
 life. The very first thing you'll notice in the game is that there is awkwardly long cut scenes 
 this is very frustrating although you are given the option to skip them. In metal gear solid 4 
 you get a wide series of guns from the handgun to the RPG not to mention you may customize them 
 by putting the usual laser sight and other little gadgets. In the end you end up with a brilliant 
 game, awesome graphics and finally none of your precious time wasted. However Snake, our legendary 
 friend, has a problem on his hand. he has a super rare disease which has accelerated his ageing 
 on the other hand whilst he has to find a cure he also has to assassinate his old nemesis Liquid. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hajjjustin
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 6, 2008 10:46 am PT
Review:  MSG4 is the last installment of the MSG series. This game features all the charaters from the last 
 3 installments Plus a few new charactures.
  
  To start off i must say this game gave me a reason to blow the dust off my PS3 and play it for 
 once its one of the only exclusive titles fo the PS3 thats worth the time to play i might even 
 give it game of the year if not it would at least get best PS3 Game and thats not Cause im a MSG 
 fanboy i have never played any of the MSG titles before this one. 
  
  This game keeps ture to is classic duck and hide nature but at the same time also gives you the 
 option to play it as a FSP durring parts of the game, there is parts were you cant do this thought. 
 at the end few chanpers in the game it become harder and harder to play this game like call of 
 duty or halo and you have to run and hide or you will die. But the Drebin system is what gives 
 you this option. to buy amo and customise Guns make this game a step above the older game. and 
 gives you the option to play the game both ways. the older titles you could not hold you guns and 
 when you ran out of shells you droped your gun and stole another. some people might not like the 
 new way its played but im a big FSP fan and a Sneek and hide fan so i like to have the option to 
 do both. the game play was great not buggie at all, aming was tight and the killing was just fun.
 
  
  The sotry in this game was great one of the best iv seen this year a little over my head due to 
 the fact i did not play the other titles but i got throught it. the bosses were great and the music 
 durring them really made the fight even better. the characters were great Riden was cool as hell 
 and made half the game with his fighting.
  
  Alot of people were unhappy about the cut scenes being so long but i though that was the best part 
 i couldent wait till the next cut scene. the Riden cut scene was my fave. and let just be frank 
 snake is cool as hell old or young he is one of the cools main characters to be played in games 
 this year. the graphics were great the music was ok.
  
  This game also a Online multiplyer witch is ok but people are a little to intense on it ill stick 
 to COD Halo and GOW
  
  All in all this game is great best game iv played all year at least for PS3
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: goatheadman1
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 5, 2008 2:18 pm PT
Review:  Beleive it or not Mgs4 was the 1st MGS game I've ever played in the seies, so i had my doubts but 
 I heard it was good so I got it at Gamestop for $55 (used) . When i started playing it I must say 
 it kinda sucked, I thought the intro was kinda lame, but his speach was good. This game really 
 starts to take off about 3-4hrs in. Thats when youve got all the cool gear, wepons and some other 
 things that dont come to mind. As far as the story goes, it probly has one of the best story line 
 ever made right next to the final fantasys and Forced Unleased. But the cutsceans can kinda get 
 a little long, like up to 2 hours little long. So i recemend buying MGS4 if you havent already. 
 Pros: Great Graphics-Flawless Story-Original Gameplay-worth the money-theres more but you get the 
 picture, PLAY IT!
  Cons: AI can seem a little half wit sometimes-its leaves you wanting more in the end-somethimes 
 the chars act a bit overly dramatic. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Seerforsale
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 5, 2008 1:42 pm PT
Review:  Metal gear solid 4 shattered all my expectations of a video game. Sticking true to the games Stealth, 
 But also allowing the player to get right in the action and shoot some @#&holes. The cinematics 
 just left me in pure awe. I never wanted to watch cinematics but, Wow. IT just amazed me. The storyline 
 of the game is just flawless and the game-play repetitive but brings a satisfaction and it's entertaining.
 
  --------------------------
  PROS
  Amazing cinemetics,
  God like story line.
  Fun gameplay.
  Great.. AND I MEAN GREAT SOUND TRACK. (Great enough to buy the SE just for the 
 sound track.)
  Amazing graphics,
  A great but needed change to the MGS series.
  It dissed xbox 360 lawl.
  --------------------------
  CONS
  A little on the shortside. About 
 a day worth of play.
  --------------------------
  Metal gear solid online pros and cons
  -------------------------------------
  Pro's
  Great level of character customization.
  Increases 
 game length,
  Great way to meet new players on PSN
  -------------------------------------
  CONS Time for nit picking.
  High skilled players join 
 beginner servers to get bonus point so there is no real way to get better since you get ****ed 
 up the *** and end up alone and being killed by 2 guys continually.
  -------------------------------------
  That was about it, So this is a great game. No, The best 
 game. Go buy it now. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Quad-rider101
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 4, 2008 10:07 am PT
Review:  Okay, this is the big one. Up until MGS 4's release, this was the sole reason for the PS3's existence. 
 Did Konami's Hideo Kojima make it worth the five year wait and reward its audience with something 
 that could possibly revolutionize games as we know it?
  
  Yes and No.
  
  ?
  
  !
  
  MGS 4 is a dazzling spectacle to show off to all of your friends the graphical power of the 
 PS3. The luster of the opening level and Shadow Moses along with super tight controls are enough 
 to justify the experience this game has to offer. But beyond that, this game falls short in a lot 
 of areas.
  
  1) Cutscenes. I know this may make a lot people mad, but the cutscenes take sooooo long to watch 
 and they make up a huge chunk (6/8 of actual game progression) of the game. Kojima should of come 
 up with some way of not letting the game get bogged down in its own story. Sadly, he did just the 
 opposite and it's the gaming experience that suffers the most.
  
  2) Levels. Theirs only five of them and you had better get the most out of each one. I only enjoyed 
 two out of the five and found the rest almost irrelevant in regards to entertainment.
  
  3) Gameplay. When you actually try and sneak around enemies, the game becomes near impossible to 
 avoid guards and sentries. Soldiers appear to be gifted in the 5 senses God gave them and have 
 no difficulty spotting you. On the other hand, the controls work so well that if you chose to be 
 aggressive with a weapon, you won't have any problem making ground to your objective. But that's 
 the problem. The gameplay lacks balance because one approach works super well and the other approach 
 feels almost un-doable. On a final note, unless you just love the abuse of collecting pointless 
 Easter eggs through replaying a game over and over and over, this game lacks re playability.
  
  So, is it worth the sixty dollars? Well, sometimes the game feels flawless and deserving of 
 our cash, but these special moments are (sadly) few and far between. Rent it and see for yourself, 
 but be hesitant if you're thinking about dropping the coin to own it because the game won't take 
 your money very far. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jcjunky25
Rating: 6
Date: Oct 4, 2008 9:31 am PT
Review:  I'm shocked that this game is getting such high ratings. I think everyone is blinded by the reflection 
 of light coming from Snake's shiny, polished, 60 year old butt cheeks (which you have no choice 
 but to stare at when playing in 3rd person) .
  
  When I bought this game and booted it up, I was soooo excited. SIX HOURS LATER.... I was like "what 
 is going on." This is the slowest, most boring game I have played in a long time. But I decided 
 to suck it up and keep playing, even though I was disgusted I paid 60 bucks for a game that was 
 hardly entertaining after the first 6 hours.
  
  Bullet sounds are constantly flying from everywhere, anywhere, and nowhere. But in most good military 
 games a bullet wizzes past you (in surround sound) and you turn to the direction it came from to 
 see whose shooting at you. Not this game. Bullet sounds are just an ambient effect to make you 
 think you're in some kinda battle. No one in windows, no one flanking you, and sometimes no one 
 anywhere.
  
  So I decided to check out this battle that's going on. The AI soldiers are just standing in the 
 road facing each other (almost civil war style) and wasting clips. So I kill one and a replacement 
 soldier comes out of a building and takes the exact spot of the dead soldier. So I kill him too.... 
 same thing happens (where do they come from?... probably the same unknown place that all the wizzing 
 bullets are coming from) . This will repeat with countless enemies that are situated throughout 
 levels as obstacles, or atmospheric content. Though I must mention this doesn't happen with enemies 
 in your immediate path of progression. If you kill them, they're dead.
  
  What's with the cloaked robot following you around? With that type of technology, what's the point 
 in having Snake do anything? The little robot could just cloak, travel around, and kill, or sabotage, 
 or whatever.
  
  I don't hate this game. But for a premier game, with history and lots of hype, I think they could 
 have done much better.
  
  The graphics are great (not the best) , but the gameplay doesn't seem upgraded to a next-gen military 
 espionage experience.
  
  The cinematic content of the game is good. I think good games can survive without cinematics, but 
 they are a big part of this production by Konami.
  
  I think if you are a die hard Metal Gear fan than you may be able to enjoy this game. Otherwise 
 rent it, so you don't waste the cash.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: BioSoldier3
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 3, 2008 7:05 pm PT
Review:  Single player
  This game SHOULD ONLY BE BOUGHT FOR THE SINGLE PLAYER. The game is fun many times but becomes repetitive. 
 The boss fights are very easy and all you do is shoot them. They rarely will be able to hit you. 
 I personally liked the missions with people. The has way too many machines in it. It makes the 
 game feel VERY fake. It's always the same sneak by someone. I have sneaked whole levels without 
 being seen. The octocam (camouflages with anything) makes it too easy. A couple of missions were 
 good including ones where you follow someone. That was very fun. There are way too many cutscenses 
 and gets annoying after a while.
  Multiplayer
  MULTIPLAYER IS HORRIBLE. One of the worst I have ever played. The only way to kill someone is by 
 shooting in the head. If you don't the other people will kill you easy. The reason is the health 
 bar is HUGE. Learning curve for multiplayer is big. Many will kill you easy. Also everyone uses 
 only two types of guns. Snipers and assualts. It's boring because everyone is using the same gun.
 
  
  Overall
  Single player was fun but it is boring at the end. Multiplayer is not worth buying the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: leepub
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 3, 2008 4:47 pm PT
Review:  I am a long time metal gear fan, loved Snake eater. MGS4 is overrated however. It tries to be too 
 much of something else and not enough of the metal gear. I'd rather play snake eater over again. 
 And oh lord, Dr. H is a little annoying wuzz! I wish I could have shot him! The other let down 
 are the boss fights... they are way too easy! What a disaapointment. Still it was a very entertaining 
 experience, and some levels DOES feel like MGS (loved the trackng mission) but I expecgted more 
 overall. The addition of the Mk. II also makes things TOO easy... feels like Sam Fisher, not Snake. 
 And what's up with the background music, it sounds like it is borrowed from Call Of Duty 4. It 
 almost seems like Kojima tried too much to please the non-stealth people and I think in the process 
 MGS lost alot of it's charm and unique experience. The other MGS games left lasting memories, not 
 this one Im afraid. It did not feel like MGS for me, sorry guys. 
  
  PROS:, Graphics, Sound, upgrades, weapons, MGS humour
  
  CON: not enought of Metal Gear, too 
 much of other things, too predictible boss fights, Howe is an annoying little dork! I wanted to 
 kill him in the game! It was like: SHUT YOUR FACE AND BE A MAN!... the Mk. 2 makes things too easy 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: aDhAmMe13
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 3, 2008 5:30 am PT
Review:  The Good:
  
  -Very solid core game-play -Lengthy single-player mode -Lots of routes to check out -Lots of awards 
 and challenges that will keep you busy for weeks if not months -Probably best visuals ever -Beyond 
 terrific voice-acting. -Sharp and stable online -Thrilling cinematic experience
  
  The Bad:
  
  -Often unstable shadowing
  
  --INTRO --
  
  Well at first, I was seriously 
 skeptical about Metal Gear Solid 4. I barely knew anything about it considering I didn't play a 
 single game from the Metal Gear series before Guns of the Patriots. My final resolution was not 
 to buy it. Wasn't going to, till it came to me by luck.
  
  MGS4 is one of those games you will never want to leave and will want to play from years to come. 
 Its story, the part I was most doubtful about, keeps a person hypnotised to his/her screen till 
 the very end. It has gorgeous visuals, terrific voice-acting and sound effects, and best of all, 
 some of the most impressive an substantial game-play I have ever seen.
  
  --GRAPHIX --
  
  In this area, the game clearly stood-out above all. It has beautiful visuals that will also 
 drag you in whether in a cut-scene or just in the game-play. Everything is very well detailed and 
 very well designed. It looks stunning whether in standard or high definition. You might often see 
 a slight disturbance in the shadowing making it look unstable. But, I personally wouldn't mind. 
 Two thumbs up!
  
  10 / 10
  
  --AUDIO --
  
  Also here, the game surpassed all my expectations. The sound effects will make you feel the game 
 around. You will sense movement, clutter, rustling, shots, screams, and pretty much everything 
 you will find in a real battlefield. Also, the actors were well picked. Gathering them in the cut-scenes 
 makes for a thrilling story that will have you listening and looking for every little detail. So 
 in short, audiovisually, the game was above outstanding.
  
  10 / 10
  
  --Story line --
  
  As I mentioned before, the game has a tremendously amazing story line. Sure 
 it can often be too detailed, but in general, just right. The cinematics too make for a beautiful 
 story-line. In short the entire story line is told through cutscenes. Even though they can be skipped, 
 you would be missing out on A LOT of things. Even in some parts of the game-play, your knowledge 
 of the story would be vital for you to cross certain blocks or beat certain bosses. And also there 
 was a lot of hype on how the story was really confusing. To me it wasn't. Additionally, it is the 
 first Metal Gear game I play. So it shouldn't prove too much of a nuisance to new fans of the series.
 
  
  10 / 10
  
  --Game-play --
  
  Here the game was at its best. I said before about how the visuals "might" be the best ever. But 
 her, without doubt, MGS4 has the BEST game-play ever. There are just so many routes and tactics 
 to choose from. "Oh, two roads!" "Stealth or heavy fighting?" "Knocking out or just going past 
 him?" "Tranquilizing or killing him?" These are just some of the hundreds of questions asked by 
 gamers through out the entire game. A phrase from the GameSpot review says that it is often "too 
 linear." In fact, it isn't. The story definately is liner, considering it is a 21 year old series 
 that must end somewhere. But the game-play, is just simply non-linear. Also, you will see a ton 
 of game-play options to choose from. Maybe you're low on items. Why not stick up some soldier and 
 search him from anything useful? What if you're not sure what is up head? Try scouting the area 
 using the Mark II. Think you're too exposed? Blend in with OctoCamo or just play dead. You can't 
 find a particular enemy. Just use your Solid Eye and detect any of their heat emissions. Also, 
 you can act like a statue if you want. Think you want to move quickly? Use the drum can and roll 
 away. Be careful that he might vomit though. Also there are so many other things beyond these. 
 Also, the game will keep you busy for an average of around 15-30 hours offline. Also, think you 
 mastered it all? Try finishing it again in under 5 hours without raising a single alert! 
  
  10 / 10
  
  
  ***FINAL AVERGAE***: 10 / 10
  -----------------------------
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: QMaN_KiLLz
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 2, 2008 6:56 pm PT
Review:  This game was everything i expected and couldn't believe this game was possible. This i a reason 
 why someone should get a PS3. With Over 50 Gigs a Blueray Disc can hold, Making this impossible 
 on Xbox 360, Using less than 10 gigs on those HD DVD.
  
  Ok so there are 5 interactive acts that will have you playing this game for hours. The graphics 
 are awesome as well. This game is a must but for all PS3 owners so it can show you a sample of 
 what the PS3 can do.
  
  Multiplayer is also a must play. Even though a game through automatching takes a while to start, 
 its worth the wait. The online gameplay is slow but every game can't be fast play and all a like. 
 That's called having your own personality. So if you have a PS3 and haven't bought this game. What 
 are you Waiting for?
  
  This might be the last Metal Gear Solid game but it will be Remembered forever by gamers!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Goku_01
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 2, 2008 5:11 pm PT
Review:  In Metal Gear Solid 4, the player (Old Snake) must navigate the game world in order to progress, 
 using cunning in addition to traditional combat. It uses third person view with full camera manipulation, 
 but also allows the freedom to play in first-person mode, as well as an over the shoulder view 
 which can be switched from right shoulder to left for corner maneuvering. The Close Quarters Combat 
 system has been completely revamped. Several elements from previous titles return in modified forms. 
 Players can also use a new form of camouflage called "Octocamo," which replaces the camouflage 
 system featured in Metal Gear Solid 3. The normally dark-blue OctoCamo suit allows the wearer to 
 blend in with any surface within a few seconds. Players use the Sixaxis/DualShock 3 controller's 
 motion-sensing capability to reset the OctoCamo to its default colour. Snake later gains a facial 
 version of this technology, either enhancing the effect or allowing him to impersonate others. 
 A new monocular device called "Solid Eye" replaces the various binoculars and image intensifiers 
 from previous titles, and a steel drum complements the series' traditional cardboard box disguise. 
 It is able to deflect bullets, and can be rolled to knock enemy soldiers over, but can lead to 
 Snake being sick should the player roll around excessively.
  
  The game is filled with cut scene "flashbacks" (although they're not actually cut scenes, but still 
 photos of past events, locations, or characters) that reference what happened in previous Metal 
 Gear Solid games and how the events or characters relate to the setting of MGS4. Players are able 
 to choose whether to view these scenes by pressing the X button [O button in some countries] on 
 their controller when prompted (though there are some instances where there will not be a prompt) . 
 Players also have the choice of watching the Mission camera angles or exploring them with the Metal 
 Gear Mk. II/III.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: rholding2000
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 2, 2008 2:14 pm PT
Review:  Either Gamespot have taken a bribe or whoever gave this reviw IS just a fan boy. 
  
  First this game . . doesnt fall into that category. Its not a game, not really, yes you get to 
 do a few things but its more of a movie, the action or game is just the same old same old . . and 
 then do it again. 
  
  The controls are just way too complicted, thats just how i feel about this, you cant do anything 
 fast, which lets the online down masssivley (by the way the online is awful)
  
  Other than that all this game has is graphics which are pretty good but still not blowing me away, 
 id say gears leads in this area.
  
  I looked in shock at the 10 this game got . .GTAIV i can just about agree with, but not this, you 
 will play this maybe once , twice through . . play gta for like 3 years, halo you would play again 
 and again and the online doesnt end, cod, again brilliant . . these games didnt get 10 but are 
 by far better games
  
  definatley took a bribe to boost the ps3's sales or something, i do quite like the style of the 
 game . . but it aint a game (if you get me) . . and it aint worth 10. GS say you're kinda missing 
 the point if you dont like cut scenes, i know what they are saying... i think, but they are missing 
 the point i think
  ... all damn it dudes. 10 . .its not 10
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: CTXXXEDGE
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 2, 2008 12:25 pm PT
Review:  Metal Gear Solid 4.... been waitin since snake eater i had to get this game with the ps3 bundle 
 and leme tell you one thing, it was deff worth the 550 dollars i honestly havent even looked at 
 another game for ps3 cause this game is seriously all i need, if this game was 100 dollars it would 
 be worth every cent the scenes make story all together atleast an hour and 10 mins long so your 
 basically playing a really good god damn movie that wont let you put the controller down, if you 
 dont have a ps3, heres your reason why you should pick one up, plus the many games coming out for 
 it if you do have a ps3, and dont have MGS4 just throw that **** out you dont deserve it but if 
 your a fan of the MGS series prepare to be very upset at the end of the game as it is the last 
 one in the series featuring Hideo Kojima (the original creator) . this is deff one of the best looking 
 games i have seen to date, HDTV or no HDTV not even bioshock stands up to this game especially 
 if you have the HDMI cable or HD cables this game is absolitely gorgeus. As for online play its 
 basically the same multiplayer from Snake eater but with some modifications and alittle faster 
 but it's very fun and very competetive for those looking for that, and once again the game features 
 an amazing soundtrack by Harry Gregson-Williams, his third Metal Gear Solid soundtrack 
  
  
  Bottom line:
  
  BUY IT!!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: godek
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 2, 2008 9:18 am PT
Review:  
  Games today are lacking this next gen quality a few have it but some seem to lack it (Haze) ...
 
  
  Haze was a game which promised to beat halo it had hype we were told it had everything but we were 
 sadly mistaken, i like halo quite abit but i really prayed for this game to own halo but sadly 
 it failed. 
  
  Anyway Metal Gear Solid 4, If you played the previous games you would know how much this game meant 
 to the fans and how Hideo Kojima had to get this perfect. 
  
  This game is set a few years into the future from where mgs2 left off. 
  
  Liquid snakes brother 
 has become a powerful war lord and snake is once again hired to take down liquid. Which is perfect 
 beacuse it ties in with the rest of the metal gear solid games, and it gives you that sense of 
 satisfaction nad love for a game. 
  
  Many sites have given a metal gear a poor story but how can you give a game which has years of 
 experience leading to this climax finale, you have the cold war with big boss, you have outside 
 members joining in and creating an epic story which you would see in a hollywood blockbuster. 
 
  
  We are given games like halo where you got to stop this activation of rings in space. And aliens 
 are trying to activate them and you are a hero in a suit. It really is quite shocking.
  
  We also have old cast members appearing such as meryl snakes love in metal gear solid. Who is same 
 as ever "hard faced". But the character depth is much greater in this game than the predercessors 
 we are given more facts of the characters from were they have been since the last games and how 
 there life has changed ect. 
  
  Most games fail to add depth to their characters but focus on action, but metal gear solid does 
 deliver and incredible story combined with depth which hideo pulls of amazingly.
  
  We are also given new members to the metal gear franchise such as drebin the arms dealer and the 
 bosses for the game.
  
  Graphically this game is a benchmark for other games, from terrain, to characters the graphics 
 are superb. 
  One problem i do face though.... Do next gen graphics have to be water washed and look bland. Lets 
 take Gears of war and killzone, the games look grey, and xbox fan boys ive mentioned gears also 
 ok..... Is this the price for a perfect game i dont think so, but apart from that the graphics are 
 beautiful. 
  
  Metal Gear solid has always deliverd incredible boss battles which rack your brain in understanding 
 how to defeat the boss, like psycho mantis in metal gear solid truelly incredible fight. This game 
 offers the same feeling and satisfaction to the players. 
  
  The game is'nt like the others we have new stealth systems the (octo cam) which is a general snake 
 suit but changes colour to the surrounding environments also we can add masks to our characters 
 like metal gear solid 3. Such as bosses, snake from MGS1, Raiden and many others. 
  
  We are also offerd the ingame weapon customization which truelly changes metal gear solid. We are 
 given the chance to make and buy superb weapons. There are so many custimizations it is pretty 
 much endless.
  
  And you would think this is it but nope, we are also given free online play, well kind of online 
 you have to pay for more character slots but fine by me :)
  Online you can buy new equipment from psn and customize characters to liking. To me it is rather 
 a difficult online shooter you try putting mgs style game to a call of duty universe its hard but 
 not poor its still better than haze. 
  
  But for an overall product it is a must buy for ps3 owners and none owners go out and buy a ps3 
 for this is a must have for any serious gamer.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: commandermant
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 2, 2008 7:43 am PT
Review:  ok, basically this is the best game, seriously, ok, i have to admit, the cutscences are long! but 
 thats ok, because those cutscences are pure awesome. I am not a fanboy seriously, i give this game 
 a 9.7 cos of cutscences and some combat issues, 
  
  now, really i am sure all of you can see that xbox players invade ps3 forums to give bad comments 
 to our games, why? because they cant believe the fact that they don't have a game this good, now 
 i also know halo3 is good, yes its true, but the ending is 7 minutes, its so basic, the mgs 4 ending 
 feels so complete and makes you cry.
  
  so what the ending of halo 3 tells you master chief died or not, boo hoo for you, but thats it, 
 the true ending especially for a series is mgs 4 and i am sure all you xbox players will flame 
 me, why? because im right, 
  
  halo multiplayer is good and i like it, but thats because they had a headstart on it, MGO is actually 
 a very nice game. It is for sure that halo 3 sells more, because all the people who buy it are 
 mostly 10 year olds playing xbox live speaking like their high, swearing alot and doing stupid 
 things, but what the heck 
  
  sure halo sells more than us, but it comes with annoyance free and abundant, mgo is silent and 
 polite, because we are mostly nice people :) may or may not be true you decide. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zeonfollower
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 1, 2008 5:18 am PT
Review:  Metal Gear Solid 4 is an awe inspiring game all over the world. Hideo is the kind of man that a 
 story teller would be. Konami Japan is full of people of the A Team.
  The enemy, especially the Mantis Sister... they are a bunch of beauty's that you don't wanna face 
 in real life.
  Raiden, he's the cool Gray Fox version of Frank Jaeger with all the moves to kill for.
  Naomi, 
 still on a mission to save the mankind as well as Sunny the young genius.
  Otacon, still the crying man. He loss his sister Emma Emmerich because of that die hard nosferatu 
 wanna-be Vamp.
  And finally Snake, the macho and understanding yet funny kind a guy. A worthy hero that lives in 
 this century.
  And the flashback system is worth the look out and remember for.
  Ten thumb-up for Hideo and the gang!
  That's all from me.
  Long live anime. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sonic-36
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 30, 2008 3:54 pm PT
Review:  Metal Gear Solid 4 is the long awaited sequel in the franchise, and it is finally out. Metal Gear 
 Solid 4 has a good but confusing story, for those who are new to the series, download the database 
 add on because otherwise you will be clueless. The gameplay however is not too hard nor too easy. It 
 does not focus entirely on stealth gameplay, in other words you don't necessarily stealthy to succeed. 
 This is a game that lets you play anyway you want which is a big achievement in the franchise. 
 But I think the best thing about Metal Gear Solid 4 are the boss fights. The boss fights are the 
 best I have see in any video game. The boss fights actually let you use any weapon you want . What 
 is good about the boss fights is the way it plays with your mind. Especially in the screaming mantis 
 boss fight . The music is obviously incredible and has the same old metal gear solid theme music 
 as before. So in the end, metal gear solid 4 is an amazing game and surely a masterpiece and is a 
 definite must buy for metal gear solid fans and play station 3 owners. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Vomalities
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 30, 2008 12:59 pm PT
Review:  Before this game, the only Metal Gear game I've played was Metal Gear Solid... on which I gave 
 up on the second stage.
  
  This game uses similar mechanics, but isn't as stealth-heavy (except for one level, but you get 
 multiple tries) , can be enjoyed in many different various ways! It will tailor to your game style!
 
  
  If you're an in-your-face kill-em playing style, weapon customization freak, paranoid fool who 
 crawls way too much, or enjoy looking for secrets, this game has it all.
  
  The cinematic sequences are nothing short of epic and are always worth watching. It goes the extra 
 mile to briefly describe every setting and character if you're new to the series, and it mashes 
 them all well.
  
  You can enjoy it more than once, and get rewards for playing it in different styles.
  
  Get 
 this game, you won't regret it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bacon1999
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 21, 2009 2:17 pm PT
Review:  Metal Gear Solid four is The Gears of War for the Playstation three You'll Love This Game if You 
 like tactics Blood Gore and Brawl. Great Ending to a great series Bravo Konami Well Done to you 
 and your greatest creation metal gear solid for. Best Game On Ps3 Dont Be Jealous Because Your 
 mate has a 360 or wii, gloating ive got halo or brawl just say ive got the best game out period 
 and Thats is the truth. Highly Addictive and also has codes which let you dress as altair the main 
 character in assasins creed ! I could explain the story line but do not wish to ruin it for anyone 
 else.
  
  Character spaces=Metal gear is great! Metal gear is great! Metal gear is great! Metal gear is great! Metal 
 gear is great! Metal gear is great! Metal gear is great! Metal gear is great! Metal gear is great! Metal 
 gear is great! Metal gear is great! Metal gear is great! Metal gear is great! Metal gear is great! Metal 
 gear is great! Metal gear is great! Metal gear is great! Metal gear is great! Metal gear is great! Metal 
 gear is great! Metal gear is great! Metal gear is great! Metal gear is great! Metal gear is great! Metal 
 gear is great! Metal gear is great! Metal gear is great! Metal gear is great! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: haydar21101990
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 29, 2008 6:08 pm PT
Review:  
  Solid snake is back in this last part of the amazing franchise of Metal Gear Solid and this time 
 hideo kojima made a extraordinary effort to make this game looks the best with the use of full 
 double blue ray 50 gb and if you have HD TV then you qill get an experience you wont forget any 
 time soon... The story reaches the last chapter in which snake is getting older and start to lose 
 his power and his last mission is to track down liquid in middle east ,all metal gear characters 
 are back in one game with more dramtic storyline ,cinematic cutscenes and great voice acting too... The 
 gameplay is combintion of stealth as normal and alot moments of action because here you have 60 
 differet weapon to collect so its more action then any of metal gear previous parts... Its a great 
 ending for this amazig franchise and i really want this game to countinue so if you are a ps3 owner 
 dont miss this one... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xanxxx
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 4, 2008 3:54 am PT
Review:  I see a lot of people complaining about the large cut scenes within the game. Come on people it 
 is very interesting and enjoyable! If you skip the cinematic part then you are missing the whole 
 plot of the game. Unlike most of the people I do love the cinematic part of the game and in mgs4 
 the scenes are stunning especially the sound effects! The speeches of the characters are the most 
 realistic ever made on a video game and the story of the whole game can be a very successful if 
 someone puts it on a movie. The character models are so realistic, there is a large variety of 
 effects within the game. A HUGE collection of gadgets and something I didn't expect to be included 
 in this game; weapons customization!! Even though it was a short game I enjoyed it very much I 
 have actually finished it 3 times!! The visuals are superb and the frame rate is constant at all 
 the times and the game was superb in general. I hope the next one will last for longer.... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: criticfromhell
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 28, 2008 1:44 pm PT
Review:  I remember the day I bought my PS3. Four hundred bucks in tow, I went to Game Nut, where I subsequently 
 purchased my first PS3 game, the much awaited Metal Gear Solid 4: Guns of the Patriots. Having 
 been a huge nerd of MGS for quite some time, I was slightly skeptical as to how MGS would fare 
 on a next gen.
  
  Let me say, this game is the greatest game I've ever played. Here's the rundown:
  
  CONCEPT -- . 
 Finish off Snake's incredible story while improving just about everything in MGS.
  
  GRAPHICS -- . 10.0. From the animations to the details to the fact that in-game graphics double as 
 movie graphics, this game looks just too beautiful. You'll be stopping to admire all this.
  
  SOUND -- 10.0. The voice work is second to none, and the score is unbelievable. The sound of 
 war is more than real enough for you.
  
  PLAYABILITY -- 10.0. The shooting mechanics are tight and work great, and the stealth mechanics make 
 the end result feel so much more satisfying. The rare sequences where controls change are great 
 and don't overstay their welcome.
  
  ENTERTAINMENT -- 10.0. The game play will keep you playing, and the story will captivate you till 
 the very end.
  
  REPLAY VALUE -- High. Expect to start this up again when you beat it.
  
  Now that Snake's story is over, we'll have to wait to see where MGS goes from here. Until then, 
 this should be enough to keep us occupied. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cheokdoc
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 28, 2008 5:33 am PT
Review:  this is simply the most amazing game... its what all games aspire to be, a game that is brought 
 to life and makes the player feel he is in their world and cares for it
  
  was i the only one ridiculously bashing that triangle button? i mean i cared i really wanted snake 
 to keep going! 
  
  the soundtrack, the visuals, the way the story drew me in was just sublime. A soundtrack can really 
 make or break something (like lord of the rings whose score fit perfectly to the film)
  
  i've always played games for their storyline as it gave purpose to play the game. something to 
 achieve. and when you finally do, you're rewarded with a beautiful and dramatic ending that leaves 
 you feeling not only victorious but saddened at the same time.
  
  i've never played a metal gear game before this. i did have the chance to watch others though. 
 so i have to admit i was a little backwards on the story and it got slightly confusing but i still 
 felt the attachment and loss of every character
  
  i wish more games could be like this. a step above the mundane cross hair shooting random things 
 with the click of your mouse for no apparent reason. 
  
  MGS 4 is a realistic, mature and engaging experience that is for gamers who enjoy being their own 
 action hero and the feelings it brings with it.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Seritonin
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 27, 2008 8:24 pm PT
Review:  First of all, the graphics were amazing. And the controls were outstanding. Being able to aim and 
 move at the same time was invaluable. Also the camo was pretty sweet, albeit tricky in certain 
 situations. The levels were really cool. And I liked the old school level mixed in. The other thing 
 that was really cool, was being able to choose between a ton of different weapons, as well as being 
 able to customize almost all of those weapons with scopes, handles for support, and laser sights. 
 The laser sight and the handles are probably the most efficient upgrades in the game. (I would 
 use the M4, and a Sniper rifle if you're not worried about kills.) You could choose between stealthy 
 and run and gun methods of playing, each of which had their own risks and rewards. But the story 
 was weak. And some of the boss battles were a little dumb. I also did not like Kojima's moments 
 of comic relief. Like the Mk II, and the guy who crapped his pants. Overall, I think it was just 
 as good if not better than GTA IV. But one edge this has over GTA IV is that the emblems, and different 
 difficulties, give this game a huge replay value. I beat the game three times in the first month 
 of owning it. And if you're into that sort of thing, it has a decent online feature. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bioshockraptor
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 18, 2009 9:53 pm PT
Review:  Plus: The graphics are the best on a home console
  Minus: There are some loading times 
  Interesting: One of the cutscenes go for 90 minutes
  
  Metal Gear Solid 4: Guns of the Patriots 
 was meant to be released in 2007 but was delayed until 2008. It's a stealth action adventure, the 
 4th in it's series, not including the spin-offs. Abbreviated to MGS4, this game is said to be one 
 of the best video game in this generation, by critics and gamers alike.
  
  The story is probably the strongest and biggest part of MGS4. Most people say they won't buy this 
 game because 90% is cutscenes and 10% is gameplay. This isn't true, but when I was playing I was 
 wanting the cutscenes more than the gameplay, and not because of how bad the gameplay is, because 
 it's awesome and I'll talk about it later, but because the story is so epic, so brilliant it just 
 makes you want to sit down and watch it for the whole day. The game is set in the near future of 
 2014, and Solid Snake, the main character from most of the previous games, is going to do his final 
 mission. The world in engulfed in war, with the PMCs, aka Private Military Companies, mostly being 
 the bad guys. If you haven't finished or played most of the previous games before this one, then 
 you will get really, really lost. But that's not bad, because I never played a Metal Gear game 
 before. All I did was sit at the computer for 2 hours reading and filling in the gaps. So if you've 
 never played a Metal Gear game before it can get tricky but basically Solid Snake is a war guy, 
 who was cloned from this other war guy named Big Boss. It was for an experiment to try and make 
 some really strong super warrior. There were also two other clones from Big Boss, Solidus Snake, 
 and Liquid Snake, who are also war guys. Solidus died in a previous installment, while Liquid is 
 the main antagonist in MGS4. That's pretty much the basics that you need to know, but you will 
 definitely have to ask someone or read somewhere to fill the other bits out. Any way in this installment 
 Snake, now Old Snake due to rapid growth stuff from being a clone much like from Star Wars Episode 
 2: Attack of the Clones, has a mission is to assassinate Liquid, now called Liquid Ocelot. To make 
 things simple there was this guy called Revolver Ocelot who got his arm cut off, and Liquid had 
 been killed, but apparently they had a plan, so Ocelot got an arm transplant with Liquid's arm 
 and he possessed him. Weird, huh? So yes the story is very heavy handed with twists and bumps and 
 lots of funny Easter eggs. It's very big and dramatic and is a perfect ending to Solid Snakes last 
 mission.
  
  So as I already said you play Old Snake, trying to hunt down Liquid Ocelot. But there are more 
 characters than just them. You will most probably see all the characters from the previous games, 
 plus some new ones. You will fight alongside Meryl, you will see Raiden square off with Vamp, etc. 
 Each character is built perfectly. There facial expressions are realistic and they all have their 
 own special personalities. Snake has heaps of call gadgets, such as the Solid Eye which has night 
 vision, etc, the Metal Gear mk.2 which is a little scouting robot he controls, and the Octocamo 
 suit. That is probably the coolest one he has, which is when you stand up against a wall or lay 
 down on the ground for a few seconds his suit copies the environment that your pressed against, 
 making it more harder for the enemies to see if you're in a dark place or with rubble and obstacles 
 obviously they will notice you if you're in the middle of nowhere- which brings me to the next 
 awesome thing. The AI is incredible in this game. It's like Ubisoft failed on their AI plan with 
 hiding, etc, and then Hideo Kojima whipped it up and perfected them. With the enemies they're not 
 dumb, but they're not going to notice you if you play dead next to fallen bodies. It's really good 
 knowing that it's not going to be hard or easy. I think that the incredible AI makes the game's 
 difficulty not easier of not harder, just normal (well choosing the difficulty at the start of 
 the game has a role too) . So anyway there are these nanomachines that are in most peoples bodies, 
 such as the PMCs, which let them be controlled, etc. It's very interesting and cool to see all 
 the old characters, but still awesome to see the new ones.
  
  This is definitely a stealth action adventure game. You could play it through as a straight out 
 shooter, but that would be hard in some parts. MGS4 is more like Gears of War meets Splinter Cell 
 and Call of Duty 4. You can take a more stealthy approach and not kill anyone, until the bits where 
 you have to kill, which would be more fun then just straight out shooting everyone, which will 
 most probably get you killed. It's really fun, Snake has lots of weapons he can use, mostly guns, 
 and can upgrade them too. Near the start of the game he meets this gun launderer named Drebin. 
 Every time you collect a weapon on the battlefield and you've already got one it is automatically 
 sold for Drebin Points (DP) . You use the DP to buy new weapons, ammo and to upgrade your guns. 
 The upgrading is probably the best I've seen in a game, and the shooting is amazing too. You hold 
 down L1 to aim -3rd person view- and can tap triangle to go into first person. You can decide which 
 way to play which is the best bit about it. You can do CQC where you go up behind an enemy and 
 cut their throat, or use them as a human shield, etc. The mechanics are perfect in the gameplay. 
 Snake has a stress meter and psyche gauge you need to look after. The stress goes up (which is 
 bad) when Snake is in hot or awkward places, carrying heavy objects, and so on. The stress controls 
 the psyche which controls the health bar. If Snake is too stressed, then his psyche will be bad. 
 Loosing psyche means aiming the crosshairs will be hard, he will be less tolerant to damage, and 
 he won't recover very well. Obviously if his health bar drops to 0 then he will die, and you will 
 restart at the last checkpoint. I love this and I would say that a lot of hard work went into the 
 gameplay to keep it like the original games, but improve it and add new mechanics.
  
  I must say that the controls are all in the right position in this game. As I already mentioned, 
 aiming and firing is easy, but what about movement? So when you move around you can press x to 
 crouch, or hold it to lay down. You can also aim from laying down and crouching. When you near 
 a wall you can tap triangle to press against it. From there you can move sideways and look around 
 corners. Press it again to detach. There isn't a tutorial in the game, but there is in the instruction 
 manual. In the manual you get with the game it shows a comic, which is actually a tutorial. It's 
 well done but it could have been better if they added that into the game, or had a separate tutorial 
 level, but it's not bad. Just a little read should get you ready for this action packed game.
 
  
  When I say "this game has the best graphics on a home console game," I really mean it. The character 
 models are perfect and the animations are smooth and realistic. This is really what defines 'good 
 graphics.' When you're watching a cutscene and it's almost over, the HUD comes up with no transition, 
 it just kind of fades in and you're like it's amazing. The gameplay graphics are basically identical 
 to the cutscenes. This is a true masterpiece. All the cinematics are pre-rended and are just beautiful 
 to look at. It's definitely true: this game has the best graphics for a video game.
  
  One of the items you start off with is an iPod. Yes, an iPod. When you equip it you can listen 
 to songs, podcasts etc. The best bit about it is that it heals Snake's psyche gauge when you're 
 listening to it. It eases the tension when you listen to it, apparently, and you can unlock more 
 tunes throughout the game. Besides from the iPod, the music is awesome anyway. It feels right and 
 in place, the music builds the tension. It's perfect and entertaining to listen to. 
  
  Kojima didn't have to put in a multiplayer experience to make this game a masterpiece, but he did 
 and that's what Metal Gear Online (MGO) is. It uses the same controls and concept as the single 
 player campaign, but brings it online for players to battle it out in up to 16 players. Sadly there 
 is no local multiplayer, but the online is literally amazing. When you start off you create your 
 own character, including clothes and voice, and you also start off on level 0. You can go into 
 any match you like even if you're not a high enough level as them, but it would probably be unwise. 
 There are only about 5 maps to choose from, but there are expansion packs coming out, which make 
 it better but right now I'm talking about this particular game. There are plenty of fun game types 
 to choose from, such as Team Deathmatch and Capture the Flag. But there are also new ones exclusive 
 to MGO. There is a good one with two teams and one person is snake, and is fully equipped with 
 the Octocamo suit. One team must defend him, etc, while the other team needs to hunt him down. 
 While that's all going on the person playing as Snake needs to go around the battlefield and collect 
 these dog tags, and once they're all collected the game ends. My favourite one would have to be 
 the sneaking mission, where one team has a special suit that makes them invisible to the other 
 team, but the only weapon they get it a tranquilizer gun. The other team is fully visible but they 
 can choose any weapon, from Assault Rifle to Shotgun. Each team gets an advantage. You eventually 
 level up by beating people stronger than you. You also get 4 special abilities you get. There are 
 lots of them, such as running faster, stronger in sniping, etc, but you can only have 4 slots equipped. 
 You also level them up making it more stronger, and when you participate it official matches you 
 earn reward points on how well you did in battle. At the end of the match you can cash in those 
 reward points for items at the reward shop where you can buy new clothing and accessories. MGO 
 is played by many people as is a great thing to play after you've completed the story mission of 
 MGS4.
  
  The length of that story mission is actually fairly good. Depending on what difficulty you choose, 
 what style you play, what you do, etc, it will take you from 20 to 40 hours to complete. If it's 
 your first time playing through then it will probably take you 35+ but if it's your second or third 
 time through it will be more like 20+ because you won't need to upgrade your weapons as they're 
 already upgraded from your last play through. It's very long, even if you rush through and skip 
 cutscenes you will still get a fair bit from it, but if you take is seriously and slow then definitely 
 more than 40 hours is what you'll be playing.
  
  After you've finished an awesome game you want to play it again, but you're not going to play if 
 there's no replay value in it. In Meal Gear Solid 4: Guns of the Patriots there is a hell of a 
 lot of replay value! There are so many Easter eggs, which are little unlockables, that most people 
 I know who have it has gone through at least twice. When you play it the first time you're kind 
 of just wanting the story, but the second time you play through you will be looking for all those 
 unlockables. There is music for your iPod, hidden jokes, and you will want to get all the weapons 
 and upgrade them. You might even want to take a different approach to the gameplay than you did 
 in the first play through. After you've finished the game I can guarantee you will want to play 
 it again, and even if you don't, Metal Gear Online offers great replay value with leveling up and 
 so on.
  
  So this is one fine masterpiece that should be enjoyed by anyone who doesn't mind long cutscenes. 
 The thing is the graphics are great, the gameplay is fun, the music is awesome, and the multiplayer 
 is wicked. Don't believe the hype over this game why? Because this is BETTER than the hype.
  
  Story: 5/5
  Characters: 5/5
  Gameplay: 5/5
  Controls: 5/5
  Graphics: 5/5
  Music: 
 5/5
  Multiplayer: 5/5
  Length: 5/5
  Replay Value: 5/5
  
  
  Overall Rating:
  100/100  Masterpiece 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: llTylerll
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 26, 2008 8:43 pm PT
Review:  I will first start this review by saying how much I had been talking trash about the ps3. I had 
 hated it and thought there was no game that screamed must play on the ps3. Until Of coarse I played 
 this game, I was shocked , It wasnt just the graphics , the guns , the enemies etc it was all that, 
 plus what others fail to do
  and that is have a story. When halo 3 came out it was the only game I cared about for story , but 
 this , just made me want more and more and was so deep, I literally couldnt put this down. Now 
 If your like me you loved the 1st mgs and thought nothing could beat the 1st one, but wow this 
 game had such great gameplay , you could play as you liked, you could sneak , kill everyone , shoot 
 anyone , from playing dead then rolling over and shooting the enemies with your assualtRifle, to 
 even the cinematics which literally made your speakers roar with sound. This game Seals the deal 
 Great  is the game to get it seals all the loose ends from the 
 Metal Gear solid story line and leaves you at the end of the day with Entertainment and money well 
 spent. 
  This is the final mgs , This is 1 of the greatest games I will or ever play. 
  A Must BUY 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BritishBeans
Rating: 7.5
Date: Dec 31, 2008 8:55 am PT
Review:  My brother bought this game and this is not really my kind of game. However, when i tried it i 
 thought it was brilliant.
  
  The good:
  - Brilliant gameplay - snake can perform a variety of different moves
  - top quality graphics
 
  - bosses are challenging and exciting
  - great story
  - movie-like cut scenes
  - tense and funny, when they PMC go past you when your in a drum can or box:)
  - playboy mags!!!
 
  
  basically, i could go on and on with this,
  
  however the thing that annoyed me was the length of the cut scenes. i wanted to keep track of the 
 story, but i wanted to play the game aswell. they are rather long and some of them are up to 30mins 
 long and i got bored and nded up skipping. this is probably a good thing for some people but not 
 me i want to actually play it
  
  Apart from that, flawless.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sledge_4314
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 25, 2008 8:52 pm PT
Review:  I know i cant do better than you people describing how good it is but i just want to say....
  
  Before i was planning on selling my PS3 but when i got this game i decided that my PS3 is and 
 will remain useful.
  
  I haven't played the other MGS games so this is my first MGS. Before i got the game, i just couldn't 
 decide whether to get it or not cause i really suck at stealth but because i had no games to play 
 i decided to get it. When i started the game i was totally amazed. I had the choice between guns 
 blazing or stealth. It was just pure fun.
  
  The cinematic are just like a movie. the characters are all very memorable. The action is very 
 solid and the arsenal is immerse. And the graphics can compete with Crysis.
  
  This is the only game which i have clocked 7 times and I'll probably do more.
  
  Just one last 
 word. If you own a PS3, it would be a complete waste if you don't get MGS4. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: osmifura
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 25, 2008 1:40 pm PT
Review:  OMG! I have never played a game like this!!!!
  Best game image quality, rich game history on the single player, insane multiplayer gosh, there 
 are so many nice features for this game.
  I was told to get this game and I thought; nahhhh but I never knew how much fun I was missing!
 
  The fun starts from the very beginning of the game, you don't even have to wait a couple of scenes. 
 Talking about scenes, the movie parts are so entertain. They are not those kinds that would get 
 you bored and press X to skip them, you will actually want to get more info and wait to watch those 
 movie parts. They are also explosives meaning full of action.
  You have so many options how to custom your weapons and that drive me crazy hehe.
  The Ipod is 
 insane the way it works, exactly like if you have a real one.
  Man if I say all the stuff about this game I don't think I will end this year hehe I will tell 
 anyone to get this game. GREAT HIT and on my opinion I think it is a little better than GTAIV.
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: spudacus
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 25, 2008 12:19 am PT
Review:  Yes. It's a good game. Yes. The cinematics are high-caliber productions. But, did anyone notice 
 how little "actual" game takes place here? The story is fine (if you can swallow the usual anime 
 nonsense plot) but it is nothing new for the genre... except that your watching an entire movie 
 in the middle of your game! Don't get me wrong... it is good... but IT IS NOT A 10. A 10 is a perfect 
 game. Give me a break people, there are flaws here. Load times are ridiculous. Movement can be 
 more than clunky. Differences in many of the weapons are almost entirely cosmetic. And yes... waiting 
 30 minutes for a cut-scene to end, no matter how good it is (and it aint THAT good) is just stupid. 
 So... if you REALLY like anime (as I guess most of these "10" reviewers do) , sit back and enjoy 
 a decently mediocre movie that let's you play along with the muddled story for a few minutes... between 
 load times, of course.
  
  Peace 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gta4lif3
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 24, 2008 7:35 pm PT
Review:  its amazing! one of the greatest game i have ever played in my life. Metal Geae Solid 4 will blow 
 your mind. solid snake! this game was great and i still play the story mod. i beat it so many times. and 
 the online is the best, its the perfect game for the ps3. i love this game. i waited so long for this, but 
 when it came out i was excited. this game will make you fall in love with mgs series, mgs fan or 
 not....................... its amazing! one of the greatest game i have ever played in my life. Metal 
 Geae Solid 4 will blow your mind. solid snake! this game was great and i still play the story mod. i 
 beat it so many times. and the online is the best, its the perfect game for the ps3. i love this game. i 
 waited so long for this, but when it came out i was excited. this game will make you fall in love 
 with mgs series, mgs fan or not. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cobra_fox
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 24, 2008 3:46 pm PT
Review:  Metal Gear Solid 4 has to be one of the best Metal Gear games made; it's full of excellent gameplay 
 a deep involving story (though very heavy handed) that is shown in an incredible way with its cutscenes 
 and voice acting. This simply makes it one of the best PS3 titles out there for any PS3 owner.
 
  
  The gameplay has been seriously overhauled in this game and unlike previous games it works more 
 or less flawlessly, mainly the issues previous MGS games had was the camera angles and when shooting 
 from leaning around corners. This has been fixed in this game. It also opens up new ways of playing 
 it so you don't always have to be stealthy and because of the Drebin point system you may find 
 yourself taking part in the battles that go on between PMC's to get points for new weapons, ammo 
 and weapon upgrades. 
  
  The AI has also been seriously improved; it behaves like its thinking for itself when involved 
 in combat they take cover, flank you and can sometimes co-ordinate attacks against you, they are 
 also far better at trying to find you when hiding in evasion mode and they even can react to you 
 realistically like when shining a torch light in their face they would filch and be blinded by 
 it giving you a chance to shoot them in the face or use the far better CQC system that it's the 
 game which has more moves for you to try out
  
  The visuals are stunning for an MGS game Metal Gear games has always had decent graphics (for their 
 time) but this time it has far surpassed many games, apart for a few lower res textures in some 
 areas the visuals are fantastic especially the character models they are superbly detailed and 
 animated to look very life like. The game also has many other visual effects that will give the 
 graphics an amazing look.
  
  The sounds are also brilliant from every gun shot to all the ambient sounds it is very involving 
 and will help to grip you into the game. The game also has many great songs and pieces of music 
 from older MGS games (by use of the in game ipod as an item) and the game soundtrack is also kept 
 to the same very high standard that is used brilliantly in the gameplay and cutscenes.
  
  The storyline does really excel in this game but it is very heavy and it may be confusing for newcomers 
 of the series. Luckily you can watch flashbacks at certain points to help refresh your memory of 
 previous games. The presentation of the story has been brilliantly done in the cutscenes that gives 
 it an exact movie like feel but be aware that the game has at least 5 hours of cutscenes but as 
 the cutscenes look stunning you may get drawn into them. If not you can also pause or skip them 
 but you will be missing a large part of the game. The ending also has an interesting twist and 
 has tied up all the lose ends of the series.
  
  Overall this is one of the best games made and is definatly one of the best on PS3 (if not the 
 best) but it won't be for everyone mainly the cutscenes and the heavy story so some players won't 
 be so impressed by it. If you are unsure you can always rent it before you buy it but I enjoyed 
 every minute of it.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: matchpenalty11
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 23, 2008 8:44 pm PT
Review:  Metal Gear Solid 4 is here and it didn't disappoint. It is the probable winner of 2008 game of 
 the year and is one of the best games ever made. Well here are some of the key points.
  
  Setting: 
  Metal Gear Solid 4 takes place in many locations around the world unlike its predecessors. 
 The various locales in the game include the Middle East, South America, Eastern Europe, Shadow 
 Moses (yes thats right) and a large ship based of the design of Arsenal Gear.
  
  Gameplay:
  The camera introduce in MGS3: Subsistence returns in MGS4. The camo system from MGS3 
 is back as well but is overshadowed by the new octocamo. There is a huge arsenal of weapons to 
 choose from in MGS4 with full weapon customization included. A new character called Drebin unlocks 
 and sells Snake various weapons and ammo throughout the game. Some of the boss battles are cool 
 but others are a letdown. The battle at the end with Liquid Ocelot is sort of a letdown but sort 
 of cool in its own way.
  
  Graphics:
  The in-game graphics are pretty standard for the PS3 but cutscenes really set the bar in terms 
 of graphics. The cutscene graphics are arguably the best of any game ever made.
  
  Story:
  The story in MGS4 is again pretty much the best in the business. It does a perfect job 
 of tying up all lingering plotlines left hanging in the saga and closes the series with a huge 
 revelation of sorts.
  
  Overall: 10/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: soupgfx
Rating: 5
Date: Sep 23, 2008 4:47 pm PT
Review:  Being a fan of the whole Metal Gear solid franchise, I was pretty disappointed in this game. Very 
 confusing story line... Didn't use half the weapons that were available to me (didn't need to, 
 the missions didn't require a switch) . And in general just felt like i was missing the boat to 
 what was going on and what I was supposed to be doing the whole time.
  
  My biggest complaint was that the story was cheesy and it didn't make any sense. It seemed way 
 beyond me comprehending what I was supposed to do and why. I can only imagine a kid playing this 
 game. Plus, some of the cut scenes were way too long for a whole lot of nothing.
  
  Don't get me wrong, I was impressed with the graphics and some of the game play but in general, 
 I was deeply disappointed in who this game was executed.
  
  Cheese Factors: controls were a bit too complicated, smoking/soda drinking monkey, cheesy story 
 line, story line was way too complicated, didn't need to use half of the weapons or camoflauge, 
 90% of the missions were nothing new or exciting.
  
  Positives: Great graphics, variety of weapons, variety of bad guys, costumes look dope, almost 
 a very mature theme to the game.
  
  So in general, I would rent this game and not buy it. It just didn't cut it for me which is too 
 bad because it's one of the main reasons I bought PS3. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bez2083
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 23, 2008 1:59 pm PT
Review:  I haven't played a Metal Gear game since Substance came to the Original Xbox. I have always been 
 a fan of the series dating back to the first one, and after seeing the breathtaking visuals, I 
 decided to push up my purchase for a PS3 (originally was going to wait until Nov.) I couldn't have 
 been more satisfied.
  
  Like I said, the visuals show that the PS3 if used properly, can be a beast. Watching the cut scenes 
 alone is better than playing most games, honestly. The sound of war that encompasses your environment 
 is impeccably done. The controls are crisp, simple, and respond extremely well. The story can get 
 cheesy at times, as most video game stories do, but the action overlaps it.
  
  
  In the end, MGS4 takes the bar that next-gen powerhouses like Bioshock, Gears of War, and Mass 
 Effect set and jump about 3 stories higher with it. MGS4 is indeed the new standard from which 
 all next-gen game should be judged. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cegmp
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 23, 2008 6:54 am PT
Review:  Overview
  
  Metal Gear Solid IV (MGS4) , as its roman numeral suggest, is part of a game series entitled (that's 
 right you guessed it!) Metal Gear Solid. And being part of a series means that the storyline of 
 previous installments carry over or provides some significant insight into MGS4, which, as a matter 
 of fact, is a very story driven game. This, however, may cause problems for newcomers due to the 
 overload of information. But with the MGS database present, this shouldn't be that great of a hindrance 
 unless you're not an avid reader. The MGS Franchise is primarily a stealth game (or stealth/action 
 game to some) , however, Metal Gears Solid IV is more action-oriented than its predecessors, which 
 in my opinion is not necessarily a bad thing! 
  
  Story
  
  Though I won't go into anything specific with regards to the MGS4 story, I have to say the storyline 
 was the most appealing part of the game, for me. As an admirer of the series, just wanting to see 
 what became of Snake and the world he lived in was reason enough for me to buy and finish the game. 
 But even without prior knowledge of the previous storylines, the game's story is quite immersive 
 in its own right. The story is nicely written, and in some parts beautifully done. Though I have 
 to admit that there were also some parts (more specifically at the end) which, in my opinion, wasn't 
 directed as good as the rest. Nevertheless, the story captivated me from beginning to end and has 
 left me yearning for more. To this day, the ethical and moral dilemmas present in the game still 
 persist in my mind.
  
  By now, most of you may know that MGS4 primarily uses cutscenes as means of narrating its story. 
 And yes, it has a lot of long cutscenes in the game. Some people might enjoy this while others 
 might think that Kojima and company went over-board. Some have argued that due to this "overdose" 
 of scenes, MGS4 is more of a movie than a game, and thus making it a tedious experience. I am, 
 by nature, a person who deeply enjoys cutscenes within games. Since the first time I witnessed 
 a Final Fantasy VIII cutscene, I have been hooked on them to date. So it is clearly visible where 
 my taste lies. However, I do understand why other people may not enjoy having to watch a number 
 of long-winded scenes while eagerly awaiting the opportunity to get back at the steering wheel. 
 So it may very well boil down to your own preference. But I have to ask, with such a deep, intricate 
 and branching-out storyline was there any other choice for the developers than these cutscenes? 
 Was there a better way to tell this exceptional story? Maybe yes or maybe no, I wouldn't know for 
 sure. But hopefully someday I might.
  
  Gameplay
  
  Upon comparing this game to its predecessors, I was impressed with the subtle yet game changing 
 "tweaks" that they added to the game. Though I don't assume to have played or finished all of the 
 MGS or MG games, I still noticed improvements, which other people have themselves attested to. 
 A prime example would be the shooting controls for MGS4. I would go as far as to say that it has 
 improved immensely to the point that Metal Gear Solid 4 could very well be considered a shooting 
 game as much as a stealth game. And with the addition of a variety of weapons and a shop where 
 you could buy unlimited numbers of ammo (as long as you have enough points) , shooting your way 
 around in an MGS game couldn't be more enjoyable! As I mentioned prior, MGS4 has become more action-oriented 
 than its predecessors, which I attribute greatly to these factors. And as I have also stated previously, 
 this isn't necessarily a bad thing! In fact, it allows you, the player, to choose how he would 
 like to play the game. You could choose to go haywire and shoot everything in sight or do it old 
 school, and play it stealth all the way. However, the developers also added the "psyche gauge" 
 which keeps Snake (actually you, to be more precise) from completely shooting your way through 
 the whole game. The psyche gauge gradually depletes when Snake feels stressed. Stress could be 
 caused by staying too long in sunlight or upon being spotted by enemy soldiers. When your psyche 
 gauge is low, your shooting accuracy deteriorates, and I think (don't quote me on this though) 
 your life gauge easily depletes when taking in damage. And so you are force, at times, to move 
 cautiously especially when there are multiple Gekos lurking around! But as I said, it is completely 
 up to the player how he or she chooses to play the game, this I believe is one of its great achievements! 
 Then there is the Octocamo, which allows Snake to blend into his surroundings almost instantaneously! 
 This new ability immersed me greatly with the character and with the game, although at times I 
 did miss the occasional face paint from previous installments. All these new additions are a breath 
 of fresh air to the Metal Gear franchise, and to add these with an already enjoyable gameplay was 
 really a home run for me. And top it all off, there are even more things that I intentionally didn't 
 mention! You'll just have to play the game to find out!
  
  Graphics 
  
  The graphics in Metal Gear Solid IV looks gorgeous, hands down. I don't know if it is the best 
 to date but all I know is that the game looks beautiful. The characters well made and detailed, 
 and so are the environments. Watching the dust clutter your screen looks exceptionally realistic, 
 even more so when grains of sand starts to fall off from your view! On my second play through, 
 I remember taking pictures of clouds moving, of beautiful landscapes and of a helicopter crashing 
 to the ground after getting hit by an RPG missile. What more can I say than go and see it for yourself!
 
  
  
  Conclusion
  
  Overall the game looks, plays and sounds superb! Though I do share several concerns like with the 
 mandatory installs, or the control issues while handling Snake and the camera handling in some 
 areas. These, however, aren't that critical to the game and they definitely shouldn't deter potential 
 buyers away from this awesome experience. Those concerns were more subjective than they are objective. 
 Anyway, there are actually a lot more to the game that what I mentioned above, like the beautiful 
 soundtrack, or the online mode (Metal Gear Online) , music for Snakes ipod, hidden weapons and items, 
 and a bunch of unlockables. All of these add to the replay value of the game, making it more than 
 worth the purchase, imo. And so if I were to construct a final verdict I would say A definite 
 MUST BUY game for every PS3 owner whether a fan or not!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: apackum
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 22, 2008 1:41 pm PT
Review:  This game is one of the best games i have ever played. It is well worth the money and a privillage 
 to play. The missions are brilliant and the fmvs are brilliant to watch. The graphics are superb 
 with such fine detail. I was stuck to the game for hours and i love the ending sequence, a good way 
 for snake to leave the gaming world. The online play is enthralling and addictive and very fun to 
 play against friends, you can also download extra features like music for the ipod and stealth gear 
 which is free. A great way for snake to finish his career in the gaming world. Bye  
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tonydannie
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 22, 2008 2:45 am PT
Review:  This is Metal Gear Solid at it's Finest. Final Chapter (Or is it?) In the Solid Series closes the 
 book on Solid Snake giving him a fine farewell. The Story is symply amazing. This is the Godfather 
 Part 2 of Video Gaming. All the charecters from previous games are in here.
  
  Gameplay is amazing. You don't have sneka around anymore . BUt I still do. after all this is Tactical 
 Espionage. The bosses are fun and the level desing are incredible. (There is a moment in the game 
 where you are actually in a Metal Gear, Fighting another Metal Gear)
  
  Sound is phenomenal. For a TV with only 2.0 stereo. the game still sounds amazing. And Harry Gregson 
 Williams score is the best he has written weather on Film or Gaming alike.
  
  The Game is a must have. It is an INstant Classic.
  
  Thanks Hideo For a great gaming experience! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zerapup
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 21, 2008 8:56 am PT
Review:  Oh oh oh oh oh. This is what i thought after final credits. This game is actually more than just 
 a game. The only games with such scale of immersion for me were Final Fantasy and Half-Life 2. 
 But this one has the greatest psyche effect on me. Damn it i even found myself crying after final 
 scene. I actually never cry , but this is...... This is so Epic i even cant imagine that it can 
 be video game. Just when i hear "Ennio Morricone - Here's to you" added to what was happening in 
 the final part of the game , i must say it is very impressive. Grafics , sound effects , music 
 , game design are all the best i have ever seen. I played all previous MGS games but this one is 
 absolutly incredible. This is truely The Greatest Game i have EVER played ( and i am playing video 
 games since 1994 ) . This is a real Masterpiece of the whole video game industry. Thank you , Hideo 
 Kojima. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: faisal_6600
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 21, 2008 8:40 am PT
Review:  June 12, 2008 - Twenty-one years ago, the gaming world was introduced to a hero: a soldier that 
 fought alone against impossible odds to save the world. Over time, the hero grew into a legend 
 that changed the gaming landscape and redefined stealth action games with his epic battles. After 
 more than two decades of service, Solid Snake is finally receiving an honorable discharge in the 
 latest chapter in the Metal Gear Solid franchise. While this is Snake's final mission, he isn't 
 going quietly into that good night, nor is he being constrained by previous titles. Indeed, Metal 
 Gear Solid 4: Guns of the Patriots shatters the proverbial bar, becoming a technical, cinematic 
 and gaming standard that future action and stealth titles will be judged by. It's been a long time 
 coming, but this game is a true classic and a masterpiece from Hideo Kojima, Kojima Productions 
 and Konami.
  
  The world of Metal Gear Solid 4 is quite a bleak one. In fact, in many ways, it's precisely the 
 one that Solid Snake and Otacon have been hoping to avoid. Set six years in the future, war and 
 conflict are no longer a sporadic occurrence with hot spots around the globe; instead, the entire 
 planet is engulfed in constant battle. War has become its own self-sustaining industry, replacing 
 the overall global economy with the contracts of private military corporations, or PMCs, that sell 
 their services to the highest bidder. These mercenaries constantly try to prove their effectiveness 
 on the battlefield to gain even more contracts, which causes more and more destruction as nanomachine-enhanced 
 soldiers clash in cities, in buildings and on the streets. With such a chaotic environment, not 
 even civilians are safe from the constant fighting, as skirmishes can break out at any point.
 
  This is the setting that Solid Snake has been called out of retirement for: one final mission 
 issued by Col. Campbell to save the world from one last threat. Snake is initially inserted into 
 the war zone of the Middle East undercover as a UN PMC inspector to gauge how the situation on 
 the ground is being handled by troops there. Of course, he has a more direct task that takes advantage 
 of his specialized skills: he must find and assassinate Liquid Ocelot, who has become the head 
 of five of the largest PMCs in the world. That's definitely easier said than done, as Ocelot has 
 surrounded himself with a group of deadly comrades -- including a quartet of deadly females known 
 as the Beauty and the Beast Corps who appear to be half woman, half machine -- to eliminate Solid 
 Snake.
  
  Or perhaps we should say Old Snake? You see, the legendary soldier is suffering from accelerated 
 aging due to cellular degeneration. This is much more harmful than his multiple pack-a-day smoking 
 addiction, making him physically older than his years and hampering his movements every so often. 
 To accomplish his toughest mission yet, Solid Snake will need to pull a couple of new tricks from 
 his camouflaged sleeves. Fortunately, there are plenty of them to go around in Metal Gear Solid 
 4, which is easily the deepest and most expansive title in the series. Fans familiar with previous 
 Metal Gear Solid games are aware that each title has introduced new gameplay mechanics for Snake 
 to take advantage of. The incredible part about Metal Gear Solid 4 is there are tons of additional 
 features added to this title, and even when you run into a system or mechanic that you wouldn't 
 think would fit in the Metal Gear Universe, Kojima and his team have figured out a way to make 
 it blend seamlessly with the gameplay, which easily allays any fears or concerns you have. Not 
 only are they well balanced and quite layered, each one adds to the scope of MGS4, which can be 
 considered epic. From the first action sequence in the Middle East where you and a squad of militiamen 
 fight against PMCs, to escorting Meryl and her Rat Patrol squad through a fierce gunfight with 
 The Frogs (Liquid's private army) , to the climactic battle at the end of the title, you'll be amazed 
 at the sheer depth included within the game.
  Take for example the new twist to Snake's classic on-site procurement orders, which plays a major 
 role within the title. In previous games, Snake would be deployed with a minimal amount of equipment, 
 and would have to find his weapons scattered around installations he was infiltrating. This would 
 allow him to stealthily enter and exit a location, using the enemy's weapons against them without 
 leaving a trace. That concept doesn't apply in this new world, as each soldier's nanomachines restrict 
 weapons to their ID-coded owners, preventing anyone else from using them against their owner. Thanks 
 to these new technological restrictions, Snake will have to rely on the services of a gun launderer 
 named Drebin. A mysterious character that seems to be everywhere at all times, Drebin (and his 
 comical hairless monkey known as Little Gray) will remove all firearm safeguards as well as sell 
 new weapons, accessories and ammunition. While the price of his services will vary based on the 
 demand of specific weapons as well as the day of the week (even offering 20 percent off sales) , 
 Drebin will always be available to supply Snake with what he needs.
  
  This expands Snake's arsenal and his methods significantly. Not only can he instantly purchase 
 new arms or unlock collected weapons that can be immediately used in battle, he can also customize 
 some of his firearms, adding everything from laser scopes and fore grips to noise suppressors and 
 grenade launchers, which will affect the statistics and tactics used for the weapons. For example, 
 if you add a fore grip to an assault rifle, you increase its stability and improve your chances 
 for accurate shots. Adding a flashlight, by contrast, allows you to blind soldiers, giving you 
 a chance to perform CQC moves or hold them up for items. What's more, if Snake runs out of ammunition 
 for a particular weapon in the middle of battle, he can immediately purchase additional rounds 
 that can sustain a fight. All of these purchases, of course, are based on whether Snake has enough 
 Drebin Points to purchase the item or weapon that he wants. Snake acquires these points in a variety 
 of ways. First of all, he can provide the gun dealer with any extra weapons he doesn't need so 
 that Drebin can maintain his business around the world. This means that any dropped weapons from 
 incapacitated or killed enemies are fair game to loot for points. You'll also receive different 
 Drebin Point bonuses for flashbacks that will pop up here and there during cutscenes, certain story 
 moments, and for eliminating specific enemies. Players can even receive certain bonuses based on 
 how they play through the title. The system is incredibly expansive, and players will be surprised 
 at how it affects their experience.
  
  Granted, some critics will say that such widespread influence of the Drebin system and its points 
 makes the game too easy and eschews the traditional stealth roots of the title in favor of an action 
 focus. This is an extremely shallow way to view what this new mechanic provides, which allows players 
 to pick and choose exactly how they would like to play the title. Purists to the covert aspects 
 of the franchise can sneak and crawl through the game with a focus on stealth, restricting their 
 purchases of ammunition or completely avoiding the Drebin system entirely. These players will find 
 plenty of new features to support them in their clandestine moves. For one thing, the Octocamo system 
 and threat ring gives players a new way to infiltrate areas because of the ease with which Snake 
 can blend into the environment and detect enemies. An obvious evolution of the camouflage system 
 from MGS3, Snake's body suit instantly takes on the appearance of whatever surface he's up against 
 or lying on, helping him blend into his surroundings. Any pattern can instantly be saved and recalled 
 at any point, effectively turning Snake into the ultimate chameleon. This is coupled with the threat 
 ring, which alerts players to the directional position that opponents happen to be in. The more 
 alert the soldier, the higher (and redder) the spike gets on the threat ring.
  
  Using these two effectively is extremely important because Snake will go up against the most intelligent 
 grunts that he's ever encountered. The enemy AI is extremely smart and won't follow set patterns 
 of patrolling or searching. In fact, during non-alert phases, they'll interact with fellow soldiers, 
 talking and passing whatever time they can while they wait for action. However, when the caution 
 or alert phase has been raised, they actively search for trouble, which will include taking out 
 any possible hiding places, such as cardboard boxes or drum cans. They'll also immediately call 
 for back up and perform intelligent flanking maneuvers to take out their targets. As a result, 
 you may need to use everything from playing dead to rolling on the ground to evade visual contact 
 to new CQC attacks, such as lying atop an enemy and choking them silently to incapacitate opponents. 
 However, even the most covert players will need to unleash some bullets here and there, relying 
 on firepower to make it through specific fights.
  
  Now, players that lean more towards action can go full out with their firepower and blast their 
 way through enemy soldiers much easier than before. Obviously, the ability to acquire and customize 
 new weapons from Drebin helps with this. However, depending on the location that you happen to 
 be in, you can also take advantage of mortars or fixed machine guns. This allows you to shell positions 
 or spray an enemy location with a large number of rounds, eliminating anyone within the weapon's 
 killzone. Players also have new tactical ways of eliminating soldiers, such as performing rolls 
 to avoid incoming fire and even shooting from your back if you're knocked off your feet.
  
  However, even rampant run-and-gun tactics has been balanced thanks to the inclusion of the Psyche 
 and Stress meters that govern and influence Snake's mental state in the middle of battle. The Psyche 
 meter is directly below Snake's health gauge and affects his physical abilities and his accuracy 
 with weapons. The lower the Psyche meter, the harder it is for Snake to remain effective in combat. 
 In fact, he'll start to feel the effects of his age, grasping for his back or having other pains 
 hamper him for a few seconds. While this will slowly replenish over time, the meter can be further 
 impacted by his Stress meter, which gauges the tension that Snake is feeling at any point in time. 
 Snake doesn't like certain conditions because they are less conducive to his mission, such as being 
 out in the open instead of the shadows, being in areas that are too hot or too cold, or being spotted 
 by enemies. The higher his stress, the sharper the decline will be in Snake's Psyche. The only twist 
 is that every now and then, particularly when you are in the midst of battle during an alert phase 
 and your levels have spiked, you can enter a combat high. During this stage, your Psyche will be 
 stabilized, and Snake will take less damage, but there is a serious caveat  once the high is over, 
 his Stress and Psyche gauges will bottom out to represent the drop in adrenaline he undergoes. 
 This leaves Snake extremely vulnerable to attacks, so players will need to balance this state carefully. 
 This tightrope balance between Stress and Psyche encourages balance between stealth and action 
 and helps MGS4 appeal to stealth and action fans, as well as a wider audience of players, engaging 
 many of them with its varied gameplay.
  
  Regardless of the method that you use to explore the game's environments, there are two gadgets 
 that will help Snake immensely. The first one is the Solid Eye System, which frees him from the 
 constant swapping back and forth between goggles and binoculars in the field. Not only does the 
 Solid Eye System include night vision and binoculars, it identifies all personnel on the battlefield 
 by their group affiliation, weapon carried and any items that they've dropped on the battlefield. 
 This provides a large amount of tactical information that can be exploited by stealth or brute 
 force.
  The other gadget is the Mark II, the small robot that Otacon provides to Snake. The Mark II is 
 an extremely versatile item because it can be used as an advance scout for Snake. Thanks to its 
 small size and its ability to turn invisible, players can use the Mark II to get a sense of where 
 enemies and other hazards may lie, which gives them an advantage in battle. It can also be used 
 to incapacitate soldiers, as it can deploy a powerful shock similar to Snake's Stun Knife, which 
 is another great way to quietly bypass guards. What's more, the Mark II can be used to collect 
 weapons and items, and because the Mark II is a communication conduit that Snake can use to contact 
 Drebin, any weapons it collects are instantly converted to Drebin points as well. This is a safe 
 way to pick up guns in the midst of a firefight without exposing Snake to any undue fire, provided 
 that he deploys the robot from a protected location.
  Even more than the style of play and the various gadgets that can impact the overall experience 
 during battle, the Drebin system touches a primal collection urge within players, where they get 
 a sense that running out and gathering every single pistol, rifle and grenade is innately tied 
 to their survival in the midst of battle. However, it also establishes Snake as another cog in 
 the war economy, one who will exploit the system from the inside in order to protect the rest of 
 the world from its ravages by any means necessary. In some ways, this extends to Snake's ability 
 to gain allies on the battlefield. It may sound like a strange concept, but the fact that the world 
 is engaged in factionalized warfare means that Snake can sometimes exploit this division to his 
 advantage. As you move throughout the various environments in the game, you'll come across different 
 militia troops that are fighting the PMCs for control of their locations. Players essentially are 
 presented with two options in this situation: on one hand, players can retain a lone wolf focus, 
 proceeding on their own, fighting PMC and militia alike. This is perhaps the most traditional way 
 of fighting through a Metal Gear Solid title, and will add an extra challenge as just about every 
 single person in the environment will be hostile to Snake.
  
  On the other hand, they can attempt to gain the trust of these local troops by fighting alongside 
 them, attempting to gain their trust by attacking the PMCs. By building a reputation as a freedom 
 fighter that believes in their cause, the militiamen will aid you in your mission, providing additional 
 fire support during skirmishes and even eliminating PMC soldiers for you. What's more, the PMCs 
 will help Snake out by giving him different items, such as ammunition or health items in battle. 
 However, you'll have to be careful with your aim in the middle of a fight. If you accidentally 
 wind up endangering the militia troops, you can ruin your standing with them, turning them into 
 enemies. That forces you to try to regain their trust after a while, or attempt to bypass their 
 attacks with careful disguises that make you appear to be one of their organization. All of the 
 above elements contribute to the compelling plot of Metal Gear Solid 4, which is nothing short 
 of incredible for two primary reasons. First of all, as the final chapter in the Solid series, 
 it wraps up every single loose end that has been included within the franchise. Players that have 
 been looking for answers to questions that may have been raised within previous games will find 
 them within MGS4, which is an incredible feat. Many of the mission briefings not only explain where 
 you're going in your next mission, but also cover large sections of topical information to the 
 series. The Patriots, Foxdie, Metal Gear -- somehow, the Kojima Productions team managed to condense 
 all of the franchise's obscure concepts into easily digestible plotlines that players can follow 
 and understand. That's not to say that it will be perfectly clear for beginners, but it does its 
 best to explain as much as possible. In a way, some of the cutscenes play out like CliffsNotes 
 for the Metal Gear Solid universe, providing additional details for those players that have been 
 actively following the franchise while summarizing and explaining what's going on for newcomers. 
 In some ways, this provides more than enough impetus for franchise beginners to fully acquire and 
 explore the previous games in the series, such as the Metal Gear Solid: Essential Collection.
 
  
  Secondly, while Metal Gear Solid games have always been resonant with issues of the day, MGS4 is 
 particularly layered with allegories and topics both to previous games in the series and the real 
 world that reveal a subtle amount of depth. Kojima weaves a tale that explores complex elements 
 such as the horrors of war and its effects on civilians, technology gone horribly awry, mental 
 manipulation and control (whether by technology or an organization) and personal sacrifice into 
 a tour de force experience. In many ways, the number of topics addressed within the title and how 
 they are handled within the title and franchise are large enough to be worthy of a dissertation 
 on its own. There is a caveat to the exploration of these topics, which is that the cutscenes or 
 dialogue sequences that occur around the exposition of these plot pieces can be somewhat lengthy. 
 In fact, the longest cutscene within the game clocks in around 45 minutes, which can be rather 
 daunting by the numbers. However, the scenes themselves are engaging enough that most players won't 
 pay attention to the clock, although you can pause the cutscenes if you need a break or life interrupts, 
 which is an excellent addition for this title. All of these features contribute to an excellent 
 gameplay experience, but additionally striking are its visuals, which make MGS4 one of the best 
 looking titles to date in gaming history. It's apparent that Guns of the Patriots squeezes every 
 pixel possible out of the PS3 and renders them beautifully. As a result, players are witnesses 
 to one of the finest games ever created on any console or PC. Character models are large and impressively 
 rendered in real time, and transitions between cutscenes and gameplay are seamless and natural. 
 What's more, certain action sequences are just as sharp and framed as well as many Hollywood action 
 movies, and there are some moments in particular which surpass film in the way the story is told. 
 Much of this has to do with camera angles that showcase the game action exquisitely  it's rather 
 obvious that from Subsistence on, Kojima Productions has focused on creating a camera system that 
 works exactly the way you want it to, allowing players to experience the entire game from first 
 person if they so choose, or swapping between shoulders with a click of the right analog stick.
 
  
  Environments pop with sharp details as well, and there are subtle little touches, like dirt that 
 will settle on the camera lens or water droplets that will lightly cascade down the screen. Further 
 helping the game showcase its heightened visuals is the fact that the title performs a large basic 
 install for eight minutes, with individual act installs at the end of every chapter. These secondary 
 installs take only a few minutes, but are quite important. Once one stage installs over another, 
 the replaced textures, levels and environments cut down on load times and transitions. That's not 
 to say that the visuals don't come without some issues. While a few textures are flat here and 
 there (with some low res issues now and then) and light framerate drops during gigantic explosions, 
 these issues are generally overwhelmed by the level of detail shown within the game and the cinematic 
 scope of the title, which highlights what a masterpiece this game is.
  
  This is also supported with an excellent soundtrack, such as "Love Theme" which is one of the best 
 songs of the MGS4 series. Haunting and melodic with a tone that evokes loss and remembrance, this 
 song feels rather appropriate for the sentiment of this title. The soundtrack also covers the entire 
 breadth and depth of the MG universe thanks to the included iPod functionality, which plays various 
 songs that you unlock once you've discovered the classic songs throughout the game. Further strengthening 
 the title is the fact that Snake and every other character also sound phenomenal within the game, 
 showcasing a masterful delivery with their dialogue. I haven't gone over all of the features within 
 the title, such as the photo gallery which stores and displays pictures taken by Snake with his 
 camera, or the virtual range which lets you practice with the various firearms that you have within 
 the title. Nor have I mentioned the exquisite evolution of the control scheme, which is the best 
 one yet. But the one other significant feature of MGS4 is the inclusion of Metal Gear Online, which 
 provides a multiplayer feature to a package that is already solid (no pun intended) with its single-player 
 campaign. Technically, Kojima Productions didn't even need to include this section within the game, 
 particularly because it's a starter pack and will be expanded into a full online product by itself. 
 But what's included on the disc is a good sneak peek of what to expect from the multiplayer realm 
 of Metal Gear.
  
  Similar to that of the beta test, Metal Gear Online features five multiplayer maps for up to 16 
 players to blast their way across. The starter pack now includes two additional stages not seen 
 in the beta, Urban Ultimatum and Ambush Alley. Urban Ultimatum is a large stage that's more impressive 
 due to its verticality than its various nooks and crannies that you can explore  many players 
 can climb the ladders attached to the buildings and take up positions as snipers on rooftops. Ambush 
 Alley, by contrast, is all about stealth and surprise, as the bombed out rubble and smashed buildings 
 provides quite a bit of cover for players to engage and eliminate unsuspecting enemies.
  While you will have to register for a Konami ID and register one character for your online play 
 (sorry Beta players, all of the old accounts have been reset and your progress has been lost) , 
 the process is infinitely easier and runs much smoother than it did in April. A few minor adjustments 
 have been made to MGO, such as a change of skill names to more descriptive terms. For example, 
 the Throwing Skill that governed how well you could throw grenades has changed to Quarterback, 
 while the Fast Movement Skill has changed to Runner. It doesn't affect the skill itself; it's only 
 to help you decide at a glance which trait you want to assign to Snake. Another change is with 
 the Clan creation. Whereas you could be level 2 in the beta with a light number of hours invested, 
 in the full game you need to be at least level 3 with 20 hours of play before you can create your 
 own clan.
  
  One final change that we noted was with the online music selection; players can pick and choose 
 from two original tracks or from songs pulled from all 21 years of the MGS franchise. It's pretty 
 sweet to blast someone in Groznyj Grad to the Tara track from Metal Gear. During Sneaking missions, 
 only Snake can decide the music selection, but that seems appropriate considering that he is the 
 target of both teams. We did have reservations with the first two downloadable selections, however. 
 One of them is simply a codec pack that allows players to audibly make comments during games, while 
 the other sells additional characters for your Konami ID. The codec pack isn't crucial or useful, 
 and the price for extra soldiers seems a little high right now. But considering that you don't 
 need to buy either one of them to experience the action that is raging across servers right now, 
 that's a minor problem that can be addressed by Konami at any time. Is it possible to give a game 
 an 11? If so, this would be the game that would merit that score. Metal Gear Solid 4: Guns of the 
 Patriots is a title that exceeds all of the hype that was attached to the title. Regardless of 
 whether you've seen every trailer and screenshot, read every preview and heard every interview, 
 you won't get a full sense of how phenomenal this title is unless you sit down and experience it 
 for yourself.
  
  Legends die hard and deserve a heroic story that lives on when they are gone. Metal Gear Solid 
 4 is such an ending for the legendary warrior Solid Snake. Not only does it sum up the full franchise 
 of Metal Gear, its depth and its complexity, coupled with its technical prowess, make it one of 
 the best games of the year and, indeed, one of the best games ever made. Get some well earned rest, 
 Snake. You've earned it. I salute you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mole666
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 20, 2008 7:31 pm PT
Review:  I must say, I don't review games very often (and by often, I mean, this is my second) , ubt MGS4 
 deserves it.
  
  Please note now, this is as un-biased as I can make it, as I am going to be looking at it in two 
 ways; 1, A Metal Gear fan. 2, A fan of shooter games, that has never really been into the MG franchise.
 
  
  Lets begin.
  
  I'll give a quick rundown of the scoring.
  
  Graphics: 10
  Now, what can I say? From both perspectives, it's look great. Smooth at all times, very realistic. 
 It shows some of the potential to come from the PS3, and the gameplay is the same graphical quality 
 and rendering from the cutscenes, so you don't get that cut and stick feel. You're involved, even 
 when theres a nice cutscene.
  
  Sound: 8
  The score on this is excellent, but still doesn't quite grab a 10, or even a 9. Great songs in 
 the opening and closing cutscenes, but nothing that really grabs you, like in the old MG games. 
 All these songs are very... minimalistic, which works at times, but it's often just random violin 
 notes mixed with the wind. It brings the whole Snake story arc to a nice close though, in a musical 
 way. Very clever.
  
  Gameplay: 10
  Superb. Great controls, feels easy to pick up, realistic. It never fails to find the right sort 
 of player either. 3rd or 1st person. I like a combo, but it allows you to choose. Some parts I 
 /thought/ were going to be quite nitpicky in the way I would want to handle them, but they didn't! 
 So, thumbs up Kojima!
  
  Story: 11
  Okay, so you can't get an 11, but seriously, for a Metal Gear fan, everything comes together and 
 answers those questions we've all asked since MGS. It's full of plot twists, little bits to make 
 you remember the good 'ol days of PSX and is nothing short of epic dialogue and nostalgia.
  
  ~~~~
  
  The game itself, is set a little ahead of time. So, some things, we have to take 
 for granted that they may not be possible at the current date. But, it's a game. Let's get that 
 straight. Now, Snake for me, was a pain. I love the game and I put up with him, but he was a pain, 
 let's not beat around the bush (or his moustache) . He moans all the time, has back problems and 
 to be frank is not the likely hero, we'd all come to love for his suave way with words, yet still 
 remaining so rugged and cool. It's like the Daniel Craig of Bonds, he makes the role look awesome. 
 And Snake does, or did. Don't get me wrong, having him as the main character in that way, is a 
 cool idea, as it wraps up his story, makes you involved, especially for a Metal Gear fan. But, 
 for someone who has never played MG before, they're probably like, "say what? Where's Raiden?" 
 If they knew who Raiden was...
  
  Which brings me on to my next point! Raiden! Kojima saved his sorry a$$. Most definately. The whiney, 
 pathetic, girly character we had in MGS2, has been revamped as the cyborg ninja and he kicks ass. 
 Best cutscene in the film, is possibly his fight with Vamp. Do check it out, YouTube or something. 
 Anyway, he is now a great character and really reminds of you of the youth of Snake in a way, as 
 he has taken a strong liking for the old geezer. So, from a Metal Gear fan's view, we're thinking, 
 "sweet, Raiden is now cool. Finally, took ya a whole story-arc" and new players are thinking, "wow, 
 sweet ninja dude." Need I say more?
  
  The whole cinematic experience has been attacked by some critics, so I'd like to address that next. 
 
  
  WHAT THE HELL IS WRONG WITH YOU?
  
  Okay, so that was a cheap shot. But seriously, the cutscenes are long. BUT! It's a Metal Gear game, 
 they're all like that. It's like buying Gears of War and going, "this isn't first person!" Shut 
 up whining. If there's one thing Metal Gear is known for, mainly the Solid Saga, is that it's notorious 
 for it's cutscenes, monologues and conversations of an incomprehensible length. For a Metal Gear 
 fan, we're expecting it. And, if you haven't been hiding in the sand since the PSX, you should 
 know at least that much info for the PS3's first taster of the Metal Gear franchise.
  
  All in all, Metal Gear Solid 4 is a solid game. No matter what. It's put together exceptionally 
 well and although may not be what you expected it should at least leave you wanting more from the 
 Metal Gear franchise. It really has so much to offer.
  
  Kudos Mr Kojima, kudos. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: killakin
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 20, 2008 6:01 pm PT
Review:  MGS 4 begins with a quiet lull as you are reintroduced to Solid Snake and his allies. Slowly it 
 picks up speed, pushing through the first act with an introduction to your foes. As it turns the 
 corner of the second act the game accelerates to tremendous speeds with a boss fight that could 
 be one of the best of all time. The twists and turns of the story grip you tightly and never let 
 go until the very end. And thats just the story. The game play is easy to learn, yet difficult 
 to master. Halfway through the the third act I was still excitedly learning new moves that had 
 been there since the beginning. The game has the ability to be played as a straight FPS, or the 
 sneaking game that it was in the beginning, or both. The B&B core creates a set of boss battles 
 that leave you both exhilarated and terrified. The stories for these enemies are frightening anecdotes 
 that has you truly feel sympathy for the characters. I believe that this is the first true movie-game. 
 A hybrid of entertainment giants. It is like being able to watch the summer blockbuster, and play 
 it as well. This game will leave its mark on the gaming market and will be remembered as the game 
 that began this new genera that I am coining as Movie-Games. Kudos Kojima, this is a masterpiece. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: IamDEATHCALIBUR
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 20, 2008 1:01 pm PT
Review:  Metal Gear Solid 4 is the greatest game I have ever played. From graphics, gameplay, enviroments, 
 weapons, characters, to AI it's all fantastic. If you don't know the story and characters from 
 the earlier games you might get a little lost in the immerse, exciting, suprising, and suspenseful 
 storyline worthy of a full length movie. But pay attention and you will see it's greatness. I'm 
 playing this game through for the 4th time a will play through it many many more. There is always 
 more to find, different things to do, and different ways of doing them. No matter what your gaming 
 style this game will accommodate it. The realism in the physics of this game is amazing. I could 
 tell you for days how good this game is but you just have to play it and see for yourself. The 
 $60 is well worth it. So enough talking about it. Pick up the sticks and enjoy!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DuhQbnSiLo
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 20, 2008 12:13 pm PT
Review:  Metal Gear Solid 4 is a masterpiece, its a beautiful perfectly put together game. The presentation 
 is unmatched, pulls you in the more you play. When you for get into the game, you can't believe 
 it. I blends from cut-scene to game-play seamlessly without and pause. You are thrown into a war-zone 
 and plays out greatly while your sneaking around. AI isn't your average AI, it reacts to sounds 
 and anything you do. You can hear them talk to each other about whats going on. The graphics look 
 great and everything just flows well. Environments are diverse and detailed, you have to rethink 
 your strategy every room/area you enter. Animations can make a good game bad, you don't have to 
 worry about that in MGS4. The characters more like they should and react to the environment like 
 they should. Shadows are great and really do help with cover and don't allow the enemy to see you. 
 The grass flows beautifully with the wind. Weapon choice is vivid and you can customize your weapons 
 to fit your style of play whether your a run and gun or a stealthy killer. You can play MGS4 how 
 you want, FPS or stealth. Action is can be where ever you like depending on how you play. You can 
 avoid enemies or confront them head on. The story is amazing and never have I been drawn to a game 
 sense playing the Jak series. The twist and turns in the plot really grab you be your neck and 
 hold you till you can't go anymore. I will not spoil any of the surprises so that's all I'm saying 
 about the story. MGS4 is truly the first game this generation game that truly make me feel like 
 we have finally made a difference in my gaming experience. So far his game is leagues ahead of 
 anything coming this year.... Game of the Year? Maybe? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jagsman
Rating: 7
Date: Sep 20, 2008 9:44 am PT
Review:  Mow I'm no Metal Gear fanatic, but I found myself pretty excited at the prospect of this game. 
 I bought almost as it came out, and heavily looked forward to getting home and playing it.
  
  At first, it was great - fair enough, I didn't really get the story (and frakly, didn't care) 
 but I was experiencing that little kid joy of wooping and jumping about as I stealthily took my 
 enemies down. However, after a little while I got a little fed up.
  
  The primary problem, you probably won't be surprised to hear, is at the cutscenes. Or, more importantly, 
 their length. In fact, so long are they that I immediately checked to internet to see if a Metal 
 Gear film was in the works (it is) because, let's be honest, a film is clearly what they really 
 wanted to make. Often you'll sit staring at your screen for ten or fifteen minutes at a time as 
 the convoluted and, basically, boring story unfolds. One character will say something, Snake will 
 grunt something back (seriously, how laughable is his voice?) , and then the first character will 
 repeat it. Again and again. Why would I care? I bought this game to PLAY it. Of course, you can 
 skip them, but then you're thrown into action with no idea of what's going on or what's expected 
 of you. Neither option is very fun.
  
  Then, there's the controls - they're pretty good for the most part, but Snake's reactions seem 
 sluggish throughout. You'll tell him to do something at one point, and he'll obey what seems like 
 a long time later. It hardly makes it unplayable, but it's irritating.
  
  Obviously, there're many aspects of this game that are a lot of fun, but I'll let you read the 
 thousands of "oh my God this is the best game ever!!!" reviews to find out about them. If you liked 
 other Metal Gear games you probably won't listen to a word I've said and enjoy yourself with this 
 one, and fair enough, I'd imagine a lot of people will. But don't say you've not been warned. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ddmonk
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 20, 2008 3:38 am PT
Review:  I bought this game after a reccomendation from a friend. Coming home I turned on my ps3 and popped 
 the disk in. After sitting through a lengthy installation which featured old snake smoking ciggerate 
 after ciggerate the game finally started... I was amazed.
  
  Some people complained it was more an interactive movie then a game. It isn't, and even if it was, 
 would it matter. The story was complex and compelling (won't give too much away for spoiler reasons) , 
 the gameplay was fun and heart pumping. It was simply immense.
  
  The best feature was the different types of gameplay. You can either run in there and shoot everyone 
 in sight or sneak around. Whatever suits your style of play.
  
  One problem was that the cut scenes were enourmas and frequent and some people found a problem 
 with that. Compared to the positives, however, it is like complaining the Eiffel tower has a speck 
 of dust on it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: robbieeeeee
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 19, 2008 8:27 pm PT
Review:  Finally, all the pieces and parts of all the other MGS games are put back together. This is the 
 last version to the saga that is the MGS series, or is it?
  You start off the game, of course, as Snake A. K. A "Old Snake" He is rapidly changing and I cannot 
 say why because I do not want to spoil anything. Playing as Snake there have been sightings of 
 Liquid in the middle east and you are essentially there to figure out whats going on. You later 
 find out that he plans on taking over the world, once again, and you must stop him. I will not 
 go any further than that because I don't want to ruin any part of the game. This is only because 
 the game is so amazing because it pieces all the parts of the other MGS games that you were left 
 saying; "wait what?" The plot is absolutely the best part of the game. It plays out the same just 
 like other MGS game in he series with minor tweaks and different moves which make Snake more evasive. 
 This games is just like all the other ones in which you fight a set of bad guys who want you dead 
 and ultimately leading up to the final fight. 
  
  This game is very nostalgic and old and new characters appear in this game very frequent. I really 
 have nothing to say that much about this game really. The graphics are amazing. The gameplay is 
 amazing. The story is amazing. There is really nothing to get in depth about. The only thing I 
 didn't like about the game was the set up of "Acts". The game is divided into five separate acts 
 which seem more like different levels to me, and if you're a die hard MGS fan then this new setup 
 of acts will leave you uneasy because it is far different from the other ones in which you are 
 placed somewhere and the whole game is spent trying to survive. In this game it seems like no matter 
 where you go you always seem to have a way out. Two new things I though were really cool was the 
 ability to purchase weapons and ammo wherever and also the new camouflage system. At the beginning 
 of the game you meet an arms dealer named Drebin who can sell you weapons and ammo, no matter where 
 you are, via the menu screen. I know it seems out of place because normally in MGS if you want 
 a weapon it requires back tracking to a certain location. But it falls into place just right and 
 is very convenient. Also Otacon has created a new camouflage suit for you called "Octocamo". This 
 specially designed suit works the same way the camo did in MGS3, except you don't have to constantly 
 change your camo because it automatically adjusts to any area you are by. Also, just like all the 
 MGS game series this one has great replay value. The game uses a set of medals you can achieve 
 based on how you played and certain medals give you certain unlockables i. e. stealth camo, unlimited 
 ammo ect.
  
  Other than some minor new things this game is essentially like the rest in the series. This is 
 good because it doesn't stray away from certain aspects and try to change up the gameplay to add 
 variety. It knows what we like and it provides. So in conclusion, if you are a MGS fan then this 
 is a definite must have. And if you haven't played a MGS game in your entire life then you'll have 
 no idea whats going on. But it will entice you to go back and learn everything there is to know 
 about it. Great game. Loved it.
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: SeraphicNomad
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 18, 2008 7:57 pm PT
Review:  The storytelling in the game is incredible it is full of so much lavish detail that you feel you 
 need to play it over and over again just to get the full picture. I can say the same for the graphics. 
 I was taken back when the game first started as far as being able to see the sweat bead up and 
 the gleam off of each characters eyes the detail they put into clothing, enviorments, weaponry, 
 facial expressions and let me not forget the characters themselves. The cut scenes to in-game play 
 run seamlessly I have never seen such a smooth transition before. The weapons and gear you have 
 at your disposal (once acquired) you could play the game many, many times just using different 
 weapons and strategies. I am a fan of the series but MGS4 out does the rest by leaps and bounds. 
 Brilliant storytelling, incredible gameplay, and astonishing graphics make MGS4 a must own for 
 any serious PS3 gamer. Proud to own both PS3/MGS4. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: metalgear-solid
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 25, 2009 3:10 am PT
Review:  Snake is back, and as amazing as ever. You play Snake, who can blend in with environments and hide 
 in dustbins, this game is the best ever created. I think you should read up on the previous games 
 first, before you play this one, or play them. Although, it's really an easy plot to figure out, 
 and without doubt the best game I have ever experienced...
  
  First of all, the story is easily figured out, no mistakes and written superbly. Voice acting is 
 also superb, no mistakes in sentences or anything, and David Hayter as Snake's voice once again 
 offers a mind blowing performance. Now, the graphics in this game are the best I have ever seen, 
 the characters look amazingly well made, with detail to every feature and every clothing item. 
 Same goes for the environment. Now, as Snake you can hide in dustbins and barrels, and that's fun, 
 but don't stay in a stinky bin to long as you'll get caught. The whole point is to sneak around, 
 and to avoid getting into a shoot-out, so why not step up against a wall and blend in with it? 
 Even a melon can make you turn green. You can jump through buildings, take out enemies slowly and 
 get involved in bad ass boss battles that can be very hard. The game has hit the nail when it comes 
 to difficulty, as there are difficulty levels for players both new and experienced. It's a pretty 
 long game, you'll get some 20 hours out of it on your first playthrough.
  
  The locations are very well designed, as there are many options to use it in your favour, and it's 
 all perfectly detailed. Oh, did I mention the online mode? Well, go online with 16 friends to battle 
 against each other, sneak around, create your own character and have fun! Amazingly done, I must 
 say, the best online gaming experience you can get, not even Call of Duty 4 has better online mode! 
 There are a lot of guns for use, along with gadgets, machines and the Solid Eye. Firing your gun 
 feels good and well done, almost like you're in the game itself! 
  
  Metal Gear Solid 4 will give any player an unforgettable gaming experience with plenty of of replay 
 value and a sad and emotional final to Snake's story, but that's something not to be spoiled! Any 
 gamer and Metal Gear fans especially will love this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Krypteia_mTc
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 17, 2008 6:06 pm PT
Review:  As the last instalment to the Metal Gear Solid series (made by Hedio Kojima) , Metal Gear Solid 
 4: Guns of the Patriots does a superb job of bringing the series to a close, tying off all the 
 loose ends we have waited to understand since the beginning of the series. Metal Gear Solid has 
 always been a cinematic game that combined a visually compelling storytelling with immersive gameplay, 
 but MGS4 brings a whole new experience to this style of videogame. The gameplay and cinematics 
 blend together with such fluidity that it is at times difficult to even notice the transition. 
 
  
  The story of MGS4 takes place in the not to distant future, 5 years after the events of MGS2s Tanker 
 Incident; the protagonist Snake is asked by an old friend to help him on a personal mission, to 
 eliminate Liquid Ocelot. Throughout the game, those who have played the previous MGS games, will 
 encounter some familiar faces, and even revisit areas from past games. Unlike MGS games in the 
 past where the setting was limited to one particular area, MGS4 brings the player to different 
 locations, each with their own distinct setting, and gameplay elements. 
  As you would expect from any MGS game, the story takes up a good portion of the game, and players 
 will have to sit through some lengthy cutscenes; but they are, as always, riveting and entertaining. 
 In addition all of the cinematics are rendered in real time, but still look as impressive as any 
 pre-rendered cinematic created in the past. Also, the actual gameplay looks just as impressive 
 as the cinematics, adding to the feel that you are actually immersed into the game. Along with 
 this you can also expect a few twists throughout the story.
  
  As for the gameplay, MGS4 still maintains the feel of a MGS game, combining stealth and action 
 for a well-balanced gameplay experience. But what makes this game different is the new innovations 
 to a MGS game. MGS4 puts the player right in the middle of a battlefield, where two opposing forces 
 are at war, the player is free to choose to either sneak through the battlefield or to join in 
 and fight your way through the battle, in the most intense action of the series, with out a doubt. 
 You will also have by far the largest arsenal of weapons and gadgets of any MGS game yet. With 
 such a large selection of weapons, most players will not have a chance to use them all in one play 
 through, although it does allows the player to cater to their play style. Most weapons have the 
 option to add additional features, from laser sights and silencers to dot-scopes and grenade-launchers, 
 furthering the ability to adapt a weapon to any particular play style. 
  
  MGS4 has some new game mechanics, which make the stealth action experience much more fulfilling. 
 For players who enjoy a more stealthy approach to the game, these features help make that experience 
 a lot more real. For one, Snake is now allowed to crouch walk, which allows the player to move 
 around fairly quickly while still being able to use cover and remain out of site. Still, staying 
 as low to the ground as possible is always the best way of making sure you will not be seen. As 
 well Snake is equipped with the new OctoCamo, which allows him to blend in with his surroundings 
 by copying its texture, when he is pressed against it. This is undoubtedly one of your most valuable 
 tools when taking a stealth approach (and in a close second would be your old friend cardboard 
 box, and a new companion, the drum can) . Another one of Snakes most valuable gadgets is the Solid 
 Eye; an eye patch equipped with night vision, binocular vision, and a type of radar, giving the 
 location of enemies on your mini-map. This tool is useful in every portion of the game, because 
 know where your enemies are when you may not be able to see them is always helpful. 
  
  The game still controls basically the same as other MGS games, but there are a few differences, 
 most of them for the better. There is no longer a static camera like previous games; instead the 
 camera is controlled by the right analog stick, giving the player a 360 degree view around Snake. 
 This enables the player to look around corners easily, and keep track of the whereabouts of enemies 
 as they move. Unfortunately, for those who are used to setting the game to normal, and still receiving 
 a challenge, MGS4 only really gets challenging when set to hard or higher. Most enemies are fairly 
 easy to sneak past on normal, but by raising the difficulty to hard, you will have to use patience, 
 and your environment to sneak past most enemies.
  
  In previous MGS games the story has been restricted to one setting, either urban or jungle; but 
 in MGS4 there are many different locations, each with a different setting and game play elements. 
 Throughout the game Snake will venture from a war torn Middle-Eastern city, to jungles in South 
 America. From the streets of a city, where Snake stalks his prey, to a blizzard ridden island. 
 In each location Snake encounters intense boss battles that, at times, take you out of the traditional 
 shooter style gameplay, and pitch you into an entirely new one. From riding on the back of a tank, 
 to riding back seat on a motorcycle, you are bound to be impressed with the new types of gameplay 
 that mesh into this stealth-action game so beautifully. 
  
  
  If all this single player action is not enough to occupy your mind, or you just want to challenge 
 other MGS fans, and prove your skill you can take it online in MGO. This online mode plays the 
 same as the single player mode, in an over the shoulder view. This online component boasts a variety 
 of gameplay modes that are common to an online shooter. These modes range from deathmatch, capture 
 the flag (or in this case, frog/duck) , and a new mode where two teams face of, with Snake in the 
 middle. In this mode Snake must take 3 dog tags from 3 players in one life, while the other 2 teams 
 fight each other, and look for Snake to kill him before he steal the dog tags. The online mode 
 is fun, but it can be tedious to level up skills, and it can be frustrating when you cannot grab 
 someone with a CQC level is higher than yours before they counter with their own CQC.
  
  Overall Metal Gear Solid 4: Guns of the Patriots is a truly incomparable, epic experience that 
 doesn't let up for a moment. Whether you are immersed in the middle of a battle, or you are carefully 
 sneaking behind your enemies' backs, you will never be disappointed with the gameplay, or the technicalities. 
 The game just looks, and sounds so great, in or out of a cinematic, from start to finish. Metal 
 Gear Solid 4, takes all of the good from past games and meshes them so perfectly into one to make 
 an unforgettable experience that when it all comes to a close, you will be left with your jaw hanging 
 open and begging for more.
  
  
  By Matt Cameron
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: nas-tmayne2k6
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 17, 2008 1:49 pm PT
Review:  Sorry to say this but this is the first metal gear game Ive owned.. I blew off metal gear 1,2, and 
 3 for some reason. But I bought this game because of the kudos and accolades ive heard firsthand.. so 
 I bought a used ps3.
  
  I just finished this game.. and Im really sad its over.. The story and production is that great... you 
 really have feelings about the characters.. 
  
  The interwoven commentary about the military industrial complex... new world order... technology (wrecknology) 
 is very fitting. The characters... solid snake.. liquod.. big boss.. meryl.. etc... all have stories 
 to tell... and they are told well.
  
  The long cutscenes will have your full attention.. you will be sucked into the story. The first 
 few acts set the stage for the Rollercoaster... climactic ending. Now that ive read synopsoses of 
 the earlier games... now I have to play through the older ones.. unfortunately.. I dont have a BC 
 ps3 so i will buy 1...2 for xbox.. get to three eventually..
  
  All I can say is DONT MISS OUT ON THIS GAME!!
  
  gameplay-very versatile.. can play stealth 
 or all out action... now includes weapon mods and guns you can purchase with credits called drebin 
 points. so the game can be played anyway you want... controls can grate on your nerves sometimes 
 though.
  
  Sound-fantastic... some very foreboding music in many tense parts.. crisp sound effects and solid 
 voice acting.. though it can be hokie sometimes.
  
  
  graphics-varies from good to fabulous.. some acts like act 3 look rather bland and not very detailed 
 but the weather effects in act 4 will have you believe you need your coat. cutscenes look superb.
 
  
  control-managable.. snake moves rather slowly... sometimes executing commands can be tedious but 
 over all solid..
  
  BUY THIS GAME.. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kasumifan
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 16, 2008 2:24 pm PT
Review:  The Metal Gear franchise has always been known for it's awe inspiring movie esque style story, 
 this one though, is the greatest of them all. This game is a fitting end to the legend that is 
 Solid Snake. Metal Gear games have always been known to be powerful, but this game blows all the 
 others away.
  
  GRAPHICS
  
  Without a doubt the greatest graphics I have ever seen. The character models look so real and the 
 attention the creators put to detail is just simply amazing. The scenery will just make your jaw 
 drop and make you feel like you're in the middle east, south america, etc. Before I got my HD cable 
 for the PS3 I thought this game looked amazing, but after hooking it up with the HD I was mesmorised. 
 No game to date can even think of comparing itself to this game, this game blows all others away 
 easily.
  
  SOUND
  
  
  Music has always been instrumental to making those Metal Gear moments truly something special, 
 from when Snake and Otacon did their handshake in MGS2, to when Eva explains to Snake about what 
 really happened with The Boss in MGS3. It hasn't failed in this game. The musical score by Harry 
 Gregson Williams is just truly amazing, even Oscar worthy. The music just grasps the mood, and 
 brings to life every part scene by scene. The greatest though being at the end when Snake and Liquid 
 fight at the end, to have the score come, giving you the feeling that this long and brutal battle 
 is finally coming to a finale, that everything is coming down to these final moments. All in all, 
 just epic.
  
  GAMEPLAY
  
  Metal Gear Solid games in my opinion had great gameplay, but this game improves what was great 
 into excellence. The 3D cam really helps out with the stealth, and even more seeing as there is 
 no solitron radar. The OctoCamo is a real upgrade to the camo system in MGS3 in which you had to 
 keep going to the menu over and over again just to change your camo, and seeing as how big that 
 game was, you had to do it often. The OctoCamo though adjusts by itself whenever you lean against 
 a wall. The over the shoulder shooting system is a great addition also, it makes the fighting a 
 lot easier this way if you're ever caught you can fight your way through troops a lot better than 
 in the old Metal Gear Solid games.
  
  This game is by far the greatest game of all time without a doubt. It has everything you can ever 
 want: superb story, excellent gameplay, and a great musical score that is film worthy. It was our 
 pleasure to be able to play such a perfect game, as far as me to say, this is the game to end all 
 games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LoneNecromancer
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 15, 2008 10:28 am PT
Review:  From the moment you start the game when Snake is standing in front of a truck to the sound of gunfire 
 around him, you realise just what Metal Gear Solid 4 is- a complete refining of the Metal Gear 
 series.
  From the gameplay to the long cutscenes- every part of this game has been expertly crafted and 
 customised.
  I won't lie, much of this game has been made for the fans of the entire series. The storyline for 
 example, most find it confusing. But don't ever let people tell you that they've taken away good 
 gameplay. Because they couldn't be more wrong.
  The storyline and gameplay are delicately woven together. The old overhead camera view is now fully 
 adjustable, and there's less of an emphasis on stealth- you can get an alert, but this time, there 
 isn't a near guarantee of your death, this time Snake is more than capable of fighting his way 
 out of a battalion of PMCs.
  And stealth combat works together wonderfully, seeing as it means you can play the game the way 
 you want to. If you want to play the game as a subtle character who is never seen, you can. If 
 you want to play as a one-man killing machine, you can.
  The weapons are extremely diverse. You can find yourself using either a silenced tranquiliser to 
 a shotgun, or from a submachine gun to a railgun. Weapons can also be customised, and thanks to 
 the addition of a weapons seller, you'll never be in a situation where your weapons don't suit 
 you.
  Another thing about the stealth gameplay is Snake's camouflage. In the previous Metal Gear Solid 
 3: Snake Eater, the player had to manually change their camo by constantly going to the menu and 
 changing, and also had to always keep exploring to find more camouflage suits. Not anymore, Snake's 
 new Octocamo suit means in any situation, his suit will adjust to the same colour and texture of 
 the enviroment in a matter of seconds. As well as that, Snake's got all the other things- rolling, 
 crawling, wall pressing, and even something new- crouch walking, a more... stealthy way of walking. 
 
  As well as that, the old CQC first introduced in MGS3 has been changed as well. From CQC throws, 
 to even body searches, Snake's no doubt prepared for the trials ahead.
  I haven't said much of the storyline- that's for the game to show you, as the gameplay. Instead, 
 I'll introduce you to the new Act system.
  Unlike previous games, where Snake was more or less the same area- and certainly the same country- 
 you'd expect the same, wouldn't you? Nope, now Snake has a multitude of areas to visit, including 
 the Middle East, South America and Eastern Europe. It is strange however, all these people you'll 
 see can all speak perfect English.
  Make no mistake, if you're a fan of the series, you're bound to love this game.
  And as well 
 as that, there are even some special things. Snake can actually pilot a Metal Gear in this game, 
 the same Rex from MGS1, if you played it. There's a couple of vehicle chases, and not to mention 
 the great little final boss fight- which I found more fun than any fighting game.
  True, the cutscenes do slow down the game- and sometimes you'll find yourself skipping them. But 
 the gameplay's still worth it, not to mention the replay value, the downloadable content, and not 
 to mention Metal Gear Online.
  Metal Gear Solid 4: Guns of the Patriots... it can't even be considered a game. It's just incredibly 
 awesome. Even if a person doesn't like the cutscenes, even they- even an Xbox360 fanboy can find 
 themselves hard pressed to deny the brilliant gameplay.
  Every PS3 owner should have a copy of this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Wolf745
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 15, 2008 6:10 am PT
Review:  The fourth installment in the metal gear series has just hit the roof! this game is all what its 
 cracked up to be. the single player mode is just plain great! if you want to be a silent assassin? 
 go ahead or you can just go out and create choas. the boss fights are amazing and you really have 
 to use your head to figure out how to kill them. The multiplayer is amazing you have to earn your 
 way up to buy new armor and clothes. so you cant just start to play online with all the armor you 
 get in single player mode, you have to earn yourself by playing.
  
  If you are new to the series i really suggest playing 1,2,3 since MGS 4 has very long cutscenes 
 you wont get a single thing whats happening and what snakes flash backs during the game mean. buying 
 number 1,2,3 are all compatible on your playstation 3 console which now you have no excuses :D
 
  
  The best thing about MGS 4 is the storyline, i have been a big fan mainly because of the story 
 and the gameplay. the story is just outstanding and it really gets to you. when you see some reviews 
 saying to long cutscenes they are the people who havnt played the previous metal gears. honestly 
 i was on my feet when the cutscenes came! 
  
  I give metal gear solid 4 guns of the patriots a 10/10 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: H34dM4St3r
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 14, 2008 4:32 pm PT
Review:  this incredible game and without doubt the best game of the series so far full of gunfire, explosions 
 and more you can do something that you could not do before, this game that much better than it 
 was before, more shots, death, characters, weapons, methods of killing, now with something of the 
 future as a powerful machine in which you will not have fun so they detonated but detonate them. 
 The history and great'm sure that everyone will love. The sound was much improved, you feel within 
 the game, the image better, and a game that leaves the other games dying of shame. Our friend `` 
 snake''now older detonate the same way as before (even better) , with more agility, new techniques 
 of fighting, and always with his old box with a point of!. Always finding a way to end the enemies. 
 The game also features a multilayer mod incredible. We also brings an amazing mod to create your 
 avatar in departures with friends on-line 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nephilim83
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 14, 2008 3:57 pm PT
Review:  This is by far the most perfect game ever made. Never have I been sucked in so deeply, but this 
 game took me to another place. The action all around you makes you feel like you're actually experiencing 
 it. The story is so deep and involving you really feel as if you're dealing with your own conscerns. 
 The graphics are so perfect that your eyes will become confused to where reality stops and the 
 game begins. The controls are super innovative, allowing you to do so many things as far as different 
 CQC take downs, dodges, rolls, playing dead, spying around corners, etc. There are 69 weapons- 
 69!!!- that you can aquire and keep in your inventory for all time. This allows for endless fun 
 with so many creative ways to slay the enemy (or put them to sleep, or make them laugh, rage, cry, 
 or scream) . The fun never stops. I've played through so many times trying to earn the twenty something 
 emblems availiable as well as all the various unlockables throughout the game. After getting the 
 stealth camo you can run up unseen and suckerpunch the baddies. The replay is endless. ENDLESS 
 I say! Not to mention this game comes with the ever popular Metal Gear Online, where you get to 
 use your stealth stradegies to take on Metal heads all over the globe. And if you've been stuck 
 in a hole somewhere and missed out on playing the rest of the MGS series... Don't worry! The story 
 still makes sense! They go over the entire story and fill in all the gaps that were left over from 
 previous games. But I'm sure you probably will want to go back to the beginning and play them all. 
 Since I played this game I broke the other three and played through them all in order (lucky my 
 80 gig is backwards compatible!) . Anyway, if you want to play the best game ever made... Play this. 
 If need a good reason to buy a PS3 besides Blu-Ray... This is IT!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mr_sok
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 14, 2008 3:26 pm PT
Review:  Visually fantastic, the final installment of the Metal Gear Solid series manages to reward loyal 
 fans with a dramatic and satisfying conclusion while giving a gameplay experience that is deep 
 yet accessible to newcomers. It manages to give a great stealth action experience but shooter fans 
 should also give it a try due to its new third person shooter controls.
  
  The gameplay varies greatly throughout the game. Some sections encourage stealth, some enforce 
 it. Others seem to invite a more direct approach. Most sections let you decide how to play so the 
 gameplay fits to your personality and how you play games.
  
  Graphically, MGS4 has yet to be surpassed by any console game. Artisticlly and technically great. 
 The surround sound is positional and works amazingly well. It adds a new dimension to the game.
 
  
  My only warning would be that half the package is cut-scenes. When you buy MGS4 you effectively 
 buy a 10 hour movie and a 10 hour game. However, the story is delivered in a way that has not yet 
 been seen is games. To say it rivals film in its direction is an understatment. Still, I would 
 recommend this game even if you were to skip to movies. The gameplay is worth the money alone. 
 
  
  Anyone should seriously consider this game. As for metal gear fans, get this now. It's even worth 
 the price of a PS3. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fisher9000
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 14, 2008 2:02 pm PT
Review:  the story was amazing and added to much more to the series ( like going back to Shadow Moses ) 
 i couldn't ask for a better way to end it, or will it be continued? non the less, it was the best 
 game iv played in years, thanks to mostly the last battle, Snake vs Liquid. what more can you ask 
 for, like i loved the 1 on 1, the music with it and more so how the fight went on as u got further 
 to the end. i still play MGS4 non stop cause i love the game that much. the graphics in the game 
 were top notch with amazing lighting and perfect shadowing... i would say the only downfall of 
 the game is nothing to be honest aswell. it showed great gameplay, easy controls, the difficulty 
 was perfect and the levels kept me going. the voice overs were perfect as always, and the cut-scenes 
 were to there best, adding more and more to the story and describing the past in which to make 
 you understand the world of MGS4 all the more pleasant and interesting ( if you are a MGS series 
 first timer ) but thats the beauty, if this was your first time playing a MGS game it capture so 
 much of the other 3 games well enough to make you understand whats going on, i admit tho you do 
 miss out on the full and better thing ( when you don't play the first 3 ) but still it blends nicely 
 for first time MGS gamers, but its where the die hard MGS gamers get the full altitude of the game 
 and pleasure of knowing everything and finding abit more. so all in all MGS4 is by far GOTY worthy 
 and i hope to see more MGS in anyway possible. 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: insomniac_dog
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 14, 2008 12:17 am PT
Review:  Metal Gear Solid 4: Guns of the Patriots is a video game which exceeds all benchmarks, standards 
 and expectations which have been placed before it. In fact, it doesn't just exceed them, it totally 
 annihilates, decimates and obliterates them. Let me explain:
  
  Hideo Kojima wrote the plot for this game. Need I say more? Somehow, someway, this game manages 
 to captivate and manipulate us into this world of unparalleled immersion. The cutscenes are so 
 marvellous, they could have come straight from an award-winning cinematographer. Each scene and 
 each shot possess a magical whiff about them. I'm getting chills just explaining it. The ending 
 is quite possibly one of the most moving cutscenes I have ever seen. 
  
  The story itself is superb. It rounds off the fantastic series in panache and style. Every character, 
 event and location is given such a memorable tribute. There are surprises, there are tears and 
 there are moments of pure bliss within the impressive story. MGS has always been about the plot, 
 and number 4 is no different.
  
  The graphics, however, are better than the story in my opinion. EVERY wall, floor, room, cliff, 
 ceiling, path and piece of furniture is magnificantly detailed. No wonder why Kojima Productions 
 took so many years to make GotP. Explosions are very nice, vehicles are splendidly presented, water 
 and fire effects are top-notch and foliage is almost life-like. Put it this way, play this game 
 on a HD-TV and it will become the most beautiful thing in your house.
  
  Actually playing the game is a joy, too. The stealth mechanics have been tweaked to within an inch 
 of their life, and the shooting mechanics have been overhauled to accommodate for more run-and-gun 
 players. The level design is basically in vein of MotorStorm. There are SO many paths you can take 
 I have NEVER been through the same runthrough twice.
  
  Sound quality is the best-of-the-best. The effects are simply sensational and the score is mind-blowing. 
 The voice acting is essentially some of the best ever and you will never tire of David Hayter's 
 grating tones. All of the characters are memorable and you feel completely entranced by their actions 
 and the consequences. I must admit, I weeped during one cutscene (end of Act 3!) !
  
  The MGS series has always been known for its intuitive and thought-out nature for boss battles, 
 and 4 is just the same. This time you're battling the Beauty and the Beast Unit (and a few other 
 bosses, as well) , and I must say that one battle in particular left me breathless. All of the battles 
 are so sweepingly epic and atmospheric, and Kojima definitely saved the best till last!
  
  There is also superb replay value. Metal Gear Online is great fun and you'll have a blast. The 
 five difficulties in the game will keep you transfixed and the emblems you can gather will send 
 you insane from addiction. 
  
  There is no way I can sum up MGS4 without calling it a downright masterpiece, Every aspect of it 
 just seems so finely polished and spectacular. The gameplay has been changed to fit all play styles 
 and this was a definite move in the right direction. The audiovisual presentation is exquisite, 
 and the story is impeccable and cannot possibly be better.
  
  Goodbye, Snake. I hope you enjoyed your last adventure as much as I did. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vibu4
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 13, 2008 11:03 pm PT
Review:  I got my metal gear solid 4 bundle at Toys "R" Us. I the first time I played the game I played 
 for 3 hours straight and I took my time so I didn't finish a lot of the game in that much time. 
 The things that I love about the game and you will (screw 360 fanboys) .... anyways that you will 
 love are the stunning graphics, storytelling, the awesome storyline, game play, interlocking characters, 
 the freakin' awesome boss fights and the super long cut scenes that you don't wanna miss. The game 
 takes place in Middle East, South America, Eastern Europe, Shadow Moses Island and Outer Haven. 
 The visuals are the best part the game it took major advantage of the Blu - Ray disc and made it 
 one of the biggest games ever. The difference between the cut scenes and game play is..... oh wait 
 there is no difference. The storytelling is the cool part of the game, the story is told by 1-2 
 hour long cut scenes which you feel like skipping after sometime but if you did trust me you are 
 gonna miss a lot.....
  
  This game definitely deserves a PERFECT score and Solid Snake deserves his SALUTE for being one 
 of the greatest video game heroes of all time.....
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Haku_Ryushi
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 13, 2008 4:35 pm PT
Review:  This is the one game that is really hard to describe just how amazing and perfect this masterpiece 
 is. Lets just put it this way; Hideo Kojima is a genius. He really did knock this one way out of 
 the park. The game really deserves a perfect score. To start things off, the graphics are the best 
 I've ever seen in any console period. The gameplay has so many aspects and its very engaging and 
 very addicting. The story is just jaw dropping. The story is very strong with this game. The prologue 
 for this game is so well done, i could of sworn the beginning of the cutscene i looked at my arm 
 and just saw goosebumps. I don't know how to explain it. Its just a feeling, an emotion that just 
 triggers when you hear the music and snake's voice. His words are just like a poem, a sad one. 
 The beginning is very well done and its very action packed. With 20 to 25 hours to play, this is 
 definitely worth buying, not to mention the hundreds of secrets, easter eggs, and unlockables. 
 Snake's octocamo is very fun to use and totally awesome. The musical score and soundtrack for this 
 game is just plain EPIC. All of the sound effects, explosions, and voice acting really makes you 
 feel like your actually there. It really does feel like a warzone. If you have a PS3 and you are 
 interested, stop reading this now and go buy the game. Its definitely worth getting, and you will 
 not regret it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: icygangsta
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 13, 2008 1:02 pm PT
Review:  Before the Launch of MGS4 the hype of this game was unrivaled, and everyone was almost certain 
 that Mr. Kojima would deliver not only a great game for the PlayStation3 system but help boost the 
 consoles sales.
  
  "It is the only game to even dare to go beyond all of such trivial matters. I expected nothing 
 lower than the sky, yet Kojima Productions have reached the celestial heavens."
  
  The game, was a big plus for the system, a big plus for the MGS series fans, and a big plus for 
 gamers!
  I don't believe I can ever lay my hands on a game, this highly polished, created to this perfection, 
 taking storytelling to a whole new level, this experience is no less than unforgettable. 
  There might be a game that has better graphics, or better characters etc, but nothing overall as 
 good as this, meaning all FACTORS of the game are no less than breathtaking.
  
  Graphics = 9/10
  
  The graphics in the game, are absolutely what you would expect from a High 
 Definition experience, the details in the game are amazing.
  I hear people complaining about MGO, but the Graphics are almost identical if not better.
  
 
  Take for exmaple, you are walking down a pavement in europe the whole environment is beautiful 
 every area has its asset, be it a dull grey or lush green.
  The pavement has a wonderful detail, and the area is beautifully lighted, moving down the lane 
 you look behind a phone booth to see a advert of a frog wearing nappies.
  What more do you want?
  
  Each crisp, painstaking detail is accounted for in character motions, 
 animations, and facial expressions mostly. Not to mention, the game runs at an incredibly smooth 
 60 frames per second, with few drops to 30 frames despite extraordinary action on screen. However, 
 they're hardly noticeable, your whole experience will be smooth throughout. Also, when I say action 
 on screen, believe me, there is plenty of action. Bombs, physics, explosions, smoke effects, firefights, 
 soldiers looking at playboys, etc  everything happening around you all at once makes the atmosphere 
 exceedingly immersive. I wouldn't doubt it if Kojima actually pushed the Cell processor to its 
 limits  the final product is nothing less than extraordinary. However, like every other game that 
 uses self shadowing, shadows look jaggy at certain angles - other than that, it looks absolutely 
 breathtaking.
  
  All other aspects of the game, Sound, Gameplay and Story are all 10/10 this game is easily the best 
 in the series.
  
  ~IcyG 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lord_Alan
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 13, 2008 8:02 am PT
Review:  There are two kinds of man in this world: those that look good with a moustache, and those that 
 don't. Luckily elder statesman of gaming Solid Snake has joined the ranks of Mario, Tom Selleck 
 and that's about it really, in Metal Gear Solid 4: Guns of the Patriots.
  
  In Metal Gear Solid 4, Snake has returned to complete his final mission: settle the score with 
 his 'brother' Liquid Ocelot and stop him from conquering the world. I say 'brother' because Liquid 
 is comprised of Snake's cloned brother's arm grafted onto the body of a former Russian army major, 
 who for some unexplained reason speaks with a South American drawl. Confused? You should be. Metal 
 Gear Solid 4 doesn't bother to provide a back-story, dumping you right into a dense, convoluted 
 and fourth wall-breaking plot that makes very little sense at the best of times. When you are watching 
 in-game movies that can last for forty-five minutes, this is not a good thing. Of course, it is 
 possible to make sense of Metal Gear. It's also possible to chew through a coconut with your teeth, 
 but that doesn't mean you should do it.
  
  The story is one of nano-machines, biotechnological shenanigans and detailed weaponry descriptions. 
 In short: it's a Metal Gear Solid game. I'm sure the story would be very hard-hitting if there 
 were actually nano-machines inside our bodies that limit our abilities to act of our own volition, 
 but since we live on Earth and not Fantasy Land it goes down faster than a priest delivering a 
 sermon to a room full of atheists. That said, it ties up a lot of loose threads that have been 
 running throughout the series and provides a satisfactory conclusion for Metal Gear fans.
  
  There is but one target audience for Metal Gear Solid 4; people who have played every previous 
 game in the series and analysed every facet of their plot. There are no tutorials or hints beyond 
 a bare explanation of what button on the controller does what. It's like travelling back to 1998, 
 when you were expected to read through the instructions before playing a game. It borders on unacceptable 
 when a game of this calibre lacks any kind of handholding for newcomers- if you think I'm being 
 unnecessarily harsh here, two games that do provide a comprehensive back-story before playing are 
 Metal Gear Solid and its sequel. For the record, I've played most of the first two games and didn't 
 have a bloody clue what was going on until several trips to Wikipedia later. Where Metal Gear Solid 
 was a collection of clever set pieces connected with cut-scenes, Metal Gear Solid 4 is collection 
 of lengthy cut-scenes stapled together with fragments of game.
  
  Metal Gear Solid 4 is so heavy on narrative that it squashes the underlying game like a fat man 
 riding a child's bicycle. There are at least 12 hours of cut-scenes here; many of them dull and 
 some with little bearing on the plot. The worst part is that the game teases you with fleeting 
 moments of action before thrusting you headlong into hours upon hours of cinematic tedium. However, 
 support is included to listen to the codec sequences with a Bluetooth headset and give your eyes 
 a rest. Thanks for caring, Kojima!
  
  When you get to play the game, you'll find Metal Gear Solid 4 is actually very enjoyable. On the 
 surface it seems like a lot has changed: much-needed improvements in the weapon aiming and camera 
 system turns it into Metal Gears of War, complete with cover mechanics and grenade lobbing fun. 
 But let's not get ahead of ourselves here; Metal Gear on MSX2 was the grandfather of the stealth 
 genre and Metal Gear Solid 4 still emphasises 'tactical espionage action' above all else. Even 
 though it's fun to tear through soldiers with assault rifles, you'll eventually resort to hiding 
 in bins and cowering under masonry to avoid the enemy soldiers. Luckily Snake has a myriad of gadgets 
 to achieve this ranging from the Octocamo, camouflaging Snake in any nearby surface, to the wonderful 
 Mk2 robot, which is controlled in a stroke of genius by a Playstation controller. The problem is 
 that due the ease of tackling enemies with guns, there's plenty of emphasis on action but not nearly 
 enough on tactical espionage.
  
  There is a constant juxtaposition of cutting edge technology with dated game mechanics. The more 
 soldiers you kill, the faster you come to the realisation that they are going to continually re-spawn 
 until the end of time. Metal Gear Solid 4 puts heavy emphasis on how your actions mould the battlefield. 
 Except they don't. Soldiers will spawn in the middle of doorways constantly until you run out 
 of ammunition or patience; blow up a helicopter with a rocket launcher and another will rise up 
 to take its place. With the mind-boggling stupidity of the game's artificial 'intelligence' and 
 inconsistent approaches to level design like invisible walls and invincible enemies, Metal Gear 
 Solid 4 feels like a 1998 game stuffed into a 2008 graphics engine.
  
  A mention deserves to be made of the truly stunning graphics in Metal Gear Solid 4, which is a 
 good thing considering how long you'll be looking at them without doing anything. The motion-captured 
 animation and superlative special effects really show off what the Playstation 3 can accomplish. 
 It matters little whether the graphics are often pre-rendered movies or generated in real-time, 
 when they are very impressive either way. The accompanying soundtrack by Harry Gregson-Williams 
 is, truth be told, better than the game itself. It will occupy a special place on my iPod longer 
 after the game itself has been left in a box in the attic.
  
  Metal Gear Solid 4 is not the best game ever made. It's not even the best Metal Gear game ever 
 made. It's a shame to see some genuinely thrilling and entertaining action lost in a tribute to 
 the majesty of one man's ego and many hours of downright boredom. Although there's just too much 
 narrative to take in, the dialogue is peppered with in-jokes and uniformly excellent voice acting. 
 It simply could have used about 4 hours of scenes being cut out.
  
  Ask yourself the question: do you like playing games? Or would you rather sit and watch a very 
 long movie instead, with bits of game in between to break it up? If you answered with the latter, 
 Metal Gear Solid 4 is the game for you. Everyone else should approach with caution, or perhaps 
 just hide under a cardboard box until the hype subsides.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: jds98235
Rating: 7
Date: Sep 12, 2008 6:53 pm PT
Review:  While MGS4 has an engaging story and good presentation, it is more of a movie than a game. 10% 
 of the game is interactive, and the rest is watching cutscenes and occasionally hitting "x" to 
 see a flashback. Oh, and that "10%" of gameplay is mostly boss battles with the very creative and 
 frightening "beast" bosses. I would have been much more happy to see this as a movie in the theater 
 rather than piddle around with it as a "game" and suffer through the pathetically easy missions. 
 Great story, but NOT a great "game." While most of the story is entertaining, touching, and occasionally 
 funny, some of the dialogue and scenes are utterly horrid. Especially painful were the extremely 
 drawn out final cutscenes, where (I swear) "big boss" took his "final" breath about 5 times.... only 
 to come to and drool out more melodramatic drivel. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lach0121
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 12, 2008 11:32 am PT
Review:  ok, i gave this an 9.0 and we all know i dont like giving scores over 7.5 unless the game is freaking 
 amazing.. and this one delivers... comming from someone that has played this series for over 20 
 years now. back during the original metal gear on the MSX. now this game made me laugh, cry and 
 give me chills. very very powerful story, the gameplay was decent, but not as fun as previous metal 
 gear solid games, but the story was superb. it is a very unique experience even for someone that 
 hasnt played every metal gear. but for someone that has.. you wont find an experience like this 
 often... konami and sony finally did something right with this.. one of the best series i have 
 ever played, and this one is a beautiful ending. when i say it made me cry, it did literally. tears 
 were running down my face. i was in shock and couldnt move at the end... my girlfriend who is a 
 gamer, but has never played any metal gear, statesit is one of the best games i have ever seen" 
 and all she did was watch me play it. the emotion behind snake throughout the entire series is 
 all at its pinnacle in this game, very powerful. i recommend to all gamers alike. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bob12093094775
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 12, 2008 10:39 am PT
Review:  I had not played the previous MGS games before this one but that did not deprive me of the story 
 that this game presents to you. This game provides a great in-game story with plenty of flashbacks 
 which you can read upon yourself. The action and cut scenes are amazing and beautifully created 
 for the PS3. The game plays beautifully with the action and combat as intense as any MGS game before. 
 The game has a great selection of difficulty levels who want to start out easy and then try the 
 Big Boss difficulty. The bosses and enemies are some of the best AI seen in a video game to date. 
 The levels are greatly detailed with the quality of objects reaching to far greater levels than 
 seen in a game. Even the in-game iPod looks amazing and it perfectly detailed. The soilders and 
 their weapons are highly accurate and the physics engine is great as well. Overall it is a great 
 action/stealth game that all should have for their PS3. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Atrobasinnu
Rating: 5
Date: Sep 12, 2008 9:29 am PT
Review:  Don't get me wrong, the graphics and game engine are fantastic and they work well. Though no game 
 deserves a high score for graphics and physics, so I have 3 very big of gripes from my 6 hours 
 of playing.
  
  Yes, I only "played" 6 hours (aka I played for 1h30m and watched 4h30m of videos) , but I still 
 got a big feel for the game. I know how to play it, it's easy. I didn't want to progress any further 
 because there was no point. This was NOT a video game. At least 70% of the "game" is cut scenes. 
 I thought this series was supposed to be about the gameplay AND the story, not just the story.
 
  
  The game play, or the little that actually lasted, was pretty decent. It definitely wasn't bad, 
 but it didn't blow me away either. The weapon customization is by far the best I have seen in any 
 game, so that was cool, but I barely had enough time to use 1/10th of the things I picked up or 
 bought.
  
  The story... was poorly written. This is typical of most Japanese games I have played, but with 
 this game receiving a 10/10 on GameSpot and the rave from fans, I thought it was going to be better. 
 The voice acting was wooden. Sounded like Hayden Christensen did half the main characters (not 
 his actual voice, but his lack of vocal acting) . The characters went ON AND ON AND ON about NOTHING. 
 They said the same things 15 times.
  
  Overall, I was bored to hell with this mediocre game. How does a game like this with so little 
 actual game play and an horribly written story get a 10/10 when games that have good game play, 
 stunning graphics and an amazing story and voice overs (such as Uncharted) get so much less of 
 a score than they deserve. Over-hyped, short, poorly written games where over 70% is cut scenes 
 do NOT deserve more than a 6/10. I gave it a 5/10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: moldyspud
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 12, 2008 4:07 am PT
Review:  I don't think they will ever make MGS the way I'd like it to be again. MGS3 had great boss battles, 
 but the rest of the game was such a chore. It took the fun out of being a stealth game. While giving 
 you so many tools to effectively stealth, they don't work the way you'd hope. Is it more realistic? 
 No... it's more of a bad joke. It seems like it was made to make you fail, and get seen and have 
 a 10 minute sitting experience. 
  
  Well, MGS4 is a little bit better, but still isn't nearly as fun as MGS2. MGS4 isn't as much of 
 a job as MGS3 was, but it's still pretty lame. While it's cool that you can camoflague automatically 
 instead of manually, it doesn't help that you can only crawl a foot and have to wait for the camo 
 to change again. If you're moving you don't really have much of an idea of where people are unless 
 you have the radar equipped and it just doesn't work like MGS2 did. It was fun to hold people up 
 in MGS2, it was fun to run around the tankers... MGS4 is just annoying and boring to stealth through... 
 it's more fun to run through the level and hope you survive to the next cut scene so you can see 
 some awesome graphics. 
  
  It's better than most games out there right now though. The boss battles aren't as good as MGS3, 
 but they are close enough, and challenging. The story is awesome, but the game is a chore. While 
 there is a lot of secrets and easter eggs to be found in MGS4, I just can't bare the thought of 
 running through the damn areas littered with enemies. It's basically a crawl fest or a run til 
 you get to safety, and if you feel like it, sit there and wait for caution to go away. Bah.
  
  MGS2 will always be the best in the series for me. It was worth playing through to get everything 
 because it was fun... MGS3 and MGS4 is a one play through game that I just don't see how anyone 
 could want to play it over again... it's a great play once. After that, and believe me I tried... 
 it just doesn't have the value.
  
  It loses the 10 rating due to the low replay value and the boring gameplay to each boss fight. 
 And the multiplayer isn't even worth mentioning.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: basrai
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 11, 2008 4:22 pm PT
Review:  MGS4 is the 4th and (possibly) final installment : (, in the Metal gear series. Fans were anxiously 
 waiting for it since E3 05 and let me tell you it was well worth the wait!
  
  Graphics:10/10
  
  MGS4 is one of the very few games to utilise the PS3's graphical capabilities 
 effeciently, and let me say that it looks stunning (On 1080p using an HD TV) ! Everything from facial 
 expression to the environments is just beautiful. Every little thing is accounted for like the 
 cracks in the walls the bullet holes the dust the terrain, everything!!! Its just so well done 
 that its hard to explain! Character models are also very detailed and very well done.
  
  Gameplay:10/10
  
  The 3rd person view in MGS4 is done just right where your camera is not in 
 an akward position. The gunplay mechanics are wonderful! its smooth the aiming is accurate and 
 all the guns preform very nicely and have realistic recoil animations and feel. The frame rate 
 in the game is ROCK SOLID it never drops at all and the game never lags or freezes at an point. 
 the camoulflouge mechanics are nice and a pretty cool feature. The gaurds in the game are sometimes 
 oblivious and pretty stupid but thats on lower difficulties and its only in a few areas. The audio 
 and video quality is great, nice crisp picture and sound (espcially with an HDMI cable and surround 
 sound)
  
  Story:10/10
  
  A brilliant sory created by Kojima which ties up all the stories from previous MGS games and keeps 
 you hooked until the end. The story is also shown in such a way that you feel sad for some caracters 
 or angry at others. I won't say too much but lets just say its one hell of a ride.
  
  Presentation:10/10
  
  The game presents itself very nicely with its crisp clear graphics, varied 
 and beautiful environments and emersing gameplay. Overall it has a nice polished look.
  
  Online:10/10
  
  Metal Gear online is also simply amazing with beautiful maps and and game types. 
 It offers Team Deathmatch, Deathmatch, Capture the flag and Sneaking just to name a few plus a 
 huge arsenal of weapons. very nicely done with no lag unless your internet speed is low or the 
 host connection isnt good. 
  
  Conclusion:
  
  If youve read this far than i don't know what else I can say to convince you that this game is 
 a brilliant masterpiece and is a must buy for any PS3 owner
  
  I hope you enjoyed this Review and thank you for reading 
::::::

::::::
UserName: achrlz
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 10, 2008 10:50 am PT
Review:  It is a rare occurrence when a video game has the ability to move a person in a way much like the 
 films of today. In 1998 video game director Hideo Kojima blurred the line between game and movie 
 with the release of his first masterpiece, "Metal Gear Solid." Nearly ten years later, this now 
 ancient PlayStation title has spawned three direct sequels and a number of spin-offs. Claimed to 
 be the series' "swan song," "Metal Gear Solid 4: Guns of the Patriots" provides an immersive experience 
 that not only raises the bar for its in-game storytelling and technical proficiency, but primarily 
 for its ability to emotionally affect and change the player's worldview.
  
  The "Metal Gear Solid" series has always been close to my heart and the fourth iteration is no 
 exception. By nature I am not all that competitive; for me video games are a means to relax and 
 unwind after a long day. What I look for in a game is a good story; one that sticks with me long 
 after the game is over. One might have difficulty understanding why I look to a video game instead 
 of a movie for good narrative and a solid plot. However, what they don't understand is that there 
 is an additional layer of immersion within a story that only a video game can provide.
  
  "Metal Gear Solid 4" delivers on this level and provides a gripping story up to caliber with today's 
 Hollywood blockbusters. From fleshed out characters to underlying moral agendas, this game has 
 got it all. And if any complaint were to be made, it would be that this game relies too much on 
 story driven cut-scenes to progress the plot. Personally, I have no problem setting my controller 
 aside and watching some of the most impressive cut-scenes. This however is not for everyone. The 
 game itself took me over twenty hours to complete and approximately half of that time was dominated 
 by in game cinemas. There is however an option for those who do not care to watch the scenes to 
 skip past them and get right into the gameplay.
  
  Speaking of gameplay, "MGS4" improves on its predecessors dramatically. The one gripe I had always 
 had with the "Metal Gear" series was its outdated and often frustrating gameplay. Konami scrapped 
 the old school overhead view, and "westernized" the camera and controls. It is important to note 
 that while the gameplay is vastly improved, it still takes some time getting used to. The controls, 
 while streamlined are still quite complex and require a bit of a learning curve to overcome. While 
 somewhat complex, this level of complexity is absolutely necessary, as "MGS4" opens an endless 
 number of ways to play the game. From straight up stealth to first person run and gun, the way 
 you play is completely up to you. There is a plethora of different weapons, and the ability to 
 customize each weapon to your liking, encourages the gamer to replay the game a number of times 
 to experience all this game has to offer.
  
  What gripped me more than anything was the level of presentation; I have never seen such a polished 
 game experience. Riddled with traces of Japanese humor, dramatic fight scenes and over the top 
 plot twists, this game will have you on the edge of your seat until the very end. The entire game 
 is run on the in game engine and each cut-scene seamlessly transitions into gameplay. The game 
 itself is broken into five self-contained acts spanning five vastly different locales, pushing 
 the PS3's power to its limits. The game itself fills up an entire blu-ray disc, an equivalent of 
 over six DVDs. The graphics and sound compete with the likes of "Uncharted" and "Gears of War."
 
  
  This game is art. Kojima once again pushes the envelope, essentially redefining the video game 
 medium. You will come away from this game changed. There has been much talk as to what defines 
 the next generation of video games and I'm telling you this game is the ushering in of a new generation 
 of games. If you are hungry for a solid narrative and an immersive experience go out and buy this 
 game now, you won't be disappointed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Enjorren
Rating: 7
Date: Sep 10, 2008 12:20 am PT
Review:  First let me just say that I am a MGS fan and I had high hopes for this game. The anticipation 
 surrounding it was very intense being that it is supposedly the last game in the series and also 
 because it is only for the PS3. I waited to get the game after all the reviews had been so positive 
 and figured that if it scored as high as GTAIV it MUST be good. I soon realized I had been fooled...
 
  
  The game is definitely one of the most technically impressive games to date. While the graphics 
 are not as mind blowing as say Crysis, it is very cool to see an in game cut scene transition straight 
 into game play. It definitely gets points for that.
  
  A couple things I found annoying is that snake no longer presses his back up against a wall. Instead 
 he now just gets a little closer to the wall and you have to hit the action button to do this. 
 The new sneaking suit is very cool but the way that it is implemented into the game doesn't make 
 any sense at all because most of the time you will be using disguises or you'll be in the middle 
 of such a large battlefield that there is not point in trying to be sneaky. It was as soon as I 
 realized this that I almost gave up on the game right there.
  
  In all of the previous games you infiltrate a base like a ninja and take out the bad guys. In this 
 game I didn't even know what the hell was going on half the time or why I was even doing any of 
 the missions. They try to make the game feel epic by jetting you to different locations around 
 the world tracking Liquid but it feels so tacky and you never feel like you're making any progress. 
 Not to mention you're playing a character who is in loser denial and should be in a wheelchair 
 not saving the world. I never truly believe that he is the only one who can take out liquid. Oh 
 yeah Raiden is in the game but he might as well not be... He serves no purpose other than to have 
 not one but TWO over the top unbelievable fights with Vamp that leave him a crippled mess both 
 times. That really pissed me off because the fight between Vamp and Snake is a joke and he is very 
 easy to take out which leaves you like they only brought Raiden back into the game to appeal to 
 the fans but then at the same time make his character look like a joke.
  
  The game reeks of nostalgic appeal and that is ok except when the whole game feels like you are 
 just reliving all the events of the previous games. You make a return to shadow moses and that 
 part rocks but there are a lot of flashbacks that just reiterate information already explained 
 in the previous games. Maybe Kojima felt his story was too complex especially for those playing 
 a MGS game for the first time but I say if you are going to do a true finale stick to your guns. 
 I don't need to be reminded of everything that has happened up until now.
  
  There are so many things about this game that don't make sense and make it hard for me to get into 
 it. MGS 3 is so vastly superior to this game that it's almost sad. By the way once you beat the 
 first B&B boss in the game you might as well skip all the cut scenes with the next 3 bosses because 
 that's just how unimaginative their endings are. It is literally the same thing after each boss 
 is beaten... It feels like the only reason the B&B squad is in the game is because the other 3 
 games had a series of similar bosses but like I said earlier it doesn't matter because this game 
 doesn't feel like a MGS game so why he decided to stick with some familiar elements and alienate 
 others is unknown to me. Not to mentions that by now Snake is a living legend and Liquid knows 
 this so he sends the B&B squad? It's like come on.... I just don't get the sense that they are 
 ever any real threat to Snake.
  
  I am sure a lot of people will disagree and claim GREATEST GAME EVER but seriously, it's not. It's 
 not even close and it certainly doesn't feel like a game. Way too many cut scenes about crap that 
 doesn't even pertain to the plot and not enough game play. This might as well have been a movie 
 because then I wouldn't feel so ripped off. I will say that the story is the only reason I kept 
 playing at all but I wish I could have just bought a book instead of wasting 60 bucks on this game. 
 Kojima seems to have reached his full potential at MGS 3. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kitten470
Rating: 5
Date: Sep 9, 2008 9:18 pm PT
Review:  I just got a PS3 and was looking for good games so I picked what got rated the highest. I've never 
 owned a Metal Solid game but I saw konami made it and I just loved their castlevania games. This 
 game is a movie not a game. Evertime you would get into it bam another cutscene. I didn't understand 
 one bit of the storyline at all. When people said the game had to many cutscenes I was like great 
 I love cutscenes, but the cutscenes happened way to often I wouldn't of mind if I actually understood 
 what was going on so after watch a 10 minute cutscene I would just have to skip past it. I gave 
 it a 5.0 cause it did have good gameplay and hiding was kind of cool, but if I had it to do over 
 again I wouldn't pay 60 bucks for it. I might give 20 bucks for it just cause of the cool fight 
 at the end of the game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 999123
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 9, 2008 8:26 pm PT
Review:  The game is pretty engrossing and challenging that every MGS fan would find playing the game entertaining 
 and enjoyable: the cut scenes are superb and impressive while the sole gameplay is enough to make 
 the game a masterpiece. 
  
  The game features great soundtrack. The boss battles are geat and there are easter eggs all round, 
 which may entertain you.
  
  With MGO included, the game become more worth-buying! Certainly it's worthwhile to play the game 
 : it's worth your time and effort to do so. 
  
  Speaking of the MGO , it is rewarding that players could gain emeblems in it. Dozens of weapons 
 could be used and the maps varies, which means you could enjoy playing it online in a way you desire.
 
  
  The only thing that demoralizes me is that it takes considerable time to load before each chapter 
 , which would be annoying when you are trying to make a BB run through.
  
  So let's experience the final mission of the legendary solid snake together and prepare for all 
 the joys that MGO alone brings you! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Berserkerz
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 9, 2008 7:57 pm PT
Review:  There are problems with the game. 
  The game is too short, with about 8 hours of gameplay, and around 15 hours of cinematics. Don't 
 get me wrong, the cinematics are awesome, but the game is STILL too short. The games a bit slow 
 sometimes, but there are whole levels where you can spray everyone and get passed a level and such. 
 The online play is also a bit slow, with a billion shots to kill a dude. (Unless you master that 
 headshot.) 
  
  But other than that, there's a TON of good things too. The story is amazing, it takes like, so 
 much brain power just to process all the info. The gameplay itself is very next generation with 
 tons of guns, easter eggs, replayability value, and action. Theres enough freedom in the game to 
 feel like you can go anywhere actually. 
  The music and voice cast are amazing, David Hayter wrote the first x-men. LOL, i saw that and it 
 was the coolest thing ever. The story in the game along with the cinematics is the best part, but 
 it's way too long to play twice. But the first time you played it, you'll enjoy it. It doesn't 
 feel Japanese, and it doesn't quite feel western either. It's epic with cheesey frosting. 
  
  And once you're done, theres this whole other game to play, with a growing community. It might 
 be slow at times, might be a bit boring for your taste, but it also feels cool with the team based 
 play. The online also has humour which will keep it better. 
  
  The game IS good, but it's not perfect like everyone says it is. I'm disappointed cause the game 
 could totally have more moments to make the game rock even more. Rent it first, cause some people 
 actually don't like it, but I'm a fan of the series. At least TRY it. 
  
  -Berserkerz. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Il_Exile_lI
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 9, 2008 7:09 pm PT
Review:  If you have a Playstation 3, you need to play this game, it is as simple as that. This is the best 
 PS3 game available and one of the best games available on any of the current platforms. MGS4 succeeds 
 in almost every possible aspect, though there are some things that bring it down, if only slightly.
 
  Visually, this is one of the best games you are going to find. The character models are top notch, 
 which is a good thing because you are going to spend a lot of time watching them in cutscenes. 
 There is a good variety of environments that Snake will find himself in and they all look fantastic. 
 The game performs extremely well, in the 20+ hours I spent playing the game, they framerate held 
 steady the whole time. One visual complaint that some may have is that several of the environments 
 go the way of GTA IV and seem devoid of any color other than gray, but this is mostly the early 
 stages of the game when you are in the middle east.
  Gameplay wise, this game is exactly what you would expect from a Metal Gear Solid game. The game 
 features a perfect blend of stealth, action, boss battles. Snake's new octocamo suit makes the 
 stealth aspect even more fun, and really adds to the element of sneaking. For hardcore Metal Gear 
 Solid fans, you are going to find plenty of nostalgia playing this game. There are countless references 
 to past games, along with the large cast of returning characters to this installment, and some 
 that you may not expect.
  One of the much talked about things in this game are the cutscenes. Yes, there are a lot of them 
 and yes some of the pass the 1 hr mark, but this is not a bad thing. I thoroughly enjoyed putting 
 my controller down, grabbing a soda, and making some popcorn and fully enjoying the longer cutscenes 
 as if they were a movie, and quite frankly, the quality is movie quality. The entire presentation 
 of the game is the caliber of a Hollywood blockbuster. The voice acting is outstanding, David Hayter 
 once again does an outstanding job as Snake. The outstanding direction of the cutscenes shows that 
 Kojima could easily be a Hollywood Director. One disclaimer though, if you aren't a fan of watching 
 cutscenes, you might want to pass on this because about 45% of your playtime will be spent watching 
 cutscenes.
  There aren't very many negatives to this game, but there are a few. After every Act, you are forced 
 to install the game on your hard drive, these usually take about 3-6 minutes, but the initial install 
 when you first put the game in takes about 10 minutes. Another complaint that I had was that some 
 of the boss battles just seem to take way too long, as you can't challenge them head on, you have 
 to really take your time. The last complaint is that oftentimes in the first person aiming camera, 
 it is hard to see. These are the only negatives I could find, and quite frankly, I am nickpicking.
 
  Metal Gear Solid 4: Guns of the Patriots is an outstanding technical and artistic achievement 
 and should be played by everyone with access to a PS3. The cutscenes are a joy to watch and the 
 game is a blast to play. The story is well told and not as hard to understand as some people claim 
 it is. The bottom line is that this is a a terrific game and anyone and everyone should play it. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gray_Wolf-13
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 9, 2008 5:09 pm PT
Review:  Metal Gear Solid 3 was the first game of the Metal Gear series that I played. By the time I played 
 it Metal Gear Solid 3 had been out for more than half a year and its past titles were all forgotten. 
 Figuring that I didn't need to play any of the older games I proceeded to play and then beat MGS 
 3 feeling quite pleased at my understanding despite not having played any of the older titles.
 
  
  Metal Gear Solid 4 came into my possession about a month after its release date. By this time I 
 had heard a great number of rumors about its ending and was eager to see for myself how such a 
 series would fold.
  
  Thanks to the extra that Play Station offered in addition to MGS4 (the archive files on characters, 
 events, etc) I was able to get a grasp of who all the characters were and just what had been happening 
 before and after MGS3.
  
  I found MGS4 disappointing at first because it seemed to be more of a movie than a game. Cinemas 
 would span on for 5, 10, and even 15 minutes, which I found dull and rather annoying. As I looked 
 up more information on the characters and events, however, I began to see the videos for what they 
 really were; the final puzzle pieces for a long and shrouded story.
  
  By the time I reached the end I found myself deeply submerged in the game, wanting to see how it 
 ended and yet fearing what I would see. And then the story concluded; all too soon and I was left 
 in awe at all that had transpired without the knowledge of any of the characters or even the players 
 controlling them.
  
  Its ending was not accepted by many of my friends, all of which had a different view on how they 
 thought the game should end, but I found it appropriate and, most importantly, it filled in the 
 last missing piece that tied everything together and, in my mind, laid several issues to rest with 
 what I had read and played.
  
  Those who have a PS3 should definitely play and own MGS4. It is the epic ending to a battle that 
 has spanned longer than any video game series I have ever played.
  
  A perfect ending to a true hero and patriot.
  
  So long Snake 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ViolentSxht
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 9, 2008 2:32 pm PT
Review:  MGS 4 is flat out the greatest game of this generation and possibly last on any console. The presentation, 
 story, and game play are so impeccable and compelling I found myself a difficult task in playing 
 other titles after completion of this. This is what AAA gaming is all about, the greatest killer 
 app in years. 
  Care and quality inputted have always been the prominent staple in the series and hit new levels 
 with Snake Eater, but GOTP really blows previous offerings out of the water. Every facet of this 
 game is so polished and enjoyable I almost feel embarrassed for competing developers, you basically 
 stand obsolete in the shadow of this monster. 
  I am not one to mark out in extremes for anything, and honest to god I never felt like considering 
 a 10 score prior. Welcome to next gen gaming, are you experienced? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: solidsnake_971
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 9, 2008 12:18 pm PT
Review:  I was trilled. I was expectant. I was sick with longing. Then the date came. The 12th of June. 
 The day of days. My day. Sneakout day!
  
  I've been a fan since MGS for the PS1. I've played all the titles over and over again. Even the 
 old ones, just for the story. Simply put, I Love MGS. It has given me many thrills and many chills. 
 I've wept and I've laughed. I've shivered and I've dAnced. Well, enough about my Love for the serIes. 
 Lets take a look at the game!
  
  After my limited edition was opened and my Snake figurine was thoroughly enjoyed, my shivering 
 hand carefully inserted the disc of gods into my unworthy PS3. A few moments later, after savouring 
 the menus, I made a new game on solid normal. After viewing the rather silly starting videoes the 
 main game begun. An artistic start, I thought as the camera panned over barren desert land. Then 
 I heard David Hayters beautiful voice once again. "War has changed...", I made a little dinosaur-like 
 screech, and wriggled around in my couch. It was time! After watching the cutscene, I was tossed 
 right into the fight. After toying around with the controls a bit, I crawled out of the starting 
 area and ran for cover. War was raging all around me. A dead guy and an AK? Sweet! I picked it 
 up and equipped it, running down the street. The game elegantly switched to a cutscene showing 
 the arrival of geckos. I ran through the streets, enjoying the awesome music of Mr. Harry Gregson-Williams. 
 
  
  I could go on and on about my many moments of this game. But I'm afraid I don't have time for that 
 right now. This game made me sad, and it made me happy. Just like every other MGS. I shed man-tears 
 in the microwave hall. I shouted "DONT DIE, SNAKE!! SNAAAKE!" with wet tears. I felt just as worn 
 as Snake must have felt. Absolutely one of the most powerful moments in gaming history, after the 
 nuke in CoD4, of course.
  
  The gameplay, the story, the graphics, the sound.. Everything is just perfect, you know? Kojima 
 has done it again, putting Snake's carreer to a closure. A well deserved ending. 
  
  All this praise being said; If you're not a fan or if you have not played the other games. This 
 game is pointless. You can still enjoy the gameplay, which is extremele good, concidering this 
 being a story-driven game. But it would be a waste. If you are to play MGS4, you MUST play the 
 first games. You will enjoy it so much more. Aside from some signature cheesyness I'd concider 
 this the perfect game. In my eyes, no game will ever, can ever, couldn't possibly ever be as good 
 as Metal Gear Solid 4 : Guns of the Patriots.
  
  That is all... Dismissed! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bct90
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 9, 2008 9:07 am PT
Review:  Metal gear solid 4 is supposed to be the last of its series. I never played any other Metal Gear 
 before, how ever I thought this game was amazing. It has stunning graphics and hilarious easter 
 eggs, for instance there one part when you follow a resistance member to big mama, and you can 
 get on a statue and camouflage in to it with the octocam suit, and the resistance member will run 
 back and piss in front of you. 
  This game had great game play, and its wonderful how you can upgrade your guns, with laser pointers, 
 grenade launchers, different types of grenades or ammo, and etc. How ever I thought there was too 
 much video, how ever you must watch them or else you wont know whats going on. This game is probably 
 one of the best of its series. I don't want to say defiantly because I never played any others. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: aleksandr_7
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 8, 2008 12:25 pm PT
Review:  This game has marked a new series, MGS4 has began a new age of video games , We are not just playing 
 one of the greatest games but we are looking at an oscar movie Just like call of duty 4 games are 
 not just games but great movies. Congrats to konami this game is a new experience. The best of 
 the best. The graphics of these game are hilarious , Question have you ever played a game were the 
 grafics of the video are great but the gameplay looks like stick people? Well MGS4 game play grafics 
 wont dissapoint u at all. There are minor detalis like hair, snakes bandana skin color a little unreal 
 but still is there another out there with amazing sun shadows , wall texture, plants, water ? I 
 think that the only game company that can improve Mgs4 graphics is square enix with FFIII i bet 
 they will be the best graphics. Still there is more than graphics in these game like the guns you 
 have more 50 guns including bombs, etc. they got the idea of RE4 merchant and improve it with , 
 like buying bullets ;) In Conclusion these game is marvelous it can be the best of the best for 
 some people, or the worst but a real gamer will see that this game is a turning point for videos 
 game since MGS4 got out games will be different 
::::::

::::::
UserName: joe_bruschy
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 8, 2008 8:39 am PT
Review:  Can't realy describe a game like this...
  The game itself plays like a movie... Great graphics, realistic sound effects and a fantastic soundtrack. 
 Adding to this you have one of the best storylines (Probably the best) ever written for a video-game.
 
  
  The plot of characters is simply fantastic, every single on of them help, in their unique way, 
 make MGS one of the best gaming series to ever surface the gaming industry.
  
  It is quite easy to say that Kojima created a Masterpiece. A game that will be remembered for many 
 years by those who played it.
  
  
  This game alone justifys the price on the PS3, making it a must buy for all PS3 owners, even those 
 who were never realy into the series before (like myself) .
  
  
  The online (MGO) also comes as a bonus. For those who like games with a little bit more action 
 and not so much stealth the online feature will surely satisfy you.
  The ability of improving you character with skills, evolving him into a Sniper Expert or Explosives 
 Master for example is a great way for you and your friends to create a pefect clan where each individual 
 has his own role to play.
  
  
  Overall a 10/10... You couldn't possibly exepect more from a video-game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tkmacs
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 8, 2008 7:32 am PT
Review:  MGS4: Guns of the Patriots is a fantastic game and without doubt the best game of it's genre, well 
 genres. It's hard to define what type of game this is. It's a mixture of action, adventure and 
 stealth. The story unfolds as you go through the game and as the title suggests you find out the 
 true meaning of the patriots. In this game you play as Old Snake, who isn't as mobile as before 
 but can still take down tons of enemies without breaking a sweat. The game is set in 2012 and you 
 have 5 objectives throughout, mainly to stop Liquid Ocelot from evil-doing.
  As with all MGS games, the emphasis is on stealth and unlike it's predecessors, you can actually 
 go through the whole game without getting caught or killing someone. This is thanks to the PS3's 
 controls and graphics. You can now properly take out enemies by hiding behind sandbags and using 
 a sniper rifle. MGS has come a long way from having an overhead camera and just waiting for an 
 enemy to look the other way then pop out and shoot him four times until he's dead.
  The best feature of the game for me is the ability to customise and buy weapons. With 60+ weapons, 
 you'll find lots of new ways to torture your enemies and play tricks on them. The Guns of the Patriots 
 has unbelievable depth also as the game should take you at least 10-12 hours to clear on your first 
 go, and you'll be wanting to play it a second time to get all those unlockables. Other new features 
 include: Ocotocamo (camouflage that blends in with your surroundings) , an iPod with MGS songs on 
 it and last but not least, Metal Gear Online. A brilliant online feature which puts you against 
 other players with the person with the most kills wins.
  The only downside I can think of is the fact that I cleared the game twice in about 10 days because 
 it is so good. All PS3 owners should buy.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Plasma-Dog
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 7, 2008 1:20 pm PT
Review:  Metal Gear Solid 4 Guns of te Patriots is awsome. The multilayer is amazing. There are a fair amount 
 of maps to choice from. They are all different. Some are big some are small. Some have great sniping 
 places and some have underground areas. The game types are also very nice. There are plenty of 
 different types. There is CTF, TDM, Team Sneak, Snake Fight, and some others. Now don't forget about 
 the story. It is very long and exciteing. There are many diffrent bosses and lots of cool ways 
 to sneak around and stuff. Also lots of cool cut sceens. The weapons are fantanstic and the best 
 thing is you can customize lots and lots of weapons. It is also awsome because the ways you sneak 
 arund is wicked. You can go in boxes. You can roll in drum cans and othr things. You also have 
 this little Metal Gear MK 2 who you can controll. You can walk him around and turn him invisable. 
 You can shock enimes and steal their waepons. The game is great but sometime the cut scences kinda 
 get to you beacuse they are too long and the load time sometimes takes a while. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fima1fim
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 7, 2008 7:20 am PT
Review:  this is a hell of a game!!! i love all the ultra cool stuff in this game its always gets better 
 from metal gear 1 to metal gear 4!!!!!!!! i really love this game all the snake style all the ultra 
 cool wepons and figthing styles all the cool enemys abd more!!!
  
  they shuld make a CO-OP in this! so like 4 snakes will fight and snake and stuff!!! i really got 
 in love this game as i play'd metal gear 1 on Sony Play Station 1 when i was only 9 ofcorse i was 
 a noob and only got to the half of the game and diden't have any idea what to do but as i grow'd 
 and i becom a gamer pro i buy'd the game agen and finesed it! every 1 who read this shuld try to 
 play all the metal gears! from 1 to 4!!!
  
  i think its 1 of the best game in the world i love this game the same as call of duty 4! maybe 
 even more!!! i don't love crysis as i love metal gear1,2,3 and 4!
  
  all the blows all the jumps all the snaking makes the game 1 of the best! and it has a great "GREAT" 
 story lines!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! 
  
  as i sed and i will say it agen this is a HELL OF A GAME!!!!!! EVERY 1 REALLY HAVE TO PLAY THIS!!!!! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: footfoe2
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 6, 2008 8:29 pm PT
Review:  Metal Gear Solid 4 Guns of the Patriots tactical espionage action other than being the longest 
 game name ever is the best stealth action game ever. It may be the best game ever.
  
  SHORT STORY: Buy, rent, hell go steal it. I doesn't matter you just have to play this game at least 
 once. Also don't let the 4 fool you, you don't have to play any other games to understand the plot.
 
  
  IN Metal Gear Solid 4 Guns of the Patriots tactical espionage action (yes i will say the whole 
 name every time) you play as solid snake and your sent to kill liquid, (sadly there is no gas, ka 
 enough joking) you spend much of the first chapter learning about the Metal Gear Solid 4 Guns of 
 the Patriots tactical espionage action world, and its all very interesting and you need to pay 
 attention. After that the story turns into this epic awesome adventure about nano machines and 
 whatnot. The Imagery, Music, and voice acting is awe inspiring. thankfully after every chapter 
 you have to install which gives you a chance to rest
  
  GRAPHICS: perfect, every thing looks realistic and beautiful while staying practical
  
  Game 
 play: Also perfect, its basically like a third person shooter with small differences. You can't 
 blind fire because that's impossible in real life. You can't see what you're shooting at if you 
 are behind a wall. Basically you press X to sneak or crawl and to get from Point A to point B. 
 Usually you can fight along side rebels to get though most areas which is fun to do
  
  Pros: All elements of interactive media are present and perfect. story gameplay music aesthetic 
 appeal every thing synergize to gather in awesomeness. Metal Gear Solid 4 Guns of the Patriots 
 tactical espionage action is simply epic
  Cons: Relatively low replay value
  
  Metal Gear Solid 4 Guns of the Patriots tactical espionage action does nothing wrong 10/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: theplum
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 6, 2008 1:46 pm PT
Review:  If you've read my reviews on any of the other mgs games you will no how much i love mgs. This game 
 truly is amazing. It would be very hard to understand this game however if you have not played 
 previous mgs games. The graphics are amazing, the story again is purfect, the game is nice and 
 long. It just truly is alot more realistic to, if you kill PMC's for example the otherside will 
 like you and they wont attack. You now have a stress gauge and when this gets high it gets rid 
 of your stamina, however to keep your stress gauge low you can listen to the ipod or smoke a cigarette 
 (yep snake still carries his cigs!) The ending is amazing, and yes it's a very big headed game 
 in the opening credits the words Hideo Kojima is shown in a very dramatic way. and it also doesn't 
 have the feel that you're a 1 man hero as much, in mgs1 especialy you do completely feel like you're 
 just out of James Bond, also, i no i should be careful avout mentioning this, so i'm going to keep 
 it short but it makes it seem like smoking isn't too bad, for example you now actaly have reason 
 to do it wen you're trying to get stress low, and he smokes in all the cut scenes and i don't think 
 a game should ever promote smokng at all. But to be fair Sankes voice is now very rough and he 
 is constantly ill so i suppose it doesn't support it that much. But the boss battles are fab the 
 story is great! Everyone this game is amazing!!! It should not be missed!!! PURFECT GAME. THE FINAL 
 MGS (apparently) PLAY IT! YOU'LL BE GLAD YOU DID!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kingdavid92
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 6, 2008 1:38 pm PT
Review:  This game was immense, i played it with great enjoyment. The single player story was amazing!! 
 It was great that kojima productions used the power of blu-ray to create a game that looks good, 
 but will also last a for reasonably extended period of time. MGS4 is also relatively good on repetitive 
 gameplay. The way the game was structured was really successful in my opinion, the way snake loses 
 everything towards the end was quite dramatic. The boss battles were gripping, and the cut-scenes 
 were really long, kinda making the game look like a movie. Unfortunately I thought the online was 
 a bit naff, you, reading this may not agree but thats my opinion on MGO... Aside from that the 
 game is awesome. Ive completed it on the Big Boss Hard difficulty level, and let me tell you, it 
 was bloody HARD. Thanks for reading :D !!! Add me. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: brian_13un
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 5, 2008 7:48 pm PT
Review:  Metal Gear Solid 4: Guns of the Patriots is the most technically stunning video game ever made. 
 It's also a fine example of storytelling prowess within its medium, combining gameplay and narrative 
 so slickly and beautifully that it's impossible to extricate one from the other. It's likely you 
 will emerge awestruck from your first play-through, wishing the experience would continue yet nonetheless 
 satisfied with its conclusion. It's difficult not to sound hyperbolic when discussing MGS4 because 
 every part of its design seemingly fulfills its vision, without compromise. There is no halfway. Fully 
 realized, lengthy story sequences will come as no surprise to anyone who has played a Metal Gear 
 game. You'll spend a good half of MGS4 watching cinematics, but it would be a grave misinterpretation 
 to assume that great gameplay takes a backseat to the story. Rather, these two elements are tightly 
 intertwined, and this tapestry is held together by an important technical thread: Cutscenes that 
 are rendered fully in real time within the game engine. It's impressive enough that these scenes 
 look as good as any prerendered cinematic you've ever watched. It's even more amazing when those 
 same scenes transition without pause into gameplay, and the same hulking mech you watched lumber 
 about in the cinematic is looming above you. The subtle animations, the lush environments, and 
 the rich textures are the same in and out of story sequences, and the effect is so seamless it 
 may take your breath away. You can skip past the scenes if you prefer, but doing so would soften 
 the experience. The story sequences carry more weight because of the intense gameplay that precedes 
 them -- and the gameplay feels more compelling because the story gives you powerful reasons to care 
 about your mission. The high point of this fusion occurs in an exciting and memorable split-screen 
 sequence that simply must be experienced.
  
  
  
  To ALL FANS IT IS A GREAT GAME! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DarylJ100
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 7, 2008 9:41 pm PT
Review:  this game is brilliant great graphics and charecters the idea of old snake is great because all 
 of the other games the main characters stay the same no age different. A lot of guns in the game 
 and a lot of things to unlock and great challanges but there is one challange in the game its almost 
 impossible but that makes the game even more good because you can play it over and over to try 
 and complete the challange. The story is really based on the liberty and the 1 metal gear there 
 is nothing to do with snake eater on it witch is a bit dissapointing but the story is still great 
 lot of cut sence there is like 90 munits in it lol wich makes it a great story. So if you like any 
 of the other metal gear or adventure games you should get this its an amazing game and could keep 
 you going for a long time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: waveswiz
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 4, 2008 6:22 pm PT
Review:  Absolutly one of the best! I'd have to say Hideo really hit the nail on the head this time! This 
 one ranks up there with MGS1! So to say the least I have to say just downright MASTERFUL. Whats 
 not to like other than the fact you drown in drebin points, I wish they were a little harder to 
 get. I played for 1 week and already had 3,000,000 DP and thats after I bought the bandanna. But 
 its a classic. Just that it kinda broke the streak of O being X. That took some to get used to 
 using the X as the accept button. The way Hideo wrapped things up in the game was great, they all 
 had a great connection to each other which I thought was pretty damn good. MGO is a completely 
 differant story. Other than the fact that some stupid ass thought "Oh lets make the players buy 
 the expansion pack so that they can get credits to shop!" Which is bull because we should get them 
 for just downright kickin ass. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LiamRichards
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 4, 2008 12:50 pm PT
Review:  As i sat down and started to play the finale of the metal gear solid series. I was immediately 
 impressed from the beginning. Straight away the game creates a 'wow' moment by seamlessly transitioning 
 between the opening scene and actual gameplay, and you get the feeling that your in for a treat, 
 and you are. Metal gear solid 4 offers a gamer the very best experience in tactical espionage that 
 has never been seen before in the previous games, its kept everything that made those games a success 
 and improved them to a point that knowone knew was possible, but thats not all. Two things have 
 changed from the previous titles that make this game arguably the best game ever created. 
  
  firstly, they've taken the game online, its a great feeling when you complete the game for 
 the 10th time on the hardest difficulty and you realise that the experience is not over, because 
 for the first time ever you can play this type of game online, and what a game it is online, and 
 that is all down to the second improvement Hideo made. An improvement in the shooting aspect of 
 the gameplay, if your not a fan of stealth games and you'd just prefer to run and gun you can do 
 that, this game keeps pace with Call of duty 4 in the shooting aspect, granted its not as good, 
 but how could it be, COD4 could not be surpassed in shooting gameplay.
  
  This game truly is flawless and i mean that in every sense of the word, i could say the cutscenes 
 are too long and the gameplay drags but i would be lying, it all works perfectly together and provides 
 you with something that you just don't get out of any other game in the market. brilliant boss 
 scenes, breathtaking graphics, inspiring gameplay and a fantastic online experience make this game 
 the best game ever created. Believe the hype. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: eLLiptiX
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 4, 2008 8:37 am PT
Review:  Before I get bashed and criticized for not giving this game a perfect rating, to those who have 
 played it or are fans, you have to admit that this game really might not appeal to some people. 
 My reasoning for this will be explained later.
  
  I first started out the Metal Gear series with the 3rd game. To be honest I never really had the 
 desire to ever play the previous titles. (I blame a high school friend of mine for this) I watched 
 them played, and I just didn't feel like playing myself. Snake Eater was a pretty dang solid game. 
 It never made one of my favorites but it was pretty satisfying... Now the Sony exclusive premiers 
 on the PS3.
  
  Graphics: 10.. +
  
  Everything said about the graphics of the game is completely true. This game is amazingly beautiful 
 in pretty much every aspect of design. There really isn't much else to say on the graphics because 
 I have absolutely nothing negative to say.
  
  Sound: 9
  
  Sound effects are up to par make no mistake about that. I give this a 9 rating solely based on 
 the craptastic dialogue of the game. Yea yea.. go ahed and say I'm ignorant because all Japanese 
 based games are going to have it. BUT HONESTLY.. Japanese or not. It's motha F$@kin Snake! Neck 
 snapping.. knife stickin.. blood spurtin.. ice cold Snake! Mr. Kojima makes some nice games but I'm 
 sure his artistic angle could have been more focused to appeal to a much more mature crowd. Which 
 bring another question.. for a mature rating which suggests this game IS for mature audiences.. 
 why does it feel like this game was targeted for a younger generation?
  
  Well my friends I beleive that is the overall premise of the game.. a message to the youth. Play 
 it to understand. Just beware for MANY cheeseball moments.
  
  Gameplay: 10
  
  I really can't say enough about the camoflauge system in the game. What a genuis way to blend in 
 without having to pause and flip through a menu of clothes. Many kudos deserved there.
  
  I'm going to incorporate the control scheme into this category mainly because I feel once they 
 are mastered, it makes the game all the more rewarding. 
  I won't lie.. to newcomers of the series.. this game is tough to control. Now I know I'm relatively 
 new to MGS.. but I really felt that I didn't give Snake much b'dass credit with my abilities. I'm 
 not the best sneak with this system.. I'm more of a run-and-gun rambo. Uhh.. which isn't what this 
 game is about.
  
  Now from the gameplay movies I've seen of Mr. Kojima playing himself.. I had a lot of work to do 
 to play it at that level. Trust me when I say that when you practice.. it makes the experience 
 perfect.
  
  Value: 9
  
  This is definately one of PS3's all time awesome games. and yea.. it's worth 60 bucks. A nicely 
 spread campaign with an amusing multiplayer. Though really listen to what I said before. This game 
 is NOT for everyone, so please at least rent first if you are unsure. 
  
  I'm definately big on saving the money for amazing games. And someday, I'm sure I'll own this title. 
 yea.. instead of buying I rented first. Which is what i suggest to you all.
  
  -TiX 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Xx51LLYR4BB1TxX
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 3, 2008 7:58 pm PT
Review:  I have been looking forward to this game ever since I beat Metal Gear Solid 2. The 2 main things 
 I love about Metal Gear Solid games are the story line and the graphics and I have to tell you 
 will be blown away by the graphics they are just plain amazing THE best graphics i have ever seen 
 in any game I have ever played. The game starts out with a werid video that has sorta nothing to 
 do on the game but its funny your get a nice laugh. The game play of the game is just perfect just 
 like all the Metal Gear Solid games before it. The new camo suit snake wears is very fun to play 
 around with. The game has a large amount of weapons to find or buy I also like that you can buy 
 your weapons now in the shop menu and also upgrade them. The four new boss battles of the game 
 are called the beast beauty unit they are 4 very acctravie women. The story line of the game is 
 just plain awsome its so intersting and ocelot liquid is really a cool chracter. The great thing 
 about the story line is it explains every thing of all the 3 Metal Gear Solid games to this one. 
 All your questions will be answered in this game. The music for the game is also good and nice 
 to listen too. The game also offers a online feature but it has nothing to do with the game though 
 so its not that great. Just about every thing about this game is great the only thing i can really 
 complain about is well i better not say its kinda of a spoiler so ill just keep that to my self. 
 Over all this is the greates Metal Gear Solid game ever your just be amazed with the graphics they 
 really are the best in any game i have ever played so far for any Metal Gear Solid fan just get 
 this game your love it enjoy snakes final mission its a really great one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wmarkitto
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 3, 2008 5:56 pm PT
Review:  This game is awesome! The history, graphics and gameplay are unbelivable. It's the first game I 
 really see something that only PS3 is able to do. Besides everything you want in tactical game 
 are there! Guns, stealth actions, everything any other fan of Metal Gear Solid games already know. 
 Other thing you also can do is download from PS Store (free of charge) is the Metal Gear Database. 
 A kind of "program" for PS3 that it's like a wikipedia for Metal Gear... You can search chronologically 
 and by a term of any Metal Gear game in history. That's so nice to people that not played the old 
 versions of the game.
  The most amazing is that there some crazy guys that finish this game under 3 or 5 hours.. Which 
 in my opinion, besides the emblem engine of the game that will give you a "Big Boss Emblem", it's 
 not so cool. This game you should play very slowly, experiencing every moment of the scenes that 
 happens between the game...
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: nocoolnamejim
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 3, 2008 3:05 pm PT
Review:  The Good:
  Best graphics and environments in any game to date period. Fantastic level design along with thrilling 
 and varied gameplay. Excellent audio and voice work. Good replay value. Drags you in and keeps 
 you playing for just... one... more... level. Original setting idea. Plenty of nice little touches. 
 
  
  The Bad:
  Storyline and characters completely bust the meter for cheesiness and pompousness. High barriers 
 to entry for newcomers to the series due to long running story carried over from previous games. 
 Did this game REALLY need a multiplayer element? Boss battles are a bit limited.
  
  There have been plenty of games over the last year or two that had great graphics or tremendous 
 gameplay. We've seen games that have strong audio or an immersive setting that drag you in. Seldom, 
 if ever, have we seen a game that does all of these things as well as Metal Gear Solid 4 does.
 
  
  This game goes further than any game before it ever has to blurring the line between blockbuster 
 summer action movie and video game, complete with both the positive and the negative inherent in 
 summer blockbuster movies as a genre. 
  
  As you might expect for summer blockbusters, you can chalk up some of the most exciting action 
 sequences seen in years. From the moment you first start playing this game, it drags you in and 
 convinces you that you are in a war zone. Bombs burst around you. Soldiers fighting on different 
 sides kill each other in addition to just you. Environments crumble under military assault and 
 the screams of the dying reach your ears. At times this game comes close to being just a bit disturbing 
 with how realistically it portrays the action around you.
  
  You play the role of Solid Snake, returning for one last tour of duty after being in hiding for 
 years after being blamed for Liquid's crimes in previous games. However, all is not well with you. 
 Whereas in previous games you were a trained fighting machine with a body of unequaled speed, strength, 
 stamina and reactions, this game shows that time catches up with us all. It has caught up with 
 Snake quicker than it was supposed to. You don't find out why Snake is aging so prematurely until 
 you're well into the game, but the fact of the matter is that it has definite impacts upon how 
 you play and your abilities. You're still a killing machine, but you also have some Achilles heels.
 
  
  Snake's body is breaking down. What this means in terms of gameplay is that you must monitor more 
 than just the amount of damage that you take in order to play successfully. Your "psyche" meter, 
 representing your mental state, and your "stress" meter, representing the physical strain your 
 body is under, need to also be monitored or they start severely impacting your abilities. For those 
 people who have played the Metal Gear games before, this adds a fun and challenging new element 
 to the gameplay to help keep the series fresh, but don't worry, many of the old mainstays of the 
 series are still present.
  
  For example, stealth, like in other MGS titles, is often a much better approach than just storming 
 through the proverbial front gates of the castle. As with previous games, the soldiers you encounter 
 will call for backup if they spot you and eventually you can, and often will be overwhelmed if 
 you simply try and bull your way through trouble.
  
  This simple adjustment that soldiers in battle will call for reinforcements is one of the biggest 
 features that separate the MGS series from your typical shooter title. Knowing when to fight, when 
 to flee, and when to hide adds an element of strategy that remains fresh even after so many Metal 
 Gear offerings.
  
  The stealth systemin MGS4 is a particularly advanced and well-developed element of the gameplay. 
 The level design often presents numerous routes to your end destination for the creative and patient 
 souls willing to spend a little extra time searching. Whether it is crawling under a crumpled building, 
 scaling the rooftops or heading down a blind alleyway and hopping over some boxes, there is almost 
 always more than one route to get to where you want to go if you are intent on avoiding combat 
 to the maximum extent possible. Helping to avoid combat is your new suit, which incorporates "Octocamo" 
 technology. Essentially, the suit works like an Octopus or a Chameleon, allowing you to change 
 colors and blend into your surroundings with little effort.
  
  However, MGS4 still more than adequately succeeds as a traditional shooter title. 
  
  The game 
 markets top-notch visuals. The graphics are the best yet seen in any game released to date. The 
 guns you have access to are varied, customizable and real feeling. In fact, the game adds another 
 fun touch where guns are concerned. Due to the unique setting the game is based on (more on this 
 in a minute) , not all guns you come across are immediately available for use. Some guns are "ID 
 Locked", or coded to a specific person, and that coding must be removed prior to your being able 
 to use them. You pay to have the ID lock removed by trading in guns to a local arms dealer named 
 Drebin in return for "Drebin points" that you can use to shop at his store.
  
  The one area of the gameplay that feels a little weak is in boss battles. The strategy of "run 
 around a lot and take pot shots when you see openings" seems to work quite nicely for just about 
 all of the bosses until you start getting close to the end of the game.
  
  So far, we can list the following elements as positves for MGS4. Gameplay is addictive, varied 
 and original. Graphics are excellent and the level design borders on "evil genius". But no amount 
 of gratuitous violence, pretty colors and originality in the world can make a perfect game if the 
 storyline, characters, voice acting and audio can't keep up. This is where we start seeing some 
 problems in MGS4.
  
  One of long running concerns of the MGS games is that their storylines are unnecessarily convoluted, 
 wordy and childish. Unfortunately, this title fully justifies all those concerns.
  
  The problem isn't that the game doesn't try and make sure that it has a deep and immersive storyline 
 complete with engrossing characters. The problem is that the story actually got in the way of the 
 game. It was a horribly constructed, badly written, shoddy, pompous mess. 
  
  The storyline has a lot of potential. The general idea is that at some point, the world entered 
 what is referred to in game as the "War Economy". In other words, the military industrial complex 
 in the world has become so large and so central to the world's economy that war is actually necessary 
 to keep many of the world's economies from collapsing completely. 
  
  All of this is being controlled by a secret Illuminati/Masons/Skull and Bones style fraternity 
 of power brokers called "The Patriots". This is a great idea of something to explore, and if the 
 execution had been handled better would have been a fascinating inclusion. The problem is that 
 the execution was horrifically botched.
  
  The main problem is that the series has just gone on for too long. In order to make some of the 
 back story fit together, some incredible and unlikely gymnastics and leaps of believability are 
 required on behalf of the player. All of the worst cliches in literature are pulled out here. People 
 believed dead come back to life under unlikely means. Doppledangers and clones abound. Just when 
 you think you've beaten the big, awful threat it turns out that was just the smallest piece of 
 something much, much larger. And any crime can be forgiven if the woman committing the crime is 
 hot enough or has a sad enough blife story. (The men can't mind you, but the women can.)
  
  It doesn't help that the dialogue appears to be have been written by a depressed teenager with 
 pretensions of being a awe-inspiring philosopher. The characters whine, wax melancholic and weep 
 dramatically. They go on long monologs that would have put Shakespeare's "Hamlet" to shame. Part 
 of this is obviously an attempt to remind old players of pertinent details that happened in previous 
 games and to expose new players to those details, but the game would have been better off if they 
 tied up some of the old story arcs and put them away so they didn't have to constantly go on longwinded 
 explanations as to things that happened three or four games back.
  
  The tendency of the characters to blather would be even more obvious if the voice work talents 
 and the graphics weren't so top notch. Often times it is easy to zone out what is actually being 
 said because of how beautiful the scenery is and how excellent the voicing. Watching the beautiful 
 graphics and listening to the life-like voices can be hypnotic when the actual plot and subplot 
 updates are conveyed in the first few sentences, even if the characters themselves continue to 
 talk for another 15 minutes. Go ahead and get yourself a beer. The next level isn't starting anytime 
 soon.
  
  The bottom line is that this is a game, and a series, that has fallen in love with itself and is 
 now very focused on making everyone else who plays the game acutely aware of just how awesome and 
 deep the storyline is, which is unfortunate, because the actual story idea as mentioned before 
 is a really good one.
  
  In a way, it is a mark of just how impressive of a game this is that it succeeds not because of 
 the story and characters but in spite of these things. The actual game itself, when you are in 
 control and dictating the flow of action, is just incredible.
  
  Overall Impressions:
  This game is a must have for any PS3 owner who doesn't mind excessive cheesiness or being preached 
 at a bit in exchange for host of positives. This remains, minor issues aside, a remarkably game 
 achievement that quite justifies its status as one of the great games of our time.
  
  True Score: 9.0
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: lociefer
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 3, 2008 9:14 am PT
Review:  hideo kojima has done it again , if you dont know who this guy is ( wich i probably doubt ) , he's 
 the producer , mastermind behind the metal gear solid series.
  
  
  As all the metal gear solid fans are aware of , hideo kojima isnt a traditional man , he likes 
 to make big changes in his titles , take metal gear solid 2 for example , who wouldve thought that 
 u wont play as snake , but as raiden , in metal gear solid 3 , every1 was happy and thinking , 
 ow look we'll play as snake again , and they were so rong , u played as BIG BOSS , wich is amazing.
 
  
  this time around , it isnt just a new character ur playing with , but a whole re-mastered game 
 engine , now u dont get the same over the head camera , but a splinter cell-like camera , meaning 
 u get to see all the action around you , and if that wasnt enought , now snake is old , he's approching 
 his limit , and its up to you to finish his last fight , u also get a variety of cool new gadgets 
 starting with the octocamo , thought the camo switching in mgs3 frustrating ? now u dont have to 
 worry about it at all , just lean toward any surface and there u go , ur camouflaged .
  
  now lets talk details:
  
  GRAPHICS: best in the game industry , and belive me ive played alot 
 of em , starting from super mario to gears of war to metal gear solid 4 , and i havent seen a match 
 to its graphics
  
  
  SOUND: what do u expect from an uncompressed sound format on a glorious 50gb dual layer bluray 
 ? pure awesomenessssesssssss , and about david hayter voice acting , he deserves an oscar seriously 
 , youll be hearing some familiar voicese to from all the mgs series (wont do any spoilers here)
 
  
  
  GAMEPLAY: its so enjoyable that i got a hard on while playing , on a more serious note , the gameplay 
 is awesome and unique , thts probably some sites gave the game an undeserving score, u see , its 
 not all about sneaking and killing , this time , theres like 1 ,2 missions that are new to the 
 mgs series , like this track this guy mission where u dont have to be seen, and its not all in 
 one location like the tanker or the plant in mgs2 ,there are more than a location that ull fight 
 in ( no spoilers here 2 :) ) ) ) ) )
  
  
  GADGETS / WEAPONS : ok let me start be saying ive completed the game 6 times and never tried all 
 the guns , there are like a whole army gun storage in snake's disposal , ya , theyr that huge , 
 also , u get octocamo / ipod / mk2 ( the little robot) / solid eye , and alot more.
  
  
  
  CLOSING COMMENTS: you are already wasting ur time reading my review , instead you should be 
 experiencing this masterpiece urself , just get it , and close ur room lights , turn the volume 
 up , get tissues , coz this game made the most testosterone filled guyz cry , so prepare for a 
 journey filled with sadness , joy , pride , nestolgiacness , get ready for METAL GEAR SOLID 4 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chip211
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 3, 2008 8:07 am PT
Review:  *Rating - 9.6 
  
  *Graphics - 10
  
  *Value - 10
  
  *Gameplay - 8
  
  *Story - 10
  
  *Controls - 10
  
  I am no Konami employee but I will tell you that Metal 
 Gear Solid 4 is the BEST game on the playstation 3 thus far. It is the most techinically proficient 
 and addictive game in the whole playstation library. The graphics are amazing and almost photo realistic 
 while maintaining a steady framerate. There may be a few low resolution textures here and there 
 but the overall presentation is stunning. The lighting and particle effects are great complimenting 
 to the game's overall look. Even though I have never played a single metal gear solid game in the 
 series before, the storyline is gripping, comical and emotional. The storyline opens it's doors to 
 newcomers to the series while giving veterans several flashbacks from previous metal gear solid 
 games. In Singapore, the price of the game is S$72 (about 50 USD) . This is considered cheap for a game 
 of this faculty. It is one of the cheaper games out there for the PS3 and is real value for money. The 
 controls are great as switching a weapon or item is as easy as pressing L2 or R2. The game is paused 
 while the weapon/item menu is selected letting players switch their weopens in the middle of a 
 firefight without getting shot in the face while doing so. The game has in place a system called 
 the 'Drebin Point Sysetem' which enables players to buy new weapons, items or weapon upgrades on 
 the move by accumalating 'Drebin Points'. Players earn Drebin Points by collecting weapons from 
 dead/unconsious soldiers and selling them to a weapon's dealer conveniently called 'Drebin'. The 
 system is as sofisticated as it sounds and has a wide array of weapons, items and weapon upgrades 
 to purchase. Players can purchase weapons like handguns all the way up to RPG's with the click of 
 the circle button. The selection of weapon upgrades are expansive and can extremely aid a player 
 in a desperete situation. Laser sights, precision handles, scopes and many more can be purchased from 
 the store. The last thing (and the best thing) of Metal Gear Solid 4 I want to write in my review 
 about is the amazing 'Metal Gear Online'. A game that was already perfect had been even more perfected 
 by it's online counterpart,'Metal Gear Online'. The registration process is tedious as updates have 
 to be downloaded, end-user licens agreements agreed and long, loooong loading times. But after all 
 the waiting and frustration, the present awaits us.16 player online matches doesn't seem like much 
 but 16 players in a small map with two teams battling out for their lives, that's alot. Players customization 
 is great and allows a more presonal feel to the game. The single player segment of the game can 
 take most players about thirty hours to complete while the multi-player portion can take up endless 
 our of your time. Overall, Metal Gear Solid 4 is a game that only players who experience it know 
 how it feels like playing the game. Before buying this game, I thought that it was just another stealth 
 game like Hitman or Splinter Cell, but now I know that the Japanese are a force to be reckoned with 
 and are one of the best game developers of our time. So, what are you waiting for, get out of your 
 seat and go get the game.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: fuzzyking
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 2, 2008 11:18 pm PT
Review:  This game is probably the best game i've played in my entire life. Its straight up amazing. There 
 is no way i can describe it. Only God knows what to say in this situation.
  
  Graphics: Better than any game. Period.
  
  Sound: The orchestra is so well coordinated and 
 played, that i got distracted by listening to it.
  
  Gameplay: Takes a while to get into, but its straight up fluid and works well.
  
  The game 
 has many cutscenes, but i don't really care. the game itself is still amazing. some times it ruins 
 the moment, but I didn't really mind. 
  
  The online is pretty nice, but hard to get into. Players will destroy you. my only complaint is 
 the sign up you have to do is somewhat complex and could have been a lot easier.
  
  Metal Gear Solid 4 is flawless. Perfect. A Utopia. You have to buy this game if u have a ps3. if 
 you dont have one. go buy 1. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Thereaper1981
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 2, 2008 3:18 pm PT
Review:  Metal Gear Solid 4: Guns Of The Patriots is the best game made on PS3 and the best for life. The 
 game has the the best story anyone can think of and the best surprises for anybody to think of. 
 The game has the most impressive graphics, it has perfect quality, and color. You can even see 
 the peoples face perfectly fine. The game play is better than any game made for any other consoles. 
 The controls are perfectly fine, the rolling over is good and it is cool. Snakes camouflage is 
 so cool because if you press against anything, the suit gets its color. No one will ever notice 
 you even if you pass in front of them. Metal Gear Solid : Guns Of The Patriots is the number one 
 sneaking game. The boss fights are awesome. The game never gets boring. The on-line is the best 
 on-line because there are no bad connections or anything. The game is very impressive for all these 
 reasons. You can do anything you want in this game. This is why I think Metal Gear Solid 4: Guns 
 Of The Patriots is the best game ever made. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ghani123
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 2, 2008 6:20 am PT
Review:  this game rocks metal gear solid 4 rocks metal gear solid 4 rocks metal gear solid 4 rocks metal 
 gear solid 4 rocks metal gear solid 4 rocks metal gear solid 4 rocks metal gear solid 4 rocks metal 
 gear solid 4 rocks metal gear solid 4 rocks metal gear solid 4 rocks metal gear solid 4 rocks metal 
 gear solid 4 rocks metal gear solid 4 rocks metal gear solid 4 rocks metal gear solid 4 rocks metal 
 gear solid 4 rocks metal gear solid 4 rocks metal gear solid 4 rocks metal gear solid 4 rocks metal 
 gear solid 4 rocks metal gear solid 4 rocks metal gear solid 4 rocks metal gear solid 4 rocks metal 
 gear solid 4 rocks metal gear solid 4 rocks metal gear solid 4 rocks metal gear solid 4 rocks metal 
 gear solid 4 rocks metal gear solid 4 rocks metal gear solid 4 rocks metal gear solid 4 rocks metal 
 gear solid 4 rocks metal gear solid 4 rocks metal gear solid 4 rocks metal gear solid 4 rocks metal 
 gear solid 4 rocks metal gear solid 4 rocks metal gear solid 4 rocks metal gear solid 4 rocks metal 
 gear solid 4 rocks metal gear solid 4 rocks metal gear solid 4 rocks metal gear solid 4 rocks metal 
 gear solid 4 rocks metal gear solid 4 rocks metal gear solid 4 rocks metal gear solid 4 rocks metal 
 gear solid 4 rocks metal gear solid 4 rocks metal gear solid 4 rocks metal gear solid 4 rocks metal 
 gear solid 4 rocks metal gear solid 4 rocks metal gear solid 4 rocks metal gear solid 4 rocks metal 
 gear solid 4 rocks metal gear solid 4 rocks metal gear solid 4 rocks metal gear solid 4 rocks metal 
 gear solid 4 rocks metal gear solid 4 rocks metal gear solid 4 rocks metal gear solid 4 rocks metal 
 gear solid 4 rocks metal gear solid 4 rocks metal gear solid 4 rocks metal gear solid 4 rocks metal 
 gear solid 4 rocks metal gear solid 4 rocks metal gear solid 4 rocks metal gear solid 4 rocks metal 
 gear solid 4 rocks metal gear solid 4 rocks metal gear solid 4 rocks metal gear solid 4 rocks metal 
 gear solid 4 rocks metal gear solid 4 rocks metal gear solid 4 rocks metal gear solid 4 rocks metal 
 gear solid 4 rocks metal gear solid 4 rocks metal gear solid 4 rocks metal gear solid 4 rocks metal 
 gear solid 4 rocks metal gear solid 4 rocks metal gear solid 4 rocks metal gear solid 4 rocks metal 
 gear solid 4 rocks metal gear solid 4 rocks metal gear solid 4 rocks metal gear solid 4 rocks metal 
 gear solid 4 rocks metal gear solid 4 rocks metal gear solid 4 rocks metal gear solid 4 rocks metal 
 gear solid 4 rocks metal gear solid 4 rocks metal gear solid 4 rocks metal gear solid 4 rocks metal 
 gear solid 4 rocks metal gear solid 4 rocks metal gear solid 4 rocks metal gear solid 4 rocks metal 
 gear solid 4 rocks metal gear solid 4 rocks metal gear solid 4 rocks metal gear solid 4 rocks metal 
 gear solid 4 rocks metal gear solid 4 rocks metal gear solid 4 rocks metal gear solid 4 rocks metal 
 gear solid 4 rocks metal gear solid 4 rocks metal gear solid 4 rocks metal gear solid 4 rocks metal 
 gear solid 4 rocks metal gear solid 4 rocks metal gear solid 4 rocks metal gear solid 4 rocks metal 
 gear solid 4 rocks metal gear solid 4 rocks metal gear solid 4 rocks metal gear solid 4 rocks metal 
 gear solid 4 rocks metal gear solid 4 rocks metal gear solid 4 rocks metal gear solid 4 rocks metal 
 gear solid 4 rocks metal gear solid 4 rocks metal gear solid 4 rocks metal gear solid 4 rocks metal 
 gear solid 4 rocks metal gear solid 4 rocks metal gear solid 4 rocks metal gear solid 4 rocks metal 
 gear solid 4 rocks metal gear solid 4 rocks metal gear solid 4 rocks metal gear solid 4 rocks metal 
 gear solid 4 rocks metal gear solid 4 rocks metal gear solid 4 rocks metal gear solid 4 rocks metal 
 gear solid 4 rocks metal gear solid 4 rocks metal gear solid 4 rocks metal gear solid 4 rocks metal 
 gear solid 4 rocks metal gear solid 4 rocks metal gear solid 4 rocks metal gear solid 4 rocks metal 
 gear solid 4 rocks metal gear solid 4 rocks metal gear solid 4 rocks metal gear solid 4 rocks metal 
 gear solid 4 rocks metal gear solid 4 rocks metal gear solid 4 rocks metal gear solid 4 rocks metal 
 gear solid 4 rocks metal gear solid 4 rocks metal gear solid 4 rocks metal gear solid 4 rocks metal 
 gear solid 4 rocks metal gear solid 4 rocks metal gear solid 4 rocks metal gear solid 4 rocks metal 
 gear solid 4 rocks metal gear solid 4 rocks metal gear solid 4 rocks metal gear solid 4 rocks metal 
 gear solid 4 rocks metal gear solid 4 rocks metal gear solid 4 rocks metal gear solid 4 rocks metal 
 gear solid 4 rocks metal gear solid 4 rocks metal gear solid 4 rocks metal gear solid 4 rocks metal 
 gear solid 4 rocks metal gear solid 4 rocks metal gear solid 4 rocks metal gear solid 4 rocks metal 
 gear solid 4 rocks metal gear solid 4 rocks metal gear solid 4 rocks metal gear solid 4 rocks metal 
 gear solid 4 rocks metal gear solid 4 rocks 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sonic3456
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 1, 2008 8:19 pm PT
Review:  Metal Gear Solid 4 was by far the most anticipated PS3 game in history, but does it live up to 
 the hype? The answer to that question is an obvious yes. The plot is something I'm not gonna spoil 
 because it's one of the most important parts of this game. Gameplay wise the game is incredibly 
 entertaining. The controls are hard to get used to at first, but once you get them down you'll 
 be mastering this game. One thing I never liked about stealth games is combat, it sometimes doesn't 
 happen. Konami obviously knew that when they made this game. You never really have to use stealth, 
 you can shoot your way out of most situations just fine. The boss battles are the games highlight. 
 Most are confusing and very fun. The graphics are beautiful. It is arguably the best looking game 
 on any console to date. The sound is also one of the games many highlights. The voice acting is 
 fantastic and the music fits in perfectly with every moment in the game. What else is there to 
 say about Metal Gear Solid 4? It's just incredible entertaining and cinematic (it basically feels 
 like a movie) . If you haven't bought the game yet go and get it. If you don't have a PS3 go buy 
 it just to play this game, it's well worth your money. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sydneyviles
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 1, 2008 10:41 am PT
Review:  Metal Gear Solid 4 is one of the best games i have ever played. I never thought zelda would fail 
 to forever be my favorite game. but i was wrong. mgs4 raises the bar for all other games in every 
 aspect. Story, Gameplay, graphics, sound. and even how players watch cutscenes. ive been hearing 
 alot of complaince about how long the cutscenes are. its true there are long but they are also 
 interactive. throughout them you can tap x for flashbacks or L1 to look through snakes eyes. there 
 are even parts where you can take control of a little gaget called the mark 2 while the cutscenes 
 are going on and explore the enviroment. still if you absolutely cant handle cutscenes then just 
 hit the start button and skip them. but if you do that you will be missing out on a bit. even without 
 the cutscenes this games still deserves a 10. if you like good games then you'll love this game 
 cause its most likely the best game ever made. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: x1finalmomentx
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 31, 2008 6:06 pm PT
Review:  This is the first mgs game ive played yet and I am certainly regretting it now. played through 
 it and am currently playing through the game again on hard. I absolutely loved every second of 
 this game, so intense, really gets you involved in the story even if you are a first timer to the 
 series like me. 
  
  also with the ps3 dlc you can get the metal gear database that really helped me understand everything 
 ive missed up until this point. the database is a lot of reading but there is certainly a huge 
 foundation here if youve never played mgs before. 
  
  Best graphics I've seen yet in a video game, amazing gameplay and controls. Truly nothing to complain 
 about with this game. It's just like a movie so there is some really long cutscenes but I didn't 
 mind that at all, really gets you involved with a story, everything was top notch and movie quality 
 voice acting as well. 
  
  Anyways perfect game for anyone who loves having fun! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zeeduckieez
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 30, 2008 9:48 pm PT
Review:  We've been following Solid Snake's adventures for 21 years now. From his origin on the NES, to 
 his masterpiece on the PS3, Snake can easily be called one of the most bad ass characters of video 
 game history. Now, in his old age, Snake is back in this pinnacle of modern gaming. All the action, 
 the suspense, and the movie esque storyies that made the first MG: S games so great is back for 
 a fourth spin. Honestly, if you haven't played a Metal Gear game, you're missing out. Seriously.
 
  
  Our protagonist, Snake, is called back before going into retirement. Unfortunately, Snake has gone 
 through accelerated aging and has become an old man. Enter Old Snake, who in spite of his age, 
 manages to be just as elite as ever. Many new gameplay tactics are introduced in this iteration, 
 and to be honest, all of these improve the game play. Unfortunately, Liquid's back and he's doing 
 some fairly disturbing stuff (don't want to give out any spoilers!) . Many old characters make a 
 return, and there are plenty of surprises, don't worry.
  
  The controls are top-notch, simple to use, and make the best use of the DualShock 3/Sixaxis controller. 
 Aiming is a cinch, and movement can be controlled to even the most subtle movements. Accessing 
 Snake's items and weapons is controlled with the L2 and R2, respectively. This system is a great 
 way to switch weapons on the spot, although occasionally I did find myself pressing the L2 button 
 instead of the L1 (I'm not a huge veteran of the DualShock styled controller, mind you) . The only 
 difficulty I had was with the camera, it didn't always go where I wanted to. Other than that, it's 
 top notch.
  
  Game play, simply put, is perfection. The perfect balance of difficulty, amazing story flow, boss 
 battles are truly fun this time around. I have yet to see a flaw in this masterpiece. The best 
 part of the game is that you can play it like a shooter, or you can take is slow and sneak around. 
 Stealth is emphasized, but if you love to run n' gun, there is nothing stopping you. Honestly, 
 there must be a ton of ways to play this, and go around completing your objectives. One play through 
 is definitely not enough. There are a ton of easter eggs to unlock throughout the game to keep 
 you playing for months.
  
  Audio-wise, the game is also excellent. The soundtrack is awesome, the orchestral songs really 
 heighten the experience. The sounds of the guns, various military vehicles and personnel, the tired 
 grunt of Snake all make this game a pleasure to listen to in Surround Sound. The game also has 
 an in-game iPod, which allows you to listen to tracks found throughout the game, or your own music 
 stored on the PS3's HDD.
  
  If you have a nice television, this game will make you gape in awe. It's beautiful! Great textures, 
 models, the lighting is well-done, this is truly a spectacle of the PS3's technology. Wait until 
 more of the PS3 is mastered, we can expect to see even prettier games pretty soon. The game in 
 lower resolutions is nice too, but nothing beats playing this in high-def on a 52" LCD TV, trust 
 me.
  
  If you're a fan of the series, or even if you've never played any of it and want a killer action 
 game, get this. Now. There are pretty much no visible flaws, save for the occasional camera difficulty. 
 Sony has created yet another masterpiece, this is the definite reason to get a PS3. You will not 
 be disappointed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bim-23k
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 30, 2008 4:33 pm PT
Review:  METAL GEAR SOLID 4: GUNS OF THE PATRIOTS
  
  MERITS: 
  In order of most impressive
   The best PS3 exclusive till date
   First time play through, you'd fill glued to it from the 
 very start till the End
   Lived up to hype
   Most buy for any MG fans
   Top not to crack graphics
   By miles a better game than GTA IV
   Awesome Boss Fights
 
   Well equipped with gadgets
   Very well explained summary to represent the previous MG franchise
  
  DEMERITS: 
  In order 
 of least Impressive
   Rather excessive storytelling, gets incredibly annoying
   Online mode not as darling as single but still great
   Like the GS review mentioned 'single 
 player mode ends'
  
  PERSONAL REMARK: 
  If you're out there with a ps3 and yet to play this game, I got 3 words (get a copy) and find out 
 for yourself what all the fuss is about. 
  
  
  ALL MY REVIEWS ALSO ON MY GAMESPOT BLOG FOR QUICKER ACCESS!!!. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: bigbear619
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 30, 2008 1:34 pm PT
Review:  So long Snake. Thank you and goodnight. You've given us a plethora of memories, and a handful of 
 incredible games to remember you by. We'll never forget trading mind games with Psycho Mantis, 
 or the colossal **** that was MGS2; and we'll probably struggle to find another title that hit 
 the emotional heights of the superlative Snake Eater. But it's quite possible that when the dust 
 has settled, when all is said and done, we'll look upon your final mission, Metal Gear Solid 4, 
 as your finest hour.
  
  It's quite simply that damn good.
  
  Don't get us wrong  the game is not perfect (what game is?) but it comes as close as dammit. Non-fans 
 will possibly find the indulgent cut scenes needlessly excessive, and the mandatory installs irritating 
  some might even find themselves wrestling with the unconventional control methods. But at the 
 end of the day, even the most vehement of MGS detractors will put their hand up and admit  Metal 
 Gear Solid 4 is, by far, the most polished combination of presentation and gameplay this generation. 
 It sets a new benchmark in terms of production values, and will blow your tiny little mind to smithereens 
 on more than one occasion.
  
  First the story: undoubtedly the most contentious part of the series. On this count some fans may 
 be disappointed to hear that the restrained (by the standard of the series) tomes of Snake Eater 
 have been replaced by a tale more reminiscent of the almost universally reviled Metal Gear Solid 
 2. Thankfully it never reaches the absurd post-modern heights of its predecessor, but all but the 
 most rabid fans will find themselves shaking their head on at least one occasion.
  
  That being said, the game ties up all loose ends satisfactorily, and is relatively accessible for 
 newcomers. There are times when the cuts-scenes get excessive (especially towards the end) but 
 you'll probably find them curiously compulsive  and there's the odd moment of magic, the odd scene 
 that actually outperforms some of the best action movies in recent memory.
  
  As for the gameplay itself  simply sublime. The game is divided neatly into five separate acts, 
 each of which has its own unique tone and gameplay style  and even those fans who've been readily 
 devouring every review, preview, or video trailer will undoubtedly find surprises at every turn 
 in Metal Gear Solid 4. It pushes the boundaries of the franchise constantly, but never feels unfamiliar
 
  The first act is an audio-visual feast designed to blow you away from the very outset. Think the 
 immersive COD4 war scenarios then crank it up a couple of notches. The early war scenes featuring 
 two rival PMC companies going at it with gusto is a masterpiece in both visual and game design. 
 You can choose to get involved in conflicts, or sneak past unharmed, as all the noise and gunfire 
 of a fully-fledged combat situation explodes in the vicinity.
  
  What's even more impressive, however, is that in the large-scale chaos of this warzone, the more 
 minute details that typically make up the Metal Gear experience are not forgotten. The cat and 
 mouse evasion games are present and correct, and in many ways more refined than before, due to 
 a vastly improved control system that makes what was previously overly complicated a far less frustrating 
 experience.
  
  Basically, whenever you ask a question of MGS4's game design, it responds in a positive fashion. 
 If you want to run and gun, the game provides that option and somehow makes it fun, but if you 
 prefer to use stealth, then, of course, the game allows you to do so. Guns of the Patriots is so 
 packed with detail that every option is catered for, and this makes for one of the most immersive 
 game worlds in existence  the illusion of this interactive environment is never shattered.
  
  The second act, set in the South American jungle, goes into Snake Eater territory  minus the 
 frustratingly endless camouflage switches. Compared to the first act this experience is a far more 
 linear affair, but is so brilliantly paced that you'll barely notice or care. It's topped off by 
 an on rails section that would be the undoubted high point of any other game on the market  but 
 this isn't any other game, it's Metal Gear Solid 4, and the best is yet to come.
  
  Namely, a similar on rails section at the end of Act Three. And this high barometer of quality extends 
 through the entire game, throughout each of the five acts. The beginning of the third act may prove 
 to be too much of diversion from traditional MGS gameplay for some, and many will be frustrated 
 by the balance of game to cut-scene as they advance deeper into the game  but really Hideo Kojima 
 has a story to tell, and we'd prefer that he tell it.
  
  In a world filled with generic shooters, bald space marines and ten a penny cliches Metal Gear 
 Solid 4 is a light amongst the dark, proving to designers that you can do something different, 
 that videogames can be more than a sum of their parts. Make no mistake about it, MGS4 is a game 
 that pushes the medium forward, in a big way, and we as gamers should be eternally grateful that 
 such a game exists. An undoubted masterpiece. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BelaidKL
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 30, 2008 11:28 am PT
Review:  Alright, normally my reviews are long and in depth as well as comparing the good to the bad but 
 thats not the case here.
  Metal gear solid started off as a small Konami project which has finished in the greatst ending 
 to a franchise of all time. Solid Snake, a great character, is on a race against time to defeat 
 his brother, Liquid Snake, and stop the system from destroying the world, take out JD. Through 
 out the game you will meet and understand every character encountered through out the series, which 
 is more in depth and amazingly good. The stealth system is made easier due to the Camo suite but 
 who cares! with the amount of action, moves and gadgets through out the game so what if its easier 
 to minuver your way through enemies. The entire feel to the game is outstanding with multiple tasks 
 to go through and so many bosses to worry about and fight. The Beauty and the Beast Corps are an 
 excellent addition to the game and previous characters, my favourite being laughing octopus and 
 my least favourite being screaming mantis. These characters leave you on the edge and eager to 
 fight them, although they may seem impossible to beat they are actually easy. Geko... the thing 
 i like most about Raiden. The cut scene where he takes alot of them on is fantastic to watch even 
 though you know it wont end that early. Finally, i think, im back to solid snake. The game would 
 be another similar one to the franchise, i say similar because its the same concept but alot more 
 better. You may think of metal gear solid as stealth, cutscenes, story and metal gear but when 
 all that is in jeopardy because -- MAY BE SPOILERS!!!!
  
  
  
  he is going to die due to nanomachines which are aging his body incredbily fast. Now YOU must take 
 him through the game not knowing what will happen at the end -- which is nearly not the case in the 
 other 3 MAIN follow ups to number 4. 
  so thats about it and even though i said there isnt any bda points, which is still true, i do have 
 one minor issue which has bothered many other people i know who have played and finished this game... the 
 length of the cutscenes, one of which is a shocking 99 mins...99!!! not to be a cry baby or anything 
 but come on at the end of a game i want to see the ending not seeeeeeee it, if you know what i 
 mean. anyway besides the length of cutscenes and most mission briefings the games is edging on 
 perfect but is still a 10 in my books- graphicly, story wise, gameplay wise and the lot. See this 
 is why games deserve 10 not because, sorry for those who love it but, gta4... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: loup80
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 30, 2008 8:11 am PT
Review:  not the best metal gear. long and boring videos. better buy a movie, or replay metalgear 3 snake 
 eater that was the best metal gear ever. for the rest nothing than catch my atencion a lot of a 
 few minutes. a realy fake for my. I fired that japanis who direct this bad soap opera. poor metal 
 gear n` poor snake for the right is snake gay or something or is he only an **** and the worse 
 of all merril get married, **** this is an soap opera???
  
  not the best metal gear. long and boring videos. better buy a movie, or replay metalgear 3 snake 
 eater that was the best metal gear ever. for the rest nothing than catch my atencion a lot of a 
 few minutes. a realy fake for my. I fired that japanis who direct this bad soap opera. poor metal 
 gear n` poor snake for the right is snake gay or something or is he only an **** and the worse 
 of all merril get married, **** this is an soap opera??? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mattsnibbs
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 28, 2008 11:35 pm PT
Review:  This is a game of so many contradictions (in a good way) . It's a stealth, tactical shooter than 
 can be played as a shooter that may or may not utilize and sneaking at all. 
  It's a game that takes itself way too seriously and then at times poke fun of itself.
  It's a 
 tour de force that celebrates not only where it is now but where it has come from.
  This game is slick the controls are extremely friendly, and much easier than previous versions 
 of MGS.
  While the gameplay is heavily outweighed by the cutscenes, it feels right and cutscenes have a 
 small amount of interactivity in them which is a bit of relief.
  The bosses are interesting and different with different strategies that need to be employed. The 
 locations are likewise varied and interesting and basically stunning.
  Some of the best moments in this game are when it doesn't take itself too seriously i. e. references 
 to disc swapping, changing controller ports ect.
  An awesome game that you come back to time and time again. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lawrencevanrijn
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 28, 2008 8:12 pm PT
Review:  I have had a few mixed feelings. Even though Konami is awesome in most games. My feelings were 
 mashed here. Reasons? 1. The first game was way too short. Game 3 was a little diappointing. So, 
 what to do? Well. It took 20 minutes to realise. This game is reason enough to BUY a PSX3. There 
 are a lot of complaints about the cut scenes. True, there ae plenty, but it is part of the story. 
 It is like playing a book, and then some more. It is the scenes where you play. They blow you away 
 (in many ways) . The graphics are funtional and artistically the best i have ever seen. The levels 
 are challenging and open enough to choose whether you go blazing guns, or thievely sneaking. I 
 have replayed the first act three times now, only to realise that there is more to see then i have 
 seen so far.
  
  And for those listening to boys (men claiming to be gamers) that it was so easy to get the perfect 
 score. I tell you that they are full of..... (you know!) . The challenge that MSG4 offers will be 
 hard to surpass for the best software houses in the world. 
  
  This is the game that puts the PSX3 on the map of immortality. No contest!
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: SPYDER0416
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 28, 2008 4:16 pm PT
Review:  MGS4 is an amazing technical feat as well as an overall great game. I went 2 months without getting 
 the chance to play it and after having played it, I can now say I have played the best PS3 game 
 to date.
  
  The story starts off well enough: An aging Solid Snake must return to the battlefield one last 
 time to eliminate Liquid Ocelot and his PMC's, as well as uncover the mystery behind "The Patriots". 
 Although you will probably spend 1/3 or more of the game looking at cutscenes, the story is well 
 acted and presented, and you may find yourself rewatching scenes your second time through.
  
  The gameplay is no less astounding. This time through you now have more choice between stealth 
 and going Rambo (the former being the easier path in some difficulties) . You can now interact with 
 local militia members to help take down PMC's that are in your path, or just blend in with them.
 
  
  The new weapon purchasing system allows you to purchase and use over 70 weapons through Drebin 
 893 (the in game "gun launderer") and his weapons shop. Although you won't find yourself using 
 many of these, it adds to the replay value just to collect them all and adds more freedom and paint 
 to the gameplay. You can also purchase modifications for your weapons, and although its not quite 
 as in-depth as Army of Two, there are still plenty of options for many of your weapons.
  
  The game now features an octocamo suit that replaces MGS3's camoflauge system for a camo system 
 that lets you blend into the environment in a few seconds, and return to default color with a quick 
 sixaxis flick. You can also download camoflauge from your environment into your suit as well as 
 online and wear different types of clothing to blend in with the local militia's.
  
  The game features a psyche system to replace the stamina gauge from Snake Eater. It's a nice touch 
 as it depletes under stress or when shocked or stunned, if it goes up high enough you will enter 
 a "combat high" that lowers your damage and increases accuracy, but drastically decreases your 
 abilities when finished. Psyche can be raised by listening to music, looking at a playboy, smoking 
 a cigarette, or having some noodles or regain. Eating noodles in cold temperatures increases your 
 psyche even more while drinking regain in hot temperatures increase your psyche more as well.
 
  
  There are many emblems and upgrades you can unlock with multiple playthroughs. As well as The Boss 
 Extreme mode, you can unlock stealth camoflauge or the infinity bandana from previous games with 
 a stealthy non-lethal playthrough. You can also unlock new face camo and weapons by doing better 
 playthroughs on different difficulties. It could take quite a while to unlock all this content.
 
  
  The game isn't without some flaws though. Some aspects of the story can be a bit cringe inducing, 
 and is just as convoluted as its predecessors, and sometimes even more so in order to try and completely 
 tie the game together in what they felt was a complete ending. These instances include forced romances, 
 drama sequences that are barely playable, and parts where you arent allowed to pause. The install 
 time it takes before each chapter is also a bit annoying, but thankfully quick enough that I shouldn't 
 have to ramble on about it. Also it seems there were some missed chances to bring more variety 
 by introducing the various locales, but will oftentimes the game can be a bit repetitive making 
 me thankful for the amazing sequences when it breaks through the repetition to bring you something 
 you have never played before.
  
  Don't let these complaints keep you from getting the game. The story is well above average and 
 the gameplay exceeds and simplifies the combat from previous MGS games. All I know, is that if 
 (and inevitably when) a new MG game is released, I'm buying it, even if you don't get a chance 
 to be Snake next time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bluej33
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 28, 2008 3:40 pm PT
Review:  Games are no doubt a tricky medium to work with at least in regards to storytelling. You tread 
 a fine line between being absolutely boring and uninteresting and being so overbearing and pompous 
 that it's hard for the player to watch a scene without bursting out in laughter. Metal Gear Solid 
 4 sports a plot so confusing that I probably lost a few brain cells trying to figure it all out, 
 and when I finally did it was all for naught. Arrogant storytelling stripped aside, what you're 
 left with in MGS4 is a good-but-not-great third-person-shooter whose biggest problem is not being 
 able to get over itself. 
  
  I'll confess: I'm new to the Metal Gear Solid franchise. I don't know if that gives me the credibility 
 of an outsider who can overlook fanboy biases or if (according to the fanboys) I lack the experience 
 to appreciate all the game has to offer. Somehow, I suspect that first option hits closer to home. 
 Regardless, once I got excited over playing a supposedly-perfect game, I got a good, hard, unfiltered 
 look at Kojima's latest (and last?) steal-action game. And boy, was I disappointed. 
  
  Metal Gear Solid 4 is by no means a bad game. Compared to every other game on the market, it's 
 actually quite good. But it gets so wrapped up in the legend of the series that a clear focus was 
 placed on the storytelling and the gameplay was left to fall by the wayside. I guess Kojima is 
 too god-like to pay attention to trite clichs, because if he had he would've known not to put 
 all his eggs in one basket. 
  
  MGS4 puts you in the role of Old Snake, everyone's favorite bad-ass assassin. Only this time, he's 
 old (hence the codename) . And Liquid Ocelot, a weird combination of two of Snake's former enemies 
 who became joined thanks to a cut-off arm (Metal Gear Solid lore at work, my friends) , is trying 
 to take over the world and create war and hurt nice people and kill puppy dogs and make little 
 children cry. Big freaking deal. The storytelling is so heavy-handed and the plot is so confusing 
 that it takes more effort to follow the plot-arc than actually play through the title. If you haven't 
 played the first three Metal Gear Solid titles, you'll have little idea what's actually going on. 
 
  
  And that's one of the biggest issues with the game's story: it's exclusive. It's like one of those 
 cliques of all the cool kids back in elementary school, and if you wanted to next to them you had 
 to give them your lunch money. Metal Gear Solid 4 is a party, but your ticket is successful completion 
 of the first three games. It's a real drag and the development team made no discernible effort 
 to bring newcomers into the circle. 
  
  Sadly, that was one of two massive problems having to do with the "final" chapter of the escapades 
 of Snake. The second is the story itself. It takes itself way too seriously and for an overdone, 
 confusing plot about viruses, nukes, and hulking monstrosities called Metal Gears it treis to be 
 more than it actually is. The dialogue is downright terrible and during many of the game's countless 
 cut scenes I've had to pause because I've been laughing so hard. You can't take this game seriously 
 because it's just so pretentious; it presents this overblown, ridiculous story and expects you 
 to follow and enjoy it, all the while throwing around boatloads of some of the worst dialogue in 
 a video game. "Please, call me Johnny," will forever go down (for me, anyway) as one of the most 
 awkwardly, stupidly hilarious lines in video game history. 
  
  Saddening as it is, you're better off forgetting the story and instead focusing on the game itself. 
 Unfortunately, it's difficult to do that because every half-hour the game forces upon you a lengthy, 
 generally-boring cutscene. Rather than spending sixty bucks on this game, you could just play an 
 old plotless NES game and pause every ten minutes to watch a movie for half an hour. Sure, you 
 can skip the cut scenes, but it just doesn't feel kosher. Plus, if you do that, you're probably 
 halving the length of the game. 
  
  Once you finally get to play the freaking game, Metal Gear Solid 4 isn't all that impressive. It's 
 still good, but it just cannot stand up to the hype that's been forced upon it. The controls feel 
 alright for a third-person shooter, although there are a few occasional camera issues and having 
 to hold two triggers to shoot feels really unintuitive. 
  
  Sure, it's a self-proclaimed "steal-action game" but it feels more like a run-of-the-mill straight-up 
 action title than one with any stealth mixed in. It's weird, because the control set-up definitely 
 lends itself to sneaking around, but you're given so much enemy-killing equipment that you'd have 
 to be an idiot to insist on beating the game without using any of it. Add to that the fact that 
 you have a gun with unlimited ammo and can at any time purchase new weapons (along with a ridiculous 
 amount of accessories, other weapons, and porn magazines) , and you've got yourself a game that 
 is clearly geared more toward the action spectrum than the stealth. 
  
  This is all understandable, I suppose, when you come to grips with something that everybody knows 
 but few people want to admit: Metal Gear Solid 4 is little more than an elaborate fan service. 
 If you're a huge supporter of the Metal Gear Solid trilogy, you've already bought the game, hate 
 me for thinking it's less-than-perfect, and are now intent on finding my address so you can come 
 to my home and burn me alive before feeding me to your dog. Tons of characters make appearances, 
 and I suppose that the "plot" nicely wraps up the series. But unless you fall in the category of 
 diehard Metal Gear Solid Fan, there's just not a lot here for you. 
  
  The level design, for example, is for the most part terrible. In incredibly linear fashion, you'll 
 make your way from Point A to Point B. At Point B there will be a lengthy cutscene, and on your 
 way there you'll surely run into several enemies. Unfortunately, they'll always be the same. Always. 
 The number of different enemies in the game can be counted on two hands and the PMC troops are 
 the one's you'll be fighting 90% of the time. The game also throws at you a couple of boss fights 
 which, while epic, cease to be fun once you realize that it takes a damn hour to beat some of the 
 bosses. 
  
  Admittedly, there are some genuinely fun aspects to Metal Gear Solid 4. The bit where you need 
 to trail an underground resistance member to their hideout is a surprising amount of fun, even 
 if it'll likely take you twenty times to beat because the stupid little bugger runs home if he 
 so much as hears you inhale. But most of the game consists of simply walking around and shooting 
 everything that gets in the way. Some people will whine and argue that the fun of the game is that 
 you can beat levels however you want. But if one way works and another doesn't and neither are 
 particularly fun, what's the point? 
  
  Metal Gear Solid 4 does little to hide its status as a game that's clearly for fans of the series 
 and nobody else. The story is likely to lock you out of its plush houses and make rude finger gestures 
 at you with its face pressed up against the window. The stealth aspect of this game is severely 
 lacking and degrades MGS4 to a basic  setup. 
 And even the technical marvel of this game is overcome by the pretentiousness of the game. You 
 can't take it seriously and it's hard to have fun with. If you loved the first three there are 
 some brilliant gestures that you'll appreciate in the forth entry, but the fact of the matter is 
 that from an objective standpoint, MGS4 is nowhere near as good as people want it to be and pretend 
 that it is. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: wonzan
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 28, 2008 3:35 pm PT
Review:  If you enjoyed the previous MGS games then you WILL like this game. There are plenty of other reviews 
 to get a good gist of what this game is about. I will just like to mention that this isn't the 
 game from God that many say it is but it is still very good.
  Personally I got tired of the main campaign after completing it fairly easily (the game is a little 
 short) . The lack of kerotans, dog tags or something similar to collect was a bit of a downer too 
 and would have added to the longevity of the game.
  Metal gear online is a great place to turn to once you get bored of the MGS4. It is very different 
 to most other online shooters and is personally the first online game I have really enjoyed. Alas, 
 problems with lag do make the game very frustrating sometimes.
  
  Summary:
  If you have a PS3 and have ever liked an action game I recommend you purchase/rent MGS4. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FlauM
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 28, 2008 2:43 pm PT
Review:  This game is amazing. At first, it was a bit hard to get used to as the controls SLIGHTLY differ 
 from those versions on previous consoles, but once you get used to the game-play and controls, 
 the game is perfect. It's not a simple case of shoot everything in your sight - you actually need 
 to plan and be strategic in order to progress the game. The graphics were amazing, and I'm only 
 on an SDTV, so i'd love to see what it's like on a HDTV. The soundtrack is good, the boss battles 
 are good, and there's an excellent choice of weapons, and unlike previous versions, you can easily 
 buy ammo without having to wonder around looking for ammo boxes.
  
  The only things I didn't like were;
  
  The lack of codec contacts (Not saying anything more 
 b/c I don't wanna spoil names)
  
  The cut scenes can drag on a bit, but these can mostly be skipped.
  
  I'd prefer it if most 
 of the game was set inside, like MGS1, rather than outside. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ash10692
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 28, 2008 9:22 am PT
Review:  Solid Snake has come a long way from his debut on the NES, and not only graphically either. By 
 the time we meet Solid Snake for a final time in Metal Gear Solid 4, he's grown old, and as the 
 player, we guide him through his final mission. From the opening sequence in an unnamed war torn 
 town in the Middle East, to a fist fight atop Outer Haven at the end, this game is pure class. 
 The game has come under scrutiny from gamers, because of the sheer amount of cutscenes. However, 
 fans of the series will enjoy and cherish these sequences presented in glorious HD from start to 
 finish. The story is carried by these mini movies, and it wraps up possibly the best video game 
 story ever. My favourite character, Big Boss, even makes a return, with his trusty Patriot gun 
 in hand. In short, it's a classic, and if you own a PS3 system, go swot up on the previous MGS 
 games (even if you've played them before) and then buy and enjoy this gem of a game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lightlink7
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 28, 2008 9:14 am PT
Review:  Metal Gear Solid 4 is a gaming experience that should be experienced by someone at some point in 
 their life. The game is plot heavy, and the gameplay and controls has been refined through all 
 the metal gear games to make it perfect. But the game is not for everyone, you have to be able 
 to handle a heavy (slightly confusing) plot full of, and the frequent cutscenes may not be for 
 everyone (they are skippable) . For fans of the series the game has lots of easter eggs and plenty 
 of nostalgia, it really is a great game. The actual game itself can either be treated as a steal 
 game as it is meant to be or a mix between shooting and stealth (this makes it easier for people 
 new to the stealth genre) . Overall MGS4 is an amazing game and the last in the series (plot wise 
 games set before MGS4 may be possible) , and just shows how amazingly Kojima has used videogames 
 as a medium for storytelling and an amazing interactive experience. The music may I add is also 
 some of the best I have ever heard in a game. MGS4 is gaming at its finest and should be played 
 by everyone.
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: ebtr
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 28, 2008 8:24 am PT
Review:  This was the first game I have played, once finished ,I couldn't wait to replay it. The game reaches 
 the state of the art of immersing you into the story line and keeping your attention. 
  Snake is alive and full of excitement and bizarre full figured enemies with skin tight suits. Yes, this 
 too was good. In general it's all good from start to finish and it is hard to find fault with the 
 long cut scenes, even these add to the feeling you are in a Movie playing a part. We are seduced 
 into this role, captured and taken prisoner and I liked that. The artistic talents of the staff that 
 built this game are worthy of praise alone. My biggest question about this game is how in the heck 
 are they going to make a sequel out of this ??? Baby Snake?? The bar has been set for other games 
 to match this fine piece of work ,one that is worthy of the spending of our time and a few coins 
 on.
  This game, Metal Gear Solid 4 is one of the best games out so far this year.. don't miss playing 
 it !! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: blueblur87
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 27, 2008 5:05 pm PT
Review:  As soon as you get this game you dive into single player, probably on normal solid mode or hard 
 if you've played the other games, and you instantly become addicted to it until you complete the 
 story. Thats how good the story is - you don't want to put the game down until its over. 
  
  When it finally is over, and it takes longer than you probably expect, you probably start to 
 play it again to get the unlockables and easter eggs, and try to get those emblems for doing the 
 game without being spotted or without kills etc. Getting every single unlockable and emblem in 
 the game will take ages, the single player story is about 3 times longer than Metal Gear Solid 
 on PSX. I went into it thinking it might be as long as MGS or MGS3, but it kept going and going 
 and each area is pretty big. 
  
  The graphics are amazing, they also seem to run at a very high frame rate as well, so it appears 
 as if Hideo knows something about the Cell processor other developers don't, as the game's probably 
 using it to a greater extent than other games.
  
  Whats so good about it anyway? The enemy AI is better, which makes hiding even more difficult - 
 some can even hear your night vision goggle, and one of the enemies uses smell and the direction 
 of the wind to find you - and you can have comrades earlier in the game which you can help. The 
 new gadgets such as octocamo suit, which is adaptive camouflage, and solideye, which combines night-vision 
 and a zoom lens with extra info, and Metal Gear MKII, which is a mini remote-controlled robot you 
 can use to scout the area and stun guards. Theres loads of cool weapons and more ways than ever 
 to trick guards, and all the old stuff is still there, such as hiding in lockers and cardboard 
 boxes. The boss battles are epic, and sufficiently hard, and theres also several action scenes. 
 Theres also a lot of nostalgia in the game for the fans, and plenty of in-jokes.
  
  So single player is great, however, I have now stopped playing story mode, because its Snake's 
 last mission and I don't want it to be. But luckily theres a whole extra game bolted onto it hidden 
 somewhere inside the depths of the blu-ray disc. It's called Metal Gear Online. This game deserves 
 to be a whole other game in its own right, but Hideo was feeling generous so he gave it to everyone 
 who buys MGS4, for free! 
  
  The concept is similar to the online mode in MGS3 Subsistence if you ever played it, or similar 
 to the PSP Portable Ops online mode, but it feels way more like a fully fledged game, and its so 
 fun! 
  
  However, using stealth for great lengths of time in deathmatch or base or capture missions is not 
 really possible, because when theres loads of you running around its very likely you'll get spotted 
 wherever you are, unless its somewhere that nobody goes, in which case you'll either be waiting 
 for the whole match till you get to kill someone or if you do kill someone, they'll come back to 
 where you're hiding to get revenge, which forces you to come out of hiding anyway. I have managed 
 to hide as a sniper and not get spotted for a long time, but that was a rare occasion and it doesn't 
 happen often, as there are very few truly secret places, and once you're used to a level you know 
 to check certain areas as you move. 
  
  There are some newer modes such as Team Sneaking, where one team gets stealth camo, whilst they 
 have to try and steal a GA-KO (japanese duck character) from one place and take it back to their 
 base, or kill/stun the other team, whilst the other team defends/ tries to kill the sneaking team. 
 This allows you to use stealth much more. 
  
  Also, there is a mode where one player is Snake, the others are in deathmatch. Snake has to stun 
 players or sneak up behind and say 'freeze!' to get their dogtags, but other players are trying 
 to kill each other and Snake, I personally love being Snake, its really fun as you can become 99% 
 invisible using your octocamo suit and lie on the floor then pick people off or stop a guard by 
 pointing your gun up at them whilst they are running past, causing them to put their hands up, 
 just like in single player mode.
  
  Theres also some expansions out for this game, I haven't got them yet, but the future of MGO is 
 looking good, with new levels and characters and costumes becoming available and the prospect of 
 new game modes and weapons its always something to look forward to. 
  
  I've given this a 10 because it couldn't really have been made much better than this... It lives 
 up to the hype and is everything you expect and more, but at the same time its sad because Solid 
 Snake has completed his last mission. I just hope the Saga continues. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: motocrosser
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 27, 2008 12:12 am PT
Review:  My god! I have been a fan of the mgs series for years. I just finished mgs 4... i know, its kinda 
 late to just be finishing it. but i was broke. to be honest, in the end, i teared up. WE WILL NEVER 
 SEE SNAKE AGAIN. this game was more than a game to me. it was more than a story. it was a saga 
 that immersed me in the most inovative gameplay STILL, of its kind. Think about it, no other game 
 is like it. and i will miss it so. snake is still a hero to me. and he will always be. i feel that 
 i just lost a friend. this moment is so supremely satisfying (completeing one of the best games 
 ever made) yet so supremely sadening. just the thought of no more MGS makes my stomach turn... 
 well i hope i am not alone. The idea is still sinking in on me. All i can do is reflect on it... 
 and i will probably play every Metal Gear game i own several times again. I will miss you snake 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kingship
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 26, 2008 10:09 pm PT
Review:  FINALLY, the sometimes convoluted story is neatly wrapped up. THE reason I picked up a PS3 and 
 I'm not disapointed. Just awesome. Some genuine "No F'n Way!" moments. The ending just left me 
 stunned and had me re-thinking MSG3. Good Stuff!
  
  FINALLY, the sometimes convoluted story is neatly wrapped up. THE reason I picked up a PS3 and 
 I'm not disapointed. Just awesome. Some genuine "No F'n Way!" moments. The ending just left me 
 stunned and had me re-thinking MSG3. Good Stuff!
  
  FINALLY, the sometimes convoluted story is neatly wrapped up. THE reason I picked up a PS3 and 
 I'm not disapointed. Just awesome. Some genuine "No F'n Way!" moments. The ending just left me 
 stunned and had me re-thinking MSG3. Good Stuff!
  
  Buy this game. You won't be dissapointed. Why the review length police? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: voltzila
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 26, 2008 7:18 pm PT
Review:  MGS 4 is just amazing pure and simple and I am not saying that for nothing. It is a great game 
 for two reasons. 
  First if you have or haven't been playing the other games in the series it doesn't matter. There 
 is enough content to make veterans giggle and enough information to allow newcomers to pick and 
 understand the story without missing anything. Because lets be honest this is an incredible story. 
 
  Second it has a very simple interface that makes this game very user friendly and the game play 
 is fun. It also makes good use of the cut scenes even though they can be a bit lengthy but are 
 visually stunning and makes me feel like it is a fusion between movie and game. Plus I find them 
 a nice break from all the "walking on egg shells" sneaking around you have to do. Not to mention 
 the boss fights are fun and challenging. 
  All in all the game is the best thing to happen to the PS3 since its release and hope that more 
 games show this level of effort. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gears_of_halo13
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 26, 2008 6:00 pm PT
Review:  This is most definitely the best game for the PS3. I would reccommend it to pretty much any gamer. 
 The story is one that blows Halo's storyline away! Their might be a lot of cutscenes (some of them 
 a little longer than they should be) , it doesn't feel like your not doing anything because you 
 can still interact a little in the cutscenes at some parts! The graphics are still yet to be beaten. 
 It has graphics up to Gears of War level. The music in this game is another outstanding feat. It 
 brings you into the game. They added the right music for each and every moment of the game where 
 there was some. The game has emmotional scenes, funny scenes, and just downright action scenes. 
 The only downfall the game has is the the online. It is pretty fun when you are bored and have 
 nothing else to do, but you just get your butt kicked half the time by all the experts. I would 
 take some precautions though when letting your kids play; it can get pretty bloody, sometimes the 
 camera kinda zooms in on a girls chest in cutscenes, and you also can use a Playboy magazine to 
 distract enemys. I would say this game should not be played by kids 13 and under. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bustap949
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 26, 2008 3:41 pm PT
Review:  
  Lets get the bad out of the way. But first of all lets be clear here, when I say the bad its a 
 relative thing because really there is nothing "bad" that really detracts from the overall experience, 
 its still an almost perfect game. That being said... I think Snake could be a little more agile. 
 Even while running its a little sluggish. It could really use a sprint feature. Also when you try 
 to move around during a gunfight such as crouching or rolling, it is not very forgiving and getting 
 into cover is pretty tough. Basically if you are exposed and have a face off with mulitiple enemies 
 you are screwed. Also, the level design could be a little more varied. I would like to see more 
 transitions in and out of certain parts into a different scene instead of spending 3 hours in the 
 same environment before you advance to a new level. Lastly, there are certain cutscenes that are 
 just cheesy and didnt need to really be there. For example, (without giving any of the game away) 
 there is a part where they show some guy taking a crap and he craps his pants or something and 
 then farts on the enemy, which despite being really random and funny was out of caracter for such 
 an epic game. 
  
  ok now the good. This game is simply amazing. Graphics are a 10. Textures are detailed, shadows 
 and lighting are great. Gameplay is really fun but also challenging. AI is balanced. interface/HUD 
 is tech-looking and easy to work with. Weapons are customizable and fun to use. The best part is 
 that unlike other stealth games like Splinter Cell, you can choose to run and gun a little bit 
 without failing the mission or becoming everwhelmed by enemies. The entire menu system and UI is 
 really cool. everything from the sounds made when you select something from the pause menu to the 
 text they chose is really cool. Very high quality. Its also really addictive. You can play for 
 hours easy. 
  
  So in summary, great game must have it. This is not a game you just pop in and jump into though. 
 You need at least a few hours of free time to get really into it. If you want instant entertainment 
 go pick up COD4. This is a classic though for sure. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BigBadMatty
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 26, 2008 1:51 pm PT
Review:  Where do I begin with MGS4. This game is extremely special as it is almost a movie. There are a 
 lot of cinematics that really need to be watched if the game is to be well understood. This revolutionary 
 shooter is extremely entertaining to the die hard fans of the franchise and to newbies even though 
 the gameplay is a little less smoother for them. This game is the story of Snake who is on a mission 
 to stop Liquid from obtaining control of the Patriot's system. You bravely battle PMCs, Praying 
 Mantis, Laughing Octopus, Crying Wolf, Raging Raven and Psycho Mantis. You meet along the way old 
 comrades, Naomi, Rat Patrol team 1 (Meryl) . The game takes you from the Middle East to Shadow Moses 
 the centre stage of MGS1 which takes place 9 years ago. An awesome new feature are the new customizable 
 weapons and Drebin's shop, he also saves your a** once!
  Go and get this game NOW!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ccovington
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 26, 2008 1:10 pm PT
Review:  What can I say that hasn't already been said? Well first, Hideo Kojima... in one word... GENIUS! 
 The story telling & gameplay have created, in my mind a whole new genere for gaming. INTERACTIVE 
 FILM! Kojima's patience and dedication has solidified his presence as the Lucas of the gaming industry. 
 Skillfully tying the storylines of every Metal Gear game, from the first on NES the the final over 
 20 years later. He has created more than a meare series, instead he has created possibly the greatest 
 SAGA of all time (gaming wise) . With every game containing a plethera of replay value and achievments 
 most players have no other alternative, but to play again. (Come on, STEALTH CAMO!!! Once I got 
 that little piece of work, I played MGS on PS1 at least 3 times!) This was a story that could not 
 have been told better, unless God wrote it himself. I have only played through once, gearing up 
 for my 2nd run to get the no alerts / no kills which will render the coveted stealth camo and bandana. 
 Which means... I will be playing through once again to use these precious gems and all the new weapons 
 they will provide. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sMeAgOl_VaDeR
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 26, 2008 4:16 am PT
Review:  Metal Gear Solid 4 is THE best PS3 stealth game to date. It combines the best of drama, action, 
 and stealth, which combine with a deep storyline to deliver you a blockbuster movie experience. 
 In the game, you play as Solid Snake (Old Snake) , who is on a mission to take out his brother, 
 Liquid Snake. 
  The story is very heavy, and there may be a LOT of things you won't understand unless you play 
 the game at least three times, so i suggest playing MG1-3 before this game (which was my mistake) . 
 
  The graphics in this game is awesome. To experience the best of the game, you'll need an HDMI cable 
 for the best graphics. This game was also considered as one of the most cinematic games, featuring 
 long, intense cutscenes, which sometimes get boring, but you shouldn't skip them. 
  The variety of weapons in the game is amazing! You can have silenced pistols to anti-aircraft launchers. 
 This game can be played as you want. You can play as a sneaky snake, or just full out shooting. 
 at the end of the game you will be rewarded by a badge identifying what kind of animal you acted 
 like in the game. If you were a snake, you barely stopped crouching at took out as little enemies 
 as possible. If you were a badger, you'd be the kind of person who collected all ammo and weapons 
 and items from the ground.
  The game is kinda long... like 10 hours long. If you don't skip the cutscenes it would be almost 
 13 hours of gaming.
  One of the most anticipated feature of MGS4 is Metal Gear Online. Signing up online can be very 
 long and frustrating, but its worth it because going online can be a blast! Metal Gear Online has 
 many different online modes, which you will need to rank up before joining them. You'll play as 
 a character you designed against other players. The more players you kill, the more types of weapons 
 you can choose from each time you respawn. 
  In conclusion, if you have a PS3 and love stealth games you MUST get this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ShadowLaguna
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 11, 2009 6:50 pm PT
Review:  Metal Gear Solid 4: Guns of the Patriots, the highly anticipated PlayStation 3 exclusive is finally 
 here. Many people have bought or have considered buying a PS3 for this game. It should definitely 
 be a reason. The truth is, there is no arguing that Metal Gear Solid 4 is currently the best game 
 to grace the system. There is so much packed into this epic title, that MGS4 is definitely a must-have.
 
  
  Guns of the Patriots is chronologically the final game in the series, and is Solid Snake's final 
 mission. The year is 2014, seven years after the events of Metal Gear Solid 2: Sons of Liberty. 
 Metal Gear Solid 4 portrays a world where the restriction of military intervention on foreign soil 
 has been eased, fueling the need for private military companies (PMCs) to fight proxy wars for 
 business purposes. Nanotechnology has become prominent, both to enhance the capabilities and enforce 
 the loyalty of mercenaries. The nanomachine system that PMCs use is called "Sons of the Patriots" 
 or "SOP". The five largest of these PMCs (Praying Mantis, Otselotovaya Khvatka, Werewolf, Pieuvre 
 Armement and Raven Sword) are owned by a single mother company named Outer Haven, operated by Liquid 
 Ocelot. Amassing an army whose manpower rivals that of the United States, Liquid prepares to launch 
 an armed insurrection by taking control of SOP. With the world once again in crisis, a rapidly 
 aging and disillusioned Snake (now known as Old Snake) is deployed into the Middle East by Roy 
 Campbell to terminate Liquid.
  
  A vast majority of MGS4 contains cutscenes, making it feel like an epic movie. It has the most 
 cutscenes I've ever seen in a game, and this isn't even an RPG i'm talking about. Thankfully, about 
 99.5% of these cutscenes are interesting, and you won't be thinking anything along the lines of 
 "Hurry up, finish already!!". Plus, the cutscenes are skippable. So, if your aren't much of a story 
 gamer, then you shouldn't have any problems.
  
  Many familiar characters will make a return in the final chapter in the Metal Gear series. Of course, 
 there's Solid Snake, who is now known as "Old Snake". His evil twin brother, Liquid Snake also 
 makes a return as the main antagonist. Roy Campbell and Otacon return as supporting allies, to 
 help you on your final mission. Meryl Silverburgh also makes a return, now as the commander of 
 "Rat Patrol Team 01". Raiden makes a second appearance, he was previously in MGS2, the game chronologically 
 before this one. Many other characters make another appearance, such as Johnny (Akiba) , Vamp, Naomi, 
 Sunny, Drebin and Mei Ling.
  
  The gameplay is as good as ever. At first, beginners might find it just a regular shooter, and 
 won't find the significance of the gameplay straight away. Eventually, you'll click to it, and 
 love it. Veterans on the other hand will notice the awesomeness right from the start. I have to 
 admit, Metal Gear Solid 4 takes quite a bit of time to actually get into. Once you gain some experience 
 with the gameplay, it becomes very enjoyable and epic. The main objective of the Metal Gear titles 
 is sneaking past guards, and big machines. If you happen to get caught, then you have no choice 
 but to shoot them like hell. Fighting is sorta similar to that of Resident Evil 4.... except without 
 the spookiness of the Spanish. There is a rather large selection of weapons to use, which vary 
 over pistols, automatics, shotguns, sniper rifles, and many more. Items are pretty sweet too. Of 
 course, there is the famous cardboard box which returns for you to hide and sneak around in, along 
 with some laughable reactions from the guards. You also have an iPod which allows you to listen 
 to music when sneaking around and fighting. You can also distract the guards with..... Playboy magazines. 
 Many more items can be found and used.
  
  Many locations are visited in MGS4. You start off in the Middle East, and you'll eventually come 
 across Shadow Moses Island, from the first MGS. Anybody who played MGS1 will definitely recognise 
 it. One thing I found unfortunate about the locations in MGS4 was the fact that they were very 
 limited. You could't go back to previous locations, not to mention that I thought a couple of Acts 
 were a tad short. Other than these minor problems, it's still pretty cool.
  
  Metal Gear Online is a side-feature, and is pretty good. Setting up online for it is a pain in 
 the ass, as you have to create a Konami I. D and it is vital to have a complicated username and 
 password, along with another complicated username and password, trust me it's all pretty weird. 
 Once the lame setup is completed, you're ready to play a good online game. It's pretty much like 
 any multiplayer shooter, you're on a team shooting the living daylights out of your opponents. 
 Of course, you can still sneak. You can create a character, and customise it with all sorts of 
 cool accessories. You can also gain extra stuff, by buying them online. Apart from the silly way 
 of creating an account, Metal Gear Online is pretty good and is a good extra that is avaiable in 
 Metal Gear Solid 4.
  
  The graphics are simply amazing!! Definitely some of the best on the system. Everything is just 
 fantastic, from the characters to the background and buildings. It's jaw-dropping! One thing I 
 wasn't too happy with were the colours. In not just MGS4, but countless shooters today, you find.... a 
 lot.... of grey! Grey this, grey that! Grey, grey, grey, grey, grey, GREY! During the first Act 
 and a part of the second, there is a lot fo grey. Fortunately, the dull colour is pretty much gone 
 when you advance into this epic adventure.
  
  The soundtrack is amazing! The score to Metal Gear Solid 4 was led by Harry Gregson-Williams, his 
 third Metal Gear Solid soundtrack, and Nobuko Toda, who provided music for Metal Gear Acid and 
 Metal Gear Acid 2. Especially further in the game, the music in MGS4 is simply awesome and is definitely 
 a significance of the game. Voices are pretty good too.
  
  Wow...... just wow!! What a game!! The final chapter in the Metal Gear saga is summed up to one 
 word: EPIC!! Metal Gear Solid 4: Guns of the Patriots is definitely a must-have, and is so far 
 the best game on Sony's PlayStation 3. I've said it before, and i'll say it again. Metal Gear Solid 
 4: Guns of the Patriots is EPIC!!
  9.7/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: blazinpuertoroc
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 25, 2008 8:08 pm PT
Review:  The wait has finally arrived and Solid Snakes story finally comes to an epic close. Its been a 
 few years and the gamer is finally once again in control of Solid Snake for one of the most amazing 
 and gripping game of all time.
  
  The story pulls all loose ends together and ties them tightly. All questions are answered and die 
 hard fans will be absolutely pleased. The MGS series has finally evolved giving us brand new gameplay 
 mechanics like Octocamo, customizable weapons, full 3-D camera and the great boss battles and stealthy 
 gameplay we love.
  
  This is with out a doubt the most ultimate MGS experience and fans and newcomers alike should be 
 prepared to be blown away. The graphics are gorgeous and is easily one of the most beautiful games 
 this gen with the exception of a few off textures but overall the games looks and art design are 
 outstanding. You'll find your self in many different gorgeous locals.
  
  But the game isnt with out some faults, some cutscenes can get pretty long and if you breeze through 
 the game you may find more cutscenes than gameplay which is actually a first for the MGS franchise. 
 But if you take your time and enjoy it you will find the cutscene length and gameplay are almost 
 even.
  
  Don't fret, there is also an ever expanding 16 player online which fans will enjoy although it 
 has a frustrating registration process which seems almost unnecessary when your PSN names should 
 have been used for the online portion of the game. The online has a huge range of gametypes.
  
  Overall the games single player blows out any problems the game may have with a gripping story, 
 amazing voice acting, and addicting gameplay. Newcomers and fans alike will all find something 
 to love in this satisfying end to Solid Snakes story. This is the PS3 killer app we all have waited 
 for. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 55584623
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 25, 2008 7:30 pm PT
Review:  more than a game, a truly action interactive movie.
  metal gear solid 4 puts you in a amazing journey to close the series.
  
  with an outstanding 
 gameplay, stunning graphics and physics this game is memorable for anyone who plays it.
  the single player campaign already makes it an amazing experience, because diferent from the most 
 metal gear games, the campaign for MSG4 puts you in a total war enviroment, giving you the choice 
 of making a hardcore playthrough or of course the spionage playthrough.
  the both works very well and delivers a memorable experience for the player.
  obviously there 
 some moments more directed for the spionage side and other for the hardcore, the good that this 
 diversification is actually one of the best things about the MSG4 campaign.
  the only two problems is obviously the heavy storytelling and some of the bosses, that in some 
 cases are boring and dont deliver a very challeging experience.
  the awesome multiplayer closes the package.
  
  so make sure to check MGS4, since it delivers 
 a truly memorable and unique experience. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jeff917
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 25, 2008 11:00 am PT
Review:  Warning: The opinions expressed in the following review are NOT endorsed by anyone at Gamespot 
 or any professional reviewer. I'm not paid for my reviews and I do them for fun. They may contain: 
 Foul Language, Violence, references to farts, A lot of references to the word "Poo" totally bodily 
 function loss, or possibly the total collapse of civilization as we know. Oh also reading these 
 reviews you may feel the need to toss a Midget or start a Cripple fight. There is a longer list 
 of things that could happen but I don't feel like posting them here. You have been Warned.
  
  Learning Curve: 15 minutes
  
  Score: 10 out of 10
  
  I made it known to my friends 
 that if the PS3 was going to have a chance of staying in the Console wars for this generation that 
 two games were going to have to do great, one game is GTA 4 which I gave a 10 to, and the other 
 one was Metal Gear Solid 4, now not playing other MGS games since Metal Gear, and Snakes Revenge 
 for the NES I also have Metal Gear Solid: The Twin Snakes for the GC but for some reason my system 
 won't read it and I don't want to buy used copies so the only modern one I've played is MGS 4 and 
 I will admit at first I was lost but I was able to pick up a lot of the story by playing this game. 
 Snake starts off in the middle east if I remember right helping resistance fighters fight their 
 government but his goal is double sided he's to meet someone who has info about his arch enemy 
 Liquid. I won't get into the story that much because I feel that it would be a insult for me to 
 try and describe something that's so great. It's a fact that this game has huge cinemas I mean 
 I was able to actually cook a frozen pizza in the microwave and eat it while watching it, it was 
 on the verge of movie status. The controls are great and the voice acting is perfect, and the visuals 
 are, oh my god the graphics take full use of the PS3 I haven't seen a game that is as impressive 
 visually as this game is. Snake will go all over the world in pursuit of Liquid and each location 
 is beautifully rendered. I will admit the game isn't for the casual gamer this game is hard as 
 hell in some spots. Including a battle with Vamp. I will admit I had to go onto youtube to find 
 out how to beat this guy. Overall the real question that came up for me while playing this game, 
 is What is one man worth? because Snake will push himself to the limit in this game. So overall 
 I feel that the PS3 has a good future to such successful games as GTA 4 and MGS 4, a solid 10 out 
 of 10 from me, and if you don't have a PS3 I would suggest you get the special PS3 MGS 4 bundle. 
 you won't be disappointed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: skakillers
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 25, 2008 10:11 am PT
Review:  If you are like me and started playing metal gear solid on the first PlayStation (not quite the 
 beginning but the beginning for most of us) , then you will definitely love this game. The game 
 play has hardly changed from previous games. The CQC moves have gotten much simpler making a stealth 
 take down all the more satisfying. Weapons are much easier to come by giving the user the ability 
 to choose all out action to stealth. It does go a little against the older games, but it makes 
 the game a lot more fun to play through more then once.
  Being a long time fan of the series, the best part was watching the nearly 30 minute long cut scenes 
 finish the story of solid and liquid. Metal Gear 2 saw a fairly fantastical twist in the story 
 line where liquids arm took over ocelot. I was a little bemused and did not really appreciate the 
 fantasy turn. So I am happy to say that at least the story makes a relatively rational conclusion. 
 Well, rational as far as Metal Gear goes.
  For new time players the game might feel like a big inside joke as numerous flashbacks to older 
 games may leave you confused but it is definitely worth the money for the game play and graphics 
 alone. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: bobhead202
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 25, 2008 7:16 am PT
Review:  wow what a game each and everyone of them an individual master piece ill miss this game like id 
 miss my left foot . the game id always watch out for another cleverly written well created game 
 and one you shouldnt miss. what ever you think you should at least try this game and i promise 
 yu wont be disapointed worth buying a playstation for !!! sad touching creative inspirational and 
 amazing are some of the words id use to sell this super console game if u dnt have a ps3 and ur 
 gutted it isnt on xbox dnt worry because coming to you this spring is the chance to sell your xbox 
 to buy a game console with amazing games like mgs4 !!!! play it the only thing id say to really 
 value it for the game it is play the others first there as good as this one and you will be addicted 
 i promise this super game is just an amazing release by ps3 and an amazing release ( as usual ) 
 for konami and hideo kojoma. whats next who knows but we can all sleep safe with snake out there 
 ha 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gooberz
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 25, 2008 12:52 am PT
Review:  Story was a damn masterpiece.
  
  Plenty of weapons to pick n wreak havoc.
  
  Plenty of unlockables available.
  
  Boss fights are very interesting, plenty of ways to defeat 
 a boss and complete a mission.
  
  Interactive cutscenes, we can control metal gear mk. II / mk. III for every mission briefing, we 
 can even gain unlocks and watch some hilarious surprises from there!
  
  Astounding graphics, new face models from every characters, beautiful face expressions.
  
  
 Load times for every acts does not hurt my feelings bcoz i can watch old snake smoking and the 
 graphics are damn nice with the reminder for how long i've been playing the game.
  
  The final fist fight with liquid are way better than the previous installments, very interactive, 
 very brutal.
  
  It bring up old memories from the previous series.
  
  THIS GAME IS MY NO. 1 AMONG OTHERS!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MarvinMacOrmick
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 25, 2008 12:41 am PT
Review:  Wow. After MGS3: Snake Eater, it hardly seemed possible that the Metal Gear series could be taken 
 to such new heights. We now must sit in disbelief as we experience Gun of the Patriots, the latest 
 and most incredible Metal Gear installment to date. Solid (or is it Old?) Snake's final adventure 
 ends with several bangs, flashes and mind-blowing graphics that make the gamer feel like he is 
 sitting in a movie theatre. 
  
  Hunting Liquid Ocelot (!) in the Middle East, a suddenly aged Old Snake must sneak through a violent 
 battle ground, but that is only one possible choice of adventure. Alternatively, Snake may decide 
 to join forces with the local rebel forces, taking on wave after wave of PMC troopers. After hours 
 of beautiful cinematics, the chapter concludes and the player experiences a change of environment 
 as the next episode begins. As the chapters of the game roll by, new and more exciting elements 
 of gameplay are introduced, including tracking a hidden trail, stalking a target, intense vehicle 
 chases and exciting boss battles filled with variety. Remaining loyal to the tradition MG modus 
 operatus, there are a few minor gameplay tweaks that make the possibility of running into an enemy 
 inhabited zone guns-a-blazing more of a possibility. Of course, CQC is always an option too. Despite 
 the changes, this is definitely still a Metal Gear game, simply taken to a whole new level.
  
  Aside from the challenging gameplay, the story just adds so much more depth to an already thrilling 
 experience. Prepare to be interrupted by a multitude of cinema worthy movies, each one weaving 
 the complex and intriguing plot. Old characters return, some presenting a surprising twist for 
 loyal MGS gamers. Prepare to be shocked, amazed and utterly in awe as the story progresses.
  
  And if wonderful gameplay, story and presentation weren't already enough, once you finish your 
 first run-through of the story, you'll certainly be back for more. There are challenging medals 
 to unlock, rewarding you with secret equipment, costumes and get this- iPod tunes! Plus, there's 
 a truly fun online mode to spend hours upon hours playing with your friends.. or enemies. MGS4: 
 Guns of the Patriots really shows how exceptional the capabilities of the PS3 entertainment system 
 are, providing gamers with their best gaming experience to date. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: deuketc
Rating: 5
Date: Aug 24, 2008 8:42 pm PT
Review:  Bought this game simply because of the rating it received, mostly 10/10 from critics and players 
 alike. sure there were some really good points to this game but this is why i rate it poorly....
 
  
  cutscenes : way too long, some were as long as 20mins, well sure did feel like it. i really didn't 
 feel like i was playing a game, but watching a snoozer of a movie.
  
  Installation time : not once, not twice, but three times... at certain points in the game it needed 
 to install more content. that along with the drawn-out cutscenes made it almost unbearable. (do 
 i get to play the game yet??)
  
  maybe the style of game is just not for me, tried to show a friend a demo of my new PS3 with this 
 game. and all i really got to demonstrate was.. 
  1, an install bar. 
  2, a loading screen. 
  3, a slow cutscene
  4, snake doing,,, well not much.
  so dude,,,, 
 you wanna play ratchet and clank :)
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: juantwiy
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 24, 2008 6:19 pm PT
Review:  MGS4 demonstrate the true power of the PS3 console with great graphics. obviously hard core fans 
 will be more than pleased for a while with this 4th installment, however part of its greatness of 
 this franchise still comes form the storyline. the varying locations makes it interesting and finally 
 Snake`s story comes to an end in the best way it could have done. Konami`s popular game keeps fascinating 
 people; the characters, the weapons, the missions, the charismatic Solid Snake and his dangerous 
 brother as also his nemesis (Revolver Ocelot-Liquid Ocelot in MGS4) , war themes involving gene 
 therapy and altered dna soldiers, conspiracy and top secret ops etc.
  in contrast with other skilled games, this one have been evolving since the first game and keeping 
 its attributes which makes it this big... in conclusion just something like this could have come 
 from MGS...
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: AweWiiGamer1
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 24, 2008 9:36 am PT
Review:  The moment fans and Sony have all been waiting for has finally arrived. Solid Snake is back and 
 this time with a crisis in Metal Gear Solid 4: Guns of Patriots. Solid Snake is infected with a 
 serious disease related to the Big Shell Incident in Metal Gear Solid 2: Sons of Liberty.
  
  I really hate reviewing games like Metal Gear Solid 4. You see, when you review games, you 
 have to consider both the good aspects of the game, and the bad aspects of the game. You see, a 
 game as brilliant as Metal Gear Solid 4, my job for finding faults with it. Curse you, Knoami for 
 making a true gem of a game. Metal Gear Solid 4 is a living and breathing masterpeice of a game, 
 plain and simple.
  
  Metal Gear Solid 4 does so many things right, it well and truly unbelivable. The game resurrects 
 many fans of the series (such as myself) adored. Metal Gear Solid 4 resembles the highly requested 
 invisabilty feature that was previously seen in Metal Gear Solid 3, which is now called Octocamo. 
 You use the PS3's SIX AXIS motion sensing function to change the colour of the Octocamo's usual 
 dark-blue colour to blend within the colour of the background. The fan service in Metal Gear Solid 
 4 is truly boundless and tremendous, and gives MGS 4 a chunk of depth towards it that PS3 exclusives 
 should learn.
  
  Metal Gear Solid 4 manages to tell a story flooded with depth and a much more dramatic and darker 
 tone than the previous MGS games. This game explores more in Snake's descent into his thoughts 
 and his emotions, rather than the controversy from other characters.
  
  Overall, I will continue to hate reviewing games like Metal Gear Solid 4. It will continue to be 
 so hard to review games as good as MGS 4, because my job gets even harder. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AndJello
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 23, 2008 10:28 pm PT
Review:  Metal Gear Solid 4 I have to say is one the most addictive games I have ever own. I can just keep 
 going back to it at any time. It gives different ways of how to play the game and you can always 
 feel like you are doing something different. For the fans of the series they can go through the 
 whole game without having to be spotted by anyone and they dont have to kill anyone either, even 
 the bosses. For people who don't like that style they can customize their weapons and do what they 
 feel like. Most people say about the metal gear solid franchise is that you should play a game 
 not watch it. Though with a story like this it just sucks you in and you forget about playing. 
 Its single player is good enough that they didnt even to need to make an online multiplayer.
  
  
  if you don't like the long story or the fact it is a stealth game, the online might change 
 your mind about this game. The online multiplayer is the one of the top reasons you have to try, 
 if not buy, MGS4. This will make anyone who has an online account on the PS3 happy they signed 
 up for it. Metal Gear Solid 4 is a game that
  anyone who has a ps3 must try because it just is a great sequel to an already masterful game series 
 called Metal Gear Solid.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: narutoyomper
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 23, 2008 8:30 pm PT
Review:  Its the best game ever, i simply doesnt know how it doesnt has 11 on the score... well its my favorite 
 game ever, and im proud having a ps3, if this game will be on the x box, it will be the best sold 
 in all time, without a doubt, the problem is that not much people have the money to buy it, but 
 with this game being an exclusive... ps3 rules!
  I love it and its the first game (well the second, because re 4) that i pass much times and i dont 
 get bored, and its the first time ever (i think) that can be pause the videos, because, this game 
 is a movie.
  The game is a masterpiece, i dont know what is in the head of kojima to make him a genius, the 
 best of all, the story line is better one in all games, and the game uses around 80% of the blueray 
 capacity!!!!
  And this game is better thant GTA4, i even love that game, but this is much better in all senses. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SkylinePigeon
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 23, 2008 1:57 pm PT
Review:  Some things in life manage to amount to something greater than the sum of all the parts composing 
 it. I believe this old adage holds true of the Metal Gear franchise, but it is especially applicable 
 to Metal Gear Solid 4. The game is neither perfect nor the best game in the series, but it is a 
 necessary and satisfying conclusion to the series that has enthralled gamers for the past twenty 
 years.
  
  The game has been crowned as the PS3's flagship title, and it has certainly earned this crown. 
 The graphics are as good as is currently possible, and there are no graphical glitches to speak 
 of. The in-game environments, of which there are five, are richly detailed. Of particular note 
 is the Middle Eastern segment of the game in which Snake explores a fully realized, active war 
 zone. Nothing is stagnant about the environment; militants scurry through roads and alleys, bullets 
 and bombs fly constantly, and the dusty, heavily damaged buildings are testaments to the violence 
 in the air. More than graphics are needed to create a realistic world, and the sound delivers just 
 as well as the graphics. The environments look, feel, and sound like real world environments. It 
 would be difficult to find flaws with any of the game's technical aspects.
  
  The high degree of realism continues over to Metal Gear Solid 4's story. While the game still walks 
 a line just bordering on outlandish, this iteration of the franchise takes real world issues like 
 war, private military companies, and information control head on. The story interestingly blurs 
 the line between good and evil, and it maturely raises issues that most popular media has failed 
 to acknowledge. At its best, the game successfully prompts thinking current quandaries. At its 
 worst, the story drags and is heavy-handed. The game relies too heavily on in-game cut scenes. 
 The average player will spend at least half their time on their first run through watching the 
 game instead of playing it, and cinematic stretches can last longer than an hour at a time. Despite 
 the fact that the scenes are interesting and well produced, this quickly becomes tiresome. It wraps 
 up the long saga nicely, leaving no loose ends and only a few minor plot holes. Regardless, the 
 story has a profound emotional impact, and the events of the game will likely move the player to 
 extremes of happiness and sadness, frustration and elation.
  
  One of the game's greatest innovations is the way the story's most epic moments translate seamlessly 
 into game play. This helps deliver a fluid and exciting experience. The game play will be familiar 
 to anyone who has played the other games. The player still has the opportunity to sneak past enemy 
 soldiers, but those who aren't fans of the stealth genre will find it much easier to take a more 
 run and gun approach in this last installment of the series. Snake has a variety of weapons at 
 his disposal, including a large array of customizable guns. As far as gadgetry goes, Snake can 
 make use of new Otacon designed goodies such as the Solid Eye vision system or the Mark II surveillance 
 robot. In a bizarre and unnecessary bit of product placement, Snake's arsenal also includes an 
 iPod. Unfortunately, the variety of weapons is underused, and most players will rely solely on 
 one or two weapons. Neither strategic differences between weapons or enemy variation call for using 
 a diverse selection of guns.
  
  The series is famed for its boss battles, but the fights in this game are pretty lackluster. They 
 are mostly variations on bosses from the original Metal Gear Solid, and the lack of inventiveness 
 is disappointing. An exception to this is the end of Act 4, a segment that features one of the 
 most epic battles of video game history. The game's final fight is a bit long and lacks variety, 
 concluding the experience on a low note, game play wise. As a whole the game is also the easiest 
 of the series. Excluding the boss battles, the game is pretty simple even on the higher difficulties.
 
  
  As much as I enjoyed playing the game, in the end I felt like I hadn't played enough of it. Snake's 
 final mission comes to a satisfying conclusion, but that doesn't excuse the problem of the game 
 focusing too heavily on long cinematic sequences. Still, all things considered, it's about as good 
 of a conclusion as players could hope to get. I cannot recommend the game as a starting point to 
 the series, but those who are familiar with the other games need to experience Metal Gear Solid 
 4 to understand the final chapter of the characters gamers have come to know and love in the past 
 two decades. Though not without problems, it's a great ending to one of gaming's best franchises.
 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: zz1234v2
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 23, 2008 12:36 pm PT
Review:  Metal Gear Solid 4: Guns of the Patriots has finally come and with comes the reputation of the 
 rest of the Metal Gear series and it defiantly lives up to it. Lets start off with the biggest 
 part of MGS4, the story, for many different reviewers, this was a double edged sword. While the 
 story is very (and I mean very) well written it also has cut-scenes that break up the action of 
 the game and sometimes make the game feel awkward. Now for the next part of the MGS series, the 
 stealth. The stealth feels to dependent on the camouflage element introduced in MGS3. While in 
 the previous installment it helped keep you hidden it never took the place of hiding, but in MGS4 
 you don't even need to hide anymore you can just camouflage your self to get past almost anything. 
 While the camouflage gameplay is very cool it just sometimes feel like if I got rid of it I would 
 be screwed. The boss battles are very fun to play and are very interesting, while fighting one 
 I felt very unsure of everything because it was camouflaged so I was walking around shooting at 
 everything I thought that moved, I was freaking out. The gameplay has taken a overhaul, now with 
 a new camera and moves it feels very satisfying to play. When I played this game I played from 
 six in the afternoon to six in the afternoon and it felt like I was playing for a hour or two, 
 when I finally finished I realized that I had played it for over twenty four hours, I was shocked. 
 I had a great time playing this game it has many different elements that make it fantastic, but 
 it is not perfect. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BiOZiGzAg
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 23, 2008 11:40 am PT
Review:  I've never been a fan of the MGS series, But I was longing for this game, Mostly as my PS3 hardly 
 got any use.
  
  I was a little worried it might not be as amazing as I thought, but it surprised me.
  
  To 
 date its the most of any game I've played on my Ps3. Its sad its a tad bit short.
  The Graphics are astounding and the sound its beautifully clear.
  
  Overall its an amazing 
 game, which doesn't overstay its welcome but at the same time leaves the gamer wanting more.
  
  On a small note, its isn't perfect, Which is expected. But it has done something brilliant 
 for its generation. It has closed many gaps for fans and its blended cinimatics and gameplay perfectly.
 
  
  I love this game, and I still play it time for time.
  Wish it didn't end with this game. But I'm very sure there will be other games, hopefully being 
 just as or possibly even better than that of this game.
  
  Go Kojima!! You can see lots of effort and love went into this game.
  Masterful. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JSchrowang
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 23, 2008 8:47 am PT
Review:  Okay, so MGS4 is a technical achievement unlike any other, showing off the PS3's raw power in ways 
 that have never been done before. Solid Snake has feathered hair, for Pete's sake!
  
  I have to admit, the first few hours I played practically every moment brought another "wow, look 
 at that!" from my lips. The graphics, the music, the small winks and nods to the past. There's 
 an obvious genius behind this game, and I would absolutely understand if it won Game of the Year 
 and a hundred other awards. It's a leap forward in modern gaming.
  
  That said, I just couldn't get into it. The control scheme was very confusing to me, and after 
 hours of gameplay, I still could not for the life of me remember which button did what. I've never 
 had that happen to me before. It usually takes me 5 minutes to get a control scheme down and start 
 going crazy. It's hard to get into a game when you're pausing to check what button to press every 
 two minutes.
  
  The cutscenes rival and even outpace any Hollywood movie in terms of scope, dialogue, and drama. 
 But they're so long and drawn out, I found myself making sandwiches, doing dishes, checking e-mail 
 during them. 
  
  A 20 minute cutscene and I still have no idea what's going on or how that cutscene furthered the 
 story! I honestly went through and replayed about two hour's worth of story because I was so lost 
 as far as plotline went.
  
  Another thing: Metal Gear games have been around since the late 80's, right? We're talking about 
 20 years of games, and it's honestly a hell of a lot of history to cover. I've played some but 
 not all of the Metal Gear games; sometimes I didn't have the right system, sometimes there were 
 other games to interest me. When the first one came out, I was probably playing Super Mario Bros 
 and Duck Hunt pretty religiously. 
  
  So here's my complaint: can a game designer really expect his audience to know every facet of every 
 Metal Gear game? I feel like you HAVE to have played them all to truly get the full spectacle of 
 this story. I downloaded the Database from PSN to try to fill in my gaps of knowledge, and I gotta 
 say... more confused than ever. 
  
  If I can't get involved in the story, it's very hard for me to stay interested in a game. This 
 is a problem I've noticed in a lot of video games, however. It seems to be very hard for game developers 
 to put together a coherent storyline.
  
  So there's my two cents. Yes, it's a great game. But I guess even a great game isn't going to please 
 everybody. This game is stylish as hell. I absolutely recognize its greatness, and know that a 
 lot of people are going to enjoy it. Sadly, I couldn't. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gamer-28
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 23, 2008 5:46 am PT
Review:  This game is one of the best games i have ever played, it has a unique gameplay style in which 
 a player can decide whether to sneak past enemies or obliterate them with an arsenal of weapons. The 
 boss battles are epic and the graphics are top notch.
  
  As with most games in the MGS series this game features extremly long high quality cutscenes, at 
 points it even seems more like movie. I enjoyed these scenes the first time i watched them but 
 afterwards they just became irritating.
  
  Despite this the story is amazing and on the first playthrough players should definately watch 
 the cutscenes.
  
  Aside from the single player story mode MGS4 also provides a high quality mutiplayer online mode 
 in which players can compete against eachother, join/create clans, and chat while playing as their 
 own customised character.
  
  I would easily recommend this game to anybody 10/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: enzo2606
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 22, 2008 6:05 pm PT
Review:  This is the best game I've ever played. I have finished 16 PS3 and 360 games since October97, 
 some of those games were great, like: gears of war, call of duty 4, uncharted, halo 3, rainbow 
 six vegas 1-2, mass effect... but, MGS4 have something unique, since I started it I couldn't stop 
 to play. The game was getting better and better from the very beggining to the very end. Some videos 
 were bored some were great (but... ... could all videos be great?)
  
  I would like to finish the game in the hardest level, I am sure that I will enjoy it very much. 
 I hope that a new firmware is released before I finish the game again. I said so because of the 
 trophy. It would be great, wouldn't it?
  
  This is a game that really diserve 10... I am currently playing GTA4, this is a great game too, 
 but never like MGS4. GTA4 is a well done game but the storyline is far away interesting if you 
 compare it with MGS4. 
  
  The online game is great as well. I haven't played the last version, but I spent a lot of hours 
 playing the beta version released few months ago.
  
  Highly recommended... you will love it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: legendarygaz
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 22, 2008 3:14 pm PT
Review:  Ok this game is by far one of the best game's I've ever played, I mean it looks fantastic and plays 
 well but there is just one no two things that bug me about it.
  
  1) Why on earth are the 4/5 bosses just the same fight? You kill the beast then the sexy mamma 
 version with camel toe might I add, just to be told a story of why they are like they are and let's 
 face it, they are all the same. Some washed up story of them getting poo'd on as a child and then 
 take on the traits of an animal i. e. wolf. You do get to keep whatever they have on them and the 
 rail gun is sweet but the bosses from other MGS games grip you more and make you not just fear 
 them but feel for them too they are complex and have soul the new bosses are just pretty and not 
 all that hard well maybe mantis was a little hard but hey who was to know you had to shoot the 
 dolls and use them on her!
  
  2) THE END! Ok the end was ok it answered everything but it never made me feel anything it just 
 made me say ah that's... and oh I didn't think that would... plus snake didn't die why the F**K 
 not!!! ok so he will in a few months but I know for a fact if he had died at the wedding on a chair 
 I would of blubbed for a week.
  
  Ok that's what bugged me and that's all if i was to write about the things I loved (not the micro 
 wave bit that just hurt my hand) it would take up a full hard drive in text lol. So I will just 
 point a few things out.
  
  -Rex vs. Rey
  -Vamp vs. Riden
  -Octo cammo
  -Shadow mosses old and new
  -Middle East setting for 1st levels
  -gecko's are fun to kill
 
  -Johnny
  -The sort of fight with snake and liquid when snake is Eva
  -SNAKE VS LUQUID at the end sooooo cool!!!
  
  And so much more.
  
  Ok this wasn't a full 
 on game review as such and I haven't mentioned the frame rate or game engine but I'm going to leave 
 it at what it is and that is a fantastic game and one I will play for a long time I mean I got 
 a PS3 just for it so I should lol.
  
  Peace out
  
  Legendary Gaz 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bars17x
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 21, 2008 10:33 pm PT
Review:  Let me preface this review with a quick note. This experience is coming from a player that has 
 NEVER played a metal gear solid game. This game just happened to also be my first PS3 play since 
 upgrading to HDTV (finally) so I can actually appreciate the artistry and breath taking visuals 
 to their fullest extent.
  
  Ok, was this the greatest game I have ever played? No. Should you own it? Yes.
  
  I never thought 
 I would reach the day when I would say, fewer stories please  more game. I normally love cut scenes 
 and engrossing story but MGS4 just gives way too much. Having no exposure to the previous games 
 doesn't help either as I was completely LOST in many situations trying to keep the rather bland 
 character names apart from each other. Like how 'the boss' is different from 'big boss.' C'mon. 
 Obviously, playing the other games would have helped and I may go back to try them if for no reason 
 other than to figure things out. The story itself occasionally gets so convoluted and wordy that 
 it is pretty much impossible to understand completely the first time through. Granted, I plan to 
 play through again at some point, but not anytime soon. Sure, I understand the basics, but I still 
 was scratching my head at the end. 
  
  Also from the minute you finish the final battle, there is a little over an HOUR of cut scenes 
 and credits to watch before getting your final score. AN HOUR. I seriously think that if you add 
 up the entire story and cut scenes, this game is longer than the extended version of 'Return of 
 the King.' Thankfully, you can pause at any point. With long winded cut scenes often comes lots 
 of back/side story for supporting characters. While some of these stories were interesting, they 
 sometimes detracted focus from snake, which is a bad idea as most players will probably grow fairly 
 fond of the gruff old guy by the end of this game. I loved this character. From the voice, to the 
 movements, to the mustache  I genuinely cared about what happened to him. Drebin's monkey was 
 a close second.
  
  The only game play element I didn't thoroughly enjoy was the boss fights. They sort of bored me 
 at times. Most of them don't directly fight you so you spend a lot of time just looking for them 
 and taking pot shots. Granted, later encounters require a little more brain power  but I wasn't 
 that impressed overall. The beauty and beast concept was interesting (although the first time I 
 saw them I felt like the game had taken a step backwards in the realism category) . I did accept 
 them in the end but the repetition got really bland. I don't want to spoil things, but you will 
 get it after you finish a few bossesyou get the same routine.. over.. and over.. and it gets old.
 
  
  The difficulty of this game is fairly light, although there are a few encounters/areas that will 
 leave you quite frustrated until you figure out the patterns (first potion of final act comes to 
 mind) . I originally thought the game was too damn hard after getting killed a bunch of times right 
 away. This was mainly because the controls have a fairly steep learning curve. You can do SO many 
 different moves, and I feel like trying everything out obviously. We certainly have come a long 
 way since the good old two button days. Granted, once you get all these moves figured out  you 
 will be using human shields and flipping around corners with ease. I felt fairly comfortable with 
 most of the game mechanics mid-way through the second act.
  
  So enough complaining. Why should you get this game? Because it is an 'experience.' Simple as that. 
 I have never played a game that was so immersive and larger-than-life. It is like starring in your 
 own live-action movie, with lots of hard-hitting fights, and cheese-ball one-liners. The motorcycle 
 chase sequence in particular screams Hollywood big show, and I loved every second of it. The final 
 encounter is epic and masterfully played out.
  
  The gameplay is top notch. You can try to sneak through everything, or just shoot the crap out 
 of anything that moves. You can mercilessly slaughter your opponents, or you can stun or tranq 
 them with various weapons/techniques. The Drebin system simply works. I thought it sounded odd 
 reading reviews, but was pleasantly surprised. You basically can buy weapons/ammo whenever you 
 want as well as sell all the extras you find in the field without the hassle of physically walking 
 to a merchant. Everything is automated and in the main menu. Sure it may not be ultra realistic, 
 but that doesn't seem to be the game's main emphasis in the first place.
  
  Snake himself is simply fun to play. I liked the extreme aging concept as well as the psyche gauge. 
 It adds interesting elements to game play (and often humor during cut scenes) . I remember noticing 
 the first time whilst sniping that my aimer was bobbing all over the place and thinking "what the 
 hell?" Ahh, the psyche gauge is crapped out, better move to a less stressful area. Or pop some 
 pills to steady the old arm; however you want to play it.
  
  Each act has a distinctly unique feel which is impressive to say the least. I enjoyed them all 
 for their quirks and atmosphere. I believe Snake's trip to South America was my favorite. One portion 
 in particular made me feel like Arnold Schwarzenegger in 'Commando.' Some acts require more stealth, 
 others have you facing machines rather than humans, it is a mixed bag  and a good one at that.
 
  
  Finally, the visuals are unbelievable. Sure, I may be biased because this is my first true HDTV 
 gaming experience in my own home  but I was amazed. The realism, the emotion, and the environments 
  it is all beautiful. I have never seen a game done better in terms of graphical prowess. The 
 octocamo suit was stunning. 
  
  I could on and on about this game, but I really don't want to slip and create any unnecessary spoilers. 
 That would ruin the 'experience' as a whole. I also haven't tried the multiplayer out yet, so this 
 review applies solely to the single-player experience.
  
  This game is so unique compared to most action/stealth games out there. There is no reason not 
 to own it if you are a PS3 loyalist like myself.
  
  Snake's last mission is one hell of a ride.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Murso24
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 21, 2008 7:54 pm PT
Review:  Metal Gear solid 4: Guns of the Patriots is a "Solid" game, better yet it is amazing. 
  
  Graphics: one of the Best i've seen in a console video game. while the textures sometimes aren't 
 exactly 3D, like say the ground, everything else comes to life, especially the detail on the characters, 
 the shading, lighting, and and environmental effects. 
  
  Gameplay: its always great to play a game that looks great, but its even better when the game also 
 plays great. MGS4 does exactly that. seamless animations and correct ones at that. the framerate 
 keeps up well and i've never seen it drop. the AI is acutally somewhat smart but they can be oblivious 
 to you when you hide (but thats how its supposed to be) . (spoiler ahead!) i like how you can customize 
 weapons and add almost every one of them with a suppressor, which actually does add to the gameplay, 
 and it draws less attention. 
  
  Story: i've just gotten to the 2nd Part and its a BIG game. probably would have taken 4-5 DVD's 
 worth (but thats why its on Blu-Ray!) and i must say its as epic as a leading action movie. and 
 the cutscenes are pretty, using the in-game engine, and they keep you involved. every now and again 
 i find my self pressing a button that will bring up a visual, or a game-changing action. usually 
 a button will show up in the corners. and even though the cutscense are long. they are worth watching 
 as they are great looking, and tell alot of story behind it. 
  
  Overall: i give it a Ten. even though this is my first MGS game, i really enjoy every minute i 
 play. its very involving, very chilling, and a great looking game. a game that not only looks great 
 but plays great at the same time. and deffintily worth it. even if you are not into the Metal Gear 
 Solid series like me, i gave it a try and as long as you like a shooter that has a great story 
 and looks and plays great. play it. you wont regret it. Snake is as "Solid" as it gets. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: godofwarfan1
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 21, 2008 4:13 pm PT
Review:  metal gear solid is one of the best games to come out ever. if you have any questions about the 
 metal gear saga, it should be answered during the story mode of this game. if you really want to 
 know about the series, download the MGS4 database of the playstation network. the stealth in this 
 game is top notch. personally my favorite game in the series before this game was the original 
 metal gear solid. i loved shadow moses island. that game might not have been the last time you 
 visit the island. one cool thing is that when you are shooting in the game you can go into first 
 person. i know this isn't new to the series, but it does it great in this game. also, some of the 
 new charecters are really cool. like drebin for instance. he sells you weapons. he also has a big 
 roll in the story. you should get this game. it should get game of the year. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JimmyTheBard
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 21, 2008 4:02 pm PT
Review:  For lack of a better term, holy cow.
  This game is great, it rivals the very best of the very best in most aspects. The graphics are 
 brilliant, the story is insanely detailed, and the gameplay is solid and innovative. The over-the-shoulder 
 reticle feels perfect for this game type, and the OctoCamo is very, very cool.
  There are over 50 weapons (probably more) which are mostly customizable, with a few special exceptions. 
 The stress meter balances out your huge selection of weaponry, though: get in a tough situation 
 and your accuracy will decrease. The main objective is to be unseen as you get from point A to 
 B: it's possible to get through the game without killing a single person. I guarantee at least 
 one certain part of the game will put you on the edge of your seat (I wouldn't want to spoil it 
 for you, but it is COOL) .
  
  If you have a PS3, you have an obligation to buy this game, period. I would recommend the MGS Essential 
 Collection first, though. You'll be much less confused (and the three games before it are amazing, 
 not to mention you get all of them for 30 bucks!)
  This is quite possibly the best series ever. Don't delay, go get it! Now! I'm serious! Drop everything! 
 :P 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PSP_AMoN
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 21, 2008 3:57 pm PT
Review:  There are some people who bought the ps3 just for Metal Gear, you may see it as stupidity but i 
 see it as cleverness, because this game is what the ps3 is all about, this game pushed the ps3 
 to its limits to give us the best graphics.
  
  lets start with the graphics : gorgeous ... thats it.
  
  then the sound : very impressive you 
 can hear anything, the wind, movement on the grass and such ... and it has one of the best soundtracks 
 i ever heard, like the song matches with the scene you are seeing, which drives you sometimes to 
 tear.
  
  then the gamplay : like the old series but added with new features, like pretending dying, helping 
 one side against the other to help you later, also you have this gauge above the health bar which 
 shows how much you are nervous, bottom line the gameplay kick a**.
  
  then the story : here the very important point of all because this is the very reason that made 
 me buy the ps3 for it, the story of metal gear is heart catching and beatiful, makes you want to 
 know more about it with every second, and the cutscenes made it like a long awesome movie.
  
  if you combine all of these you will have the masterpiece of all games of all time, and i don't 
 blame Hideo Kojima for delaying the game everytime because he wanted it a masterpiece, and he did 
 it.
  
  all my thanks for Konami and Hideo Kojima for bringng us this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ponyoncrack
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 21, 2008 3:50 pm PT
Review:  This game is the best of the series, and that's saying a lot, even if you didn't like the previous 
 games you will still enjoy this game for what it is, a marvelous stealth game. The graphics are 
 great and the large selection of weapons and their upgrades are even better. The new stealth mechanics 
 in this game are incredible, they make Sam Fisher look like a joke. Snake can now run while crouching 
 and roll from cover to cover while laying down. The story is truly amazing bringing you jokes, 
 tragedy, and enough twists to make you dizzy, also the soundtrack by Harry Gregson Williams brought 
 even more emotion to the game. The only real problem with the game is the questionable intelligence 
 of the games AI, some times they are so blind it's as if they're wearing sunglasses. All in all 
 it's an amazing game with an ending that should bring you complete closure and will make you want 
 to replay it many times over. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mgable
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 21, 2008 1:06 pm PT
Review:  Definitely one of the best games I've ever played. After completion, I immediately began playing 
 it again (a shame to waste all those Drebin points) ! 
  I had never played any of the MGS games before, so I was not used to being so "stealthy" at first, 
 and that was frustrating. As soon as I got the idea of what was required (and you learn that VERY 
 quickly or... you die) , it was unlike any other game!!
  The weapons are amazing, and the ability to customize your favorites are a great asset to gameplay.
 
  The controls are smooth, and you can easily move Snake through the environment.
  It was not difficult to figure out the bosses weaknesses, but even if you know what they are, it 
 is a nonetheless, a tough battle to their ultimate demise.
  You've got to hand it to Kojima, everything was first rate. The cinematics were like watching a 
 Hollywood blockbuster, the gameplay was fun (and very well integrated with the cut scenes) .
  All in all, this game gets a very rare... BRILLIANT! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DaCelciusKid
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 21, 2008 9:49 am PT
Review:  This was a great game. I have played all the other MGS games, but i believe I like this one the 
 best. The cut scenes get to be a little long, but those are what make the game that much more fun. 
 It's like sitting through a long movie, that you just don't want to end. You actually do want it 
 to end, so one can say that they have defeated the game, but then at the same time, you want it 
 to last longer, just because of the pure fun it provides. I am not a big fan of FPS games, so this 
 is the perfect shooter for me. There are a variety of new and amazing weapons, and there are also 
 some interesting Easter eggs. Another good this about this game is the graphics. Everything looks 
 so real. The only thing that killed it for me was the hair. It looks nice, but it doesn't even 
 look remotely real. Overall, I recommend this game to everyone, even if one has never played any 
 of the other games in the series. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: B-Boy009
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 21, 2008 6:55 am PT
Review:  Metal Gear Solid 4 is the best game so far this year. I have played games like Rainbow Six Las 
 Vegas 2, Army of Two, Call of Duty 4, and even Grand Theft Auto 4. All of these games was missing 
 some important element. Number one I'm not a big fan of first person shooters. The thing I admire 
 the most about Metal Gear Solid 4 is the online multi-player. I'm a big online gamer and I prefer 
 games that are online compatible, I enjoy single player games, but after awhile its gets very boring 
 playing against the computer. Metal Gear Online feeds my craving for playing against other individuals 
 who think they are the best, which leads to an epic battle. The thing that upsets me the most is 
 how some people achieve there ranks so fast by cheating or playing against themselves. The funny 
 part is when you actually play against the so called best, and you beat them or they actually quit 
 before the game is finished. I guess that shows who is actually good at what they do. MGS4 online 
 is filled with sniping, slicing, and blowing a lot of things up which, overall for me makes this 
 compared to the other games I played this year the best. 10 out of 10 for me on this game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BuDoKaI546
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 21, 2008 4:55 am PT
Review:  Awesome game and a major jump to the final chapter in the franchise. every part of the world is 
 immersive and is chained together all with good graphics voicing and weapons. one of the best games 
 of 08. for an example if u run into the enemy they wil notice u, however they wont detect u a mile 
 away like moh. highly addictive and exellent gameplay as well as cutscenes. the pmcs r fun to pick 
 on as u have a unfair advantage which is using the 1 n only solid snake. 
  bye bye bye bye bye bye bye bey eyv ey ehebjes huioeh fh eaoiu fueawof hafuo; hfeuioa fhai; hfuo 
 faui faueif oiafg aeoi fhioa gfaiof gua fqweui fgiuq gfqi; gfqiofg qig fiq fguqif giuq feuwai fgu8wa 
 gfe fg8qai gfey9 f8iqg tf8ygf 8iefg 8qgf 8qfg 8qgf8qfg 8qgf 8fg 8q fg8qyf g8qfg q8f g8qfg 8qf 8qf 
 8qf 8qf 8qf 86qfg 8q f8qdf 6qfd q8of q fqf yq8f q8fr q8f q8f gq8f qf q8of qf oqf 8qfr 8qfg q fr8oqf 
 qf q 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DarklingLewis
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 20, 2008 6:04 pm PT
Review:  What can I say without taking anyany subject matter? Firstly I have played only MGS 1 and MGS 2 
 previously to this title. After MGS 2 the 'Splinter Cell' series took the crown in this genre from 
 MGS and so I missed out MGS 3.
  
  Despite not getting the story from MGS 3 it all gets recaped in this game, so new commers you will 
 still get whats going on. For those like me who haven't played a Metal Gear game since MGS 2 was 
 released? Again all will be recapped. Even the sub-plots that were not answered that you forgot 
 about. 
  
  For me re-entering the world of Metal gear again was a slow one, i though "yeah its 'OK' but can 
 I be bothered"? Give it a chance. Meet some real enemies, get some story going. Before long you 
 will be deeply involved and won't stop til the jobs done. 
  
  I don't want to say too much, but this is a sequel to MGS 2 and explains the 'WTF?' ending to that 
 game. Konami/Kojima have really gone for the cinematic masterpiece with this series and the ace 
 of the series is MGS 4.
  
  While playing through this game i got thinking of how good MGS 1 was and started to remember things 
 about previous games, I got quite nostalgic with old fashioned contorls (updated) old characters 
 & stories and this game just took me from one emotional state to the next with precision timing 
 and as the story build up excitement and urgency kept pushing that extra mile. In the end I was 
 left thinking I've done it, The end of Solid Snakes story is here. 
  
  But as I wanted to finish the game (and its longer than most/maybe all? current gen story modes)
 
  I found myself wanting to play more, but not just MGS 4 but the whole series from start to end. 
 
  
  MGS 4 delivers great singleplayer experience with exelent gameplay, replayablity, World class story 
 telling and and atmosphere that will such you in to the world of Solid snake. This with a great 
 Multiplayer game (Metal Gear online) I have to say this game delivers in every area and as such 
 this game gets a 10/10 from me. Its not for everyone but most fans of the series will weep and 
 the masterpiece that is 
  Metal Gear Solid 4. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: darkinvasion25
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 20, 2008 12:28 pm PT
Review:  The Single player's story was about this guy named liquid and he tries to take over the world with 
 his nano machines, and a guy named vamp, he works with him to do it, and this guy named solid snake, 
 or should you called him old snake now?, he tries to stop him, and this guy named otocon, he gives 
 him advice on how to stop him, the story's emotional and deep, and there's this guy named drebin, 
 he launderers guns, there's good variety of weapons to choose from, like carbine machine gun, or 
 a shotgun, rocket propelled grenade, rail gun, and more, and there's also pretty good ways of being 
 stealthy, like there's a equipment you can use called auto-camo = camoflauge, you can blend in 
 to the texture of a wall, ground, rug, stair steps, outside wall of a building and more, and there's 
 items like a box, where you can hide in it and move around while in it, and also with a can, i 
 loved it, I've beaten it 2 times, the multi-player is fun!, it's called metal gear online, there's 
 a variety of modes, death match, team death match, base mision, team sneaking, and more, by far 
 this is a must have.!! :D 
::::::

::::::
UserName: belwyrm
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 20, 2008 12:07 pm PT
Review:  It's taken me awhile to get to reviewing this game. I completed the main story several times and 
 spent a bit of time online, both with the beta, and once I got the game. I wanted to make it a 
 good review.
  
  Now as I look back at the time well wasted, my thoughts converge around a single word. Wow! 
 
  
  Your first impression of the game is almost always graphically, and MGS4 shines through from the 
 get go. Cut scenes and gameplay transition so smoothly that at the beginning of the game I had 
 trouble determining whether it was time to play or not. The character models are exquisite and 
 the environments are perfectly designed. From beginning to end you'll be hard pressed to find any 
 fault visually.
  
  Your other senses not to be ignored, the audio in the game is excellent. The music plays softly 
 in the background of most cut scenes, almost to the point you don't notice. The voice acting is 
 way above par, with props going to David Hayters magnificent final rendition of Solid Snake. The 
 sound of weapons, explosions, and grunts of pain and exertion follow you around the war torn world.
 
  
  This game has something for everyone when it comes to gameplay. If you want to take the traditional 
 "Tactical Espionage Action" and sneak your way around every level, you can do that. If you want 
 to run around randomly and kill everything, you can do that. If you want a good mixture of both, 
 you can do that. Sneaking is greatly helped by the addition of some new gadgets, like the Octo-camo, 
 while the run and gun side has an improved cover mechanic and excellent shooting controls. There 
 are several different routes through most of the levels that support one style or the other, and 
 this mixing of gameplay ups the replayability factor.
  
  The story is superb. It ties up loose ends from the convoluted storyline's of the previous games 
 and has it's own excellent story to keep you intrigued. The Story is as much a part of the game 
 as the gameplay, and you will spend equal (or greater) amounts of time in cut scenes than you do 
 in gameplay. You generally feel for Snake's plight, and sympathize with his ongoing battles, both 
 internally, and externally.
  
  Little details once again rear their heads. Enemy AI will finally kick in a cardboard box, patrols 
 will be sent to search your last known location, and (a little tactical tidbit) Snake finally moves 
 like a special forces soldier, from slicing the pie to tapping his mag, I was impressed.
  
  Overall MGS4 is an excellent game, and really deserves the credit it's been given. Though I may 
 have to up my scoring standards as I've given out three recent 10's..... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Shak-EEB
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 20, 2008 11:15 am PT
Review:  Ok I'm gonna be straight if you can think of another game that combines great storytelling mixed 
 with amazing gameplay, then please let me now because right now MGS4 will destroy any competition. 
 If you were always a fan of stealth action games such as splinter cell and the other metal gears 
 than buying this would be a no brainer. This game surpasses what anyone thought the PS3 was capable 
 of and put Sony's GODLY machine on the map. From the moment i started the game i was intrigued 
 by how Hideo Kojima-**Voice of GOD** (beat it and you'll understand) combined amazing storytelling 
 with super intuitive gameplay. The transition from cutscenes to gameplay in this game is truly 
 amazing from the moment you get off that truck to your final showdown with Liquid the game will 
 always be offering you something new. The gameplay though from videos seems very confusing and 
 that was my thought before it is actually really easy if you've played Metal Gear games before 
 than you will have no problem figuring it out and even those new to the series will have no problem 
 whatsoever either. Lets talk about sound the sound in this game is amazing you actually feel like 
 you are in a battlefield you hear grenades flying bullets firing in the distance and as you shift 
 the camera the game lets you pick up sound prominently from ear to ear like in real life providing 
 a great experience. Visuals in this game also take your breath away though i do believe that they 
 can take more out of the PS3 hardware this game easily in my opinion has the best visuals that 
 any game to date may it be Xbox360 or PS3 can offer. If you have heard about the dreaded cutscenes 
 yes you heard right they are really long some of them even being 30-40 minutes but really if you 
 skip them then you will really be missing out on all this game has to offer its basically an interactive 
 movie. In closing this is in my opinion the greatest game ever created Hideo Kojima did not just 
 perfect storytelling in a game mixed with great gameplay he took that idea to entire different 
 level. WE SALUTE YOU SNAKE REST AND HOPEFULLY COME BACK FOR ANOTHER MISSION! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cheesydinosar
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 20, 2008 7:27 am PT
Review:  A must have for anyone. Beautiful graphics as well as a brilliant story line make it a game that 
 you'll want to play over and over and over. One of the best games I've ever played. Right from 
 the beginning you're thrust into the action as you have to run away from gigantic walking robots. 
 then you have to sneak past or totally annihilate anything that gets in your way. Customizable 
 weapons. as well as numerous different ways to take down your enemies make firefights fun. As the 
 game progresses you get more weapons and items to help you as well as getting to watch more than 
 enough cutscenes that make the characters look like real people on a real life set. The voice acting 
 is incredibly good too. This game packs a punch even to the very end. This game is just absolutely 
 phenomenal and is an experience nobody should miss. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cbmurphy2489
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 20, 2008 1:16 pm PT
Review:  Hideo Kojima has done the impossible once again. A fourth (but final) installment of the Metal 
 Gear series, with greatly improved graphics, gameplay, action, and an ending that will you leave 
 you in tears. I'd waited two and a half months for this, and now it's part of my collection.
  
  It begins with the return of Solid Snake, the legend (IF not the best) who's aging rapidly 
 because of his genes. That's probably why he's been called Old Snake. Anyway, he was ordered to 
 eliminate Liquid Ocelot, the mind of Liquid in the body of Ocelot. He also meets up with newbies 
 (Drebin, Sunny, Akiba, & the BB Corps) and old friends (Meryl, Naomi, Mei Ling, & Roy Campbell) . 
 Not to mention Raiden, EVA, Vamp, Psycho Mantis, and at last (BUT not least) , the returning Big 
 Boss. The perfect cast for the perfect conclusion to the Metal Gear saga.
  
  MGS4 has some cool new features such as OctoCamo (a suit that lets you blend with environments 
 automatically) , Metal Gear Mk. II (a small robot you can use to scout enemies) , and Drebin's Shop 
 (where you can buy, trade, and customize weapons) . In addition to MGS4, there's an online multiplayer 
 mode called 'Metal Gear Online' where you join a particular group and play in death matches and 
 other stuff.
  
  As for the main game, you play in five different locations: Middle East, South America, Europe, 
 Shadow Moses, and Outer Haven. The combat between the PMCs and the militias in some of those locations 
 is nearly exhilitrating and the battle system doesn't even disappoint whatsoever. That's part of 
 the reason why this game is the total package.
  
  Overall, MGS4 is simply a superb stealth action game and a must-have on your list. This is my gratitude 
 to Kojima, and yours truly, Solid Snake. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Don_Fireagle
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 19, 2008 10:23 pm PT
Review:  I have been playing the Metal Gear series ever since it came out on the NES. Actually, I did not 
 ask for the game; my father bought it to play it himself on the NES he had given me. It was the 
 first and only game I ever saw him play and finish. After he took care of it, I went on and finished 
 it, too. Then came the second game (Snakes' Revenge) ; that one I would finish myself, as my father 
 did not play it that much.
  
  Once the series was moved to Sony's Playstation, I had to play it at friend's houses (I was a Nintendo 
 fanboy and did not buy Sony until the PS3, but more of that in a second) . The series was fantastic! 
 I loved the storytelling and the game play. I finished all the other games, played the original 
 MSX games that came with MGS 3: Subsistence, and anxiously awaited for MGS4: Guns of the Patriots. 
 The only reason I bought the PS3 was to play this game.
  
  I know it was going to be good; Solid Snake's last mission. But the game was so much more. It's 
 the conclusion of a saga. It's a movie. It's a game with two faces, as one can either play stealth, 
 or go into a battle with a run and gun strategy. There's so much the game brings back from the 
 other games that you owe it to yourself to play the others just to pick up the little homages to 
 each episode of the series. 
  
  I realized the level of perfection this game has when I fought the first Beauty and the Beast, 
 Laughing Octopus. In every other Metal Gear game, you have to learn a pattern from your foe and 
 have a special weapon to beat him/her. In this fight, I found myself in an "anything goes" battle. 
 There is no "right" way to beat your foe. And that gives it awesome replay value, and of course, 
 great satisfaction once you discuss your strategy with others and find that there's no one solution. 
 After the battle, my hands were shaking (it could have been because I had been playing for 7 hours 
 straight the day I got it) , and I thought to myself: "Hideo Kojima, you have done it! Good job!" 
 I've never played a better game, and I've been playing games nonstop for 18 years. 
  
  The multi player is the icing in the cake. After finishing the great single player story, I've 
 spent more than 40 hours in multi player mayhem. The great extra conditions like the Sneaking missions 
 and Capture the Base keep me coming back for more. 
  
  I know this has been a lengthy review, and if you have read until this point, I hope you can appreciate 
 how much I like and admire these games, and I thank you for reading it. This series has been part 
 of my life for 20 years, and the ending did not disappoint. I believe no other game will entice 
 me as much as this one did, and I hope my review at least gets you interested in this great story. 
 May you find a game that brings you a gaming experience at least as good as the one I had with 
 Metal Gear Solid 4: Guns of the Patriots. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zendogg
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 19, 2008 3:55 pm PT
Review:  It was a great game with the added bonus of finally finding out the answers to a lot of the questions 
 that needed to be answered over the years. The multiplayer options are highly enjoyable, but this 
 game is built for the single player story. With all the awards that are possible upon completion 
 each time this game allows for you to play through the story a few times and it is fun every time. 
 I highly recommend this game. Definitely the single greatest reason to own a PlayStation 3. The 
 only problem now is wondering where Konami goes from here. I don't see them ending the franchise 
 but they have made it clear that there won't be a Solid Snake in future installments. I guess we 
 will have to wait and see how Hideo Kojima solves this issue. I just hope that if the planned Metal 
 Gear movie does in fact come out some time that it takes a lot from the great Metal Gear stories 
 to make an epic feature film. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: powerman91
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 19, 2008 3:08 pm PT
Review:  I think this game is the game of the year! The controls were nice they were smooth but also seemed 
 fast which made it very easy to be stealthy and have the ability to take out your enemies. I also 
 enjoyed how its more of a real life third person shooter. Many times the only way to achieve your 
 objective is to use your stealth capabilities. Which is mostly possible due to the new octo camo. 
 A camouflage suit that enables you to take the color and texture of your environment basically 
 making you invisible to your enemies.
  
  I thought the story-line was very action packed and very suspenseful. Its basically a movie that 
 you play which in my opinion gives you more excitement and more reason to play. One the higher 
 difficulty your opponents have the ability to hear you coming and have more sight distance just 
 like in real life. Which makes it that much more interesting cause when you have to use stealth 
 it gives you more of a challenge.
  
  I also liked the emblems you can unlock by playing the game. They give the game a higher replay 
 value, and give you a reason to replay it over and over again. Plus the more complicated emblems 
 require more skill and experience to achieve. You never really get bored of playing it over and 
 over again cause theres many different ways you can achieve your objectives. You can stay low sneak 
 by everyone without being noticed or you can charge through the middle and enjoy fierce gun battles 
 with your enemies. There's also a big variety of weapons to suit any players style. There's small 
 silenced weapons for stealth or there's rocket launchers and machine guns for a bruit force play 
 through.
  
  All in all a very good game and I would recommend it to anyone!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Borges2207
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 19, 2008 8:24 am PT
Review:  Im not a big Metal Gear fan actualy im a very big fan of the GTA series but, to be honest, MGS 
 4 makes GTA 4 look like an average game.
  
  GRAPHICS: are pretty much the best i have seen on a console sofar and the overall presentation 
 is awesome, cutscenes in this game are just a joy to watch this is the closest it gets to a CGI 
 animated movie.
  
  GAMEPLAY: i must agree with the of the people that wrote some reviews saying that there are more 
 cutscenes than actual gameplay, but, i don't see that as negative as they see beacause the story 
 in this game is intense and the cutscenes fit in perfectly and the actual gameplay is just amazing 
 and long enough to keep you from complaining about the cutscenes (some reviewers just want to be 
 wrong)
  
  SOUND: Much like the graphics, they are just the best so far on a console (I use sony 7.1 with 
 dolby pro logic II)
  
  BOTTOM LINE: i love GTA more than any other game but i must say that im just stunned with the quality 
 of MGS4 trust me the production here is just something we have not seen on any other game.
  Congratulations to KOJIMA PRODUCTIONS and KONAMI for giving us gamers one of the most amazing games 
 so far, a product worthy of the "GAME OF THE YEAR AWARD".
  Thank you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SuPeRsKiTtLeS
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 19, 2008 8:19 am PT
Review:  This game finally made me a metal gear fan. I had played metal gear 2 and 3 and i just couldn't 
 get ahold of the controls, and i never really understood what was going on. Plus, the gameplay 
 wasn't that great. But this game is exactly the game that I have been waiting to play. This game 
 had me from the first cutscene with the fighting and shooting. I was really amazed by the smoothness 
 of the game. The combat is fast and fluid and rarely does the frame rate drop low. Graphics are 
 just incredible, and i didn't even play this game on an HDTV. You start as old snake who has aged 
 quite a bit since his last appearance, but later on you will find out why he has aged so much. 
 But throughout the game you will unravel an unparalleled storyline that is pure genius. Although, 
 if you do not like overdramatic and exceedingly long cutscenes, this might get annoying. But if 
 you decide to skip these cutscenes, you will be completely lost. The game also keeps it interesting 
 by throwing in some robot battles and vehicle battles. Only downsides to this game are the really 
 long cutscenes (which can get annoying when their 30 minutes long) , the installation of each chapter, 
 and snake always smoking. I know that sounds stupid, but he does it every cutscene and after awhile 
 it really got annoying. Otherwise you would be absolutely stupid not to buy this game. If this 
 doesn't win game of the year, somebody is going to die. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bigd575
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 7, 2009 4:25 pm PT
Review:  Metal Gear Solid 4: Guns of the Patriots is here and a must have game especially for anyone who 
 is a fan of this great and fantastic series of game. I've played all of the Metal Gear Solid games 
 starting with the one on the first PlayStation. And I have loved every single moment of each game 
 the story, gameplay, characters, and boss battles.
  
  You play as Solid Snake or Old Snake what ever you feel like calling him of course (Solid Snake 
 is the only playable character in the game) and you fight against Liquid Ocelot and The Patriots. 
 MGS4 is set in 2014 five years after what happened in MGS2 The Big Shell Incident. The story is 
 so great so I ain't going to go into big detail it's much better if you play it your self and find 
 out what happens than to read it and spoil the game for your self. Also MGS tells a story unlike 
 any other game and there the best at telling a story to in my opinion. The cut scenes are also 
 pretty long which I really like that but I know some people don't like that. 
  
  The graphics are greatly done and are so well that everyone should appreciate them in my opinion 
 they are the best I've seen on the PS3. Everything looks great the character models to every single 
 environment that is in the game. And the cut scenes are what really look fantastic and get your 
 attention to observe all of the detail in them. But overall everything in Metal Gear Solid 4 look 
 fantastic and you will appreciate how well the game looks. 
  
  The gameplay is fantastic the controls are easy to use and easy to learn no one should really have 
 a problem with the controls pretty simple so they want get frustrating are any thing. Another high 
 point of the game is the Boss battles that there are. They are simply amazing and unique at the 
 same time if you want to beat your enemies you'll have to thank about how your going to do it, 
 so you want just be mashing buttons and stuff.
  
  The weapons in MGS4 are crazy you can pick up and get any weapons and you can customize them any 
 way that you see fit. So that's a brand new feature to the series that is great and makes you appreciate 
 the game even more. There's this suit that's called Octocamo that can blend Snake into his surroundings 
 that's really great to use.
  
  The sound is top notch which that is something that I have always like about a Metal Gear Solid 
 game was the music that it had in it. And there's nothing different about the soundtrack in MGS4 
 so I'm sure that you'll love it just as much to. 
  
  Overall Metal Gear Solid 4: Guns of the Patriots is a huge title for the PS3 and fantastic game 
 simply a masterpiece. In my opinion this is more than likely the best game of this gen by far its 
 going to be hard to top this in my book. But I highly recommend this game to anyone who's a fan 
 of the Metal Gear Solid series. And anyone who hasn't even play this series before to me it's worth 
 every penny that I spent on it. 
  
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: harryikem
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 18, 2008 7:53 pm PT
Review:  throughout the 20 or so hours i played MGS 4, all i did was scream! my bro said "screw splinter 
 cell" after being a fan since forever. Graphically the best out there, MGS 4 set a new bar for 
 gaming experience. The story is also ace but the only letdown is the number of videos to watch 
 and the fact that you'll never understand whats going on if you skip any and also the fact that 
 there is no movie gallery option to watch all your favorite cut scenes... speaking of cut scenes- 
 one of the best moments in MGS 4 that i could not get over was the cross over of cut scenes to 
 game play without frame rate problem. Another important feature that MGS rules in is the BOSS battles, 
 they have the freakiest bosses and i love it when they shout "SNAAAAAAKE". If your not a fan of 
 MGS series, you might just change your mind after seeing this one. With a little changes here and 
 there, kojima (director and creator) definitely made this game the best in the series and so far 
 the best on the PlayStation 3 console! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pspitus
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 19, 2008 4:47 pm PT
Review:  MGS4 takes place in the not too distant future, where war is a normal activity being practiced 
 around the world. Tights wearing operative Snake, also known as Old Snake, is about to kick the 
 bucket, but he receives one last mission. He has to stop Liquid, his brother, from taking over 
 the world. Sounds like the typical "save the world" kind of game huh, well, you're DEAD WRONG!!! 
 There's much more to MGS4's story plot than tight fitting pants, and old people with guns, much 
 more I just can't tell you. I can tell you that the in-game story is very complex.. in a good 
 way. Every character in the entire Metal Gear Solid series, well the ones that matter, is tied 
 into the game's plot very well. All the questions that have been building up from the first Metal 
 Gear game are all answered in MGS4. Even if you have never touched a Metal Gear Solid game, you 
 will find that the story will constantly hook you in and make you want to crave for more!!! MGS4 
 sets a new standard for in-game story-telling, and I could easily say that with my hand on top 
 of a pile of Game Informer magazines, hahahaha!!!! Did that make sense?
  
  MGS4 is a game that contains "Tactical Espionage Action", whatever that means. I'm just copying 
 what it says on the game case itself. Alright I'll talk about the gameplay in my own words. MGS4 
 is a stealth type game; most of the time you will be sneaking around, and trying to avoid detection 
 at all costs while working to complete your objective. Of course, you DON'T have to sneak around 
 all the time, you could also just run around with guns ablazing, but where's the fun in that, right? 
 RIGHT? The entire game is played with a third person over-the-shoulder view so say goodbye to the 
 top down action of Metal Gear Solid!!! MGS4 could be classified as a shooter, but the game is deeper 
 than that. MGS4 incorporates realism into the game. Old Snake is not as fit as he use to be, there 
 will be times where his back will ache, he will get stressed, and his mental state will be affected, 
 there's just so many things that MGS4 offers in terms of gameplay. I couldn't possibly list them 
 all, cus 1: I'm too lazy, and 2: I don't think you want to read a review that's 10 pages long.
 
  
  I found it very hard to breathe when I was playing MGS4, and no, it's not because I'm ridiculously 
 unhealthy. The game was absolutely gorgeous from character design, to level design. There was an 
 incredible amount of detail put into each pixel of the game. What really blew my mind was when 
 the cut scenes quickly slid back into the actual gameplay!!! Sure that doesn't sound like a big 
 deal, but when the cut scenes of a game look just as good as the actual gameplay, then you know 
 this game is the ****!!!
  
  The voice acting was top notch. The dialogue ran smoothly, but I must say, there were times where 
 I had no idea what a character was talking about. The dialogue sometimes got to the point where 
 it was just downright confusing. Still, the sound design was superb. The in-game music was great 
 also, especially since you had an I-pod in the game. With the I-pod you could listen to podcasts, 
 and music spanning from any of the previous Metal Gear Solid games. Now that's what I'm talking 
 about.
  
  Overall: MGS4 is a masterpiece. With an excellent conclusion to the MGS series, solid gameplay, 
 breath-taking visuals, and over-the-top sound design, this is one game will be remembered for years 
 to come. Now get off your butt, go to the nearest PS3, and PLAY-THIS-GAME!!!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: gipps85
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 18, 2008 3:17 pm PT
Review:  What can I say about Metal Gear Solid 4 beside's it being a great game. The game starts off with 
 a really enjoying intro that would make you just want to play the game over and over again. Right 
 off the bat the game introduce's Old Snake. A tired Old soldier that has been sent into a war zone 
 once again. The reason for Snake being Old is revealed later through out the game, so don't think 
 just because he is old he is still not the Snake we remember from the past. He has a hugh amount 
 of different types of weapons, different moves for CQC or CQB and last but not least his Octocamo. 
 The octocamo is a new gadget Snake has at his displose, it lets you blend into the enviroment. 
 With all of these new weapons and moves, your only mission is to kill Liqiud Ocelot. Easier said 
 then actually doing it. The game takes you around the world so you can try and complete your mission, 
 from south america to London and many other locations. You see new and old friends through out 
 your journey. You encounter new foes called Beauty and the Beast. Four soldiers that have been 
 consumed by war. Each battle is unique in it's own way. It took boss battle's to a whole new level 
 for future gaming. This game has some great story telling, a thing that some games these days really 
 don't worry about much. Yea some people my agrue that MGS4 is more of a movie then a game, but 
 they are not seeing the whole picture. Most people that make this calm must not have played a MGS 
 in the past if so they would understand that all of the MGS games all had long and entertaining 
 cut scenes. Don't let this scare you away from playing a great game. Each cut scene puts you on 
 the edge of your seat. The only flaw I would see this game having is the installs, but it's nothing 
 major to worry about I did not have a problem with it. Now go and play this game I don't care if 
 you dislike these type of game, just go and enjoy yourself. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: whatevermanplay
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 18, 2008 12:23 pm PT
Review:  i was never a really big fan of the Metal Gear series until i played this game. unfortunately now 
 im going to have to go and spend a lot more moneys to buy all the other games in the series just 
 so i can get a better understanding of the story line. The thing that i enjoyed most about the 
 game is i was able to choose whether or not i wanted to go into a level with my guns blazing or 
 as the silent assassin. unlike halo the player can if they choose, sneak buy the enemy with out 
 them every knowing you were there. If spotted a few seconds of hide and seek the IA looses track 
 of you and will go back to there regular patrols. also unlike splinter cell, Snake is strong enough 
 to go for a full frontal assault. its over all game play and story line was much better then i 
 expected and i will defiantly buy the game instead of rent it next time. witch will be as soon 
 as i have enough moneys to buy it: ( this is and expensive hobby. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: solidkjames
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 18, 2008 11:51 am PT
Review:  Graphics 10 The game is visually stunning
  
  Gameplay 9 With so many new gadgets and a better aiming system this has come a long way
  
  
 Story 11
  The stories for MGS have always been stuff that movies should be made of, this one is no different.
 
  
  Replay 10
  just try to get all the unlocks
  
  This game is simply amazing from start to finish. If you never got a chance to play any of the 
 old MGS games over the past 20 years then this one is a great place to start. It brings back so 
 many memories from my the 80's and spending hours playing the original Metal Gear. That seems so 
 long ago but it is amazing how much I remember especially since this game has flashbacks from every 
 previous Metal Gear ever released.
  
  From your first stealth kill to your first full on alert you will be excited about finding all 
 new ways to kill the enemy. Now with better stealth attacks and different ways out of all situations 
 there has never been a better time to play as Solid Snake. Do yourself a favor and pick this one 
 up. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Zqr123
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 4, 2008 10:29 am PT
Review:  I'm a fan of MGS but didn't start playing until Snake Eater came out. Since then, I have doubled 
 back and played them all and from my experience I can easily say that Mgs4 is the best. Astounding 
 graphics, amazing plot, revolutionary boss battles, great controls, excellent detali, and just 
 a hint of nostalgia that only fans of the series will understand, all leading down to a climatic 
 final boss battle in which we salute Solid Snake in his final MGS game. Another thing I was taken 
 in by was the amazing voice acting. Someone wouldn't say when they here the game "Hey, thats David 
 Hayter in a sound booth." they would say "Oh my God it's Solid Snake!" And yes, all of the questions 
 from previous games are awnsered. The gang's all here for this Epic installment as well. Liquid 
 ocelot, Otacon, Naomi, Raiden, Vamp, and much more as well as secret cameos. Anyway if I were to 
 describe MGS4 in two words they would be "Buy it". 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mayslandinmusic
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 18, 2008 9:36 am PT
Review:  Well, since I'm a huge MGS fan, when I heard that MGS4 was coming out in June, I immediately ran 
 to gamestop and pre-ordered it. First off, the graphics were amazing, better than any game that 
 I've ever seen. And the opening sequence (when the beginning credits are rolling) gave me goosebumps. 
 I have successfully beaten This game 5 times, and every time I just go back and beat it again. 
 All the questions are answered, and if there is something you still want to know download the Metal 
 Gear Database on the PSN Store. It's free, it's under add-ons and Metal Gear Solid 4 add-ons. It 
 answers anything and everything pertaining to Metal Gear, Metal Gear 2: Solid Snake, MGS1, MGS2, 
 MGS Portable Ops, MGS3, and if you have already beaten it, MGS4. But enough about that. MGS4 has 
 stunning graphics, amazing gameplay, and enjoyable multiplayer. This game is truly a 10 out of 
 10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mramazing07
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 25, 2008 7:53 am PT
Review:  For a long time my main concerns for gaming were RPG'S and sports games and Some Action adventures 
 ( Zelda, okami, Kingdom Hearts, etc... Not any more!
  
  MGS4 is amazing, The story compelling the graphics unmatched and the game play itself is ridiculous!!!
 
  
  If your have not played this your either a. anonymous to the world or b. A 360 lover w. o. an open 
 mind. 
  
  Trust me, you will enjoy this game, the only set back is the installation after every act. but 
 with it being only 2minutes its just enough time to get some snacks, and use the bathroom, because 
 you will continue playing!
  
  The reason i gave it a 9.5 and not a 10... is you cannot pick up a copy and get right into the 
 action... it has a 15 minute installation in the begginning and to when using Metal Gear online, 
 You have to download multiple files and Register multiple times. So thats a drag... but once everything 
 is up and running... You wont find a better game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: slayerkidd
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 18, 2008 6:36 am PT
Review:  One of the most beautiful games made. A compelling story line, great plot twists, amazing gameplay, 
 PPERFECT graphics and of course a good voice over. The game is one of those games you can't just 
 get enough of. It has one of the best mixtures in a video game you could have. Mixing Action and 
 Stealth to form one game. It has comedy segments that will surely make you laugh. And many cutscenes 
 that connects the story. The game is quite hard due to its demand of stealth usage and Snake's 
 meter's which need to be refilled or Snake will become weak. It's fact that you must listen to 
 the iPod and eat to make sure you have stamina, and also the effects of cuts, bruises, and burns 
 to Snake which will halter his progress. And the technology which allows you not to be seen. It's 
 storyline is more for a movie than a game. As it revolves around a chaotic future, a fight for 
 freedom, and a hope to gain world peace. It's features of gameplay will surely make you play for 
 almost a whole year (if you can handle it) . Overall the game is perfect for any MGS fan. And for 
 newcomers in the series, I know you will enjoy the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Rothinzil
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 18, 2008 3:09 am PT
Review:  Metal Gear Solid 4 is an amazing experience, period.
  
  The storyline fits and makes an epic impression. The graphics are mind blowing at times, and a lot 
 of effort has been put in the small details.
  
  The music score is fantastic, and gives this game an out of this world aura. The voice actors deliver, 
 and portray realistic characters that makes you try harder to safeguard their well being.
  
  As far as the game play goes, it's possible to make the game as easy or difficult as you want 
 it to be. Clearing the game can be done by anyone who tries, but completing the game on the highest 
 difficulty setting while obtaining the highest ranked emblems is no easy task indeed. Both new 
 players and experts alike will surely enjoy this game.
  
  In short, this is an epic tale that no PlayStation 3 owner should miss out on. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nippon_gamer
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 18, 2008 12:11 am PT
Review:  Before going any further with this review I have to admit that I'm a MGS fanboy. Don't tell me 
 to be unbiased in this review because that would truly be a feat in video game journalism. You 
 will either love this game or completely hate it. There is no middle ground. 
  The story is very convoluted and some of the cut scenes will drag on for hours, and in the end 
 all you will have gotten out of it would be information that could have been digested in under 
 5 minutes. This is the biggest flaw and also the beauty of this game. It cuts out nothing and involves 
 you in every bit and detail of the story. Some people will be swept off their feet and get sucked 
 in to this world while others will fall asleep at the wheel.
  The gameplay on the other hand is much more forgiving. People who enjoy run and gun shooters will 
 have a fun time messing around with the stealth mechanics but will eventually end up killing most 
 enemies they see. More hardcore fans of the series will surely enjoy the fine tuned stealth controls, 
 which are still a little hard to learn, but once mastered is an ultimately satisfying experience. 
 Leaving a battle field without anyone noticing you is one of the most amazing feeling of accomplishment 
 you will ever experience in a video game. Overall I felt wanting a little bit more time as Snake 
 but thats just a testament to how rich the gameplay experience really is.
  Needless to say the technical achievements of this game are outstanding. Although I would not say 
 its got the best graphics ever, its very impressive when you can see reflections off people's eyeballs 
 in the game. Some of the textures are still a little blurry though but that is to be expected, 
 they put a lot of that possessing power into the character models. Whats more impressive than the 
 graphics though, is the sound. The music is comparable to the best of cinema and the surround sound 
 works perfectly. You can really feel the battle field around you by closing your eyes.
  The game also has a lot of tilt value. The subtle in jokes and bonuses thrown in to the game really 
 add replay value to the game. The biggest surprise comes in the fourth chapter and this is not 
 subtle at all.
  For all the praise it gets from its gameplay to tech, it really doesn't matter how good those things 
 are. People will still hate the game because of its story. The story is the meat of this epic sandwich. 
 No matter how good the bread and the condiments are if you don't like the meat the sandwich sucks. 
 The game doesn't try to please everyone and compromises nothing. Thats why its one of the best 
 games of all time, or the most overrated. 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jimmy973
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 17, 2008 8:29 pm PT
Review:  This game is simply the best yet to come to a next gen console! Graphics, plot, characters, and 
 game play all come together in one seamless package. Too all the people complaining about too many 
 cut scenes need to understand that is what makes MGS4... MGS4! Without cut scenes it would just 
 be a high quality third person shooter, but with NO plot. The cut scenes are what keep my eyes 
 glued to the screen, along with the graphics and pretty ladies. I hold nothing against those who 
 did not find the cut scenes appealing though, we all have our own opinions. That is what America 
 is all about!
  
  
  
  
 
  
  Bottom line: If you have a PS3 you need this game!!! 
  
  If you don't have a PS3, what are you waiting for? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: alex_zander
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 17, 2008 8:04 am PT
Review:  Metal Gear Solid has always been a love it or hate it proposition. Millions love it for its involved, 
 conspiratorial plotting, its arch sense of humour, its demanding stealth gameplay, its sprawling 
 cinematic ambition, its preposterous stylishness and pretensions toward artistic weight. Millions 
 hate it for exactly the same reasons.
  
  Then there are those - this reviewer included - for whom Metal Gear Solid is a love it and hate 
 it proposition. Flawed, intractable, unspeakably tedious at times, and yet blessed with incredible 
 production values, imaginative design, and a brilliant, brave willingness to think and do the unexpected 
 and impossible. At times they're barely videogames at all, but they're capable of moments of pure 
 videogame genius, joy and shock that few other series can match.
  
  So how do you review a new Metal Gear Solid? Do you assess it on its own terms, ones that its legion 
 of fans will understand? Do you play the sceptic, and take Hideo Kojma and his team to task for 
 their stubborn refusal to catch up with what the rest of the world expects of a videogame? Or do 
 you walk the path of compromise, down the middle?
  
  Well, if there's one thing Metal Gear Solid 4 isn't, it's compromising. Kojima has barred no holds 
 in an extraordinary, kitchen-sink finale to the Solid Snake story. Plausibility is stretched to 
 extremes as every character you can think of (and several you never would) makes a cameo appearance 
 in this melancholy epic. Features that would be a tent-pole selling-point for other games are frittered 
 away as Easter eggs and one-shot surprises. Such is the luxurious length and mind-numbing detail 
 of the cut-scenes and codec conversations that you could put the pad down for almost half the game's 
 ample length. (One character actually asks you to do so at one point, resulting in a typically 
 self-aware and genuinely hilarious joke.)
  
  There's almost too much going on. With a see-sawing episodic rhythm that visits some starkly different 
 locations and play styles, a wealth of incidental and hidden detail, more gameplay mechanics than 
 you can fully explore in a single playthrough - and above all, an epic, elegiac, arcane storyline 
 that seeks to tie up every last loose thread and honour the passing of a classic videogame hero 
 - Metal Gear Solid 4 is, in most senses, the biggest Metal Gear yet. But the best? Maybe not. If 
 the super-slick thriller of the first Metal Gear Solid remains Kojima's masterpiece, then this 
 operatic monster is his magnum opus.
  
  Guns of the Patriots tells the story of Old Snake, the prematurely ageing, terminally ill and newly 
 moustachioed covert agent, as he hunts down his genetically-engineered twin brother and nemesis, 
 Liquid Snake (now inhabiting the body of Revolver Ocelot, of course, but we must gloss over such 
 details or we'll still be here next week) . Liquid is attempting to subvert and destroy the ruling 
 Patriot conspiracy and bring the world - currently overrun with mood-controlled private armies 
 fighting meaningless wars in the name of the war economy - into chaos.
  
  Even keen students of Metal Gear lore are going to struggle to follow this tangled tale. Laden 
 with sentimental sermons and metaphors for the evils of war, struggling under the weight of the 
 resolving the plots of four previous games and the personal destinies of characters as diverse 
 as Raiden, Meryl, Naomi, Vamp and Eva, it is in all honesty a mess. Motivation and consistency 
 fall by the wayside and by the end it's totally unclear who is on which side, or what's at stake. 
 Maybe that's deliberate, but it doesn't work, and the hours of talking-head exposition involved 
 are too steep a price to pay for this muddled closure.
  
  But that's just the plot. There's another side to this story, and it's the one told by the game's 
 locations, action and dramatic high-points - and in some cases, by moments between its handsome, 
 expressive and earnestly-voiced cast of virtual actors. This story is, by contrast, a richly satisfying 
 success. Tune out the details, and Guns of the Patriots is a properly gripping yarn, full of thrills, 
 spectacle, laughs, and even tenderness and pathos. You won't understand, but you will care.
  
  Design-wise, MGS4 is mostly a refinement of what's gone before. The new gadgets are superb, 
 the weapons are expertly realised and much easier to get hold of, and there are always plenty of 
 options, even if stealth is still usually the best of them. Hand-to-hand combat feels more natural. 
 The environments are more complex, but nothing like as large or open as you might expect, and this 
 is still a linear game.
  
  Only the new Stress and Psyche meters don't really gel with the flow of play; we suspect they come 
 into their own in the highest difficulty settings, but at that level, Metal Gear Solid 4 is an 
 exercise in teeth-grinding masochism for specialists only. Metal Gear Solid has always been either 
 too easy or too hard, and too possible to get through by sloppy cheating or simple attrition, and 
 that hasn't changed.
  
  The first act is a tense infiltration of a war-torn Middle Eastern city, terrorised by the creepy 
 Gekko biomechs and Liquid's personal guard, the sinister Frogs. The new enemies are great fun to 
 gun down and outwit, and the sense of being part of a live battle-zone with several factions in 
 play - as opposed to playing lone wolf against the guards - adds terrific atmosphere to the Metal 
 Gear experience, even if it doesn't exactly revolutionise it.
  
  It's everything you've seen, heard about and expected from Metal Gear Solid 4. The relatively weak 
 second act is more of the same in a much less compelling setting - a rather unconvincing, blandly 
 designed South American backwater - and ennui starts to set in. This is a much more accessible 
 game to play than the convoluted MGS3, with the OctoCamo suit and Metal Gear Mk II remote drone 
 taking much of the pain out of stealth, while weapons trading and customisation, and the excellent 
 new cameras, do the same for gunplay. A good thing, certainly, but it lays the decade-old gameplay 
 systems bare, with only modest improvements in AI to make up for it.
  
  Halfway through this section, a novel gameplay idea, a rousing on-rails shoot-out, and some thunderous 
 cut-scene entertainment succeed in sustaining interest until the next episode. It's at this point 
 that Kojima pulls the rug from under your feet. The MGS4 you were expecting, it turns out, is no 
 more than half of the game you get.
  
  We're not going to explain how, because everything that follows deserves not to be spoiled - not 
 the plot, but the string of ideas that break Metal Gear Solid down and rebuild it, in several brilliant 
 and surprising ways, before the game is done. The first of these is such a precise and enthralling 
 distillation and of stealth gaming that it's a shame more people won't see it, but it's worth saving 
 for the way it takes you unawares. Each time, atmospherics, graphics, tone and gameplay revisions 
 mesh perfectly down to the tiniest detail, as Kojima Productions bombards you with references and 
 mood-swings that leave your head in a spin. 1940s 'noir' cinema, the Iraq war, beat-'em-ups, Halo... 
 take your pick.
  
  You expect the boss battles to take a starring role in Metal Gear Solid, and the encounters with 
 the Beauty and the Beast team of psychotic femmes fatales in robot animal suits don't disappoint 
 - how could they? All different, all very well-staged, all with a slightly disturbing and mournful 
 edge. But in this case it's actually the early parts of the game's chapters that leave your jaw 
 hanging open with their audacity and invention; it's the Gekko confrontations that strike fear 
 into your heart; it's the visually staggering on-rails set-pieces that provide the biggest bang 
 per buck.
  
  Despite Kojima's downbeat sentiments on the PS3, he has produced a technical and presentational 
 tour-de-force. The visuals do have rough edges but the art, especially the character art, is flawless, 
 somehow maintaining extravagance and understated cool simultaneously. Harry Gregson Williams' music, 
 whether providing scripted excitement or dynamic accompaniment, hits all the right cues, and musters 
 a memorable, delicate theme. And the surround soundtrack is clearly a labour of love and extreme 
 dedication, probably the best in gaming to date, lacking nothing in either pin-sharp precision 
 or rib-shaking impact.
  
  (Take note, however, that there are several minutes of install time to be endured, not just at 
 the start, but before each act - albeit graced with a fantastic animated graphic of Snake smoking 
 next to some health warnings.)
  
  It won't ease the pain of the cut-scene haters one bit, but the interactive elements to the in-engine 
 cinematics are hugely impressive nonetheless, and do much to paper over the cracks and make MGS4 
 feel a little more like a whole and less like a split-personality hybrid of movie and game. You 
 would certainly skip the interminable mission briefings if it weren't for the ability to explore 
 Otacon's flying headquarters via Metal Gear Mk II and CCTV while the talk rumbles on; the flashbacks 
 and camera changes add less than you'd think, but the sense that cut-scenes and gameplay are taking 
 place in the same world, heightened by some gorgeous camera transitions, adds a whole lot more.
 
  
  There are even split-screen sections that provide simultaneous feeds of game and movie. In Guns 
 of the Patriots' incredible, cathartic, climactic scenes, the lines are blurred so much that you 
 can barely tell whether you're playing a videogame or watching a film. To some that might sound 
 like an insult, but to Kojima and his fans, it's nirvana, something for which the series has been 
 striving for ten years, and it could not be a more appropriate note to end on.
  
  If only MGS4 did end there. An unbelievably lengthy and self-indulgent epilogue - you can't call 
 it a cut-scene, it's an entire film in its own right, and a deeply boring one too - is how Solid 
 Snake's career comes to a close. Too bad, but no hard feelings; you can ignore it if you wish. 
 The drawn-out sentimentality is fitting, in a way. Snake may have started out as a gruff, two-dimensional 
 clich, but he bows out very gracefully in Metal Gear Solid 4, assuming the mantle of the world-weary 
 samurai, or the enigmatic nameless cowboy from a spaghetti western, as if it were always his. David 
 Hayter's voice performance isn't much more than an attempt to create the gravelliest, throatiest 
 croak ever recorded by man, but as such, it's heroic.
  
  You're sorry to see Snake go. But should you be? Guns of the Patriots is a frustrating, fractured 
 game that turns Metal Gear Solid's world upside down several times over, but never changes it. 
 It just burrows deeper into what fans love and detractors hate than ever before, and it will make 
 few converts. It's a crying shame, given how many genuinely classic gaming moments there are here, 
 given the countless exquisite creative touches, but Metal Gear Solid 4 is its own worst enemy. 
 You could not ask for a funnier, cleverer, more ambitious or inspired or over-the-top conclusion 
 to the Metal Gear Solid series, but it's definitely time to move on.
  
  (Best wrinkles, facial hair and grunting in gaming history. Way to go, old "snake".)
  
  With 
 that said, i give this game a 10/10 (ten out of ten) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kungu08
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 17, 2008 7:35 am PT
Review:  yes the gameplay was perfect i playied it on all levels and thoroughly. ist a sort of game u just 
 pick and play but gives more indepth as you need it. incredible functionality with weopans and 
 items. so so much to do well worth every penny i spend. i personally think hidoe kojima should 
 have sold this game atleast twice the price of other games. i already played it 6 times and still 
 playing it. boss fights are thes as usual but playing hide and seek with niormal soldiers is the 
 best bit. i went on a all out gun battle and finished the game then i did it with out killing a 
 soul. it was very satisfying. I got board of the story line it wasnt anything like metal gear solid 
 (ps1) , talk about overacting but i just liked the story it was ok, specially the way it was all 
 brought togather. it was great to see some old characters and like wise the new ones. it was very 
 sad that this going to be the last one in the series i just hope they rethink about it. the game 
 play is so good they got to make another game based on it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: snake60zbboss
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 16, 2008 6:12 pm PT
Review:  Metal Gear Solid 4 is amazing with its detail to sound and graphics. Voice acting is the best out 
 there and it has been since mgs 1, and of course that include story, and gameplay. MGS 4 is the 
 first game to get many 10/10 scores previous mgs game got high scores too, and tens, but not from 
 most websites and magazines like mgs 4, and to me mgs 4 is the only one that should've got a score 
 of 9 and 8.7 because the game is no longer tactical espionage, it became more of a very good action 
 game, it lost it's essence, and it's feel when you sneak around. The fact that MGS 4 became westernized 
 that is the one thing that in my opinion took away it's sophistication and uniqueness. Metal Gear 
 Solid 4 makes you feel sad and depressed and you also feel empathy for snake (espacially if you 
 played through mgs 1,2) and you feel like it's the final mission for the greatest video-game character 
 ever. the story and music are amazing, but to me it seemed a lot of it was put together so the 
 story for snake would end, and the vamp thing wasn't very well explained, so even the way mgs and 
 hideo kojima tells his story was missing something there due to the fact he wanted to finish it 
 and explain things. anyways, mgs is amazing but it's no revolution like mgs1,2,3. because mgs 4 
 became too simple and obvious, and it was easy predict what was going to happen next. I was not 
 disappointed but i was not fully pleased with mgs 4, but it is a must have especially for the ones 
 that don't like stealth games because it is no longer stealth, but it has a lot of stealth elements, 
 but not necessary to use. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cheesekilldrive
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 16, 2008 2:53 pm PT
Review:  This is best game out for the playstation 3 so far. It probably will be the best game for a LONG, 
 LONG time. So if you are saving up for it make sure you buy it as soon as you get the money. It 
 has great replay value. I'm on my 3rd play through and i'm still not bored of it. The most annoying 
 part of the game is when you finish an act or "chapter" of the game. It comes up saying "ready 
 to install the game". WHY!? It shouldn't need to install anything. The graphics are almost life-like 
 and the basic gameplay never gets old. It is very worth the money and I would definitely buy it. 
 Check out my blog. My name is cheesekilldrive. All one word. But as I was saying the game is perfect 
 for any one who likes to have a go at sniping, killing, stabbing, shooting, zapping, just about 
 anything that will make seemingly easy to kill enemies Dead. The "installation" should take about 
 2-3 minutes to install. Don't forget to click on "hints and cheats" on gamespot's link page. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: acviper123
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 16, 2008 11:25 am PT
Review:  Since the games debut trailer at E3 '06 Metal Gear Solid 4 promised to be a defining game for the 
 Playstation 3. However, with its release, it accomplished much more than that. MGS4 should be considered 
 a banner for all the video games can be. The seamless integration of gameplay and story offers 
 more than the movie genre can possibly achieve. A game like MGS4 excells at both, and provides 
 an experience that anyone who enjoys video games in the slightest should not miss. The gameplay 
 has been "fine-tuned" since MGS3. The new controls offer a more action-oriented experience. The 
 game is still stealth based, but it offers a wider array of possibilities. You can play through 
 it any way you want, and you wont feel short-changed. MGS4 also answers remaining questions about 
 the series, all the while unfolding possibly the best plot of the series storied history. No matter 
 if you are a fan of the series or not, you simply must experience this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NuKkU
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 16, 2008 10:38 am PT
Review:  Metal Gear Solid 4 is the final chapter of Solid Snake's story and he sure does go out with a bang. 
 Everything that was in the last game has improved drastically and everything new is just awesome. 
 Snakes final mission will never be uneventful and will keep you on your toes to find out everything 
 that was never explained and have some awesome gameplay while you're at it.
  
  The Story is one of the high points of Metal Gear Solid 4. In the last games you were introduced 
 to some huge and very complicating plot twists. When you first heard them you were probably like 
 "Huh?" or "What?". You thought that even know MGS4 was the final chapter things still wouldn't 
 make sense. Well Kojima put everything together nothing will be unexplained. You will learn everything. 
 Some of the things include. Who are the Patriots, What is Vamp, Why is Snake so old, Whatever happened 
 to foxdie, Why is Meryl back, and what happened to Ocelot. So don't worry about not everything 
 will be answered all you questions and worries will be answered in MGS's great storytelling. Overall 
 the story is epic.
  
  Once again the characters are also a high point of Metal Gear Solid. You will meet many new characters 
 such as the new bosses of this games, The B&B (Beauty and the Beast) corps and also drebin the 
 mysterious weapons launderer. You will also have many returning characters such as Vamp, Meryl, 
 Mei Ling, Rosemary, and even Naomi. There will also be the main cast such as the unforgettable 
 bad ass Solid Snake or in this game Old Snake, Octacon, and Liquid Ocelot. Overall Metal Gear Solid 
 has an unforgettable batch of characters.
  
  The gameplay of Metal Gear Solid 4 is truly perfection to its finest. Every single thing that was 
 in the previous games has been given a major overhaul and every new addition is just awesome. Let's 
 start off with the basics of this game. The sneaking aspect has been given a new makeover. As in 
 the last Metal Gear Solid they introduced a camouflage aspect that would make it so nearby soldiers 
 wouldn't see you so easily. Well in MGS4 they upgraded it. MGS4 introduces the Octocamo system. 
 Any surface you lean against you blend in with it. That means the whole entire environment you 
 can use to sneak around. Just because you have Octocamo doesn't mean it will be easy. The Octocamo 
 doesn't completely blend you in if a soldier gets close to you, they will probably see you right 
 away. So there are other means of sneaking you can use the MK Mark II. It's like a mini metal gear 
 that you can send out for reconnaissance. You can also use it to taser people. You can also use 
 other parts of the environment to help sneak. They have downsides too. You can use dumpsters to 
 hide but once you get out you will stink and the soldiers can smell it, or you can use a box but 
 if you get caught your pretty much done for, or last but not least you can use a drum can which 
 you can use to hide and roll it over to knock out people but once you get out you will throw up 
 which could cost you your life. Overall the sneaking aspect is just awesome.
  
  You don't necessarily have to sneak through. You can go guns a blazing. It's not impossible but 
 it will be a bit harder. There is also a new battlefield system. As you may know most of MGS4's 
 levels takes place on huge battlefields. This adds a whole new element to the gameplay. There are 
 many different things you can do when you're on these huge battlefields. You can sneak past it 
 which can prove to be mighty challenging or you can take a side in the battle to help them win 
 or you can go Rambo on everybody and win the whole battle yourself which is very fun. Sneaking 
 and these battlefields aren't all the things that MGS4 offers. It also offers some chase sequences 
 weather your on a top of a truck in the turret taking on Gekkos (mini metal gear) and having enemy 
 soldiers climbing on the truck or when your on a motorcycle taking on a army on the ground and 
 in the air or even pilot something called Metal Gear. There are also sequences when you team up 
 with some of the characters in MGS4. Also I didn't forget to mention MGS4's memorable boss fights. 
 This game has some of the best bosses yet. Some of the bosses will make you think how to beat it 
 because each boss requires a different strategy. No matter what the circumstances may be Metal 
 Gear Solid 4 will always keep you on your toes.
  
  Metal Gear Solid 4 also adds a wide variety of equipment. Early in the game you will meet drebin 
 a weapons launderer. In Metal Gear Solid 4 you can't use new weapons right when you get them. You 
 have to use drebin points (money) to unlock them because MGS4 has special ID guns. There is huge 
 arsenal of weapons to choose from. You got your sniper, your machine gun, your sniper machine gun; 
 you can also customize weapons by putting laser lights, scopes, grenade launchers, and much more. 
 There are also a many difficulties. Each difficulty will let you experience the game in a totally 
 different way. Overall MGS4 has amazing gameplay.
  
  There is also an online portion of this game. The online portion is like a whole different game. 
 It's called Metal Gear Online. Metal Gear Online's servers are off PSN so you have to go through 
 a annoying process of Konami id's before even getting to playing. The Konami Id's will having you 
 basically registering for PSN all over again. It's worth it through. MGO is a great squad based 
 TPS. There are a total of 7 game modes each with its own set of unique rules. Some of the modes 
 are basic but some of the modes are more unique. Such as Team Sneaking, where one team is sneaking 
 to capture a target they are equipped with only stealth camouflage, tranquilizer, and the stun 
 knife. While the other team must protect the target and they are equipped with a whole arsenal 
 of weapons. 
  
  Although Metal Gear Online may sound like the best online game ever it has some much room for improvement. 
 There are many lag issues and glitches. There's not much to say yet since they've been doing a 
 lot to make this game better. So as of right now Metal Gear Online is good.
  
  The graphics of MGS4 are just remarkable. Konami did everything to push this games graphics to 
 the limit. Every single thing in this game almost looks real. Everything from the environments 
 to the character models to the amazing enemies. Overall the graphics are just simply amazing.
 
  
  The sound has some of the best music a game can have. You have your returning favorites such as 
 the alert theme and also snake eater. You also have new music such as boss music and the old snake 
 theme. You also have a i pod you can carry to listen to all of MGS's great music. Also every voice 
 in MGS4 is done by the best in the industry. Overall the sound of MGS4 is music to my ears.
  
  The value is also another pretty good thing of MGS4. You have MGO to keep you busy for awhile. 
 You also have the end game titles. Yup the end game titles have been upgraded. Instead of just 
 getting one you get 5 or 6 at a time. There's about 20-30 so you will want to get all of them and 
 they are some very challenging ones too. Overall the value of MGS4 is great.
  
  Overall Metal Gear Solid 4 Guns of The Patriots is perfection. With a awesome single player campaign 
 that will be making you play over and over again and with a online that needs some improvements 
 but with constant updates I bet it will become one of the best online experiences in a couple of 
 months. I give Metal Gear Solid 4 an astounding 10 out of 10. This a definite buy and will be my 
 Game of the Year.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: bg_solidsnake
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 16, 2008 8:42 am PT
Review:  It's simply amazing!
  Graphics-check
  Sound-double check
  Gameplay-check
  Story-best in the industry
  
  MGS4 finsishes the story of the legendary soldier Solid Snake. 
 You'll see for the first time our hero having trouble when dealing with threats because of his 
 rapid aging. The gameplay is solid on first playthrough and simply fun after that. It has lots 
 and lots of replay value. There are tons of unlockables, hidden items, little details that will 
 make veterans giggle. Tons of weapons, different environments and breath taking moments. There 
 isn't a better way to spend 60%!
  
  The online is awesome too. It's diverse and fun. It has nice competitions and great DLC. There 
 are plenty of modes for every one and every taste.
  
  There's nothing i can say but buy it! If you don't have a PS3 buy one too! You won't regret it! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: javelin121
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 16, 2008 7:54 am PT
Review:  When you go online you have to create two other accounts besides you psn. There is also a limit 
 on how many profile you can have on each system unless you pay to have more. DAMN KOJIMA why have 
 you done this to us!? There is also a issue of spawn camping and the amount of time it takes to 
 find a game. I've had to wait over 2 minutes before just to find a game. This is snail past compared 
 to the short time it takes in COD4. The issue of spawn camping is out of control. Every time I 
 get in a game there is someone who sits and waits at my teams spawn point with a shotgun which 
 annoys the hell out of me. Other than the issue with the online there isn't anything else to complain 
 about with this game. The one thing about the story of the game is that if you aren't a metal gear 
 fan you really won't know what the hell the characters are talking about. You would have to read 
 most of the Metal Gear database to understand the complexity of the story. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: budboarder
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 16, 2008 2:25 am PT
Review:  Quite possibly the greatest game out right now. I loved the story line and enjoyed watching every 
 second of the hours of cut scenes. The game gives you many options for how to play. You can easily 
 gun your way through the game and beat it without being stealthy, or you can sneak your way through 
 and kill nearly nobody. The cqc is just aweful in this game. They did so well on that in MGS3, 
 but i guess snake got old and forgot it. I also found it a little much with all the weapons in 
 the game. Theres way too many, and the ability to buy them was stupid. Upgrading weapons was a 
 nice touch. the flashlight was useless, the only thing it did was give away my position every time 
 i used it. I was a little disappointed with the Liquid battle at the end of the game, really easy. 
 Other than the minor issues i had with the game, it was a sweet one, and had all the making for 
 a great game and sequel to one of the best series of games ever. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: accharbs
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 16, 2008 1:39 am PT
Review:  This may be the first turly interactive movie ever made. From the incredibly deep storyline, the 
 well thought out characters and the rich environments that would be all but impossible to film 
 in real life this game is truly what a director would like to see their finished product end up 
 like on the big screen. The visuals are as stunning as the gameplay. Responsive controls, customizable 
 weapons, limitless angles to tackle situations... you actually feel so immersed in the action that 
 you sometimes forget it's a gamea nd not a full length feature in the theatre. Everything about 
 this screams quality with few details left unfinished. I can't even begin to comprehend the amount 
 of hours and love put into every second of this masterpiece but it is apparent in spades in the 
 finished product. If you're not into these types of games or often find them too difficult to grasp 
 you owe it to yourself to at least rent it and set it on easy. Even with the one shot kills involved 
 in this mode the entire experience is so enjoyable that you won't mind just walking through and 
 taking a look around the entire way through. Truly a feast for the eyes and mind... awesome. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: halo1001001
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 15, 2008 12:57 pm PT
Review:  Metal Gear Solid 4 is the first game in the series to be on the PS3. It was given many improvements 
 from the previous titles in the series that it can be considered the best one in the series.
  
  The story takes place 5 years after the climax of Metal Gear Solid 2. Liquid, who now has complete 
 control over Revolver Ocelot, plans to take complete control over the Patriot's SOP in order to 
 cause a nuclear strike around the world. To stop him, Roy Campbell enlists Snake, who has now become 
 Old Snake due to his rapid aging process, to stop Liquid's plan. He also gets the help of Otacon 
 and Sunny, Olga's daughter, who take care of Snake when hes badly injured or give him new technology.
 
  
  The gameplay remains the same, though many things have been tweaked. Rather then having all of 
 your weapons and items out at once, you are only able to carry a maximum of 5 weapons and 8 items 
 at once. You are able to switch them in the selection menu though. As a staple in the series, you 
 can either be sneaky and defeat the enemies using CQC, or you can run into the battlefield and 
 defeat your enemies with your weapons. 
  
  Many other things return in this game such as the Stress bar and the Camouflage percentage. The 
 Vitality bar will decrease over time, making Snake more tired the lower it is. The Camouflage percentage 
 shows how well Snake is hidden and the percent that Snake won't be seen by an enemy. Another new 
 feature in the game is the Opti-Camo Suit, which also works alongside the percentage of you being 
 seen. The suit, which you get in the beginning of the game, changes into the color and texture 
 of any ground or wall your leaning against. You are able to choose whether the suit will activate 
 manually or automatically. 
  
  There are two new items exclusive to this game. One of them is the Metal Gear MK2. It is a small 
 Metal Gear robot that Otocan and Sunny invented to keep an eye on Snake with its built in camera. 
 You are able to control it to sneak up on enemies and paralyze them with a build in electric wire. 
 It also can help to see any enemies around the corner. The second item is the Solid Eye. It is 
 an eyepiece that is able to bring up a radar on screen and change into night vision. Both these 
 things run on the same battery source, so after they're drained, you have to wait a few moments 
 before they completely recharged.
  
  In the beginning of the game, you meet a character named Drebin, a weapon's dealer who is able 
 to sell you ammo and weapons in exchange for Drebin points. Drebin points can only be obtained 
 by collecting weapons from the floor or from dead soldiers. He is also able to unlock your weapons. 
 In the game, most of the weapons you'll find will be locked because your nanomachines can't register 
 them. By paying a certain amount of points, you could unlock and use the weapons. 
  
  The game is comprised up of 5 chapters. At the beginning of the game and after each chapter has 
 been beaten, you will be required to download another part of the game while waiting. While you 
 wait, you will be treated to watching Snake taking a break with a cigarette while messages pop 
 up telling you about not smoking or not playing the game too much. 
  
  The controls are very simple and it's easy to pick them up and play the game. If you played any 
 of the previous games in the series, you will instantly feel at home. To those that won't at first, 
 the tutorial that takes place during the first chapter should really get you into it. 
  
  The characters in the game are each given a great personality whether it's Snake's constant problems 
 with his aging to Vamp's dark attitude. The voice acting is superb in the game and it brings you 
 into the story and the music is great and really fits with all of the scenarios. 
  
  There may not be as many bosses as there used to be in the series, but they're still challenging 
 and fun to face nonetheless. Some can be defeated by shooting and dodging, while some take a real 
 strategic way to win. the majority of the bosses are part of an organization called The Beauty 
 and the Beast. After defeating each of the members, Drebin tells you each of their horrible pasts 
 and their reason for becoming what they are. It brings you more into the story. Afterwards, you 
 are able to get their weapons that they were using when you fought them.
  
  There are many weapons that Snake could use during the game. They are all based on their real life 
 counterparts and even have the real name. There is no issue of the unbalance of weapons in Metal 
 Gear Online.
  
  Metal Gear Online comes back from Metal Gear Solid 3 even better than before. When you start, you 
 will have to download Metal Gear Online, and then you'll have to make a Konami ID which will become 
 your online ID for the game. After having done all that, you'll finally be able to play. When starting, 
 you could choose a lobby which are all named after characters in the Metal Gear Solid universe. 
 You can play with up to 16 people online. There are many modes online as well as the standard deathmatch. 
 It's really addicting and fun and entire matches can go as long as an hour. 
  
  The graphics in the game are some of the best ever. You will rarely ever see any bad texture in 
 the game. The details put into everything like facial animations look great and the cutscenes are 
 very well made. The production value for the game is extremely high, and it looks like it was all 
 payed off for. It really shows the power that the PS3 can handle. 
  
  The game packs around 10 hours of gameplay and 15 hours of cutscenes. The game is recommended for 
 any PS3 owner as it's one of the best games out and the best game on the PS3. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: 9w43
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 15, 2008 9:01 am PT
Review:  After playing MGS2 and MGS3 I had to play MGS4. I didn't really cared about the press and hyped, 
 all I cared was story. With MGS4 the story finishes. 
  
  The game play, storyline, cinematic, they were all so well made.
  
  The game play is stealth 
 and action. You can play as FPS style but its not all FPS rounder. Most of the time you sneak behind 
 others and get them off guard. Of course you can't do that to bosses. There are also some heavenly 
 style game play (button smashing) .
  
  The story is so grabbing if you have played other MGS games. The story got really interesting for 
 me because of all the characters come back. At the end you realize the patriots are AIs. 
  
  The animation are realistic and detailed, the game will have more video play backs rather than 
 game plat but MGS games are amazing partly cause of cut scenes.
  
  Snake is done from MGS4 and we might get another MGS (pre sequel) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: olisaoli
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 15, 2008 8:56 am PT
Review:  First of all let me just say I've never played any of the pervious MGS games, so you could only 
 imagine how confusing the storyline was for me. Throughout the game they're flashbacks you may 
 witness if you press any of the buttons on your controller that's displays what to press on the 
 top right of the screen I think. If you're like me then don't worry cuz you'll understand what's 
 going on in MGS4, trust me. To make things easy let me list the pros and the cons.
  
  PROS:
  1. The storyline is superb and deep and makes you want to learn more about what's going 
 to happen next.
  
  2. Gameplay is fun and the controls are simple to understand with many ways to take down your foe.
 
  
  3. Boss fights are cleverly done.
  
  4. Voice acting is at its' best. (David Hayter)
  
  5. Customize weapons to your liking.
  
  6. Music tracks are nicely done.
  
  CONS:
  
 1. Graphics and frame rate at times doesn't live up to the ps3 standards.
  
  2. Regarding gameplay is pretty short, sometimes I say to myself, "is that it? No more? AARRHH! 
 Another hour long movie!"
  
  As you can see there's a lot more pros than cons, which means you should get this game!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: noclue_27
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 14, 2008 9:41 pm PT
Review:  From start to finish this game is absolutely spectacular. I've never played a Metal Gear Solid 
 game before this one, however, I now am considering playing the Metal Gear Solid series from start 
 to finish.
  
  This game is truly an inspiration, and further proof that games are among the greatest forms of 
 art mankind can create.
  
  Knowing little knowledge about the series or game, I delved into upon recommendations from sites 
 that have praised it so high; such as gamespot. No mistake was made, and I greatly thank gamespot 
 and other sources for recommending it to me. Although the game's story is greatly complex, it introduces 
 the player into the world so that they may grasp the concept, and reality of the universe they 
 enter without going overboard into detail. 
  
  I highly recommend this game to anyone who loves stories. This game does more than entertain, with 
 something like 9 hours of cut scenes filled with action, love, hate, and tranquility this game 
 satisfies both the casual, and the hardcore.
  
  Thank you, everyone who made this game what it is, thank you for sharing this universe with me.
 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: gamesguru91
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 14, 2008 4:35 pm PT
Review:  With the world employing PMC (Private military companies) troops to fight, the US worries when the 
 top 5 PMCs are controlled by a dummy corporation headed by none other Liquid ocelot. With snake 
 deployed in 5 chapters he must bring stealth to a new level. This is done with octocamo, an item 
 that can mimic any texture it's pressed against, helping him blend in and avoid detection, the 
 most positive way to go for stealth gamers. Action gamers will also like this game, with more weapons 
 than any previous game and with the option of customising this is a game that satifies both stealth 
 and action gamers.
  
  Graphics: The team at konami have made full use of the playstation 3, with some of the best graphics 
 this console has seen, and having a suit that can mimic any texture onto it makes it even more 
 impressive.
  
  Sound: Music is an important part of any game and it is definitely included in this, with music 
 for action boss battles to sneaking through a warzone, and epic music by Harry Gregson-Williams. 
 Bonus music tracks can be picked up throughout the game and listened from snake's ipod.
  
  Story: Although people say MGS4 can be your 1st metal gear solid game, it really helps if you have 
 played the others. Some new players to the series mat get a little lost or may not understand some 
 parts, but nothing that a read from the internet won't solve. For people who are aware of the previous 
 stories, the story in MGS4 will be just as massive and brilliant as the predecessors, with a solid 
 conclusion that will almost satisify everyone.
  
  Online: With online included with the game, it really sets the standards higher for all PS3 games, 
 with various modes for the action gamers i. e DM and TDM, mission modes for the casual gamer i. e 
 capture and rescue, with stealth games such as sneaking and team sneaking.
  
  overall metal gear solid 4 guns of the patriots is the perdect exclusive game for the PS3 with 
 excellent gameplay, brilliant cutscenes and amazing sound and dialogue, it's the game that every 
 PS3 owner should have.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: kee101
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 14, 2008 12:38 pm PT
Review:  From MGS1 to MGS3 they were all great but the 4th brought a close to everything. I will review 
 Graphics, Story, Gameplay and MGO.
  First GRAPHICS. I though the graphics were great even on my non-HD tv the graphics were crisp and 
 good. As for the frame rate after playing for awhile (about 2 hours) the frame rate would start to 
 slow and speed up quickly but other wise were good.
  Second STORY. Basicly u had to the 2nd and 3rd MGS to understand the story line so far. The story 
 starts in the middle east, Old Snake must find his clone brother Liquid and assasinate him only 
 to be put down by the nano machines and the story continues from there. But in the end everything 
 comes to an end. All the lose ends come to an end.
  Third GAMEPLAY. The gameplay is mostly the same from older games. The control sceem is mostly the 
 same too. A few tweeks to the CQC but nothing big. Although the new addition of OctoCamo the game 
 does sorta force u to be stelthy. Gameplay is great, few tweeks to be made.
  Last but no lease Metal Gear Online. The addition of MGO was a great idea although sometimes it 
 can be fusstrating there is alot of things to be fixed lik the CQC grabs exemple u can be 5m away 
 from somebody and they can still grab you. But they just got it up and running so there's time 
 to fix problemes. MGO is great. There are skills that are needed to be tweeked.
  
  Here are my scores for MGS4:
  GRAPHICS:4.5
  STORY:5.0
  GAMEPLAY:5.0
  MGO:4.0
  TOTAL:18.5/20.0
 
  
  Thank you for reading my review on MGS4
  Kee101 out 
::::::

::::::
UserName: spideyeiteyman
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 14, 2008 9:48 am PT
Review:  Liquid Ocelot is planning an insurrection and Snake's final mission is to kill Liquid. Snake is 
 aging rapidly due to him being a clone. Right off the bat the action is interesting with cinematics 
 perfectly placed in real time with no load times. It is fun to sneak and kill as well as openly 
 shooting everyone. The environments are breathtakingly beautiful filled with details. AI is intelligent 
 and there is a wide variety of customizations and weapons including RPGs, Aks, Sniper Rifles, and 
 others. Snake has a new way to hide using the Octocameo, Face Cameo, and drums. Classic ways to 
 hide include using boxes. He wears a suit that allows him to blend into his environment. CQC has 
 been greatly improved. The controls take just a short time to get used to. Characters from old 
 games return including Meyrl, Otacon, and Colonel Cambell. This is the best game the PS3 has to 
 offer and is one of the greatest games of all time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: i_rock_74
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 19, 2008 3:39 pm PT
Review:  OK i love how when you start this game it is based on the not to distanced future!
  
  Graphics:10 The graphics in this is great because when u getting attached bye these big robot type 
 things on the stairs they look so realistic! But it is probably one of the best graphics of any 
 game for the PS3!
  
  
  Sound:10 The guns and everything sound very great! The story line in this game is a very good concept. But 
 one down thing about the story line is that it is a little long mostly the part when you see Vamp 
 and Liquid on the boat and the USA is going to fire at them.
  
  
  Controls:9.5 The down part on the controls is that it is kinda hard when you are starting to play 
 and you pick up your first gun and the intrusions it tells you don't really tell you how to take 
 out the gun only to put it as a gun you can use. But the controls take about 15-less minutes to 
 understand and to learn how to play!
  
  
  But if i where you i would problply not even rent the game and just buy it is a great game i have 
 not been on for a while because i am addicted to it but if you have never played one of the MGS's 
 you are a guy named snake and you turn into old snake and the whole world is mostly a battle zone 
 and you fight mostly everything but it is not your war though. Also one good thing is how you can 
 buy ammo and good guns from this guy that you meet and you feel like he is not a good guy! But 
 if i were you i would take my advice and go bye this game! Thanks for reading! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: danielepeca
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 14, 2008 8:10 am PT
Review:  Visuals are stunning. Gameplay is very challenging if you want to do it right, quite forgiving 
 if you just try to go past a difficult area just running through it.
  Cutscenes are basically short movies, some of them amazing, all very good. There's a lot of content 
 in the story, in terms of emotions, revelations, tying up loose ends. Boss fights challenge you 
 to adopt the right tactics and use the right weapon and/or item in any given moment. They are also 
 a test for your patience. If you try to rush them you can die very easily. The boss characters 
 are also quite interesting, not without humor, sometimes with some serious melodrama. Environments 
 are very believable, almost photorealistic. Wherever you are, you are really there. My PS3 is hooked 
 up to a projector and I use a very big screen, this makes for an experience like I've never had 
 with a video game. I hope that in the future more games will be like that, with plenty of drama 
 and story. To me, absolute masterpiece. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: OrwellJames
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 13, 2008 10:29 pm PT
Review:  As of right now, there are 888 player reviews of this game on this site, and countless more on 
 the rest of the internet, but I wanted to give a brief review from a gamer who hated the original 
 and was skeptical of the sequels but wanted the 80GB PS3 package with PS2 compatibility.
  
  I still remember playing the demo for the original Metal Gear Solid and being so hopelessly frustrated 
 with the gameplay that seemed to require the patience and calm of a veritable saint that I put 
 it down almost immediately. Not being aware of the gameplay improvements and flexibility added 
 to the second and third installments, this was my first experience with the series since that fateful 
 moment many years ago. My expectations were so low, I didn't even open the game until a couple 
 months after I had bought the console.
  
  I was blown away by this game. Skeptics beware; even for those who don't like stealth, action, 
 or adventure, this game doubtlessly holds the title for the most visually stunning game on any 
 console to date, but goes beyond that to being one of the most sophisticated, cinematic video game 
 narratives of all time. This is a thrilling, intelligent, and emotionally powerful story about 
 the importance and cost of true freedom, both political and existential. The characters are sympathetic 
 and engaging, and I even found myself starting to enjoy the gameplay, after some practice. 
  
  I started the game on easy, which enabled me to fly through each segment, guns blazing, quickly 
 and easily (NO stealth necessary, I promise) . There are five different settings for the difficulty 
 of the game which should cater to all skill levels and preferences. It was only after I had beaten 
 the game once that I changed the difficulty to Hard for some true "Tactical Espionage Action." 
 While still enjoyable, stealth games aren't for everyone, but the narrative techniques employed 
 in the game make it worth it for any gamer. 
  
  Don't let yourself miss out on this revolutionary and phenomenally enjoyable game. If necessary, 
 read up on the plots of the last three on Wikipedia (it should only take 20 minutes at the most) 
 and you'll be ready to dive into this one. You'll doubtlessly thank me in the end.
  
  Edit: MGO is also one of the deepest and best online multiplayers I've played in a long time, and 
 should give you many enjoyable hours. If that alone doesn't make this game worth the purchase, 
 I don't know what could. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: d000d
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 13, 2008 4:50 pm PT
Review:  this game is great, its got like everythin you would want, like the storyline is the best story 
 ever because its like the last mgs and everythin you didn't get in the first mgs games gets explained 
 here and you eill be like OMG!!! all the time with all the secrets being spilled. the gameplay 
 is great with the comaflage and stuff being really sneaky and killing people and its got the best 
 boss fights ever including the people off mgs1 like psyco mantis who is well good when you see 
 him, your like woooow, its him. the graphics are really revolutionary and great from the cinamatics 
 and stuff to gameplay with cool explosions and great sounding and looking guns. the difficulty 
 is perfect cause there are like 6 to choose from so you just gotto choose the difficulty for you. 
 but the best bit on this game is the referneces from other mgs games but i cant say or itll be 
 "spoilers" but the best bit in the game is either, last boss fight, last cinematic or goin back 
 to a certain place, the sounds are great like David Hayter did a great job with snake ans stuff, 
 the guns and explosions sound great just like the freaky "gekko."
  
  so this game is one of the greatest games EVER! and if you like MGS1, 2, 3, portable ops, metal 
 gear, metal gear 2 or any other metal gear solid game you'll love thi game to bits, but also newcomers 
 will love it because the story explains itself during, so... FREAKING GREAT GAME!!!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: packs_fan
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 13, 2008 9:30 am PT
Review:  MGS4 is a perfect example of a good sneaking/ shooting game. The graphics are amazing and are nothing 
 less than perfect I could find no flaws with the graphics. The controls are very tight and you 
 always feel like you are in control. The story line is dramatic as ever and is very deep. The gameplay 
 of this game surpasses all of its predecessors. It brings a lot of new and a some old to make the 
 gameplay as enjoyable as ever. You are in the middle of a raging war mecenarys being shot to hell 
 by geckos at some points. Which te geckos can make things a little on the annoyance side but nothing 
 a good rocket launcher cant take care of. They added the octocamo which I think was a great idea 
 whcih changes color to the enviroment you are at. This makes things much quicker than having to 
 constantly switch it all the time. They also added Drebin basically a weapon laundering pimp. He 
 will sell you weapons and you can even customize them to make them better or quiter. You now probably 
 are wondering how do you get money? Well when you kill a PMC they drop their weapon you then pick 
 up and then is sold to Drebin for points to buy weapons are accesories. Overall MGS4 is something 
 that no one should pass up. Even if you are new to the franchise you will not want to miss the 
 great game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MagicJones
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 13, 2008 6:59 am PT
Review:  As soon as the game started and Snake crept into the shadows with
  the cigarette in his mouth I knew I was in for something special
  and was hooked!
  
  MGS4 
 is the pinnacle of gaming in my opinion. It has everything
  you could want in a stealth and action game, with a story that 
  Hollywood writers would surely 
 benefit from watching.
  
  My only problem with the game is really, my fault. I never played
  any other MGS games besides 
 this one, so the characters and storyline
  didn't mean quite as much to me as it would to people that have played
  the series.
  
  But 
 that being said, it was still able to draw me in, and I'm sure if
  I had known all the characters before hand, I would have had chills
  several times during some 
 of the cut-scenes. 
  
  (*SPOILER ON* 
  Though at the end with snake crawling through the radiation while everyone is making their last 
 stand with death imminent, my Wife and I were both on the edge of seats screaming at the TV! "GO! 
 GO! GO! 
  *SPOILER OFF*)
  
  Being new to the Series, and not quite knowing what to expect,
  I played it through on easy, 
 and had no problem at finishing the game.
  I hope to challenge myself further soon, with a higher difficulty.
  
  The characters are unforgettable 
 (Otacon may have stole the show, even though Snake rocks) , the Story is incredible, and the whole 
 presentation
  off the charts. I cannot recommend it enough. Don't worry if you have not played any other game 
 in the series, it still will captivate you.
  
  Get it today and be amazed!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: tajirinere
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 13, 2008 6:44 am PT
Review:  I did not finish the game but at first glance it's nothing special graphically. It's off the chain 
 but it's nothing that i haven't sen before. Truth be told there was nothing in MGS4, graphically, 
 that they did not do in MGS3? it's just sharper. I felt like some aspects did not warrant questions 
 which Ota con had to answer i. e the Irwins? if snake has been in the 'Battlefield' for as long 
 as he has then he shouldn't be asking question about them. I get it's for our understaning but just 
 give us a hint and shut up. Who ever the gun launderer is.... we get it! just stop talking about 
 how the your making money and sell me some guns, i will shoot you. Please enough with the kneeling 
 down to answer the codec, we understand that it iconic but so are the 60's only crazy people go 
 around dressing like hippies. There is no in-game communication which makes the time spent between 
 FMVs or Codec transmissions pretty damn boring. last but not least, it now plays like splinter 
 cell with the holstering and all. for me the only motivation is finishing the story because i've 
 played MS1-3. MGS4 is an improvement on the design and not something new. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Varlos_xboxlive
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 12, 2008 10:57 pm PT
Review:  Story/Campaign
  
  Great story, and really fun. Although the scenes are extremely long (not exaggerating) , the first 
 play through deserves your full attention. Not only do the graphics look amazing in game cut-scenes, 
 the loading between cut-scenes and instant-action is not there at all! Sure there is loading, but 
 not when you are about to go into a huge battle.
  
  Multiplayer (MGO)
  
  Very fun, but a little pain. Sure it's fun, and very satisfying to get kills, but registering and 
 logging in really is a pain. Basically, how this works, your PSN ID means nothing here! You have 
 to make two seperate accounts! One is a Game ID, and the other a KONAMI ID. Once you are done, 
 signing-in feels as if it was a PC game. That is not cool. But the gameplay is great!
  
  I'd say buy. I owned two XBox 360's, one of them catched RRoD, so I traded it in for a PS3, since 
 MGS4 was already out, and I have never looked back. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: VitaExodus
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 12, 2008 8:33 am PT
Review:  The Metal gear series has had a collosally important role to play in the world of the Video game 
 industry - whether looked upon from a gameplay perspective, a unique take on storytelling, or the 
 many other reasons to obsess about the series, it's hard not to find something fascinating about 
 the story beginning stemming from WWI with the philosophers, Operation Snake Eater in the 1960s, 
 or the much acclaimed MGS1 Shadow moses incident. Metal Gear Solid 4 tells the story of Old snake, 
 now afflicted with accelerated aging for unknown reasons, to finish untying old ends, and finishing 
 a fight that's been going on for decades.
  
  Must be my imagination...
  
  Let's go over stealth, first and foremost, what's changed and what's stayed where it is. All the 
 MGSes came with a different type of location to stealth in, from more mechanical environments in 
 MGS1, to swampy jungles in MGS3. MGS4 takes lace in 2015, where PMCs has taken a much larger role, 
 where battle and war have become more like a routine, and will throw Old Snake right into it. To 
 help against what would be normally impossible to stealth through, the camouflage system has been 
 upgraded and given old snake "OctoCamo" - Similar to the camouflage abilities of some octopus, 
 snake is able to blend in to any environment by either crawling or clinging to a wall or object, 
 which proves invaluable when trying to bypass your enemies. 
  
  Call of Snake 4: Modern Sneak and Kill
  
  He's also recieved 2 important devices from our favorite 
 nerd, Otacon. Snake can now view nearby enemies and other information in a hud using the "Solid 
 Eye", which also enables to use night vision and infrared, especially handy in specific boss fights. 
 The other, the Mk. II, uses the same technology as REX from MGS1 to use as a device for either 
 looking ahead in the nearby area, or shocking enemies with its manipulation device. The amount 
 of freedom added into the game allows you not to play through just via sneaking around: 60 unique 
 weapons (some harder to get than others) provide more than enough variety to keep you interested. 
 as far as the psyche bar goes, you'll recieve a "combat high" for enough killing in a certain period 
 of time, meaning your health won't drop for a killing spree. Every weapon you recieve from the 
 dead will be sold for more points to buy more guns and ammunition, while the ammo in the gun gets 
 added to your collection.
  
  Wow wow woweee wow
  
  The graphics are some of the most impressive you'll ever see on the system, period - the cutscenes 
 are more close to reality than ever, although not all the details are added equally (Smell ya later, 
 Advent Palace) , the amount of work on both facial and clothing detail, the environments themselves, 
 and all the little details Kojima has put in speaks for the company's love for this series, and 
 wanted to end it right. If you're playing this on 1080p, get ready for a gamegasm. And yes... exclamation 
 points still pop up over their heads.... but it's punctuation, in HD!
  
  The Voice of a Decade
  
  Kojima obviously brought in the classic voice actors from MGS's VA 
 beginning, David Hayter and the gang, with easily the most impressive next-gen VA so far. Whether 
 you have stereo or 5.1, the sounds of the Rebel militia's gunfire from the battlefield of Act 1, 
 to every bit of the astounding ending, you can't help but be drawn in every second of the game.
 
  
  The Ultimate Challenge
  
  If the 20-hour campaign of a lifetime isn't enough, and metal gear online has still tired you out, 
 try getting any or all of the Music for your in game iPod, getting the costumes (Yes, including 
 altair) , every facecamo, and if you seek the Ultimate challenge, try the big boss emblem for a 
 legendary gun, a scary face, and a neat little iPod song as well. If it were not for the checkpoint 
 system, that emblem would be impossible to obtain.
  
  How It Ends
  
  After many, many, many playthroughs, I can happily say every question is answered, every challenge 
 surprising and entertaining from beginning to the end. MGS4 was the only reason I bought the PS3, 
 and I don't regret the decision in the least, even if it's the only game I buy. Metal gear solid 
 4: Guns of the Patriots is the pinnacle of stealth gaming, next-gen gaming, and the number one 
 reason to own a Playstation 3. Go buy it now.
  
  ... get off the computer already, dummy! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rafay48
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 12, 2008 12:02 am PT
Review:  This game will always be remembered by everyone, even in 10 years, but there is one thing, the 
 difficulty level is not what i expected, it should have been more hard, because i am already on 
 act 4 act i started a few weeks ago.
  
  But overall this game could be rated beyond 10!! And also i was disappointed about the length, 
 the story line should have been doubled!
  
  Some people also try to compare this game with GTA, but GTA is a different kind of game, because 
 that is all about stealing cars and killing innocent people (which i love doing) but metal ear 
 4 is a much better in a different kind of way!
  
  In conclusion this is an outstanding game, and i hope there will be another game in the series! 
 I got this game from the UAE, the graphics are amazing, (my mother thought i was watching TV) also 
 my brother was begging me to play it but i was so into the game i ignored him! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KingOfJersey
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 11, 2008 4:25 pm PT
Review:  One Of the greatest games ever! This is late but I work alot and video games is #4 as far as my 
 priorities goes. But I finally had a chance to actually play through it, take my time with it, 
 and beat it. I can say this is nothing short of EPIC! The only thing I can see someone knocking 
 it for is the lengthy cinema, it is pretty much half-movie, half-video game, and for fans of the 
 series I strongly advise you to buy this game, and for the more casual gamer it doesn't have to 
 be all stealth any more you can go out there DOOM style and just start blasting people. I'm giving 
 this game a perfect score easily. The boss battles are epic (It took me about an hour to beat the 
 laughing octopus lol) but each boss has a weakness and you have to find the best ways to exploit 
 it, and capitalize, the custom weapons feature was also brilliant where you can pretty much add 
 a couple things to your rifle for example. Once again go to the store and pick this game up NOW. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: StermerCody
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 11, 2008 3:05 pm PT
Review:  Metal Gear Solid 4: Guns of the Patriots is most exiting game ever created. The storyline is the 
 best one i have ever played. The gameplay and the movies are well told and the well textured.
 
  
  Fully realized, lengthy story sequences will come as no surprise to anyone who has played a Metal 
 Gear game. You'll spend a good half of MGS4 watching cinematics, but it would be a grave misinterpretation 
 to assume that great gameplay takes a backseat to the story. Rather, these two elements are tightly 
 intertwined, and this tapestry is held together by an important technical thread: Cutscenes that 
 are rendered fully in real time within the game engine. It's impressive enough that these scenes 
 look as good as any prerendered cinematic you've ever watched. It's even more amazing when those 
 same scenes transition without pause into gameplay, and the same hulking mech you watched lumber 
 about in the cinematic is looming above you. The subtle animations, the lush environments, and 
 the rich textures are the same in and out of story sequences, and the effect is so seamless it 
 may take your breath away. You can skip past the scenes if you prefer, but doing so would soften 
 the experience. The story sequences carry more weight because of the intense gameplay that precedes 
 them -- and the gameplay feels more compelling because the story gives you powerful reasons to care 
 about your mission. The high point of this fusion occurs in an exciting and memorable split-screen 
 sequence that simply must be experienced. 
  
  Talking about what, exactly, is going on in the plot in the midst of MGS4's grand sweeping gestures 
 is to risk spoiling each little surprise as it emerges. Snake, suffering from the rapid onset of 
 aging, now must cope with stiff joints in addition to the looming specter of Liquid Ocelot's newest 
 plans. This is Snake's final hurrah; yet as the story reaches one height after another, the juxtaposition 
 of huge set piece battles and formidable bosses with Snake's deteriorating body creates tension 
 and gravity even beyond the series' usual pretensions. Some new plot strands emerge while others 
 get tied up, and old friends (and enemies) refuse to be forgotten. You'll also bear witness to 
 a few reunions -- some bloody, some teary, and some legitimately shocking. Parts of it are overblown, 
 to be sure. The musical score gets heavy-handed and the voice acting and writing are frequently 
 dogmatic, so while there are plenty of subtle moments, subtlety isn't really MGS4's strong suit. 
 But it doesn't need to be. After all, the fate of the world hangs in the balance, and judging from 
 a few silly attempts at humor that don't work, developer Kojima Productions was wise to err on 
 the side of melodrama. 
  
  The gameplay proper is familiar to fans, but it's been cleaned up and expanded, holding as many 
 twists and surprises as the story. For starters, both gunplay and close-quarters combat are more 
 satisfying. Regarding melee, the controls have been streamlined, making it less cumbersome to grab 
 an enemy soldier or perform a stealthy blade kill. Shooting mechanics are even more improved, so 
 much so that shooting your way out of a pickle is just as enjoyable as sneaking around it. There 
 are a huge number of weapons to play with; so many that you'll probably finish the campaign without 
 using many of them. Yet, quality wasn't sacrificed for quantity: Every weapon feels just right, 
 from your handy operator sidearm (best when upgraded with a silencer) and standard issue assault 
 rifles to a powerful railgun. The standard over-the-shoulder view is fine for the most part, but 
 you can gaze down the sights from a first-person perspective. Both views can be further improved 
 with various enhancements, such as laser sights and scopes. 
  
  Not that you don't have all the tools for completely avoiding your enemies if you choose that route. 
 Snake's got the basics covered: crawling, hugging walls, peeking around corners, and hanging from 
 ledges, for example. Cover mechanics are tighter than ever, so you can crouch and take potshots 
 from behind cover with ease. There are also a number of important gadgets that will make your life 
 easier in this regard. The most obvious of these is your OctoCamo suit, which takes on the texture 
 of your surroundings when you're prone or pressed against cover. Not only does this make it simpler 
 to avoid watchful eyes, but it's also a cool visual effect. Eventually, you'll be able to camouflage 
 Snake's head, and a few of the available camo options are bound to stir some fans' nostalgia. The 
 Solid Eye is your other major tool, as it expands your compass into a sonic-sensitive radar and 
 allows you to use night vision and a tactical first-person view. These are helpful gadgets indeed, 
 even during boss fights, like a stirring encounter in a blinding blizzard. 
  
  
  
  
  Shooting is always a viable option if you don't want to sneak.
  Other gadgets, such as portable 
 hiding places (cardboard boxes and rusty barrels) and the Metal Gear Mk. II (a stealthed robot 
 that you can command as a scouting device) , are useful to anyone who prefers the sneaky approach. 
 Not every gadget is a welcome addition, though. For example, the much-ballyhooed iPod is a neat 
 touch, but to use it, you cannot have another gadget equipped, so you'll quickly forget the option 
 even exists. But aside from these nitpicks, one of the things that makes the core gameplay so enjoyable 
 is that you're rarely strapped into a single style of play. Shooting your way through requires 
 more thought and care than you'd put into a standard action game, but you never feel as though 
 the gun mechanics are stuffed uncomfortably into a stealth game. If you'd rather sneak, you never 
 have the impression that stealth was shoehorned into a game that's meant to be played as a shooter. 
 Sure, you're Solid Snake -- you're not supposed to get caught. But if you're stuck in a jam, breaking 
 stealth isn't a death sentence, and in fact, facing certain enemies head-on is often a heart-pounding, 
 challenging experience. The few levels that do force you into one style, such as one in which you 
 shadow your target through an Eastern European city, are still great, if not quite as impactful. 
 
  
  You'll need to keep an eye on Snake's stress levels and psyche. Though these aspects are more peripheral 
 than health levels, they fit nicely within the plot. When Snake gets stressed (if he gets cold 
 or encumbered, for example) , his psyche gauge starts to deplete. The lower the gauge, the slower 
 you will move and the less quickly you replenish health. Generally speaking, the psyche meter is 
 rarely a factor, and should you notice Snake groaning a bit more, there are items like compresses 
 you can use for a pick-me-up. Should the meter get too low, you won't be able to hold up your weapon 
 or rush for cover. This doesn't happen often though, and while you'll need to keep a close eye 
 on your health for obvious reasons, you won't need to pay too much heed to psyche.
  
  Regardless of the tactics you use, the level design and enemy artificial intelligence work in tandem 
 to create unparalleled gameplay. If you go stealth, hiding in that rusty barrel isn't a perfect 
 solution. Your foe may look at it suspiciously, kick it a few times, and eventually blow your cover, 
 so don't expect to be able to trick your way through as you might in other stealth games. In full-on 
 firefights, enemy teams will flank you, use cover to their advantage, and throw grenades with precision 
 to force you out of hiding. Most of your surroundings, inside and out, are littered with objects 
 and cover opportunities, from a trek through a South American jungle to a nostalgic journey through 
 a snowy island base. Each level is more-or-less linear, but within the confines of these areas, 
 you still have remarkable room to explore the various gameplay options and test the limits of your 
 foes. Some enemies are standard soldiers, though many others are wonderfully imaginative. The colossal 
 mechanical Gekkos, for example, are unpredictable and keep you on your toes, while female operatives 
 that pounce from wall to wall intensify an early escape scene. 
  
  
  
  
  There are ample cover opportunities.
  Later in the game, a few set piece battles deepen the core 
 gameplay even further, including a few peerless on-rails sequences. One of these, a motorcycle 
 chase, is as close as any game has gotten to translating the excitement of similar moments in films 
 to a game format. Another level, which features a gigantic automaton, showcases destructible environments 
 where walkways collapse on top of each other and the screen fills with smoke. In all of these cases, 
 the controls are excellent, with the exception of that same mech's third-person view a bit later 
 on (the first-person view works infinitely better) . The interpretation of Metal Gear Solid as an 
 interactive film still applies, but in a way you may not have expected: These levels make you feel 
 like the star of your own action movie. 
  
  Boss battles are stimulating, though they aren't all that difficult. Nevertheless, a few of them 
 are tricky and require you to put some thought into your tactics because just riddling the boss 
 with bullets isn't going to ensure victory. Early on, it's clear that you'll be encountering the 
 four members of the Beauty and the Beast unit -- female supersoldiers that are as psychologically 
 complex as they are fun to battle. These battles are long and normally require you to fight other 
 enemies in addition to your primary target. In one of them, you can use your night vision to track 
 your target's footprints and use the wind direction to your advantage. In another, you'll dodge 
 missiles from flying creatures while taking on the main boss. 
  
  The gameplay and story would, perhaps, not be as effective if Metal Gear Solid 4 did not look and 
 sound so impressive, but truth be told, it's an amazing piece of technology. From the gritty textures 
 of concrete walls to the effective lighting and shadowing, there are few aspects you could reasonably 
 fault. In the biggest battles, billows of smoke fill the screen and blood splatters against the 
 camera -- all while meticulously designed helicopters fly overhead and ad-hoc team members take potshots 
 from behind grungy dilapidated vehicles. Yet in the midst of the visual drama, it's the little 
 things that are likely to provoke awe. Small details, such as how Snake rubs his sore back when 
 his stress levels get high or the authentic manner in which he ascends staircases, create as much 
 atmosphere as cluttered underground tunnels and war-torn Middle Eastern cities. You will have to 
 wait through some scattered install periods (just under 20 minutes worth, in total) and the occasional 
 loading screen, and you may find some frame rate drops and low-res textures here and there, but 
 these aren't issues in light of MGS4's impressive graphical accomplishments. 
  
  The sound design comes together nearly as well. The soundtrack on its own is rather pompous, but 
 in context, it works just fine to create the appropriate mood for any given cutscene or battle. 
 The voice acting follows suit but succeeds far better. Because the growling voice of David Hayter's 
 Solid Snake is so good, the rare hamming from the mostly excellent supporting cast is easily forgotten. 
 But the sound effects are unforgettable and excellent across the board. The Gekkos emit blood-curdling 
 moos like gargantuan cows, explosions are outstandingly obnoxious, and everything from the clicks 
 of the Solid Eye to the laughter and screams of the beastly bosses are top-notch. 
  
  
  
  
  Snake's final hurrah is a remarkable technical achievement.
  On top of it all, Metal 
 Gear Solid 4 offers some enjoyable online 16-player action to complement its superb single-player 
 experience. Deathmatch and Team Deathmatch are represented, of course, and they play just fine, 
 assuming you don't approach the online component as a standard shooter. The maps are beautifully 
 rendered and packed with detail, and while not every mechanic is as wonderful in multiplayer as 
 it is in single-player (hiding in your cardboard box won't usually get you far, for example) , it's 
 all good fun once you adjust to the pace. The multiplayer star, however, is sneaking mode, a Team 
 Deathmatch variant in which one player plays as Snake and another supports him as the Metal Gear 
 Mk II. Shooting others is amusing -- but sneaking enthusiasts will enjoy the violent, stealthy game 
 of hide and seek you play as Snake. Playing support is equally entertaining because as Mk. II, 
 you can go invisible, creep up on other players, and zap them with your electronic tentacle. It's 
 a blast. Other modes include base mission, in which teams compete to conquer bases; a capture and 
 defend mode; and rescue mission, which is similar to the same mode in Metal Gear Solid 3: Subsistence. 
 Unfortunately, the process of creating an online account is laborious, so expect to take a few 
 minutes to enter a litany of information (a pain if you aren't using a keyboard) . Thankfully, the 
 variety of customization options and sheer numbers of players online mean that this process is 
 quickly forgotten. 
  
  If the story-heavy presentation of previous Metal Gear games taxed your patience, Metal Gear Solid 
 4 won't change your mind. For anyone who appreciates games that rise above the simple act of pushing 
 a few buttons and pulling a few triggers, Metal Gear Solid 4 is a stimulating ride that you won't 
 soon forget. You'll want to see what happens next, yet when its long campaign draws to a close, 
 you'll wish it would continue. That's not just because it's a well-told tale, but because that 
 tale is woven through a thoroughly impressive game that tops its predecessors.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: MoNsTeR-GaMeR
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 11, 2008 2:12 pm PT
Review:  Let me start off by saying that yes, there are cut scenes that stretch past the hour mark. Yes, 
 there are in game downloads after each act and yes, some people for some reason don't like this 
 game and the Metal Gear series. I admit I was worried about these things but they were not a problem. 
 The cut scenes are beautiful action packed, and is the better way to tell the story then being 
 on the codec all the time. Also, the gameplay is new and improved. Metal Gear Solid 4 Steps in 
 to the next gen era with over the shoulder aiming and top-notch graphics. There is great customization 
 for different weapons and a huge choice of weapons to use and discover. I have played through this 
 game 6 times already and plan to play through again. This game isn't just a stealth game. If you 
 want, you can shoot your way through everything which isn't as hard as it sounds, but it's much 
 more enjoyable to sneak. In conclusion, Metal Gear Solid 4 is an amazing game that hardcore metal 
 gear fans will love and gamers that are new to the series will not be disappointed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: linkin_guy109
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 11, 2008 11:11 am PT
Review:  theres so many things that can be said about this game, of course there will be people who will 
 say the game is undeserving of its score, but those people more then not have not played the game, 
 metal gear solid 4 is an amazing technical achievement for consoles, its very difficult to put 
 into words just how amazing the game can be if you are willing to get into it, but with that being 
 said, i will say one thing that ive said many times, the game is a fan service, you need to know 
 a lot about the back story of the metal gear solid universe in order to fully appreciate metal 
 gear solid 4: guns of the patriots the story mainly revolves around solid snake trying to stop 
 his brother, liquid. i wont spoil the story for you, because the game is somethign that deserve 
 to have people who want to know the story play through the game to experience the game fully, the 
 game is comprised of 5 acts, each act has atleast 1 or 2 moments that will make the hair on the 
 back of your neck stand up, and then act 5, has atleast 5 moments that will make your hair stand 
 up the whole time while you watching the cutscene or playing through the part, theres one part 
 in particular where you have to tap triangle repeatedly, its probably the most heart pounding moment 
 ive ever experienced in a game. i could go on in great detail about why i love this game so much, 
 but im not really feeling like it at the moment, but i would recommend this game highly, its extremely 
 beautiful and pleasent to the eyes as well its an extremely satisfying game to play over many many 
 times, buy this game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: HawkGamer2008
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 11, 2008 10:23 am PT
Review:  Metal Gear Solid 4 is one of the best shooters in long time, definitely a Fame of the Year candidate.
 
  In MGS4 you are Solid Snake in his old age and must stop Liquid once and for all. You will see 
 some old faces like Otacon, Merle, Raiden, and Liquid of course. Secrets will be revealed and questions 
 will be answered, and be prepared for some lengthy but necessary cut scenes.
  
  MGS4 has excellent gameplay, a big variety of weapons, fun and challenging bosses, and beautiful 
 graphics.
  
  The gameplay never gets old and never gets confusing, the camera work is great. The game mechanics 
 are simple and easy to learn but unlike many other big name games that are out, this game doesn't 
 get repetitive.
  
  The weapon count is over 60, and they are all different and exciting guns. Automatic Pistols, a 
 Silenced Pistol, a Machine Pistol, Machine Guns, Sub-Machine Guns, a dozen different explosives, 
 Rocket Launchers, Missle Launchers, Rifles, Sniper Rifles, Grenade Launchers, and even a Rail Gun. 
 If you can't find your favorate gun in this game, then it doesn't exist.
  
  Ah the bosses, you will fight a variety of bosses in MGS4. The 4 B&B bosses, Vamp, Metal Gear Ray, 
 and of course Liquid himself in a fist fight.
  A different stratagy will be needed for each boss. Trust me when i say the first boss in the game 
 IS NOT A PUSHOVER!!! I actually think she's the hardest boss in the game, but they're all tough 
 to beat in there own way.
  
  And the graphics are just plain beautiful, this ain't your daddy's MGS.
  
  MGS4 is the best 
 reason to buy a PS3 right now and probably will be for awhile. This game exceeds the hype, something 
 that doesn't happen often these days. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheProdigyIV
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 9, 2009 10:53 am PT
Review:  Where can I start? This game is amazing. It has everything. From Assasins Creed costumes to unlock, 
 To Grenade Launchers. Drebin points are what you earn when you meet Drebin, If you have a certain 
 gun and you pick another one up from an Enemy, That gun is sold, but you keep the Ammo. The more 
 Drebin Points you have, The better guns you can buy. This game may be confusing to some, well the 
 storyline is connected to the other MGS games, So if you havent played the others it might be a 
 little hard getting used to, and you may need to start off playing the Easy mode first, but you 
 can play on with a playthrough and keep all your guns in that playthrough and costumes etc. One 
 thing this game has, Is amazing graphics, that capture every single motion perfectly, With the 
 games action it really puts you into the game, and makes some Hollywood Blockbusters look dull. 
 It really is an "Epic Stealth Action" game, with your Octo-Camo which will blend you into the enviroment 
 color you are laying in, or Crouching in. The Single player is amazing, From Gekko's, To human 
 guards, This game really is epic. Once you have finished the game on one mode, You can try Big 
 Boss Extreme which will test your skills to the max. Metal Gear Online, Its one of those were... 
 Your either good or you aren't. Simple as. There are various game modes etc, and its not what the 
 game should be bought for, Its a bonus. 
  
  Graphics - 10/10
  Story - 10/10
  Sounds - 9/10
  Gameplay - 9/10
  Multiplayer - 8/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MasonHarry22
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 11, 2008 3:40 am PT
Review:  I first played Metal Gear on the N. E. S. and then a couple of years later I played the REAL 8-bit 
 Metal Gears on a friends imported MSX console.
  
  Even back then there was a certain group of gamers that were drawn to the Metal Gear games. Sure 
 the whole stealth aspect of the games were basically unheard of back in the 8-bit days of the run 
 and gun 2-D sidescrollers like contra and the run and JUMP games of Super Mario Bros. and its many 
 8-bit clones.
  
  Sure I was a bit young still when I played the Metal Gear N. E. S. port but there were so many new 
 things about this 8-bit game that interested me to no end.
  
  Up to that point I had never seen a video game that had more fleshed out characters gameplay or 
 storyline like that now ancient 8-bit classic.
  
  You the gamer took on the persona of Snake a then 80's action star-ish lead character that was 
 sent in on a sneaking mission. Hmmm a SNEAKING MISSION what the hell is that really? I thought 
 the first time I booted up my beloved N. E. S. console.
  
  I soon learned what it was and what it meant.
  
  It meant that this game METAL GEAR was in 
 all reality the EXACT OPPOSITE of just about every other game from that era and not only from THAT 
 generation but the gen before it as well.
  
  It was truly a different take on how a video game was to be played and what they could ultimately 
 become. As any long time gamer knows a great genre defining video game like Chrono Trigger, Super 
 Metroid, Ocarina of Time, Metal Gear Solid, or Resident Evil 4 comes around only once every console 
 generation IF you are lucky. sometimes its TWO generations meaning once every 6 to 10 years. And 
 in video game time that is an ETERNITY.
  
  Fortunately for those few gamers that currently have a shiny new and expensive PS3 Metal Gear Solid 
 4 IS WITHOUT A DOUBT ONE OF THOSE GAMES.
  
  From the start MGS4 feels like both a new game yet it still plays much like the older Metal Gear 
 Solid games. In fact much of the gameplay from the underrated yet incredible Metal Gear Solid 3 
 : Snake Eater is the basis of the gameplay for MGS4.
  
  Yet there are many improvements that help it move into the current gen of gaming and to make things 
 a bit easier for the younger crowd of gamers that didnt grow up playing Metal Gear Solid games 
 or have never played one at all. (FPS gamers that means you.)
  
  There is a new FPS perspective added and a few other new gameplay nuances but overall this is still 
 through and through a Metal Gear Solid game.
  
  Of course that does not mean the gameplay is perfect, far from it in fact. What it means is that 
 the gameplay is GOOD overall for regular gamers and near perfected for what Metal Gear Solid IS 
 AS A GAME, and for any long time Metal Gear Solid veteran.
  
  In fact there is a slight low point in the game that detracts from its overall pacing and that 
 is the Europe mission when you have to follow a resistance fighter to find Big Momma (Eva) .
  
  Fortunately there is a big payoff to this fully stealth mission with a great on rails motorcycle 
 playable scene reminiscent of the kick ass Motorcycle scene in MGS3.
  
  The Graphics of Metal Gear Solid 4 truly show off the potential power of the Playstation 3 its 
 as simple as that.
  
  The art direction is great as always with environments that vary GREATLY from place to place from 
 the Deserts of the Middle East to the snowy wasteland that is now Shadow Moses.
  
  Metal Gear Solid 4 shows that not all current gen Xbox360/PS3 games have to be dirty and grimey 
 to the point that the games looks ugly and out right overdone just to show that the game developer 
 can push more polygons than the last graphic whore pleasing game and OVER USE fancy current gen 
 effects like bump-mapping and light bloom.
  
  Metal Gear Solid 4s storyline definitely caters more to long time Metal Gear fans and I HIGHLY 
 RECOMMEND TO ANY AND ALL GAMERS THAT WANT TO BOTH PLAY AND FULLY ENJOY METAL GEAR SOLID 4 TO SEEK 
 OUT THE MGS ESSENTIALS COLLECTION or find some cheap copies of at least MGS2 and MGS3 and play 
 them BEFORE PLAYING MGS4.
  
  Not that non long time MGS fans wont enjoy the games complex and narrative storyline. I would go 
 so far as to state that if you have a decent attention span and are more than a casual gamer then 
 you WILL enjoy MGS4 and it is fully worthy of a purchase now or even if you are going to wait a 
 couple of years until the price of the PS3 drops.
  
  One thing I would like to tell any Metal Gear Solid fan even if they have only played one Metal 
 Gear Solid game and especially the first is that you will LOVE the return to Shadow Moses act of 
 MGS4 as it is fan service at its BEST and even if you havent played any of the Metal Gear Solid 
 games before any gamer will have a blast controlling the REX Metal Gear as you fight Metal Gear 
 Ray in the now abandoned base.
  
  Unlike many recent games of this current Playstation 3 / Xbox360 generation Metal Gear Solid 4 
 : Guns of the Patriots more than lives up to the hype.
  
  MGS4 is NOT a perfect game but it comes DAMN CLOSE and there are many MANY incredible genre defining 
 scenes and gameplay segments that gamers will not soon forget after playing Metal Gear Solid 4.
 
  
  Hideo Kojima and his Kojima Productions team have truly outdone themselves.
  
  So much so in fact that I would beg of Konami to NOT MAKE ANOTHER METAL GEAR GAME AND LET THE SERIES 
 END ON A HIGH NOTE.
  
  Alas we all know that wont happen even if series creator Kojima is absent in the next installment 
 of the series.
  
  I give Metal Gear Solid 4 : Guns of the Patriots a SOLID 9.5 out of 10.
  
  Snakes last mission 
 is one for the video game history books.
  
  Snakes last mission is a video game that should not be missed by any gamer.
  
  S. W. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lovely_beauty
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 11, 2008 1:43 am PT
Review:  Metal Gear Solid 4: Guns of the Patriots (MGS4) , the game which occupies a huge amout of space 
 on Game Magazines, was finally released on June 12th 2008 after many delays. Published right on 
 the 20th anniversary of Metal Gear Series, it was proclaimed to be the last episodes about the 
 name-part Solid Snake. Undoubtedly the game has received tremendous attention from the community 
 since we all want to know how Hideo Kojima finish the story he has been writing for over 20 years. 
 And we can only say that it is a perfect ending which lives up to the highest expectation.
  
  MGS4 sets its background in the year 2014, five years after the "Big Shell Incident" in MGS2. 
 At this time, the global confliction becomes more and more intense, leading to violent wars all 
 over the world. The PMC (Private Military Company) has taken the place of governmental forces in 
 the battlefields. And with the development of Nano technology, a kind of microchip is implanted 
 in the body of every warrior, not only to enhance their combat ability but also to keep them under 
 control. Behind five biggest PMCs (Praying Mantis, Otselotovaya Khvatka, Werewolf, Pieuvre Armement 
 and Raven Sword) is only one character: Liquid Ocelot. His objective is to cause a world-shaking 
 upheaval, including nuclear catastrophe, to impose a new order of warfare in which his warriors 
 hold the supreme power. To stop this madness, Roy Campbell, currently working for UN, has to contact 
 Solid Snake to assign a secret fatal mission: getting to Middle East to eliminate Liquid. Despite 
 deteriorated health and the effect of FoxDie virus on his body, Snake departs for unpredictable 
 danger ahead. We will follow his paces from Middle East through south America, Eastern Europe and 
 Alaska.
  
  Once again MGS4 revive the humanistic antiwar thought which has been passed through each version 
 of the whole series. Metal Gear never focuses on the "Superhero" abilities, but instead emphasizes 
 on the human aspects of its characters, that is, the normal feelings of sorrow, happiness, passion 
 and fear. The great value of the storyline in MGS4 is the answer for accumulating questions from 
 prior versions. To fully contemplate this value, you should know the plot from Metal Gear 1, 2 
 to Metal Gear Solid 1, 2, 3 and Metal Gear Solid: Portable Ops. Familiar roles remain in this release, 
 many mysteries are unfolded, all surrounding the hidden character called The Patriots. Thanks to 
 Kojima's masterful art of novel construction, MGS4 becomes the main thread to keep all previous 
 episodes in touch in details and consistent in terms of idea. There is no redundant part, but without 
 this last piece, the whole architecture will collapse.
  
  The story in MGS4 is more severe than its predecessors, mostly because of the large amout of sentiment 
 conveyed in each scene. Following Snake through this long, arduous journey is like carrying a Cross 
 of heavy emotions on the path of the Messiah! Sometimes, we feel like reaching our limitation and 
 have to stop a moment for a rest, but one way or another Kojima has produced a haunting masterpiece 
 that will resound for a long time in our memory.
  
  Stay true to its repute as father of "stealth action", this factor is leveraged to the highest 
 level in MGS4. Game encourages players to use it as much as possible in all manners we can imagine: 
 crawling on the ground to avoid enemies' eyesight, self-covering behind obstacles, using chloroform 
 weapons... and staying ready for close combat (CQC) whenever necessary. If you feel like mopping 
 up like Rambo, then forget about MGS4, since the idea of staying in shadow still remains essential 
 in game play like it has always in the last two decades and you will miss the palpitation in breath-taking 
 stealthy scenes.
  
  MGS4 succeeds in changing players' attitude towards stealth factor, from "having to" to "enjoying". 
 Playing an important role in its appeal is the OctoCamo suit, a great improvement of "camouflage" 
 mode in MGS3. No longer do we have to change our outfits to fit the neighbourhood because this 
 "chameleon" suit can automatically adapt to surrounding changes. There is a camo index at the right 
 corner of the screen, indicating the adaptive level of Snake to the environment, the higher this 
 index, the less possibly the enemy can detect him. OctoCamo leads to a drastic change in our experience 
 with the game. The paper box in which Snake can shelter, the former icon of the series, though 
 still remains in MGS4, has really become redundant. So is the cling and swing actions used to appear 
 everywhere. All these tasks are now undertaken by OctoCamo, which allows players to constantly 
 concentrate on the uninterrupted flow of actions in game. In order to introduce this original suit, 
 the developers include a clip at the beginning in which Snake disguise himself as a statue on a 
 dais without being detected by his foes. Besides, the terrains of MGS4 are also more diverse than 
 MGS1 and 2 (confined in buildings) or MGS3 (only in a tropical forest) . Here we have a change to 
 travel through the deserts of Middle East, the bushy forest in South America, the turbulent metropolis 
 in Eastern Europe and finally the frost field in Alaska. Despite all surrounding variations, the 
 suit is reliable and we can always enjoy watching it changing its pattern from scene to scene. 
 In addition, the FaceCamo mask can further increase Snake's stealth effect to 99% chance of avoiding 
 eyesight. Not to mention his new ability to imitate death, these new gears can insure success in 
 almost every case.
  
  Supporting Snake's observation is the Solid Eye which provides valuable information about the location 
 and size of enemies on the map. Players will find it easy to switch between three modes of the 
 eye: normal, binos (Zoom in, out) v nv (infrared ray, used in the dark) . This, combining with the 
 Threat Ring around Snake's body which changing its color due to situation, allows us to predict 
 precisely the distance, status and danger level of opponents even when staying still. In addition 
 to OctoCamo and Solid Eye, our name-part also have a useful "prolonged arm": robot Metal Gear Mk. II. 
 Thanks to its tiny size and ability to steal in and out as perfectly as its owner, this creative 
 invention of Otacon provides a great diversity to game play. In dangerous situation, Snake can 
 have Mk. II making noise at a far distance from his shelter to distract the enemies, or control 
 his electric whip to eliminate them one by one from behind, as well as collecting trophies for 
 him.
  
  A variation of stealth action is tracking quest in which Snake has to follow footprints of enemies 
 to rescue a VIP or the mission to follow a rebel to his lair secretly while avoiding detection 
 of other guards. This requires not only close observation but also judgement and prediction based 
 on the depth and number of these footprints.
  
  In spite of the quality of Stealth factor, sometimes you are still dragged out of shadow to face 
 dozens of enemies and even bosses. In such case, MGS4 becomes a superd third person shooter (TPS) . 
 It's a consistent trend of this series to improve the quality of shooting scenes so that they get 
 on a par with Stealth Action. That's the reason this release employ an user-friendly control mechanism 
 and rapid-fire gun duals. Have a look over the control: auto-aim mode can be turn on and off easily 
 by square button; third and first person angle can be switch by triangular button. The collection 
 of weapons are big and diverse enough to satisfy shooter fans, from the dagger with additional 
 stun feature to grenade launcher RPG and Rail-gun with massively destructive power. An interesting 
 point is you can collect guns throughout the journey and keep them in the "museum" Metal Gear Mk. II. 
 All guns are controlled by ID, hence, you have to meet Drebin 893, a weapon smuggler, to unlock 
 them before you can make use of your trophies in battle. Besides, this guy sell nice accessories 
 like telescopic sight, sound muffler ect. Of course you have to gather enough DP (Drebin Point) 
 by selling abundant gears, or gaining bonus point.
  
  MGS does not stay the same without poetic delight of boss fights. In MGS4, The Beauty and the Beast 
 Corps consists of 4 fanciful bosses: Crying Wolf, Raging Raven, Screaming Mantis and Laughing Octopus. 
 All of them are female and well equipped with super high-tech gears, which no doubt will satisfy 
 you. Throw-back like the appearance of old bosses (Vamp or Liquid Ocelot) with slight modification 
 is also welcome. Besides, there are several racing scene on mechanical vehicles like armour-plated 
 tanks and motobikes. The most special should be the episode Snake drives Metal Gear REX battling 
 Metal Gear RAY in Gundam manner. And if all of these are not enough, there is always Metal Gear 
 Online which support up to 16 players for you to discover.
  
  "Incredible"- that's what you must utter when contemplating the audio-visual show in MGS4. Only 
 when you watch each screen with your own eyes could you understand why Konami delayed the game 
 for so long to polish it further so that their trump-card can become the game with best graphics 
 on PS3. The first impression is the sublime appearance and lissome movement of character models, 
 the result of the combination between PS3 and HDTV. No one can ever forget how magnificent Naomi 
 Hunter looks (as if we had just met her the first time) or the vestige of time on Solid Snake's 
 face. Though Kojima never calls himself a perfectionist, he did take good care of every sophisticated 
 details, even the smallest. Did you notice the dim wave of steam left on the wall after the cold 
 hand of the character slightly touch it, or small cloud of dust stirring in Middle East battlefield? 
 Kojima's passion for motion picture continue to manifest itself through cut scenes built right 
 on the engine of the game. Their quality is on a par with classic movies. It's not a surprise that 
 we can not skip a moment even in the 30 minute clip. Shaking effect is cleverly applied on some 
 scenes to make an impression that it is filmed by a camera! MGS4 continues a tradition of the series, 
 that is, the total amount of time for cut scenes is nearly as big as game play itself. However, 
 for some gamers, it still seems not enough!
  
  Audio in MGS4 manages to keep up with other parts of the game. Voice play is still undertaken by 
 the familiar squad who has been working under this title for many past years. Each of them can 
 now become their favourite character once more, especially David Hayter in the role of Solid Snake. 
 Background music of prior games is maintained with some variation here and there. Merely few chords 
 in "The Best is Yet To Come" song when Snake returns to Shadow Moses can move old fans of Metal 
 Gear to tear, reminding them of the long last memory with this game.
  
  As Jeff Haynes of IGN said, if there were a 11/10 score, MGS4 still deserves. "Im no hero... never 
 was... never will be." - Snake's speech will forever be in our mind, as the keepsake of a wonderful 
 time with an unforgettable masterpiece, and the reminder of a universal truth: There is no hero 
 in an unjust war. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dongalos
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 10, 2008 9:41 pm PT
Review:  This is my FIRST Metal Gear game... and i like it
  
  Old snake at first looks kinda weird like a zombie but after you find out more about him he's actually 
 kinda cool ... he smokes too much and he likes chicks, cool dude
  
  Its got a weird mix of robots that are supposed to be cows and they actually take craps because 
 before snake hid and they left it lifted its leg then all this green stuff came out of the backside 
 of it then it flew off... weird
  
  Even though it was weird i wanted to keep playing to find out more and I like in some of the story 
 telling scenes they let you control a robot to walk around the area and explore and find items..... pretty 
 neat man
  
  
  Good:
  ------------
  + GREAT graphics, probably best looking PS3 game that i've played
  + GREAT story, even though 
 some of it is pretty weird from the stories i've seen in video games or movies or book its still 
 interesting enough that i wanted to find out more
  + Multiplayer is pretty fun
  
  Bad:
  ------------
  - Load times kinda suck, it's 2 minutes to load any of the 5 chapters so if you 
 want to play one specific area you have to wait 2 minutes to load so replaying the game is a bit 
 annoying
  - Cutscenes are interesting first time but second or third time i found myself being annoyed i 
 had to press a button each time to skip it
  - Wish there was more gameplay, felt kinda short if you take away cutscenes
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: btaylor2404
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 10, 2008 7:56 pm PT
Review:  Well after all these years we finally have MGS4. It was quite a month, with GTAIV and MGS4 coming 
 out so close together, but everything had to be put on hold for Snake. For better or worse Snake 
 is one of my favorite characters in gaming history. His mood never really changes, but he seems 
 to understand the hand he's been dealt. MGS4 is without a doubt the best looking game I have ever 
 seen. The graphics are incredible during gameplay or cutscenes. And yes there are cutscenes. But 
 after all these years of gaming, I've never wanted a rewind button for cutscenes until now. The 
 mixture of stealth, or guns a' blazin, made the gameplay my favorite of all the MG series. Gameplay 
 is a marked improvement over the great MGS3 Snake Eater. Games always advertise there are infinite 
 ways of accomplishing a task or completing a level, but MGS4 means it. With a great blend of humor, 
 seriousness, and impressive overall story the game is a true storytelling masterpiece. It is the 
 closest I have come to playing a movie, and while that isn't how I judge games, it will be in the 
 back of my mind from now on becasue of MGS4. If you have a PS3, and any care at all for this type 
 of game, or the series, you owe it to you and your machine to go out and get this game. You will 
 not be dissapointed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Azul_Cobra
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 10, 2008 7:47 pm PT
Review:  This game is amazing. I just needed to say that right now, simply put just such a gratifying and 
 rewarding game no matter your play style. I highly suggest though that you play the first 3 games 
 first before you touch this game because it is very heavy on the story side, which makes it amazing 
 btw. 
  
  The audio is amazing, just the sound effects sound so realistic and well placed for each object 
 in the game.
  
  The storytelling is....*drools*.... to jampack all of that in just a small amount of time and space, 
 truly a Hideo Kojima piece of work.
  
  The visuals are the most pleasurable part while playing this wonderful game. Everything is so ridiculously 
 detailed, like it shouldn't be physically possible to achieve these kinda of visuals at such an 
 early stage of the next-gen era.
  
  The replayability of the game is also a biggy since they added the emblems, but once they add the 
 trophies (hopefully they do) than this game will turn into a 11/10 for me. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: theterminaters
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 10, 2008 7:38 pm PT
Review:  This game simply put is the most detailed well put together game I have ever played. In a world 
 that you get ripped off about 80% of the time this game is well worth the $60. This game will be 
 a milestone as far as graphics, stealth, and gameplay are concerned. After playing the game for 
 a few weeks a friend decided we should play GTA IV. I started to play it and the graphics looked 
 abysmal compared to Metal Gear Solid 4. Everything in that game is so fluid and to put it simply 
 it is a masterpiece. The online is fun and the storyline is the most complete and captivating I 
 have ever seen. When you play this game you're more involved in the plot than in a movie because 
 you actually control the character. This may sound corny but I was kind of moved at the end scene 
 when the game is finally completed. Overall an epic game and a must buy for the ps3. Deserves an 
 11 out of 10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GeoffZak
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 29, 2008 6:28 am PT
Review:  Story: 10/10: Too many cutscenes that are too long = bad? Not in my books. The story is the most 
 important part of a game. Without a story, I have to ask myself: "Why am I trying to kill these 
 guys?" When I skip a cutscene by accident I have to go back to find out what I missed. Anyway enough 
 about that, I don't want to spoil anything by going in depth with the story, but it's an interesting 
 one, it's complex but I always enjoyed watching the cutscenes. If you havent played previous Metal 
 Gears you might not understand some things. If you're like me and the story in a game is very important 
 to you, look up the history of the Metal Gear series on wikipedia or something. But the cutscenes 
 are very well done and cinematic with great voice acting, it's like watching a movie. And I guess 
 they thought at Konami: "If we're gonna make you sit through very long cutscenes, some over 30min 
 long, we'll add some interactivity to some of them." So you can do things sometimes like change 
 camera angles or look at flashbacks, I thought that was a cool addition.
  
  Graphics: 9/10: What else to say but great? There were some minor problems like the occasional 
 less detailed or blurry texture, but that's about the only problem with the graphics. Good textures, 
 but this game still doesn't have the best graphics you'll ever see.
  
  Gameplay: 9/10: It was fun. Sneaking around being stealthy and screwing around with enemies is 
 fun. Unlike other action shooters, the main purpose isn't to go into the battle scene guns blazing 
 shooting everything that moves. You're supposed to rarely use your guns and don't kill enemies 
 unless you have to. Metal Gear Solid 4 takes an interesting approach to the action shooter genre, 
 rather than just saying "Here are the enemies, kill them." it says something more like "Here are 
 the enemies, you might not want to kill them because taking sides isn't a good idea, instead try 
 to get around them, kill them if you have to." But this doesn't always apply. Metal Gear Online 
 takes the great gameplay of MGS4 and lets you use it online with friends. With Metal Gear Online, 
 you can be stealthy and take out your enemies strategically, or just rush in there guns blazing.
 
  
  Overall Metal Gear Solid 4 is a great shooter with stealth and strategy as major factors. And with 
 it's great story, I think it's well worth your money. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CHECKTHISTA
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 10, 2008 4:33 pm PT
Review:  (i rated it solid because of the name, other wise i would classify it BEST EVER)
  
  First of all, I'am a big fan of the MGS-Series, but i will try to make an objective review telling.
 
  
  For the fans:
  This is a MUST HAVE title every MGS-Fan MUST have! You'll see and meet all the characters in the 
 MGS-Series You didn't finished. 
  Also some new Faces... and a certain person that has been in EVERY single MGS since now ... besides 
 Snake
  (a little tip: he passes on his name to his son from generation to generation, you know who I mean)
 
  You also should try to get your hands on the limited edition which includes:
  -the games MGS4 and MGo
  -the original soundtrack
  -documentary of making MGS4 (blu-ray)
  
 And I got myself the Metal Gear Saga Vol.2 along with it.
  
  
  
  Objectively told:
  
  ++THE GOOD++
  -Outstanding grafics
  -Damn many weapons
  -Great story
  -Awesome way 
 of story telling
  -Everything is rendered in REAL TIME
  -Cool new technics (like the octo-camo)
  -After all the years, it still feels like a MGS game!
 
  -Many ways of playing the game (like a Rambo, or a Snake... or your way)
  -Real good smoke, lightning and water effects
  -Fluently game play
  -Easy controls, fast to 
 learn
  -Moments you will never forget!
  -Many unlock ables
  
  ++THE BAD++
  -Sometimes the A. I. of the enemy's is kinda dumb
  -The boss fights seemed too easy to me
  -There 
 so many weapons but you can only use 5 in the game, selected in the menu (like in MGS3)
  -Its hard to read all the subtitels if you don't understnad every single word in english
  -also 
 the translation from english to german is sometimes pretty bad
  
  
  After all, it's a game you can't get around if you owned a PlayStation 3.
  Old Snake still kicks 
 some ass! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Monkeybt93
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 10, 2008 11:36 am PT
Review:  I have played all of the Metal Gear Solid games to come out. I didn't like any of them as much 
 as I did this one. I felt as though, the other Metal Gear Solids revolved around their story and 
 brought nothing new to the table. I love a game that has an amazing storyline and I weigh that 
 heavily when reviewing, but I found that this series has a very complex storyline. I believe that 
 the addition of buying weapons and customizing them was a great move. One thing that bothered me 
 how he length of the cut-scenes in the game. I watched my clock in the middle of the game to see 
 how long the cut-scene lasted, and it went on for a half an hour. I could taken a shower and got 
 something to eat within that time. I guess every game has their ups and downs, but this game was 
 able to overcome with its ups. I think it is a great game, but not perfect. I found that this game 
 finished the series off in a great way, by bringing something new to the table. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: abashford
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 10, 2008 6:18 am PT
Review:  Really, with PlayStation Network, why do you have to go through all the hassle of setting up a 
 specific game account with Konami, which forces you to make not one, but TWO different user ids 
 and passwords. I have enough stuff to remember!! This is ridiculous!!
  
  Another major gaffe is the inability to disable cut scenes on your second play through. I know 
 there are some easter eggs in there, but I just want to blow stuff up!
  
  Those niggles aside, this game justifies all the high praise it gets. The creativity with which 
 you can dispatch opponents is incredible. HIGHLY ADDICTIVE! The close quarters combat is a very 
 cool part of the game, it would be nice if there were more opportunities to use it where it is 
 more effective than other methods. I find that silenced sniper rifle from long range keeps you 
 out of a lot of trouble that CQC can get you in to. But then again, I am a COW so what do I know? 
 :)
  
  Some day, when games will have to come with warning labels to describe how dangerously addictive 
 they are, this game will be a 'skull and crossbones'. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thedrugsman
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 10, 2008 5:01 am PT
Review:  it`s new game ... it`s not like other games it`s have new idea & story is strong you can play hours 
 after hours without feeling the time the good thing Kojima put everything he have to make this 
 game the best play ever :D the graphics AmaZing you got many options for playing it`s not for kidds 
 :P enjoy the game ....
  by the way you need to know the solid snake story in 1st & 2nd season to continuo the Stealth massion 
 !! also you need to get HD TV to can play this game without any proplem ..
  
  Sure if you buy this game i`m sure you stop every game you playing until you finish this game :) 
 or maybe you play it again & again sneaking massion you need becarefull with sneake don`t let guards 
 seen you if they catch you you well be in big proplem calling backup 1st thing they do then find 
 way to run & hide :)
  Good luck ... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: killaxsoldier
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 10, 2008 2:21 am PT
Review:  The story:
  
  This game was amazing for me and i really am happy to take the couple of days to watch all of the 
 cutscenes (MGS1,2) before i started playing this game. all of the cutscenes for ms1 and 2 ( i didnt 
 watch cutscenes from other mgs games cuz i thought these two were the most important) was about 
 10-20 hours (large gap because i forgot how long it really was) . Im glad i took the time to watch 
 the cutscenes because i was very new to the series and heard the story was EXTREMELY well built. 
 And i never regret that one bit. If you are new to the series and thought playign this game and 
 watching all the cutscenes would be fun and that you would get the story... youre' wrong. The game 
 is just a total different game if you have not played at least the first two in the series MGS1 
 and MGS2. To peoepl who have played the other games, This game's story will just be soo difficult 
 to discribe because its (and im under exagerating) is an absolute masterpeice.
  
  Gameplay:
  
  The gameplay i think is alot more better than the one that came before it. The 
 camra controls are alot more better and theres alot more features and hidden "easter eggs" as well; 
 giving it a surprisingly high replay value. Stealth mechanics in the game is phenominal and really 
 does stand on top of its genre! There are a big variety of guns to choose and unlockable guns as 
 well as costumes/disguises that are fun to unlock and wear to just simply fool around somtimes. 
 Theres even an Assassin's Creed costume (official) !. The enemy AI is awesome and they will do things 
 like surround you, rush you, walk carefully and slowly, and can even hear you moving around and 
 suspect things! you can use the Sixaxis to peek out or not while hiding in a dumpster, as well 
 was changing your Octocamo to the default colour if it looks ugly during a cutscene by shaking 
 the controller! There is also a boss fight that needs you to use your Sixaxis!
  
  Visuals: the visuals in this game is beutiful and the cutscenes are as visually breathtaking as 
 the graphics while playing the game (lack of better term) . There are alot of details on chracters 
 and enemies. The lighting in this game is very good and the way the OctoCamo changes colour according 
 to your surrondings is awesome.
  
  Online: the online is somthing new and really does add replay value to the game. If you are waiting 
 for Socom, you should buy this game as an appetizer untill Socom comes out. The gameplay online 
 is a little different from Socom, but its steathy as well. Not enough peoepl have mics in this 
 game though : /
  
  I rate this game a 9.5 instead of a 10 because its not as interesting to new comers and you cant 
 really blame them becase of how the story is told; you'll need to know what happens in the other 
 games as well! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Androvinus
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 9, 2008 6:36 pm PT
Review:  This game is too good to be true. 
  
  Story
  You cant count this games story as one story, all its predecessors add up to equal the best story 
 conceived by man. you will want to watch the long cutscenes again and again, you will even find 
 yourself memorizing every golden phrase spewed out by the main characters. The story presentation 
 is amazing. excellent motion capture combined with breathtaking fight scenes will always be in 
 your memory. These cutscene are also probably the best in any game. the story and the cutscene 
 quality are the best part of this game. one bad thing is nano machines. EVERYTHING is nanomachines. 
 (youll see)
  11 out of 10
  
  Graphics. 
  Simply stunning. the graphics are the best to touch a console, the only thing better is crysis (and 
 not by far ) . mgs 4 is gonna be the best console graphics for a while. you will be shocked to see 
 that video games have finally reached the quality of graphics that the CG cinematics have reached. 
 these graphics are even better than the CG for most other games. 
  10 out of 10
  
  Sound 
  Perfect. the voice overs are perfect and even above the usually great voice overs in 
 other games. Patrick Zimmerman ( he is so great I learned his real name) aka Liquid Ocelot's performance 
 is phenomenal and he shows that he is a psychopath and will let nothing stand in his way of achieving 
 his goal. the music for the battles and boss battles is amazing, the game even throws in an I-pod 
 for you to set your own mood.
  10 out of 10
  
  Gameplay
  the gameplay is classic mgs perfected. the gameplay works perfectly, there are no problems, no 
 one can take the control from you and not understand the controls, because they are damn easy. 
 they added so much more and yet made it so much easier. If you are a metal gear Veteran a quick 
 look at the instruction manual and the controls will feel familiar and simple. though the button 
 layout is almost completely revamped. Gameplay simply works
  10 out of 10
  
  Enjoyment.
  you will never want to stop playing this game. you beat it once, you beat it twice, 
 you beat it 16 times and its still awesome. the game is chalk full of easter eggs , unlockables 
 (69 weapons) , items, facecamos, difficulties, and you just want to collect them all. thats how 
 the game makes you feel. the other difficulty modes are a big challenge especially when you want 
 to go for the special unlockables for each level ( that includes no alerts, no kills, no recovery 
 items, under 6 hrs etc)
  the game is 20 hrs long with cinematics. 10hrs without. when you become a pro you can beat it in 
 5hrs easily. but the areas are huge and you cant help but explore, explore ,explore. Plus there 
 is metal gear online. this has done an excellent job of bringing the full metal gear experience 
 online. everything u can do in single player you can do online. however the online is not very 
 good because of huge unbalance. people of higher lvls will just grab u and just cut your throat 
 because they can and you cant (yet) . so its unbalance but its fun. very frustrating , but fun. updates 
 take forever to download but that ok. I'd give the online an 8. and the whole enjoyment category:
 
  10 out of 10
  
  Best series ever, wont appeal to everyone but who cares. If it doesnt appeal to you, then that 
 is sad and I hope you get well soon 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cguti91
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 9, 2008 6:14 pm PT
Review:  AWESOME, just the game I had expected and more, I'm really happy with the story and the graphics, 
 it just amazing, Just what I needed to make up my mind for PS3 it's simply one of the best in series, 
 great graphics and awesome story i LOVED every minute of it, dazzling game play and audio, you 
 fell as if you were shooting people and hiding in the shadows, it's definitely worth it, the music 
 is tight keeps the game ambience right, great, but heavy story and the multiplayer (online) will 
 have you playing four days!!! so buckle up for one of the best games ever, however also get ready 
 for a good number cinematic and storytelling, but don't worry the game play does not go to second 
 plane, the combination is just the right between the two and it WORKS!! You'll be at the edge of 
 your sit all the time no matter if you're playing or watching the cinematic. The story continues 
 perfectly were the last MGS left, now with Snake becoming old you'll have to adapt for every boss 
 and enemy that come your way, because as Snake's body stiffs, it'll be harder to move and shoot. 
 Because off all that and more MGS4 is an instant classic 
::::::

::::::
UserName: curtis342
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 9, 2008 5:10 pm PT
Review:  This game is amazing and will always stand out as a game worth playing. This is the first Metal 
 Gear Solid game I have bought and played in the series. I now want to go and buy all the games 
 before this game so i can fully be immersed in the epic story line spanning the life of Snake. 
 This game was good from beginning to end. The epic storyline, great battles, and amazing cutscenes 
 are what make this game beautiful. The fact that after i beat it and asked a friend how they beat 
 a part i had trouble on, and their response was different than how i beat the part made me want 
 to replay the game. The titles system as well as unlockable weapons, costumes, and other items 
 made me play this game more than once. i would definitely give this game a 10 out of 10 with a 
 high replay value. It looks good, plays good sounds good, and is a game i would recommend for any 
 avid gamer. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cutmaclass1
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 9, 2008 2:45 pm PT
Review:  By mid-June, the internet had placed Metal Gear Solid 4 in the video gaming hall of fame with the 
 likes of classics such as Nintendo's Ocarina of Time or Square's Final Fantasy VII. Not that I 
 take any stake in these fictional rankings; I'm only using them as a point of reference, simply 
 because there are those that believe in this hierarchy (I shall dub this belief G-Fourism) . I was 
 skeptical and taken aback to say the least because I, as a long time fan of the MGS series, was 
 certain that gaming journalism was permanently biased against the Metal Gear series since the second 
 installment, Sons of Liberty. Convinced that the general reaction to this game was, like Ocarina 
 of Time and FF7, a product of extensive marketing and the billing of the game as an example of 
 the PlayStation 3's forever evasive "true power", I decided to tackle it myself.
  
  Upon its arrival on the new system, Metal Gear's presentation underwent major surgery. All the 
 niches in the control scheme that defined the original trilogy (such as making the circle button 
 the 'OK' button and using the Square button to shoot) are out of the window. (And Kojima said, 
 "Thou shalt use the X button to progress and thou shalt use the Right Trigger to fire.") In addition, 
 instead of having all of your items and weapons readily accessible, you will now have to manage 
 your accessible inventory within the confines of a predetermined number of slots, meaning you can 
 have as many items as you want, but you're going to have to go through a couple of menus to make 
 it so that you can have real-time access to them. Also new is the Drebin Shop, which allows you 
 to spend points acquired by selling guns you already own and making special discoveries on new 
 guns and ammo. This makes it virtually impossible to "run out" of ammo, enhancing the action game 
 experience but diminishing the game's value as far as tactical play goes.
  
  The story structure has also changed drastically. MGS4 is episodic and consists of five acts that 
 take place in various regions around the world. The story has really changed in this respect; you'll 
 find that the new structure and scattered environments kind of antagonizes the implementation of 
 recurring characters and the stringing together of the events in question. The story itself has 
 less to do with the characters and more to do with the running of governments and the proliferation 
 of a war-based economy. The concept is as interesting as it has always been, it's just that the 
 general inaction of key characters leaves the player underwhelmed. There are exceptions (most notably 
 parts of the last few acts) , but for the most part the acts tend to go like this:
  
  Long video -  Long gameplay -  Short video -  Long Gameplay -  Short video -  Short gameplay (Usually 
 a Boss) -  Optional: Chase Scene that seems impossible to lose -  Very Long video
  
  Not so bad, eh? But considering the nature of the story, most of the videos tend to consist of 
 largely expository information that usually has to do with the series' past. Read: It's as interesting 
 as it sounds. Don't expect much to actually happen except for Snake to talk to strangely dilapidated 
 but gorgeously rendered characters from Metal Gear History.
  
  And that brings me around to graphics. The best way that I could describe this title's graphics 
 is to describe them as "Metal Gear Solid 3's, except on the PS3." Meaning that the character models 
 are absolutely beautiful, but you'll find that the surface textures are really awful-looking. Everything 
 looks great in action, but it's a little disappointing to see this flaw carried over into the new 
 game.
  
  After I finished MGS4, I sat down and thought about what I had accomplished, as really didn't feel 
 like much. I determined that the feeling was largely due to the last Act, during which I was never 
 discovered by the enemy. That might have been because there was only one area in which that could 
 happen. After that, there is a joke of a boss fight, a mixture of gameplay and cinema (Literally. 
 You'll watch a video on the top half of the screen and play the game on the bottom half. The last 
 boss fight is also half-cinema, but it's still great) , and two hours of cut-scenes. The end of 
 the story is generally satisfying with the exception of the indescribably unnecessary "Debriefing" 
 which -- with its revival of a long-dead character and monologue that makes zero (Did you see what 
 I did there?) sense -- really leaves a sour taste in the mouth. Even as an avid Metal Gear fan 
 (who should expect this kind of thing) , I was very much appalled at the manner in which gameplay 
 to the back seat to a merely moderately interesting story.
  
  But I digress, because there is a lot more content in the game than for what I am giving it credit. 
 There are loads of things to collect, customize, and explore, it's just that you'll rarely find 
 yourself obligated to do so. MGS4's gameplay experience is only going to be as interesting as you 
 choose to make it. Unfortunately, the game never requires the player to make it interesting. It's 
 impressive when a developer makes a game that revolves around a player's decisions, but not so 
 much when the game is also trying to tell an epic, linear story. That's pretty much all there is 
 to this game.
  
  The Bottom Line
  Buy It If You Are: A game collector, a Metal Gear fan, a Science-fiction fan, liberal, someone 
 who likes to create fun scenarios for themselves, a G-Fourist who wants to have "been there" to 
 see "this monumental event in gaming history"
  Just Play It If You Are: Someone who plays through games once and then trades them in
  Avoid 
 If You Are: Jobless, unknowing of the past Metal Gear titles 
::::::

::::::
UserName: topraman517
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 9, 2008 2:35 pm PT
Review:  Let's get the one bad thing about this game out of the way: the story. It may tie up all the loose 
 ends of the Metal Gear story, but it does so in the most irritating manner- through contrived plot 
 twists. I'm talking about plot twists so badly executed that they aren't shocking; instead they're 
 simply annoying. They're like bad jokes. Perhaps even worse, this game isn't content to only twist 
 the plot of MGS4. You'll never think of the previous games in the series the same way again. But 
 the worst part about these pathetic twists is that they often take away from the intensity and 
 emotion of the situation at hand. Let me give you an example (don't worry, no spoilers) :
  
  Person 1: Okay Snake, we need to get Person 2 transported safely in the van or we will fail our 
 mission.
  
  *ten minutes later, after a long arduous struggle, van is destroyed*
  
  Snake: NOOOOO!
  
  Person 1: Don't worry, that wasn't the real Person 2. The real one is on 
 a boat.
  
  Imagine something like that happening thirty more times in the game. There's always a ridiculous, 
 unbelievable explanation tied to every twist. It gets to the point that you yourself explain anything 
 you don't understand with all sorts of strange rationalizations. Remember the first MGS? Or even 
 MGS 3? Both games' stories worked so well because the plot twists were kept to a minimum. The plot 
 BUILT UP to the plot twists, making them both believable and shocking. The same can't be said about 
 MGS 2, but at least that game explored some truly thought-provoking themes and ideas. MGS 4 has 
 interesting themes, but it doesn't bother to explore them thoroughly.
  
  Of course, there are other problems with the story than the plot twists, namely the game's tendency 
 to go into over-exposition. There is no such thing as concise dialog in this game. However, this 
 is a problem that has plagued the MGS series since its inception, and frankly it doesn't bother 
 me at all. Now let's move on to the numerous good things about MGS4.
  
  Instead of diving straight into the gameplay, I would like to discuss the cutscenes first, since 
 they convey the story. The cutscenes make up for the story in spades. They truly are pre-rendered 
 quality, but they aren't pre-rendered at all with perhaps three exceptions. The people in this 
 game look exceptional, and convey emotion more realistically than I've ever seen in a game. In 
 particular, the little girl Sunny is perhaps the most human-like child in the history of video 
 games. She's adorable. Also, Snake's struggle as an old man saddled with the burden of saving the 
 world is conveyed brilliantly, and is genuinely touching. One moment that stood out to me in particular 
 is when Colonel Campbell essentially tells Snake "the fate of the world is in your hands," and 
 Snake looks completely helpless. As much as I dislike the plot of the game, I have to give high 
 praise to Hideo Kojima for making the main character not the typical young Rambo-style super soldier, 
 but a dying old man.
  
  The sound aspect of MGS 4 is perfect. The sound effects are what you would expect from a modern 
 warfare game, and the soundtrack is beautiful.
  
  Finally, the gameplay! Kept you waiting, huh? Well, prepare to do a lot of that in the game, as 
 this is a MGS tradition. The cutscenes are LONG, but they're so pretty you probably won't care 
 (codec conversations have been kept to a bare minimum in this iteration of MGS; no more "let's 
 switch to codec so no one will hear us") . The gameplay has been greatly revamped; it's very similar 
 to western shooters like Gears of War now. Despite this, Metal Gear veterans will be able to get 
 used to the controls quite easily. Those who've never played MGS 2 or 3, and those who don't play 
 shooters will have a much more difficult time getting used to the controls. What else can I say 
 about the gameplay? It's still Metal Gear. It's still about stealth, except now you'll often be 
 sneaking through battles between warring factions, instead of just sneaking through guards. In 
 one act (there are five) you'll even have the opportunity to ally up with a local militia against 
 the PMCs (Private Military Contractors) .
  
  Unfortunately, and this has been a problem since MGS 2, what partly kills the "stealth" gameplay 
 is the tranquilizer gun. It's just too good. It isn't so much about sneaking past people than it 
 is about tranquilizing them. It doesn't kill the fun necessarily, but it makes the number of tense 
 situations in the game very few (especially on easy and normal mode) , which is a shame. Another 
 gripe I have with the gameplay is that the boss battles are for the most part slightly disappointing. 
 The variety and creative-thinking of boss battles from previous MGS games are not found as much 
 here.
  
  Metal Gear fans, I don't need to tell you that you need to buy this game. To everyone else, make 
 sure you know what you're getting into. It is definitely an unforgettable experience, but it is 
 also an acquired taste 
::::::

::::::
UserName: haven_soldier
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 9, 2008 1:24 pm PT
Review:  People have been saying that MGS 4 is the best game on the ps3, well they are wrong, it is the 
 best game that has ever been released on any console, it trumps halo in the graphics and story 
 department, well let's begin, after queuing in Game for an hour, I got my copy of MGS 4 and Ran 
 Home, I started up the game, and MGS takes installing games to a new level, I have never wanted 
 to watch a game install before, more games should do that, well the first thing I notice are that 
 the visuals are absolutely stunning easily the best graphics of any game that I have ever seen, 
 I don't think you could even compare this game with another, The MGS series have been slated at 
 times for the lengthy cut scenes but I am so glad that Kojima hasn't changed this, the cut scenes 
 are moments of pure brilliance the likes of which can't be copied, I found that the cut scenes 
 were at times more entertaining than recent films that I have seen, shocks and plot twist gal our 
 and with all of the Kojima wit that MGS fans have come to love. The boss fights were always the 
 moments that everyone remembers from previous MGS games, fighting Liquid on top of Metal Gear Rex 
 was a defining moment in my gaming life, and the same applies to MGS 4, it has some of the most 
 entertaining moments I have ever experienced, Fighting Laughing Octopus was a thrill and the tension 
 when you had to search for her, anyway, if you decide to play the game without watching any of 
 the cut scenes you should be able to complete the game in 5-7 hours, but you really shouldn't, 
 the cut scenes are brilliant, with the cut scenes you are looking at 10-14 hours, but the extra 
 time was so worth it, I thought that GTA IV would be my favourite game for a long time to come 
 but MGS 4 has shot to the top of my list and if you have the money you should go out and buy yourself 
 a copy of the greatest game of all time and experience the joy 
::::::

::::::
UserName: solid_shark88
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 9, 2008 6:42 am PT
Review:  When I got my PS3 at the end of June, I had the choice to get this game or GTA4, since I loved 
 the original on my ps1 and mgs2 on my xbox, I thought sure why not? Since then I never looked back.
 
  
  Graphics (10/10)
  I played this game both on a SD and an HD Television and it was graphically rich on both. Obviously 
 it was better on HD.
  
  Gameplay (10/10)
  The controls were basic, yet took time to get used too, and as the game progressed, you had to 
 find ways to get through with minimal discovery to retain health as well as collect bonuses of 
 DP.
  
  Sound (10/10)
  With gunshots to weather effects, animal sounds and um, humans sounds to the cutscene movies you 
 are getting a pretty realistic game.
  
  Replay Value (10/10)
  Just like all MGS games, you will enjoy replaying it to get valuable things such as camo, the bandana, 
 big boss patch, assassin's patch, ipod songs, octocamo, facecamo and more. 
  
  Online Ability (8/10)
  With MGO and the downloadable content, you get a lot compared to other 
 games. When I played the MGS3 Online, it blew my mind. With MGS4, its the same thing but further 
 enhanced.
  
  Overall (48/50)
  My real rating is a 9.6 but I rounded it up.
  
  This game brings a whole hell of a lot new things to gamers. If you are new to MGS or have only 
 had a small taste of the series, I would reccommend this game. To those who have been there since 
 Metal Gear or Metal Gear Solid (maybe Snake's Revenge) , and played MGS3 online, you will throughly 
 enjoy this game. Viva Kojima! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jubino
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 8, 2008 9:19 pm PT
Review:  I know that this game was to be the be-all-end-all as far as PS3 games go, and don't get me wrong, 
 it is great, but after I finished I couldn't help but feel like it could've been done better. I 
 know that goes against what just about everyone has said about it, but I'm gonna tell it how it 
 is.
  
  Graphics: A+
  The best on the system, hands down. I've played many good games for both the PS3 and the Xbox 360, 
 and it stands amongst the best of them, so major kudos for that.
  
  Gameplay: A
  Couldn't really ask for much better I suppose. Given the genre and the games that have come before 
 it in the series, the controls run about as smoothly as you can hope for.
  
  Story: D
  Here's where I stop talking nice. The story laid out by the Metal Gear series is, to say the least, 
 a train wreck. I've played all of the Solid games (1, 2, 3, 4) , and I'm still left scratching my 
 head. I think that deep down there probably is a good story, but the creators have a horribly confusing 
 way conveying it. I've come to expect better from so-called "perfect 10's". Also, I praised the 
 gameplay earlier, but great gameplay doesn't matter when you NEVER GET TO PLAY. Seriously, I don't 
 have ADHD but I felt like I had to sit through 30 minutes of cutscenes for every 5-10 minutes of 
 gameplay. If I wanted to watch a spy movie, I would've rented Casino Royale. At least the story 
 makes sense.
  
  All things considered, it could be far worse. Once you get into the game, you can almost forgive 
 the horrible story altogether... almost. In fact, most people do, but I don't. If you ask me, the 
 story is one of THE most important factors to consider, and in my honest opinion, the story is 
 completely disappointing. Where's the substance? Anyone can tell you a story, but it's another 
 thing entirely to make you can about the events taking place and the characters involved.
  
  Final Verdict: A very SOLID* B
  
  *pun intended 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Zondergrod
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 8, 2008 9:07 pm PT
Review:  In my years of gaming few games have managed to impress me as well as this one. I for one have 
 never played the series prior to the fourth installment because it simply didn't seem like something 
 I would have enjoyed; but upon completing Old Snake's grand galavant I truly wish that I had. While 
 beneficial to fully enjoy all of the plot twists and exposition, playing the games that came before 
 is not entirely nessesary for I feel that it in no way diminished my experience. Sure there were 
 points where I was left scratching my head in confusion, but that was my own fault for jumping 
 in at the end of it all.
  
  While I'm on the subject, the storytelling was impeccable with my only gripe being that most of 
 the big revelations came a little too easily and a tad overdone. With that said however, not since 
 Xenosaga have I seen such a finely crafted epic.
  
  Gameplay was another thing that took my thumbs to new heights with three possible ways to complete 
 any given mission:
  A- Do it like you're supposed to and keep your nose to the ground.
  B- Blast everything back to the stone age.
  or C- You can just run like hell and hope for the 
 best!
  I personally chose B, after all I've got enough guns to stock the Chinese Army, so why not show 
 my foes my big ol' boomstick? Besides, with your very own arms dealer available at the click of 
 a button, it's not like you're ever going to run out of ammo. Every firefight was intense, every 
 1hp hide or die 
  situation was sweat inducing, and with a built in ipod you can rest assured that you will have 
 the perfect soundtrack to your bloody smackdown or quiet smoke by the creek.
  
  Metal Gear Solid 4 is a masterwork to say the least, one that I wish I could wipe from my memory 
 only to enjoy it to the maximum again. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DaGangstaDX
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 8, 2008 7:11 pm PT
Review:  Every Metal Gear Solid game has presented itself as a unique and an unforgettable adventure, and 
 the latest installment proves no different and even surpasses its predecessors in every possible 
 way.
  
  MGS 4 depicts the last chapter in the story of the courageous hero we`ve all come to know as Solid 
 Snake and his epic struggle to finally put an end to Liquid`s plans, the plot as expected is the 
 pinnacle of modern story telling, absolutely amazing and all the while it ties up all the loose 
 ends left behind by previous installments. Graphics wise MGS 4 is stunning, boasting the best visual 
 presentation to date, every part of the game is detailed beautifully down to even the smallest things. But 
 take hed it does not go without the rare, yet minor graphical glitches and the shadows could have 
 used a little more work but you might not even notice any of this while you blasting your way through. The 
 Game-play has been improved, the new over the shoulder view is one of the most significant changes, 
 making aiming much easier. Although Snake has aged, it doesn't mean he doesn't have any new tricks 
 up his sleeve, many new moves have been introduced including a few dodge functions to make life 
 a little easier, the octocamo is superb as well, instead of having to change between suits like 
 in MGS 3 the suit naturally mimics the texture and colour of the area your next to, the arsenal 
 too has increased significantly, from pistols up until a futuristic rail gun and almost all weapons 
 can be customized to suit the player`s needs. The audio is equally amazing, everything is just right 
 and the sound track is probably going to be one of the best you've ever heard in a video game. Along 
 with the single player mode and extras, you also have Metal Gear Online, where you can customize 
 a character of your own and join up with other players in a wide range of online battles.
  
  Add all this up and youve got quite an Impressive package, but all in all MGS 4 is not for 
 everyone, it is heavily story driven which might frustrate players with the game`s lengthy cuts-scenes (which 
 can be skipped) , newly introduced players to the game might have a hard time understanding the 
 story due to not having played the previous Metal Gear games. It can also become quite graphic in 
 some parts with lots of blood, executions etc. But one cannot deny that MGS 4 is an outstanding 
 game and a strong candidate to become game of the year 2008. Kojima productions have certainly outdone 
 themselves.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: FF6fan
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 8, 2008 6:29 pm PT
Review:  When you first start MGS4, it is purely mindblowing from the graphics to the sound. If you've played 
 MGS since the original MGS or even Metal Gear on NES then you'll probably just sit there and be 
 amazed by the detail of the enviroment. 
  While you all know that it continues about 5 years after the MGS2 left off. Snake, thanks to a defect 
 in his cells (from cloning) , has aged quite a bit since we last saw him. He has an aching back and 
 grey hair. All that while his brother Liquid has taken over Ocelots body and mind. Now Liquid Ocelot 
 has taken over a PMC (private military company) and is threatening the world yet again. While this 
 time he wants to replace the Patriots as the controlling being. There are several twists and turns 
 in this story as you can imagine. Returning friends from Meryl to Rose to Colonel Campbell and 
 a returning villian Vamp.
  Gameplay (9.7/10)
  The gameplay is probably one of the strongest points in this game. Though the controls take awhile 
 to get used to. You'll probably play through the game about 2-3 times before you actually get the 
 full sense of the controls. But once you do its fun as hell. Yes there are minor defaults in the 
 gameplay but overall its pretty stunning.
  Story (10/10)
  Metal Gear Solid has probably the most immersive storylines in the gaming business. Probably up 
 to the caliber of the Star Wars movies. Everything feels so real and the tone is consistent all 
 through the game and series. Kojima doesn't over do it with the serious tone, he adds small minute 
 details in which add a sort of comedy to the game. The story is mainly played out in cut-scenes 
 which make up about 8 hours of the game (if you don't skip them) . 
  Sound/Music (10/10)
  The sound in this game is purely insane. When you start the game and explosions are going off all 
 around you. The sound just amazes you, you actually feel as if there is some sort of urgency to 
 get to the next area. The voice-acting, as always, is perfect. The music truly sets the tone greatly 
 throughout the game. There's a part of the game in which you have to button mash and the music 
 is truly just amazing. 
  Overall (10/10)
  While this game is part of the MGS series, it can really stand on its own. The Metal Gear Solid 
 series is one of the greatest game series ever created. Kojima has done a perfect job on his games 
 for the past 20 years and he deserves not only a break from MGS but also a 10/10 score for his 
 masterpiece. No other game series has been so consistent.
  
  While MGS4 is not a perfect game (nothing is) , it comes as close to perfect as any game can hope 
 to become. Its not only the greatest game on the PS3 but also one of the greatest games this generation. 
 When all the hype has settled this series will stand as one of the greatest series ever made. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bungie-vs-ID
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 8, 2008 4:54 pm PT
Review:  mgs4 is one of those games that continues the same game play as all the other metal gear solid 
 games but with some extra top qualities. The game has reasons after reason to go back on the game 
 and complete it again. If people rate this game less than 9.0 they aren't worthy to play the game! If 
 I had to complain about one thing about this game it is that the cutscenes are way to long and 
 if you haven't played the other series its really easy to get lost in the storyline. It tells you 
 about all the little things you might not of understand about your other games including how solid 
 snake was born and what exactly is foxdie? It involves a storyline going across the globe and you 
 meet new characters and some old characters. so altoghter its a excelent game.
  I don't no what else to put so . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
  
  MGS4 IS HIGHLY 
 RECOMMENDED. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nova_Beetle
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 8, 2008 2:14 pm PT
Review:  Solid Snake returns to the next gen consoles with a whole new bag of tricks. With the aid of a 
 number of allies you now have a better perspective of the saga without having to ask your friends, 
 "What is FOXDIE?"
  
  The Goods....
  
  MGS4 has become an advanced version of its former self with an array of different ways to be caught/sneaky. 
 Those that knew the series before the PS3 will be in for a surprise as the enemies are plentiful 
 and are far smarter than thier predecessors. Knocking over debris can result in being spotted, 
 while on your way through an excellent journey to answer those questions unanswered. With 30+ weapons 
 and enough hidden goodies to keep any fan busy, your objective is no longer of the "run and gun" 
 but to trully become Snake. Mix that with beautiful cinematics and enough plot twists to make M. 
 Night Shyamalan wet himself, you will not be dissapointed.
  
  The Bads....
  
  Due to the content and info provided in the game, you will find that 75% of the game consists of 
 movies and said plot twists. At some points you will have wished you could fight in a scene where 
 Snake simply does the work for you. The gameplay/cinematic ratio is at about 2/8 and this leads 
 to serious frustration. For a game that endorses espionage, you will notice that much of the weapons 
 offered are lethal and one of the hardest modes simply does not offer non-leathal weaponry. Some 
 of the plot tends to become convoluted and unnecessary and had myself skipping scenes, only to 
 find out it was a 15 minute recap of the Shadow Moses incident. much like any MGS game, after the 
 first time beating it, you will will spend up to five hours on the next. After that, who knows, 
 maybe even in one sitting.
  
  
  Overall...
  
  MGS fans have no choice but to find a way to obtain this game. if not for the gameplay, you simply 
 must gain closure to the saga thus far.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: iQuaKe
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 8, 2008 11:52 am PT
Review:  I managed to play mgs4 this last weekend at a friends house and i must say, this is one hell of 
 a game. The graphics are pretty good on todays standards, but the gameplay is what really counts. 
 It plays so much smoother than the previous mgs. The boss fights are intense, the ai is actually 
 smart, and the technology as far as weapons and gadgets are amazing. My only real complaint is 
 the length of the game. for taking so long to create, you'd think there would be more than 6 hours 
 of actual gameplay. Im pretty hardcore when it comes to shooter so I prolly flew through it faster 
 than most but still, there was way more "should have not been included cutscene" than the game 
 needed. Other than that, its a great game and if i owned a ps3, would play again over and over 
 to make up for the length. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gh0sthunter
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 27, 2008 6:11 pm PT
Review:  This is my first PS3 game, and my first 10, as well. This is not "hype", it would be sad if this 
 game got below a 9.0.
  
  Now, let me start with the gameplay:
  
  I haven't played any MGS games before, so in the beginning the game was really hard. But I got 
 used to it and got addicted to it as well. I keep reading reviews that gave it a 3.0 or below, 
 and every one of them say: "oh, this game sucks because it has too many cutscenes and they're boring". 
 Well, first of all, it's not boring. That's what kept me wanting to play the game! What's a game 
 without cutscenes? Second of all, the cutscenes are interactive, like sometimes a little X in the 
 right corner of your screen pops up and when you press it there's a flashback, and when you press 
 UP on the D-Pad the camera zooms in and... well, you get the idea.
  Also, there are incredible boss battles. When you first play it, you probably won't have any problems 
 with the first boss. (Overall there are five in the game: WARNING: MAY CONTAIN SPOILERS!
  
  1. Laughing Octopus
  2. Raging Raven
  3. Crying Wolf
  4. Vamp
  5. Screaming Mantis
  
 
  There are also a couple of fast paced vehicle missions as well. There's one where you have to 
 shoot "Gecko" and brain dead people, (zombies) from a car (which has a mounted machine gun) . One 
 on a motorcycle, with a submachine gun. And one where you control this BIG robot called Rex. (There's 
 also a boss fight after that, but I don't want to spoil it for you) .
  
  Overall, the gameplay is G R E A T ! Exciting gameplay is what makes this game PERFECT. Because 
 of the cutscenes, that's what makes you keep going.
  (Don't want to spoil anything, but the last level is probably the best level. Oh, and be prepared 
 for a 60 minute cutscene at the end) .
  Oh, before I forget, there's a bunch of UNLOCKABLES which make this game have a LOT of replay value.
 
  
  Now the sound:
  
  The game has a lot of cool sound effects, like when shooting a gun it sounds real, and the controller 
 rumbles a lot. (DUALSHOCK 3)
  Also the soundtrack is phenomenal. One of the best soundtracks ever heard in the game. You can 
 also pick up an I-Pod and choose a song from previous MGS games to play in the background. (I like 
 the original Metal Gear Solid song) .
  
  The graphics:
  
  The graphics in this game are better than on my PC, I swear to god. Also, I have a component cable, 
 since my TV can't support HDMI and 1080i/1080p, and I'm playing on 720p. Trust me, that's enough 
 to see the unbelievable graphics. There are no glitches I've seen yet, so so far the graphics are 
 P E R F E C T!
  
  And now, the Multi-Player. (Metal Gear Online) .
  
  After you beat the game, there's Metal Gear Online. You have to install that, too. The only problem 
 is downloading the updates, because the BitTorrent way of downloading is slower than downloading 
 it from a server. (Maybe because that port's not open) .
  Anyways, there's a dozen modes too choose from, you can even create your own character, his voice, 
 it's great.
  The game does not lag for me, it's perfect, except on one level, which is probably a glitch. There's 
 also this handy feature never seen before in a multiplayer game: SOP (Sons Of The Patriots) , when 
 you press TRIANGLE close to a player, you see the player, who's attacking him/her, so that's great, 
 too! You can also set your skills like Runner skill, to make you run faster. You have to level 
 up for that though, which is easy, just keep running everwhere.
  You can even choose for which song to play in the background. (Again, I usually play the original 
 Metal Gear Solid song) .
  The only problem with the skills, is they take up slots. You have 4 slots, most skills on level 
 3 take up 3/4 slots, so you have to be really careful on what you combine. This is the only BIG 
 issue for me.
  
  Finally, this game will be rembered as one of the best games of the year! If you have $60.00, don't 
 waste it on a bad game, waste it on a PERFECT game.
  
  Gameplay: 10/10
  Graphics: 10/10
  Sound: 10/10
  Value: 10/10 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Zakuhray
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 8, 2008 9:00 am PT
Review:  I recently rented this game and found myself saying up a full night and day playing it. I beat 
 the game 5 times and acheived the Big Boss Emblem.. can u say? Addiction... I will definetly be 
 stealing or purchasing this game in the near future! My favorite part about the game was using 
 all of old snake's stealthy espionouge tactics (crawling, octocamo, MK.2 and 3, ect.) this game 
 hit the nail on the head and set the standard for all sneaking games. Everything was detailed right 
 down to the CQC. My favorite battle is either against Crying Wolf or the Rex vs Ray robot battle. 
 Crying Wolf because i found this to be the most difficult boss battle in the game and couldn't 
 do it without hiding under the truck for and hour. Rex vs Ray because the graphics in this battle 
 were stunning and it was a good breather from normal Snake against Psyco chick fight. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: themm
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 7, 2008 6:40 pm PT
Review:  I really have nothing bad to say about this game except that it's short and it ends. Most of my 
 love for this game is focused on the great graphics, great game play, great movie like storytelling 
 and the wrap up of all the mysteries from previous games. This really is a perfect game. If only 
 it was longer. Like 3 or 2 or 1 or just long in general. It's great though cuz you can replay it 
 to collect the medals and stuff. It was has a great multiplayer experience and if you don't want 
 to replay the game or just looking to fill the void in your gaming life, play that. I got addicted 
 and you will too. Buy this game cuz you'll love it whether or not you played the previous games.
 
  
  
  
  Oh and this game is the first to make me shed a tear and choke up. Raiden, Snake, Naomi, and the 
 end (not the fact that it ends but what happens in the end) . This game was great all these years 
 and this just makes a big climax of greatness. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ZenesisX
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 7, 2008 5:46 pm PT
Review:  This review is a from a point of view of a gamer who has only played MGS1 and MGS3, let it be known, 
 im not a fan of the series, could never get into gameplay, and i never beat a single game from 
 the series.......... until now. MGS4 changed all that for me.
  
  Story: Now this was hard to understand, considering i never really got far in any of the previous 
 games and in MGS4 it covers the story of the entire franchise from MGS1-3. From what i gather its 
 about Solid Snake or rather referred to as Old Snake in this game cause of his accelerated aging 
 from being nothing but a clone for war. Snake is sent on one last mission to take out Liquid Ocelot. 
 Even though this game is a continue point of the last few games, the world that surrounds apparently 
 changed alot since then. Now set in the year 2014, the world is controlled under the influence 
 of Nanotechnolgy. War has changed alot, this new technology has introduced a new form of war, proxy 
 wars. The main antagonist in this game is of course Liquid, who goal is to launch an armed insurrection 
 by taking control of "Sons of the Patriots" (SOP) a nanomachine system that private military companies 
 (PMCs) use. The storyline is quite compelling that will have Snake traveling all over the world 
 and also visiting familiar places such as the Shadow Moses Island. As i said before yes the storyline 
 can be hard to understand at times unless you are a fan of the series but this game does a good 
 enough job to explain most of the things you may not have known if your new to the series.
  
  Gameplay: the gameplay in MGS4 is quite innovative to say the least. It is a stealth action 
 game but MGS does so much more with the gameplay than just that. This game has elements from all 
 over the place that will keep gamers interested. It keeps you entertained with all its different 
 sorts of gameplay, for example, you may go on car escapes, robot battles, hand to hand fights, 
 and shoot outs. you aren't stuck with one type of gaming style in this game which makes it so great, 
 you never feel like your just doing the same thing over again in each level. to keep gameplay even 
 more fresh, Snake has an array of gadgets which he will have throughout his journey. Introducing 
 a new gadget, the Octocamo suit, a new form of technology in the camouflage section which allows 
 snake to take the form of his environment allowing for better cover and protection. Another gadget 
 is the Solid eye which basically takes the job of all those old binoculars snake use to use in 
 all the previous installments. Also added to his gadget arsenal is a small robot partner known 
 as the Metal Gear Mk. II/III. Don't worry, these are just a few things he will have, there are 
 dozens of weapons that will be available to you all the way from pistols to grenades to rifles 
 to grenade launchers to missile launchers you name it, its there. All these types of weapons will 
 keep gameplay fresh and satisfying. I also noticed that in this game, CGC or Close Quarter Combat 
 is more refined making combat much better and easier to do.
  
  Graphics: What can I say, this game not only excels in gameplay but also in graphics. All of the 
 places are nicely rendered. Battlefields look like well battlefields, Not only are the environments 
 you fight in look great but the characters look great fighting in them. Just look at snake for 
 example you can see those wrinkles from a mile away, well done on this part of the game. Cutscenes 
 only complement all of this with its character designs in 3-d. Very impressive in all aspects of 
 the game.
  
  Sound: to put it simply, fantastic. The sound is vibrant as ever, in game music fits the game perfectly. 
 To top it all off, MGS4 has music from all of the previous games which im sure fans will love aswell 
 as new ones. I was surprised at how much music was implemented into it. Even people who aren't 
 familiar with the game should be satisfied, like me. No problems in this are either.
  
  Value: the value in this game is extremely high, it has high replay value with a lot of unlockable 
 things that will force you to playing the game all over again, if it's to unlock more music and 
 items or just the fact that you want to play through this innovative game all over again. Fans 
 and newcomers alike will enjoy this game.
  
  Overall this game will not disappoint. I was skeptical at first and was even hesitant about getting 
 this game cause of past experiences with the franchise but I rather enjoyed this installment as 
 many others have. If you weren't sure why to get a PS3, this is one good reason to get one now. 
 New to the series? You may not be a fan of the series, I knew I wasn't but like me, you'll be drawn 
 in to it with all of its innovations. I recommend this game to anyone one who wants to play a game 
 that is actually fun and doesn't lack in any area like many games I have played before had. It's 
 definitely a buy if nothing else. Im proud to have been able to play this game a beat it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gearfofo
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 7, 2008 4:53 pm PT
Review:  This game is the greatest game in PlayStation 3 out there for me. You get into it really quick. 
 The ability to buy and customize your weapons is really awesome. Has a wonderful ending that really 
 emphasizes the other metal gear solid games. In-game is fabulous because of all the things you 
 can do. For example, the camouflage suit is a huge feature and using CQC to beat people up is really 
 fun. Also on-line playing can be really fun when you play with your friends, because you can form 
 your own tactics to win. The graphics in this game also excel. The characters' faces look very real 
 and the environment is really beautiful. When I finished this game I really felt pleased with the 
 results and the way of ending such a wonderful saga. You really get into the character of Snake, 
 because of all the cool things you can do like sneaking behind enemies, kill the with cool weapons 
 and interact with other characters. The cut scenes are long but they are worth watching, if you 
 don't see them you will be missing a lot. Overall I think this game deserves an easy 10 and it's 
 a must have for PlayStation 3. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Never_So
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 7, 2008 1:47 pm PT
Review:  This is my third PS3 game and the first Metal Gear Solid game I've played, and I knew like only 
 one of the characters. Snake. (Obviously) I find the game sort of hard to understand at times, 
 but I love games with twists and turns. The game as ALOT of cinematics but they can hold some pretty 
 sweet stuff. The game is just to awesome to describe in my opinion. But that's because It's too 
 freakin' awesome!!! The graphics are outstanding and the weapon variety and customization is unbeatable. 
 I'm hoping that this game becomes the game of the year!!! I don't find this game as much as a stealth 
 game from what I was told, but that didn't stop me from enjoying every second of it. I don't wanna 
 wreak the excitement of the game but all I'm gonna say is that htis game is the best PS3 game that 
 I have played yet!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CrazedColombian
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 7, 2008 9:04 am PT
Review:  This game is perfect and a great way to end the series.... (tho I really doubt it) 
  It makes Konami way to much money to do that
  
  This game has probably the best graphics I 
 have ever seen and an amazing story. This is the problem for some. I am a huge metal gear fan and 
 like RPGs and this game sometimes will feel like your playing a role playing game in the sense 
 that you play for 10 minutes and then there is a 15-30 minute cut scene. I loved the cutscene and 
 think that it tells the game very well but again this is a shooting game not final fantasy so some 
 people might not like that.
  
  The game take 20-30 hours the 1st time depending how fast you go and taking into account you watch 
 all the movies. It has alot of unlockables that gives the game alot of replay value but if you 
 skip all the movies, know how to beat bosses and where to go I say you can beat it under 5-6 hours..... 
 really speeding threw it you can do it in under 3 (I do)
  
  There are alot of ways to do different things but for the most part this is the exact gameplay 
 you had in Metal Gear 3 with a few things added to it like gun customization and a few more crawling 
 options.
  
  Metal Gear tho is a game that you need to like a good story or its going to be annoying..... and 
 you can play it like you want.
  
  If you want to be Rambo and just Run and GUn ... you can do that depending on how hard you have 
 it set.
  
  or you can be batman and just stay in the shadows and not kill any one.... its up to you which 
 makes the game great 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TrafikEd
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 7, 2008 4:09 am PT
Review:  Note: The purpose of this review is for people wanting to know what's the buzz with MGS4 but all 
 the reviews already out there are criminally biased and do not constitute what a review is. Games 
 do not deserve a 10 for being perfect when they aren't, and they don't deserve a 6 for being a 
 genre the reviewer doesn't like, or for not being the reviewers idea of his dream game. Whenever 
 a game gets a high score by Gamespot, the Player Reviewers always expect that game to play just 
 the way they want them to, and lower the score significantly when they don't. A review judges a 
 game for what it is, not what you want it to be. Now that's out of the way, let us continue. 
 
  
  Metal Gear Solid 4 is an outstanding Stealth/Action game for the Playstation 3. Let's just start 
 there. It is brilliant in Gameplay, Graphics, Sound and Replay Value, although it does not receive 
 a 10 from me because technically the game is not 'Perfect'.
  
  The game follows the ever continuing story of Solid Snake, old mercenary out for Liquid Ocelot's 
 blood. In each level (Called 'Acts') you are given an objective which mostly will consist of getting 
 to where you need to go. In between each Act is a briefing so you know what you are doing, and 
 then you are sent off. The places in the game range from the Middle East to South America, from 
 East Europe to a certain snowy place that will bring bouts of nostalgia to old-time MGS players. 
 The envrionments are well detailed, but a little bland in their design and you'll start to see 
 places that looked just like the area you just left, plus a hill or a new colour. The texturing 
 is fine, and does a good job of conveying other things, like the heat of the middle east or the 
 humidity of South America.
  
  The process of going about these environments is up to you. It's a subtle form of variety in the 
 game, but you can approach any situation in the game a number of different ways. Using the 3rd 
 person Over the Shoulder View, you sneak around, trying to avoid enemy contact and taking out anyone 
 who bothers you. You may switch to First-person view with any gun, and may move around like this 
 too (A new addition) . Many people say the emphasis on stealth has moved to action, and that there 
 is way too much action in the game, but this is just a sign that, uh, you suck at sneaking, to 
 put it bluntly. I have been through the game with No Kills and No Alerts and can safely say you 
 can choose the amount of sneakiness or shootiness you want to use.
  
  In the event you are seen by the enemy, The game goes on Alert Phase and backup is called to your 
 position. From here, you can shoot down all the backup until the enemy runs out of reinforcements, 
 or go hide and wait for them to give up searching for you. Your health in the game is rather important, 
 as dying will send you back to the start of the area (Or last save point, if you're playing for 
 No Continues!)
  
  Health is recovered by items of food like Hot Noodles, Energy drinks and the old favourite, Rations. 
 These items can be found, or taken from enemies using the CQC (Close-Quarters-Combat) System. The 
 CQC in the game is simple but diverse, and with the flick of an analog stick you can throw an enemy 
 to the ground, simple as that. Guns can also be taken this way, but enemy guns are ID locked until 
 you get the oppertunity to unlock them at an early stage in the game. This is the first MGS game 
 to incorporate a 'money' system, with you receiving 'Drebin Points' (The games' currency) for picking 
 up and selling weapons you already have. This selling is done automatically, and you may buy things 
 at any time using the pause menu.
  
  The music in the game is mostly epic orchestral pieces and although they do suit the game, they 
 are very different sounding from any other MGS game and the classic 5-note MGS riff you should 
 be used to hearing in MGS games is nowhere to be heard. Even the classic Game Over tune is gone. 
 (Except in Act 4. You'll understand why it's played there when you play the game.)
  
  A very controversial subject is the story. Personally, I love it, but that wouldn't be very review-like 
 to leave it at that, so I'll point out a few things. The story IS VERY COMPLEX. I can not state 
 that enough. If you have never played an MGS game or are a little slow, you'll be confused. Very, 
 very confused. It is a very intense story though, with shocking plot twist and shocking plot twist 
 coming through by the bucket load. It isn't just shoved down your throat, it has your stomach removed 
 and the contents of the story pumped in via machine. If you are not looking for a game that revolves 
 around a story, stop reading this review and go play Rugby or something. Alot of people think that 
 this makes this a bad game, but it's like watching a drama series on television and claiming it 
 terrible because it had drama and you were looking for a horror.
  
  Replay Value is enourmous. You earn 'emblems' when you finish the game depending on what you did. 
 They come in demerit (+600 (?) kills) , merit (+100 (?) Knockouts) and Super awesome cool merits (Ahh, 
 the Big Boss emblem... No kills, No alerts, No continues, under 5 hours, No healing items, no special 
 items, and all on Extreme, the hardest difficulty. I'll finish it one day.) Trying to get all the 
 emblems will prove extremely time consuming. Some Emblems award prizes, while others are for the 
 acheivement factor.
  
  One last note- The load times. They are horrible. In between each Act you must sit through a 5 
 or so minute installation. Not only that, but it deletes the installed files after leaving the 
 act, so if you do the game again or load an earlier save file, prepare to install again.
  
  This game, for what it is, is an extremely good game. It's heavy story and unique gameplay make 
 it not everyone's cup of tea, and if you're looking for a quick FPS ala COD4 you should not even 
 think about MGS4. But if you're looking for a game that sucks you in with it's great narration 
 and epic moments, go crazy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NailBail
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 6, 2008 2:58 pm PT
Review:  So the final game in the Metal Gear Solid series has finally made it to consumers everywhere, and 
 it's one of the best tactical shooters and one of the most epic games I've ever played, even if 
 the actual game is a tad short.
  
  First Impressions: The production value of this game is through the roof! Just telling from the 
 opening of the game shows that your in for one hell of a ride, and that the game is very focused 
 on giving epic cutscene after epic cutscene. Gameplay wise, I found that the controls were a bit 
 complex at first, but eventually got the hang of it.
  
  Story: Not spoiling anything here, the story is anything that you would expect from a Metal Gear 
 game: strange, epic, and will leave your head spinning, all in a good way. Granted, the cutscenes 
 tend to go longer than needed, sometimes going pass the hour mark, though you can choose to skip 
 them if you wish. The story does get so bizarre that at some point you'll say "Huh?" at least once, 
 and it can be overwhelming at times with everything going on. The codec also makes a return, and 
 gives you info on the current situation and advice on the battlefield. Needless to say, I was very 
 satisfied with the way the game ended, and I think most would agree.
  
  Art Direction: The game looks spectacular, from the textures, the lighting, and variety of locations 
 keeps the game fresh and a marvel to look at. Mentioning the cutscenes again, they are blockbuster 
 movie worthy, and you'll be tempted to make some popcorn and watch the flick, after only realizing 
 "Wait a minute, this is a video game!"
  
  Sound: The music is top notch, bringing back soundtracks from the previous games, as well as adding 
 a bunch of classic new scores . The voice acting is second to none, with each actor giving their 
 best performances yet.
  
  Replayability: Even though the game itself is short (most should complete it in 10 hours, not counting 
 cutscenes) , with many difficulty levels, unlockable items, emblems, ways to play, and online, there's 
 a fair bit to do in MGS 4.
  
  Overall: While the story may be confusing, and the cutscenes are longer than an average movie, 
 there's no denying you'll get a kick out of Guns of the Patriots. Whether you want to play guns 
 a blazin or sneaking around a base, because you'll be able to do either. It's hard to find flaws 
 in the game, and overall this is one epic movie/game you don't want to miss. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ratchet20751
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 6, 2008 1:18 pm PT
Review:  Mkay, MGS4 is just too long, normally I don't have a problem with long games, that means you just 
 get more for the money. Not only did I get more than I expected, I got more than I wanted, It took 
 me 45 playing hours to finish the story in a span of two weeks.
  
  The graphics are great, some of the best I've ever seen... and that's all I have to say about that.
 
  
  The story is ridiculous and the writing is stupid, but MGS has always been that way and that's 
 what made the series.
  
  The cutscenes, while well done and are of movie quality, are what I call "TOO FU*KING LONG." I 
 timed how long it took from when I hit the start button to when I finally got to control Snake; 
 22 cocking minutes. I honestly don't know what drove me to finish this game; the gameplay is repetitive, 
 the enemy has a bad case of the dumbasses, but there was something there. It's still a great game. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: steve-m92
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 6, 2008 9:03 am PT
Review:  In terms of creating the perfect atmosphere and using storytelling techniques to bring the gameplay 
 alive, MGS4 is the best and probably will stay the best for a very long time. The splinter cell 
 like gameplay is very good in itself, but it wouldn't be worth half as much without the story to 
 back it up.
  
  MGS4 is much different from its predecessors although includes some old memories for veterans of 
 the series for previous instalments in flashbacks dated all the way back to the first Metal Gear 
 game (bearing in mind that this series is over 20 years old!) .
  
  One major difference is the combat mode, for those that played previous Metal Gear Solids it is 
 easy to notice that the gameplay is much more combat oriented rather than just having to sneak 
 round. This is no bad thing as those who prefer the sneaking around can do so, its just good that 
 both options are there to support different playing styles. There is a vast selection of weapons 
 available from small side arms to automatic rifles to rocket launchers and powerful energy weapons 
 (one of which is the rail gun, my favourite for taking down big foes) . There are also new gadgets 
 to use like the MK 2 (a small robot scout) , the solid eye, which fills you in with mission details 
 and enables you to view the large scale map, and the octo-cam which blends in with the surrounding 
 colour and texture of the environment around you, allowing you to become practically invisible 
 when lying down.
  
  The storyline is what you will have to pay attention to most, with various events that really are 
 a testament to the quality of animation, especially during the cutscenes, which can be breathtaking 
 to watch. I have watched films that don't even come close to accomplishing what MGS4 has, that 
 is, a well told story which is completely immersive and really sucks you in to the world you are 
 watching, and can become addictive. I would probably say that one problem with this is that that 
 the whole story can be heavy handed and a little baffling at times, but well worth watching. The 
 multiplayer is worth exploring too, pitting super spies against one another.
  
  MGS4 is the pinnacle of dramatic and compelling storytelling, with impressive, entertaining gameplay 
 to boot including a lot of attention to detail, there is nothing not to like. This game was well 
 worth the wait and will always keep you on your toes, without having to push a button. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: football_legend
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 6, 2008 12:25 am PT
Review:  It's hard to believe, for a franchise running for over 20 years, so many innovations and controversial 
 changes have made its way, but.. it only grew and grew and became the grand daddy of AAA games. 
 Metal Gear Solid series have gone through dramatic changes since it's debuted in 1988 as "Metal 
 Gear". Back then, it was the first game of its kind, in introduced a new element to the gaming 
 worldStealth. Yep you might say that, if it weren't for Hideo and his Foxhound team, Sam Fisher 
 wouldn't have been lurking in the shadows and snapping necks to this day. If I dive into MGS 4, 
 let me give brief intro of MGS franchise; when I say brief, I meant compared to the amount of things 
 you can talk about in MGS. You might notice that I hardly talk about the story, it's simply because 
 it's probably the best thing about the franchise, and I don't want to ruin the experience for anyone.
 
  
  
  The majority of the games in the franchise (except 1 in particular) made you play as a Stealth 
 Operative, Solid Snake- The Clone of the legendary soldier, at one time called as Naked Snake, 
 but now known as The Big Boss. The game started its life as 2D game, even then the franchise made 
 a good name for it. But not until 1998, things really started, when Metal Gear turned into Metal 
 Gear Solid; by making a huge jump from 2D action to 3D cinematic experience on the original PlayStation 
 system. Because of new found processing power, Mr. Kojima was able to unleash his vision to some 
 extent. The game comprised of cut scenes which were awesome in both length and quality, had fantastic 
 original score to go with it, the story was way above anything released in that era and the stealth 
 game play we came to know and love are all intact and made a fantastic transition. To many of us, 
 this was the actual "start" of the franchise. Metal Gear Solid is considered one of the two best 
 games of that system.
  It wasn't long until the sequel came in, called MGS 2: Sons of Liberty. It was on the PS2 system, 
 and the bump is visual quality was really apparent. The game took all the stuff which made MGS 
 awesome, polished it and added more to the mix, end result was an awesome experience. The story 
 was made even more complex than MGS, but to those who actually paid attention to the codecs and 
 cut scenes, were rewarded with a thrilling narrative. The only blemish of 2 was the fact that during 
 some point in the game, you had to play as a different character other than Snake, which was not 
 appreciated by the fans, also not me. But the good news is the two other games that followed didn't 
 make the same mistake.
  
  
  In 2004 came Metal Gear Solid 3: Snake Eater. It was a game with a big twist, instead of moving 
 forward with the franchise, it was moved way back, in fact chronologically speaking it's the 1st 
 game of the series. You played as Naked Snake (Who later became Big Boss) , is the "father" of Solid 
 Snake of the previous two games. Set in 1964 in the Jungles of Russia, the game was stark contrast 
 to the indoor urban areas of the first two, it was a refreshing change. The game also introduced 
 CQC (Close Quarters Combat) and bumped the production quality even higher.
  Finally came 2008, and the final chapter in the Metal Gear Series (Chronologically at least) , Metal 
 Gear Solid 4: Guns of the Patriots. Again I am saying that, while I won't spoil the story of the 
 game, but you assure yourself that, its one experience you are likely not to forget in your entire 
 lifetime. The game pretty much ends the story of the legendary hero, Solid Snake indefinitely. 
 
  
  
  As far as game play goes, it's been revamped and improved a lot. While this is a stealth game through 
 and through, you can still play with all guns blazing at least on easier difficulty settings. 
 The game consists of over 70 weapons, most of them are customizable. You can buy off weapons anytime 
 from a guy called "Drebin" by pulling the menu in exchange for "Drebin Points". While this might 
 sound to make things a lot easier, but actually it makes things even more convenient and fun. Since 
 you can buy weapons and ammos anytime, you can try a different tactical approach to see where it 
 takes you, it also means that you don't have to start from a very old checkpoint if you run out 
 of vital ammunition during the Boss fight; also you can skip the system all together and go like 
 a true espionage hero, the choice is yours. Speaking of boss, MGS is famous for its quality of 
 boss fights, and MGS 4 is no exception: you will never see such bosses in any game. Since this 
 game takes place in a distant future, there are lots of high-tech gadgets to help you along. Lets 
 start of with Octocam- it's a suit that just works like a chameleon, it matches with the texture 
 you are leaning against, and makes it harder for enemies to detect, you can also save textures 
 if you want and use it later. Next lets talk about Solid Eye- Its an eye patch like device fits 
 on your right eye (perhaps a tribute to a certain hero?) and have loads of function like Zooming, 
 Night Vision, it can also pin point enemies and which weapons they are carrying to give you the 
 tactical edge. Finally after all these years you got your trusty geeky buddy Otacon in the battlefield. well 
 sort of in the form of MK II: Its like a miniature metal gear robot with cloaking capabilities, 
 even though its controlled by Otacon throughout the game, Snake can also control it using the PLAYSTATION 
 3 Dual shock 3 controller and use it in conjunction with the cloaking to procure weapons I the 
 battlefield for Drebin Points.
  
  
  Being a Metal Gear Solid game, the game is full of cut scenes and some can be quite lengthy. While 
 cut scenes may tend to take you out of the experience of the game, but the thing is, Metal Gear 
 Solid series houses perhaps the best in-game cut scenes with great attention to detail. The cut 
 scenes are the key to drive a game's story, and Metal Gear Solid 4 has one of the best story in 
 a videogame and the cut scenes are breathtaking beautiful thanks to fantastic graphics and sound.
 
  
  
  MGS 4 is a stone cold killer when it comes to graphics and sound. Its hands-down the best looking 
 game out there and more likely in a longtime. The textures are crisp, the lighting is ultra-realistic. 
 The animation is life-like thanks to advancements in Mo-cap technology. The game practically begs 
 for you to view it in a HDTV. The game is equally outstanding in the sound department. One of the 
 first game to boost uncompressed sound data and next-gen Dolby Digital certification meaning its 
 by far the most realistic positional sound there is in any form of entertainment media, you will 
 greatly do injustice to yourself if you don't have a surround sound setup. The voice-acting is 
 best there is, David Hayter puts an Oscar worthy performance for Solid Snake. As the series tradition, 
 the game has a lot of quality blood-boiling music to accompany this stellar game.
  
  
  I should mention that the story is so awesome, you feel really sympathetic for Snake that I shed 
 some tears for the old man during some points in the game. Hideo Kojima made an icon out of legendary 
 Snake, as simple as that. He may not be as powerful assay Master Chief. He may not have more firepower 
 as Marcus, but one thing he has that puts all those to shame. a true hero's trait, the power of 
 will.
  
  
  Although like everything in the world, MGS 4 is not perfect. Some of the things I didn't like is 
 the installation. I don't mind 1 time installation of games, it just the fact that MGS 4 requires 
 you to install upon every Act (total of 5 Acts in the game) , while this is to ensure to take no 
 more HDD than 4.7 GB or so, it's also more pain in the *** for those of us with bigger HDD. It 
 would have been better if there was an option to install the game completely on the HDD, I would 
 take 8 GB anyway over installing the game every Act, even if its only 3 minutes tops. I also don't 
 like the fact that the game loads very frequently during some chance instances of the game, some 
 sections like after only 2-3 minutes, it loads for another 5-6 seconds or so and it just takes 
 out of the experience. Last of all, some cut scenes feels a bitwellcheesy. Those were the only 
 problems in the game for me, but on the bigger scale of things, can be easily ignored.
  
  
  Well there you have it; I want to end my review here as I don't want to spoil the story for 
 you. Metal Gear Solid 4 is a masterpiece and will be remembered for years. If you have a PS3 or 
 don't have a PS3 yet, it's definitely a time to get one, even only for playing just this game.
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: jackarus
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 5, 2008 10:38 pm PT
Review:  Firstly, im not a a fanboy, this is my first MG game and one of my few PS3 games, yet is one of 
 my favourites of all time along with SSBB. I didnt believe gamespot when they gave this a 10, which 
 made me lose alot of faith in them, for i thought this wasnt fitting for any games as there are 
 always flaws, but after loads of recommendations from mates, i decide to get it for myself and 
 see what it was all about.
  
  This game is amazing, the graphics are superb, with details like snakes face aging over time dirt 
 and blood on the camera just made it special. You have an option of going stealthily, like suggested 
 or all guns blazing and causing all sorts of havoc. On my first playthrough, i tried it stealthy, 
 failed miserably snd decide to shoot the s**t out of everything on sight. and i loved it. and sinced 
 then ive been going quieter and quieter until i got BBE, which was almost impossible at times but 
 still immensly fun. but now my fave way of playing is stealthily killing everyone in CQC, which 
 looks awesome.
  
  Many people criticise the cutscenes, which yes are very long, yet without the game would feel empty, 
 and none of them get boring. all of them look stunning, with it all rendered in real time. things 
 like having raiden and vamp deuce it out while you battle dozens of mechs, just simply breathtaking.
 
  
  The boss fights are some of the best parts with each one being enitrely unique, (RAY vs REX and 
 snake vs liquid are the best to battles ever thought of. ever.)
  
  And when you have completed everything MGS4 has to offer, theres MGO, which although feels slightly 
 unfinished to me, provides a very strong online experience to last you for months.
  
  So in conclusion, get this game. If you don't have a PS3, get one. If you can't afford one, buy 
 the game and save up for the console.
  
  
  PS - X360 users, this won't come out for you guys because this uses the full capacity of blu-ray 
 when heavily compressed (50gb) so you would need 3 discs to play to the same standard. Same for 
 fallout 3:) bad choice that console, esp if u already have a comp because they are exactly the 
 same. Therefore Wii and PS3 :D: D: D
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: skojic
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 5, 2008 3:46 pm PT
Review:  To be fair and objective when reviewing a game such as this can be quite challenging. Masterful 
 director Hideo Kojima created a dragon in 1998. That dragon grew bigger and wilder with each entry 
 in this series. What I'm trying to say is; without any previous knowledge of where the series would 
 end up, or any of its memorable characters, pleasing the fans, as well as himself, was Kojima's 
 greatest, final mission. 
  
  Like Snake, now old and ravaged by his very nature, MGS4 decides to immerse players in its eeringly 
 visionary world one last time. Staying true to its origins, Metal Gear Solid 4: Guns of the Patriots 
 carries on the complex story of Solid Snake, who now faces his ultimate adversary, Liquid Ocelot. 
 This epic confrontation of cats and snakes leads Snake through more enviroments than ever before, 
 making him give his very best in this last chapter of his life. Old faces return and new ones arise, 
 but true fans will never doubt the series' mastermind about how he'll manipulate them. Every one 
 of them develops over the course of the game, even those whose story might have seemed already 
 told. 
  
  The gamplay has, likewise, evolved. With over 70 weapons at his disposal, Snake was never more 
 ready for an all-out war with the PMCs and B&B corps (the "finest collection of freaks outside 
 of FOXHOUND") . That war, although waged by the PMCs (Private Military Companies) and Militia, is 
 secretly a war between Liquid Ocelot and the Patriots, whose origins are finally exposed and their 
 true nature revealed. Snake acts as a tool of the Patriots once again, a soldier. Come to think 
 of it, as much as he's responsible for the many victories and losses in the past, he's truly a 
 spectator to the entire battle. Someone who observes, and interacts, but never controls; a snake. 
 Others play their roles and fight for what they believe in, but they, too, never go beyond the 
 obvious. Only one manages to equal the brains and wit of the Patriots; their oldest member and, 
 now, their greatest threat - Ocelot.
  
  As the two adversaries head toward their final confrontation, a sense of choice is lost in the 
 process. To us, and to them, it seems more like the uncontrollable. It seems more like destiny. 
 And it IS destiny that this series will live on, forever, in our memories as one of (if not THE) 
 the most cinematical, emotional, and engaging stories every told. And if there was ever a game 
 which's review should NOT tell you ANYTHING about the its outcome, it is MGS4. Buy it. Enjoy it. 
 And savor all the emotions that you can. Because this is the end. The story has been told. Our 
 roles are fulfilled. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nighthawk260
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 5, 2008 9:30 am PT
Review:  This game is not for everyone. Anyone who is considering to get this game should first either rent 
 or buy the others. If you do not want to do that but still wish to purchase this game then I would 
 highly recommend looking up the story on the games in the series. 
  
  The controls have been changed from MGS3 to MGS4 but not in a bad way. R1 is now the trigger and 
 it feels much better than the square button. A few other minor changes have also occurred. The 
 only thing I do have a problem with is the lack of explanation when it comes to the controls. They 
 leave it up to players to figure out for themselves things such as when in first person press the 
 right or left on the digital analog to peek to the side. 
  
  The story continues some time after MGS2 and tries to close up every inch of the story and any 
 unanswered questions. Well it does that and bloody more. It gives you a conclusion worth ten headaches. 
 To remedy that the people at Konami decided to release MGS database which is an  
 chart/ a lot of information. 
  
  The game it self is not perfect but it also gets a massive boost from MGO. In Metal Gear online 
 you play as a soldier with the SOP system who fights with various different modes and some classic 
 ones as well. MGO now has a system of skills to use which most consume 3 while the weaker ones 
 consume 1 point at the maximum level which is fine but you only have 4 slots to work with. 
  
  All in all try out the others to get some what an idea of this game. Then if you like those 
 you'll love this one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: masterhalo43
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 5, 2008 7:19 am PT
Review:  Metal Gear Solid has never been this great. In the last battle for Snake, he must find Liquid and 
 kill him. The story is one of the best I've seen in a long time. The guns have good selections. 
 The boss fights are very intense and the best I've ever seen in any game for a very, very, very long 
 time. The last game that I liked the bosses was probably Kingdom Hearts. The stealth in this game 
 is great. With the edition of the OctoCamo, guards will never see you coming. Honestly, I have nothing 
 to say bad about this game. Its highly addictive and keeps dragging you in for everything it has 
 to offer. The online experience is outstanding, but not as good as COD4. Overall, this game is for 
 anyone looking for an outstanding action title. Its one of the best on the ps3 right now and I 
 can see how the ps3 sales are going up because of this game. Its that awsome. If you are getting 
 tired of GTAIV, I highly recommend this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xkal318
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 4, 2008 11:28 pm PT
Review:  Metal Gear Solid 4: Guns Of The Patriots. Revolutionary is an understatement. Understatement is 
 an understatement. An extraordianry game that left me breathless and teary eyed. There are so many 
 thrilling moments in this game that make you want to just fight as hard as you can so that your 
 character may live although you know his inevitable doom. Solid Snake, the hero of our time ends 
 his saga, ends his service as king of videogames. This game has some annoying parts such as boss 
 fights in tough geograpichal situations, but they are miniscule. Camera perfect. Storyline perfect. 
 Graphics perfect. Controls perfect. I don't give too many 10's out, i believe the only ones i've 
 given were to Final Fantasy VII, Spyro the Dragon 2: Ripto's Rage, Grand Theft Auto III, and God 
 Of War. MGS 4 has joined my collection of masterpieces, i only hope that my next adventure, Star 
 Wars: The Force Unleashed, but i doubt it will even compare... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Tiburon1186
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 4, 2008 8:47 pm PT
Review:  It is very hard not to like this game, well unless you don't like beautiful cinematics or you don't 
 like to use your brain much, but otherwise, it's hard to hate. If you're a fan of the series and 
 have played previous games, you'll continue the epic experience in Metal Gear Solid 4: Guns of 
 the Patriots. Kojima brings back the familiar story of the two cloned brothers of the ultimate 
 solider, Big Boss, with his patented, sometimes long winded but justifiably so, cutscenes that 
 bring the story to life in this PS3 exclusive. 
  
  Some will find it hard to deal with 90 minute cutscenes, but gamers familiar with the series will 
 come to expect and love the beautifully interwoven movie and gameplay. The game starts out with 
 a 25 minute or so cutscene that allows moments of gameplay that lead to more cutscene, it sort 
 of serves as a training mission, although not the most thorough, it still keeps you immersed in 
 the story enough so that it doesn't feel like a full fledged training mission. As you continue 
 after the cutscene you are introduced to the main character in full, Solid Snake, who has aged 
 significantly since previous games due to him being a clone and his deteriorating DNA. You are 
 also introduced in the early parts of the game to some of snakes gear including Octocamo, which 
 resembles the sneaking suit from MGS2, but has the ability to change camo like in MGS3, but automatically. 
 It removes the tediousness of MGS3 where the player needed to change camo every 10 feet so that 
 they wouldn't be seen by the enemy. But Kojima somehow works it into the story very well and to 
 the point that it doesn't seem gimmicky, or cheesy. 
  
  Another one of Snake's toys in the new Metal Gear Solid, is the Metal Gear Mk II. It's a small 
 little awkward robot that follows Snake that can scout out the area head, become invisible, and 
 even distract and stun enemies. It contains the uplink to Otacon (Hal Emmerich) so that he can 
 converse with snake through video.
  
  The graphics, as in every Metal Gear game, really shows off the power of the system that it's on 
 and MGS4 is no exception. Beautifully rendered in game graphics are some of the best ever created 
 for a game. Every cutscene uses the in-game graphics engine, so none of that pre-rendered **** 
 that other games try to pull. Gameplay is tight, and those familiar to the series will be able 
 to almost jump right in. The part where you need to hold down L1 and press R1 to shoot anything 
 gets to be a bit annoying just to fire a weapon but it still somehow feels natural. The alert system 
 is as sensitive as ever and feels even more realistic. Theres nothing more intense than a battle 
 going on around you and you using the Octocamo and crawling less than two feet from a combatant 
 and he not even noticing you because he's too busy focused on the enemy. With the combat system, 
 melee combat is added from MGS3 and is a welcomed addition to snake's already impressive arsenal.
 
  
  A quick note on the sound... amazing. While it lacks the familiar music score from previous games, 
 the sound of the game still draws you in just as much. Every audio file in the game is pure uncompressed 
 audio, so there is absolutely ZERO loss for converting the file into something small like an mp3 
 or wav file. This is the highest quality type of audio and if you have a speaker system that can 
 handle it... well your going to be blown away. 
  
  Although the codec talking time is significantly lower in this game, the story still gets told 
 the same way. The story continues from MGS2, which Liquid Snake, (Solids twin clone brother) takes 
 control of Revolver Ocelot through his estranged right arm and sets out to destroy and usurp the 
 power from the men believed to be controlling world events behind the scenes, known as the Patriots. 
 The whole story or even a synopsis of the story is just too difficult to explain in the confines 
 of a review, and I wouldn't even want to ruin it for you. This series has one of THE MOST in depth, 
 and compelling stories that I have ever seen in a video game. It's so deep that the series is more 
 akin to the Star Wars Trilogy than anything else. But there is one catch. You have to use your 
 brain to understand. Some things are left unsaid, some are implied. But everything comes into place 
 at the end of this game. Even story arc's started in the first game come back to haunt Snake in 
 this final chapter. Everything is brought together beautifully. 
  
  Ok, now for a more technical look at the game. The game takes a whopping 5GB of storage space to 
 install on the PS3 hard drive. This corresponds to sitting in from of the TV, waiting roughly 20 
 minutes for the game to install. Real drag, especially as you watch snake take drags on his cigarette 
 like a fiend, while the game is loading. It is cool at first, but gets real old after 20 minutes. 
 One good thing is the so called "words of wisdom" that appear on the screen during install times. 
 Things such as "put your cigarette butts out in an ashtray, don't litter" and "It's past 1am, isn't 
 it time for a break?". These are quite amusing but even though many are what are recommended for 
 playing video games like breaks and such, you just don't want to put the game down because it's 
 so engrossing. Another nit picky issue is that there are load times for areas just like there always 
 have. Even though they are not remotely as long as previous games in the series, the fact is that 
 they are still there. In this generation there really should not be area load times. It was annoying 
 then, and it's still annoying now. 
  
  There is actually a fair bit of humor making fun of the older games. Kojima likes to do this as 
 in MGS3 and Portable Ops, there was humor about Raiden's feminine voice and appearance. But this 
 is the first game in the series to be on a single disc, and in previous games, Otacon would tell 
 you that it was time to switch discs, but this time Otacon tells you to switch to the second disc 
 and catches himself, giving the player and himself a laugh. He then goes on to tell you that you 
 don't need to switch the disc because your on a PS3 system! 
  
  Well in a gameplay sense, Kojima has changed things up a bit. The camera is angled a bit differently 
 than previous games where a more top down angle was used. It's something to get used to but works 
 out better as you can see the environment and what's around you much more. The hunger aspect of 
 the game is taken out from MGS3, as it was very tedious, but the addition of a stress meter has 
 been added. The more stress that Snake is in cause lead to a "combat high" where he shoots faster, 
 aims better and runs quicker. After this, when the stress overcomes, snake will heal slower, move 
 slower, his aim will become sluggish, and his body will begin to ache due to age. You need to use 
 special items such as a back warmer to sooth the pain and return snake's stress levels to normal. 
 The choice of weapons in the game is much broader than in previous ones. Although most weapons 
 you find near the beginning of the game are ID Locked, so basically you can't use them until the 
 ID lock is taken off. This is where Drebin comes in. He is a seemingly friendly arms dealer that 
 shows up midway though the first level. He, for a small fee will unlock weapons for you to use, 
 along with running a weapons/ammo store for your usage throughout the game. Through the game you 
 gather many different kinds of weapons and items. Everything from an old Mk.23 pistol to Fortune's 
 massive rail gun from MGS2 (and let me tell you that gun is fun to wield!) . Items range from back 
 compress, to the invisibility device from the older games. The only thing this reviewer misses 
 is an all too familiar weapon called the FAMAS, that has been in every MGS thus far but is mysteriously 
 missing from this iteration. 
  
  Bosses in this game seem a little less ingenuitive than in previous versions of the game. They 
 are more, shoot to kill types than having to use your brain to think of special ways to defeat 
 them. Some boss battles though are insane heart pounding battles that have so much emotion and 
 are so epic that they are worth the wait. The final battle is just one for the ages. Even though 
 it isn't a full fledged battle and partially scripted, it's amazing nonetheless. 
  
  As previously stated the endgame for the series is the perfect ending. It ties up all the loose 
 ends from the entire series. Definitely stay tuned after the credits because that scene is mind 
 blowing! It brings the game to a satisfying close, even though you still don't want the game to 
 end. The game also includes a "starter pack" for Metal Gear Online. Although MGO has a steep learning 
 curve and takes awhile to get used to and get good at, it seems to be a good addition to the game. 
 It is just the beginning with many enhancements and add-on packs promised to be available soon 
 at the Playstation Store. Its not the type of game to run and gun and that just anyone can pick 
 up. You need to take time to improve your skill. It may turn less determined gamers off, but it's 
 definitely a rewarding experience for those willing to put in the time. 
  
  A new addon to the game that came out about a week ago was the MGS Database, a textual explanation 
 of every character, place, event, storyline in the entire Metal Gear series. This database avoids 
 spoiling the new game by blocking out spoilers until it sees that you have a save game in MGS4 
 that shows that you have beaten the game. Its very useful and thorough for those that have questions 
 about certain portions of the game. 
  
  In closing, this game is a must buy for anyone. It is an amazing experience and a fantastic ending 
 to a long running series. I and several others have actually bought a PS3 specifically for this 
 game and we were not disappointed, and you won't be either. From the heart pounding action of battling 
 giant robots single handedly to the emotional experience of the cutscenes, this game is quickly 
 becoming the best game the PS3 has to offer.
  
  -NXR Fenix86- 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kratos_2k
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 4, 2008 8:25 pm PT
Review:  Masterpiece, its a word that gets thrown around a lot, and most of the time isn't used correctly, 
 well with MGS4 thats the only thing that you can say about it. If you consider yourself to be a 
 gamer then you know the name Solid Snake. But this is not Snakes usual go around, this time absolutely 
 every part of the game has been turned up a notch from its predecessor's. MGS4 doesn't just live 
 up to the hype, it completely shatters it. MGS4 has the whole package, storytelling, but thats 
 usual, action, stealth, white knuckle experiences, etc. i can't talk about the story because it 
 would spoil it, lets just say loose ends are warped, and the story of Solid Snake ends hear, i 
 know i was sad too. But every body always have said, if you have to go out, make sure it's with 
 one hell of a bang, and that's what Metal Gear Solid 4: Guns of the Patriots does. Take a break 
 Snake you've earned it, we all salute you! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Wine_Kasra
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 4, 2008 5:16 pm PT
Review:  This being my first review, I honestly could not think of a better game. Guns of the patriots will 
 be the final installment to a legendary Metal Gear series, and it could not have possible gone 
 out on a better note than this amazing, beautiful game.
  
  In my 15 years of console gaming I truly have never experienced a game of this magnitude. As another 
 example; my brother has never bought or enjoyed any game other than Tiger Woods golf and NCAA football. 
 I finally convinced him to pick this up, and he hasn't been able to put it down. 
  
  The games audio and visual presentation is superb. The musical score is beautifully mastered and 
 adds a nostalgic element to the game play. The voice acting is great as always. 
  
  I lack the ability write a comprehensive review due to time constraints, but here is the final 
 word.
  
  Final Word: This is the pinnacle of game play and storytelling, it is in fact a masterpiece of 
 the video game industry. There is no reason for you not to play this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ironlightsaber
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 4, 2008 8:41 am PT
Review:  Any game that makes you want to go back and not only replay the game but every game in the series 
 has to be considered a great game. Metal Gear Solid 4 is a powerhouse of a game from the start 
 until the end.
  
  If you do not like sneaking games then of course this game is not for you, but if you do then you 
 will not be disappointed by the series that started the entire genre of stealth games. Many of 
 the issues of controlling the main character Snake have been fixed and improved beyond belief (it 
 actually makes playing the older titles in the series difficult because you keep wishing that the 
 controls were this fluid) . The camera control is top notch and never did I have trouble using it 
 to get a better view of the landscape.
  
  The graphics are truly the best in any game made to this point. The character models are perfect, 
 the mo-cap is spot on and the voice talent as always is exceptional.
  
  The cut scenes are long but well done and can be skipped it wanted. If the Metal Gear Series has 
 a single flaw it has been and always will be the story. Although it is not bad it is very complex, 
 twisted and often very hard to follow. Thankfully this title goes a long way in clearing up many 
 of the missing plot points and tying together many of the loose story threads. 
  
  *********SPOILER WARNING*********
  
  Now I'm going to talk about the final cut scene, so if 
 you don't want to know about then please stop reading.
  
  I thought that the ending suffered from the same thing that movie LOTR 3 did -- not knowing when 
 to stop. The final scene with Big Boss, although it tied up many loose ends and brought many of 
 the confusing elements into focus, made what would have been the most impressive ending ever to 
 a great series into just a great ending.
  
  I think that the threat of Snake becoming a walking WMD and having to take his own life had an 
 impact that could be hard to ever top. It would have given the hero of the story an ending that 
 he deserved. The fact that nothing could stop him except his own will fits the character perfectly.
 
  
  But they could not leave it at that. Instead we get that he could not go through with it and at 
 that moment Big Boss shows up to tell him that he no longer will become a deadly WMD. That just 
 does not have the same level of story telling that the other ending would have had.
  
  I'm sure that they had their reason for not having the main character kill themselves and in the 
 whole it doesn't really affect the overall game or story line.
  
  *********END OF SPOILERS*********
  
  
  
  My first response when I finished the game was 
 to get out all the other titles and play them in chronological order. Then if I have the time I 
 would like to play this title again and take my time so I can collect everything and see every 
 detail on each level. Then if I have the time and skills I wouldn't mind going for that 4.5 hour 
 "Boss Medal" challenge.
  
  If you have never played Metal Gear then you should start here. you might not get all the story 
 elements but the game is well worth it.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: UncleLev
Rating: 6
Date: Aug 4, 2008 6:32 am PT
Review:  You know, I've thought about encouraging you, the "reader", to actually sit down and read this 
 entire review before passing judgment, but I won't do that. Why should I? After all, any die hard 
 Playstation or Metal Gear Solid fanboy checking out this review has probably already judged it 
 based on the numerical representation I've used as a score. Such people most likely won't even 
 bother to consider - much less: read - any of the points I make, so I'll just say, "screw that 
 altogether", and not waste my time on trying to convince closed minds that make no attempt to be 
 open. I know that anyone who is going into this review with an open and subjective overview, will 
 be able to appreciate what I have to say, since what I have to say comes from a serious, independent 
 gamers' perspective who's allegiance and loyalties lie with no company, title or genre. I realize 
 that most of what I will be saying here will sound quite negative, but I assure you that there 
 are positive traits to be acredited to Metal Gear Solid 4 as well. Unfortunately for me, these 
 are much fewer in number, and the negative traits are what stick in my memory after completing 
 the game two times. So with that in mind, be prepared to hear a completely different take on what 
 is often reputed as being a masterpiece.
  
  In my humble opinion the term "masterpiece" is not applicable when referring to Metal Gear Solid 
 4. Instead, I'd prefer to go with the term, "unjustifiably hyped". Without a doubt, Metal Gear 
 Solid 4 takes the role of the most disappointing game that I've played in the past five years. 
 That is not to say it is the worst game I've played in these years, but it is definitely the biggest 
 game in which I had assumed would be spectacular, that in the end really let me down the most. 
 I suppose the greatest frustration isn't so much the lack of substance in the game itself (although 
 that is a major concern) , but being posed with the question, "what in the hell is everyone else 
 seeing here, that I am not?".
  
  If I had to use a single word to label Metal Gear Solid 4, I'd have to go with "pretentious". To 
 me, that words hits the nail on the head so hard it drives the nail completely through. Everything 
 about the game screams of seeming to believe, in and of itself, that it is amazing, unique, and 
  even more disturbingly - "cool". But, no matter how powerful my magnifying glass is, I am not 
 seeing it. In fact, in my opinion, it is in this self-proclaimed excellence that really leads to 
 the downfall. Everything about Metal Gear Solid 4 tries so hard to be "cool" , but it comes off 
 as so very transparent, clich, and forced. Packed within Metal Gear Solid 4 is swirl of predictable 
 and cheesy dialog, clich love elements, ridiculously corny terminology to make everything sound 
 cooler than it is (nano-this, nano-that, microfilm this, double agents that, "laundering weapons") , 
 lots of acronyms (SOP, CQC, PMC, APU) , and lots of really "cool" characters who will frequently 
 strike a pose for the camera. Oh yeah, and basically everything else you'd expect from your generic, 
 run of the mill anime, including all those Matrix-esque effects and gimmicks. At one point, a character 
 is seen to be holding back a ship literally millions of times larger than him, to stop it from 
 advancing. I think I can safely say, this was the most unrealistic thing I've ever seen in a video 
 game  EVER. Yeah, I know, it's probably the sort of thing people who drool over corny poses would 
 eat up, but I just couldn't stop laughing in frustration and anger. Did I mention characters love 
 to strike dramatic poses for the camera, and that Metal Gear Solid 4 is constantly trying so hard 
 to be cool?!
  
  So what is Metal Gear Solid 4, and what is it all about? Well, the odds are that if you've been 
 playing games for a while now, you've more than likely come across one of the earlier Metal Gear 
 Solid games at some stage. If you haven't played anything from the Metal Gear universe, I will 
 try to bring you up to speed.
  
  Simply put, Metal Gear Solid 4 is a stealth oriented "game", that occasionally allows you to interact 
 with it, whereby you sneak past a bunch of brain dead soldiers, to get from a long cut scene at 
 point A, to an even longer cut scene at point B. It should be clearly noted that the majority of 
 the time you are not even playing the game, but suffering through the countless lengthy cut scene 
 sequences  many lasting over an hour at a time. Because of these absurdly atrocious, unmotivating, 
 and tedious cut scenes, I never managed to feel "sucked in" during the whole course of the game. 
 When you are fortunate enough to put the game controller to use, you do absolutely nothing out 
 of the ordinary, as the entire game consists of moving along, monotonously, from here to there. 
 You never have specific goals or tasks that put your mind, patience or skill to the test, and your 
 only real underlying objective is to get from one place to another. Since Snake is now an old fart, 
 or at least resembles one in all the physical senses, movement is slow-paced, which comes as both 
 a surprise and a disappointment. Granted, you are encouraged to sneak your way through, the laughable 
 AI makes it just as easy to blast through with blazing guns at whatever pace Snake's sluggish speed 
 will take you. Occasionally you will run into creative boss battles, but these do very little to 
 compensate for the game's confining and repetitive nature.
  
  There was once a time when I would have been one of the masses who stood by the belief that the 
 Metal Gear Solid series defines stealth action. In fact, I recall saying just that just hours before 
 playing Metal Gear Solid 4. However, today, I couldn't come to terms with saying such a thing. 
 I could, however, say that once upon a time the Metal Gear Solid series defined stealth action, 
 but sadly that doesn't seem to be the case today. With so many other quality games entering the 
 genre today (Splinter Cell, and Assassin's Creed  to name a couple) , Metal Gear Solid is really 
 showing how little it is willing to evolve, and learn from its peers.
  
  The premise behind Metal Gear Solid 4 is simple enough  some time in the future, the world is 
 ravaged by constant war, and you, while taking the role of "Solid Snake", are caught in the middle 
 of all this. Easy enough to identify with, perhaps. Sadly, the deeper I delve into the guts and 
 organs of the story in Metal Gear Solid 4, the more I regret it! At best, it's inconsistent, unrealistic, 
 predictable, weak, and confusing.
  
  Oh, and before I go on too much further in this review, I should make this absolutely clear here 
 and now: if you haven't thoroughly played any of the earlier Metal Gear Solid games, don't even 
 bother approaching this one! Don't think for a second it will make the slightest bit of sense to 
 you unless you are completely caught up with the series! That's a major no-no. Ideally, you shouldn't 
 have to play all the previous installments in a series to enjoy a single game, but unfortunately, 
 that couldn't be more the case with Metal Gear Solid 4. You see, if there's just one of the earlier 
 games you haven't played, large portions of the story will make absolutely no sense at all to you. 
 Myself? I've only played through Metal Gear Solid 1, and, even then, it was the Japanese version. 
 Needless to say, the story in Metal Gear Solid 4 doesn't make a lick of sense to me. Even when 
 I think I have all the pieces, when I try to arrange the puzzle, things don't fit together and 
 seem really inconsistent. I know that to many people the story behind the Metal Gear Solid series 
 is part of its soul, but if you ask me, it's pretty soulless.
  
  I've said it countless times before, and I will say it again: an overly confusing plot does not 
 necessarily equate a quality, deep story. There seems to be a major misconception, which confuses 
 poor story telling with quality story telling. "Well, gee, I'm so confused when I think about all 
 the details, so it must be really deep and good!". Nonsense! It just doesn't make any sense. Don't 
 ever confuse that with quality story telling.
  
  Perhaps the most frustrating aspect of the story telling in Metal Gear Solid 4 is how incredibly 
 preachy and long winded Konami managed to make the cut scenes. In fact, I'd go so far as to say 
 that Konami has taken the "game" out of "video game"! Metal Gear Solid 4 consists of roughly 25% 
 game-play, while the rest of the time you are sitting and watching really long, preachy scenes 
 that seem to drag on forever. By no means am I joking or exaggerating either, people! I have a 
 clock just above my television setup, so I kept a pretty good eye on how long I was left holding 
 the controller with nothing to do. There were numerous sequences of cut scenes that lasted well 
 over an hour straight. That is, literally hours at a time that I was not playing, or interacting 
 in any way, with the "game", but dosing off as I'd shout "get on with it!", or "who the hell cares?!". 
 Various cut scene sequences even allow you to save your gave, sometimes multiple times, throughout 
 their duration. While this is a welcome addition since you are likely to need a break, it also 
 is a pretty clear indication that the the developers acknowledge these sequences of cut scenes 
 are overly excessive.
  
  Therein lies another source of agitation towards both the story and the script in Metal Gear Solid 
 4. It is extremely preachy, and often speaks to you like you're a child. Other times, it is presenting 
 philosophy as fact, and does so in a way that it makes it out as if what it is saying is the undeniable 
 truth. While I do agree with many of the messages presented in Metal Gear Solid 4, I do not agree 
 with the way that they have taken opinions regarding politics and human nature, and reshaped them 
 into being irrefutable truths. If you ask me, that's just more of the same old propaganda being 
 preached against.
  
  Anyhow, as I've said, about a quarter of the time, you are fortunate enough to actually play the 
 "game", and it can be a bit of fun. Since it takes place some time in the "near future", you've 
 got a lot of gadgets to make your life easier. There are loads of different guns you can choose 
 from, to help cater to your specific fighting style. Unfortunately, most of the other equipment 
 you acquire is cooler in theory than in execution. Why? Because I found much of what you pick up 
 is not only unnecessary, but actually easier and quicker to do without. Of course, some items are 
 essential, such as restoration items that replenish your health or psyche, but even then many of 
 them are completely deprecated as soon as you get the syringe. One use of the syringe and your 
 psyche meter, which governs your stability, is instantly replenished. You can use it all you want 
 too, so many of the other items you've been hording (compresses for example) are completely useless 
 as soon as you get the syringe (which, even more surprisingly is acquired early on) .
  
  Without a doubt, the coolest item in the entire game is surrounding you at all times; your outfit. 
 It's called, "OctoCam", and it's a real time camouflage suit that automatically samples the the 
 texture you are on or pressed up against, and takes on its respective appearance to ensure you 
 are always well hidden. Granted, you do need to lay or sit still for a second or two for it to 
 change, the fact that it is otherwise automatic, makes it a very welcomed, and quite effective, 
 tool. I do, however, have a minor complaint (surprised?) regarding the OctoCam suit, but fortunately 
 it is only theoretical and not technical. What I couldn't get out of my head was the fact that 
 this magical, logic-defying suit somehow makes you virtually invisible altogether. What I mean 
 is, I can understand you'd still be quite hidden if you were wearing a suit with the same texture 
 as your surroundings, but you still are a three dimensional object following the physical laws 
 of nature, and therefor casting an obvious shadow. There were countless times that soldiers stood 
 literally inches away from me as I laid on the ground, and they didn't seem to notice the huge 
 grass colored body casting shadows right in front of them. Texture and appearance is one thing, 
 but as long as you are a three dimensional object casting shadows, it's a bit hard not to notice.
 
  
  It's not just the OctoCam that flagrantly shows off the shoddy AI either. Now, while I have been 
 hearing boisterous claims about the most amazing AI being found in Metal Gear Solid 4, I gotta 
 tell you, I'm not seeing it. In fact, I found the AI to be rather poor. Aside from the fact that 
 AI can't differentiate between large, body shaped grass casting huge shadows, there are a number 
 of other complaints I think ought to be addressed. For example, there were numerous occasions in 
 which the AI didn't even react when I had just introduced a bullet to the head of some of their 
 buddies right next to them, yet while I remained unseen. Now, I don't know about you, but if my 
 comrades right next to me started dropping like flies, I'd react in some way, shape or form. Further, 
 in contrast to the ineptitude of some situations, it's also a bit perplexing that in the heat of 
 a battlefield, as soon as you fire a shot at a soldier, the entire army's whole purpose, regardless 
 of where they are, is to take solely you down, while all along completely forgetting the fact that 
 a war is going on and that they have other enemies. I just can't buy that sort of behavior, because 
 it resembles exactly what you'd see in a video game, and what you'd never see in real life. Come 
 on, guys! And then, there is my Gekko story...
  
  Towards the end of the game, you need to wait for your robotic companion, the Mk. II, to open a 
 door as you distract a Gekko. My first attempt at this was a miserable failure, in which I had 
 wasted 20 or so rockets trying to destroy it. Eventually, I was snuffed out due to my incredibly 
 weak strategy. So I gave it another shot, and boy was I in for a laugh! I stood ever-so-slightly 
 positioned behind cover and fired a single bullet at the Gekko as it turned to look at the Mk. II. 
 Instantly, an exclamation point appeared above its head and it turned around looking for me. I 
 never moved, and didn't even budge from my position. As the Gekko decided  for some strange reason 
  simply to forget about it, and turned back to look at the Mk. II, I did the same thing. Lather, 
 rinse and repeat. I never moved, and in the end I didn't end up using more than 10-20 bullets during 
 the whole scene, by simply waiting it out- how very lame.
  
  Visually speaking, Metal Gear Solid 4 was a bit of a turn off for me from the instant I had it 
 up and running. Okay, maybe I was impressed with the smoke effects during the installation screen, 
 but after the game got rolling it was never a feast. To begin with, the world is filled with low 
 resolution textures, which often look bland and unsuited to such a major title. I tried to give 
 Metal Gear Solid 4 the benefit of the doubt and talked myself into believing it was only the textures 
 I was seeing early on, but sure enough, as I went through the game I saw no improvement. The cookie-cut 
 environments are also generic and lacking the level of detail countless other titles today possess. 
 I would have expected objects to be thrown around, pipes and wires to be uniquely placed this way 
 and that. Perhaps even papers scattered all over desks, and items thrown askew? No such luck! Everything 
 is neatly organized, and the objects you do encounter in the environments are low-poly and generically 
 boring to boot. Aside from an occasional piece of paper flying around, or a rat running around 
 (which feels like such a forced and transparent attempt at compensating for the otherwise complete 
 lack of detail) , the environments are dead, unrealistic and completely lack the sense of realism 
 that we expect from games today. Cars look blocky, buildings look blocky, debris looks blocky, 
 boxes and trash cans look blocky, and anything else you will see just doesn't cut it by today's 
 standards. I am absolutely baffled that these obviously substandard graphics seem to be tolerated, 
 and in fact praised, just because of the name associated with the game. I could easily name 50 
 games across the PS3 and Xbox 360 that look much more visually appealing (Call of Duty 4, Gears 
 of War, Unreal Tournament 3, Condemned 2, Uncharted, Mass Effect, Assassin's Creed, Lost Odyssey, 
 and the list goes on and on  sorry if I didn't list your favorite! - ...) .
  
  I'm not trying to say that I loved the graphics in any, or all, of the games I've mentioned above, 
 but I am saying that all of these, as well as countless others, are much better overall than Metal 
 Gear Solid 4. Heck, there are even many small and unpopular titles which I felt impressed me visually 
 far more than Metal Gear Solid 4 did. I mean - come on, just because cut scenes look alright and 
 faces look good, doesn't mean I'm just going to ignore the fact that Meryl's hair looks horrid, 
 the lip-synchronization is mediocre, blood effects are weak, hands and legs look like LEGOs, and 
 that the world they have me actually playing it looks like an alpha or beta build!
  
  As I was just saying, occasionally I thought that some of the characters' faces looked good, but 
 that was about as far as it ever went. The character models themselves are generally low-poly, 
 and even blocky when it comes to the less popular characters. Sure, sometimes the characters look 
 good in the cut scenes, but by no means on a different scale than many other PS3 and Xbox 360 games. 
 The first time I saw the tear effects I thought, "that's pretty sweet", but after seeing it some 
 five more times throughout the game, I got angry at how often they were overusing the same damn 
 effect, and how incredibly identical the tears were every single time! They'd fall the same way, 
 like clockwork, and it really lost its touch being overly used throughout the game. One really 
 nice effect was the snow effect towards the end of the game. The way the snow appeared as it collected 
 on Snake's outfit looked very realistic. Unfortunately, one really impressive touch does little 
 to make up for the countless number of other shortcomings.
  
  Much like the visuals, I wasn't all that impressed with the aural aspects of Metal Gear Solid 4 
 either. I know a lot of you die hard Metal Gear Solid fanboys will cry out for me to be hung, but 
 at the risk of upsetting all of your sensitivities, I don't see what is so special or unique about 
 the music in Metal Gear Solid 4. Sure, occasionally, it was pretty good, and it did try to set 
 the pace of the game, but not once did I ever feel like it was excellent or even perfectly matched 
 the tone of the game. Yeah, I know, Japanese techno is all super-cool and all, but the music of 
 a game is supposed to not only sound good, but suit the pace of the game  not set it. That's how 
 it felt much of the time with the music; so very labored. It's one thing for the music's pace to 
 accompany the tone you are experiencing, but to have that tone completely molded by the sounds 
 is a weak collaboration of bringing together your senses. All in all, the music is fairly generic, 
 with occasional highs, but more often than not, purely monotonous.
  
  Yet another labored element of the audio presentation is Snake's unbelievable voice. Now, I don't 
 mean it is "unbelievable" in a good way; I literally mean that I can't believe it is real. It simply 
 feels so forced. I know Snake is supposed to be feeling the symptoms of his aging, due to his condition, 
 but I shouldn't be left feeling that the voice actor is trying so hard to make the voice sound 
 more dramatic. That didn't work for me. If anything, it came off as really corny, and stressed 
 to an unforgivable degree. Fortunately, most of the other voice overs are pretty good, but not 
 all that rememberable either. Let's be honest: video games today really excel in many areas that 
 were completely lacking just a decade ago. So while the voice over work may have been outstanding 
 by the standards of a decade ago, today it was pretty standard stuff.
  
  The biggest source of annoyance for me, regarding how things sound at least, is the horrible script. 
 If you're one for clichs, predictable dialog, and overly dramatic one-liners, then this is the 
 game for you. I'm not. I find such things lacking in substance and repulsively uninteresting. Metal 
 Gear Solid 4 is good example of why I choose not to watch newer flicks and television shows. Oddly 
 enough, Konami believes paralleling the hogwash of Hollywood is a positive thing, so much so that 
 they admittingly brag about it on the game's case! Now, that's a turn off to me. Being able to 
 guess the lines that are going to be said, without even putting any thought into it, isn't a positive 
 thing. It's weak! It's also a good indication that your writers could benefit from some creative 
 brainstorming, as opposed to spewing out whatever garbage they think sounds "cool". And no, I don't 
 find corny melodramatic one-liners as all that appealing either; I think they are lame and unoriginal.
 
  
  On the bright side, the sound is uncompressed and boasts a whole new level of clarity. What does 
 this mean for most people? Absolutely nothing. If you're like me, you don't even have a surround 
 system hooked up. Granted, I am in the process of finding a system I like for my gaming setup, 
 the reality is that many of us are not even equipped with the technology to notice the difference. 
 It's great that the support is there, but I'm left feeling that they could have better spent their 
 resources (and disc usage) focusing on something everyone can benefit from, as opposed to something 
 that even those who have capable setups may not notice the negligible difference. What I can say 
 is that I do have a really nice (and brand new) HD television set, which boasts an awesome internal 
 sound system (the Sony 40W4210, for those curious) . Unfortunately, I don't notice the slightest 
 difference in sound quality when playing Metal Gear Solid 4, or playing any of my other PS3 or 
 Xbox 360 games. Maybe I just need to wait until I have the real deal - a 5.1 surround setup, that 
 is - before I will notice any improvement. I'd like to think that, but sadly, I doubt the difference 
 would be dramatic enough to notice a difference.
  
  Another cool, and personal, touch is the ability to use an in-game IPOD to listen to your own music. 
 How well exactly this works, I couldn't tell you because I do not have any music saved on my PS3. 
 Nonetheless, the concept of the feature is a good idea. Throughout the game you will also find 
 tunes spread around, allowing you to listen to classic music from the Metal Gear Solid series. 
 I know that when I go to war, I'll be thinking about collecting free music instead of worrying 
 about staying alive.
  
  Speaking of the IPOD, as a diligent observer I feel it is my sad duty to report the obvious and 
 frequent product placement throughout the world of Metal Gear Solid 4. Sure, the IPOD option is 
 a nice little feature, allowing you to listen to different music while you play, but it didn't 
 need to be called an "IPOD", and carry along all the advertisement associated with it. Apple in 
 general must have spent good money on marketing through the title, since all of the computers in 
 Metal Gear Solid 4 are Macs and MacBooks. Being one of the staple Playstation titles that Metal 
 Gear Solid is, Sony has managed to throw in a bunch of "PS3-power!" propaganda as well. At one 
 point Otocan stops you to say that it's time to "swap discs", and then laughs because you no longer 
 need to since, you are on a PS3 system using a Bluray disc ("and dual layer too") . I'm willing 
 to wager most people found it to be funny; I, however, found it to be corny, and a pretty weak 
 method of marketing pride within game. Talk about a nice way to kill the immersive feeling of being 
 absorbed into the game, by making the player consciously aware you're playing one! At another point 
 in the game, Metal Gear Solid 1 villain, Psycho Mantis comments on your skills improving, or "rather 
 your hardware". We know, we know... The Playstation 3 is, and always will be, the coolest gaming 
 console of all time, now please spare us the rhetoric. I'm sure this is the sorta thing that would 
 crack up all the die hard Playstation fan boys, but as I've said, I'm not a patriot to any company. 
 This sort of rubbish really kills the feeling you're supposed to be experiencing from the game. 
 You might disagree, but that's how I see it.
  
  If you put the clich story, predictable dialog, lengthy cut scenes, and the shoddy environments 
 aside, my biggest gripe is the extent that Konami has gone to exploit your nostalgic feelings. 
 Now, I'm all for reminiscing with those inner feelings you have about games that you loved playing 
 when you were growing up. And I'm also all for throwing in little reminders here and there tugging 
 at those pleasant gaming moments. I am not, however, into a game who's basis revolves around exploiting 
 those nostalgic feelings. Such is the case with Metal Gear Solid 4. You aren't just reminded of 
 what happened before  it's constantly shoved in your face, as if to make the story all that more 
 legendary and powerful. Again, I gotta say, that's really weak. It's constant, it's frequent, and 
 it's to an unprecedented degree. As I've said before, if you've never played the other Metal Gear 
 Solid games run as fast as you can, far, far away! Every few minutes, it's remember this, hearing 
 a voice of that, another flash back there. I was a bit disgusted and angry at how much Konami has 
 used the gamers' nostalgic feelings to exploit a more dramatic response. It's not that I mind when 
 games rekindle those feelings  in fact, I love it  it's because without these constant references 
 to the earlier events outside of Metal Gear Solid 4, the game itself is incredibly dry, bland and 
 boring. Only because of these constant memories of the earlier events in the saga does this game 
 hold any value whatsoever. I'm willing to bet that anyone who has been through the whole series 
 is going to love it for same reasons I don't, and anyone who hasn't been there will hate it for 
 the same reasons I do. Sure, "hate" is an awful strong word, and I'd even be hesitant to use it 
 to describe my feelings towards Metal Gear Solid 4. However, I will say that I hate how Konami 
 has relied on nostalgia value as its basis for creating a game, instead of focusing on ensuring 
 that the game we are playing now will be remembered ten years from now.
  
  So, as you can see, I have an awful lot of criticism to express over this game. In many ways I 
 feel that gamers were cheated by Konami, and tricked into believing Metal Gear Solid 4 is more 
 powerful than it is, simply by assuming that your memories of the earlier events will take over 
 you, and shrowd the fact that the events of the game you are now playing go nowhere. Or maybe, 
 I am just not a part of Konami's target audience  you decide. One thing I can say for certain 
 is that the countless clichs, and constant attempts at being spectacular, are probably what lead 
 to me believing the complete opposite in the end. Before I forget, I thought I'd also point out 
 how much Hideo Kojima is into himself! There are countless references to him throughout the game, 
 and even in the credits the "voice of god" is acredited to one, "Hideo Kojima" (gag me!) . Maybe 
 it's just me, but he should consider putting a lot more time into justifying his excellence, and 
 a lot less time gloating about his ego. Before Metal Gear Solid 4 came out, I was under the impression 
 I was a fan of the series, but apparently I have been proved wrong. Metal Gear Solid 4 simply does 
 not have enough substance in it to make it worthwhile to a curious, new gamer to the series. The 
 game may have been made by people who all act as if what they are doing is amazing (as this is 
 clearly reflected in the end product) , and your average schmoe might end up believing it themselves, 
 but I like to think that I'm clever enough to see through such nonsense. Konami had a great foundation 
 on its hands to build something mesmorizing for everyone, but instead they squandered it in exchange 
 for building a game that is nothing more than an exploitation of nostalgia. With that being said, 
 if you're a huge fan of the series, who will blindly turn their head from any fumbles, then you 
 will love this game no matter what. If you're anyone else, I strongly urge you to look somewhere 
  anywhere  else.
  
  
  
  
  Overall Score: 6
  
  Gameplay: (5) Less than a third of gameplay, accompanied by lengthy, preachy cut scenes. Awkward 
 AI, accompanied by generic stealth action that has shown no sign of improvement.
  
  Graphics: (7) Mediocre lip sync, weak blood effects, low resolution textures, low-poly environments 
 lacking detail. On the bright side, character faces look good during cut scenes.
  
  Sound: (7) Generic music with occasional highs. Unfortunately, the music tries to single-handidly 
 set the tone of the game, instead of accompany it. Predictable dialog filled with cliches and one-liners, 
 coupled with average voice acting.
  
  Lasting Appeal: (5) Hard to get sucked in when you aren't playing most of the time. The concept 
 of 10 minutes of gameplay and hour long cut scenes gets real old, real fast. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Npaviour
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 3, 2008 6:41 pm PT
Review:  Well what can i say?
  This game had been set back so many times, when you finally play it, you'll understand. 
  it 
 is the best game i have ever played in my entire life, and there will be no other.
  the story-line is so gripping, that you cant stop playing because all those years of playing the 
 Metal gear series, there are a lot of questions that need to be answered, and you have become emotionally 
 attached to Solid Snake throughout the series, that it becomes hard to play seeing him suffer the 
 way that his is, and watching through the trailers, u know that when you get to the end, he's most 
 likely going to do the right thing and pull the trigger. 
  Octagon is back, and i was a little cheesed off that he was so in love with Naomi, that it kinda 
 clashed with his love for sniper wolf in Metal Gear Solid, just because he had one night with her, 
 (and she was using them anyway) he's suddenly in love with this woman, who you know you don't trust, 
 because how can you, knowing from the first game, and her alliance with Liquid Ocelot. 
  The Nano machine malarky kinda confuses me at parts, but all in all, once you get the idea it becomes 
 more interesting. ( thats what i never got from Metal gear Solid 2, Raiden and The Cyborg Ninja 
 are stood side by side, but cannot talk directly to one another in case someone hears, so they 
 use their Nano communication instead but they're talking anyway, so it would mean just using the 
 nano communication for no reason what so ever, just to confuse me and maybe others around the world)
 
  Raiden is Bigger and better, with his envolvment within the new game, kinda weird at the end holding 
 of the platoon of elite soldiers , with a sword in his mouth.
  Liquid Ocelots Elite Unit of Women only Guards don't feel very Elite- ish, they feel kinda lame, 
 specially towards the end.
  The Graphics within the game are top spec, even though it isn't in 1080p due to compression and 
 lack of space difficulties, it doesn't seem to matter because it looks like the first actual game 
 where the graphics look like an actual game movie (you know like when the make the game trailers 
 but not using in game graphics) but this actual seems to have put the play station's power to the 
 max. 
  Surround sound is Fantastic, the controls are a little different to the usual controls, shoot is 
 no longer "Square" But "R1" Metal gear" fans will understand what i mean when i say that, but after 
 couple firefights and stealthy takedowns you get a good feel for the game. 
  
  At the End of the game i was suddenly overwhelmed and upset, because you play the whole game uncovering 
 the truth that you have been waiting so long to uncover, and wrapping the story line up, that you 
 suddenly realize, this is that last game that you are going to play as Snake, and the gripping 
 story line that has had you intrigued for the last 10 years has finally come to an end and there 
 will be no "Metal Gear Solid 5" because Snakes Journey has ended and all you can do is play the 
 4 games again, and not play as snake in another game, its upsetting to see the series end. 
  
  This game is defiantly a game for the history books and it is by far the best game ever created 
 and Hideo deserves the up most respect for creating these magnificent games. 
  
  10/10
  
  they don't get much better than this. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: makchady
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 12, 2008 7:31 pm PT
Review:  Metal Gear Solid 4 is often times a very enjoyable and noteworthy game, yet in the same breath 
 it can be inconsistent and embarrassing. As the last installment in Solid Snake's video game protagonist 
 career it's a slight let down.
  
  Konami and Kojima Productions have created a game that excels and pushes the boundaries for graphics 
 and action/stealth gameplay, but they have also re-enforced upon the gaming industry the mockery 
 of having poor cinematic elements. 
  
  Everything within Mgs4 looks great, and the scenarios are diverse and never become dull. You will 
 fight through the war-torn streets of the middle-east where it is bland browns in color to arctic, 
 snowstorm filled, outdoor areas to suburban streets. Some games such as the original Halo and Condemned 
 are criticized and brought down due to their redundant levels. Thankfully, Mgs4 does not disappoint 
 in this area. Furthermore, cut scenes look good, animations are well done, and special effects 
 add a nice visual flair but aren't too over the top.
  
  Gameplay is rock solid and can cater to nearly any playing style. Want to go in guns blazing? Feel 
 free. Just remember that there will be consequences, re-enforcements, if you do so just like real 
 life. However, if you would like to approach stealthily then by all means give it a shot. You rarely 
 are forced to choose one or the other method, so it's up to you how you want to play through.
 
  
  Each gun feels different, and being able to upgrade them with scopes, laser-pointers, silencers 
 and more adds to the experience. Being able to purchase items on the fly at any time isn't exactly 
 practical, but can't say i was complaining. The set pieces set up for you during the game change 
 up the pacing well, and boss battles come at good times. Overall, Mgs4's gameplay nails the action/stealth 
 genre to a tee.
  
  This is not to say that Mgs4 is a perfect game though. In fact, it's not even close. Firstly, the 
 boss battles, which has always been a highlight for the mgs series, are un-inspired and not unique. 
 There is a universal theme for each boss and they have been ripped straight from a previous mgs. 
 Only one boss takes any thinking at all to beat. This is a shame since snake eater had multiple 
 memorable bosses.
  
  On top of that, the dialogue for cut scenes is atrocious. I cannot stress this enough, the dialogue 
 is god awful. Mgs4 could potentially make some B movies look good. There were numerous times where 
 i couldn't help but shake my head asking myself "why... why would they put that in there". This 
 poor dialogue is worsened by Kojima's attempt at comic relief, which is awkward and pulls you out 
 of the otherwise meaningful and good story. There are so many examples i could list here that its 
 not even funny but a few are Otacon's cry which is laughable, Otacon telling you to insert disc 
 2 which was stupid, the love seen was eye rolling, psycho mantis making a memory card comment was 
 dumb, and so much more. 
  
  Mgs4 does have an interesting story, which goes over well for 98% of the game. However, in the 
 ending cut scene Kojima decided to over convoluted everything and turn it upside down just because 
 he felt he needed to seem smart and complex. This completely undermines the entire story and nearly 
 ruined the game. Worsening the game still is a fight scene toward the very end, which was designed 
 horrendously and is tedious and not fun.
  
  Metal Gear Solid 4 truly could have been one of the best games ever made. As it is however it is 
 a masterpiece that is hampered and brought down by poor decisions made by Kojima. Mgs4 is still 
 highly enjoyable and at many times epic. If you can overlook the cheese, which will surely be hard, 
 then it will be a great experience. Don't get your hopes up too high and you surely wont be let 
 down. Still worth playing even with the issues, so at least rent it if not a buy. 
  
  I must admit that despite all the numerous complaints i had with this game i still truly enjoyed 
 playing it and often times found myself waiting to play it again. So, with that being said i feel 
 an 8.5 is the perfect score for mgs4, very good in it's own right, but it had a few drawbacks.
 
  
  Metal Gear Online is simply an added feature. I did not enjoy my experience with it at all as it 
 was plagued with a very bad start up/joining online and i was consistently kicked out of games 
 for no apparent reason. I saw Mgs4 as being a single player only game, so i was not disappointed 
 by mgo. It did not change or affect my opinion of the game overall i simply am going to keep my 
 online gaming to games that are meant for online gaming, mgs is not meant for online gaming.
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: WizardAssassin7
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 3, 2008 10:22 am PT
Review:  Absolutely mind blowing. Graphics are some of the most stunning I've seen, and the controls are 
 so smooth and fluid. And let's not forget the story unfolding before the players eyes. An awesome 
 accomplishment in gaming for those who are die-hard fans of the series or for those who have never 
 played. This game will be talked about for many years to come. Not a lot of load times. The cinematic 
 cut scenes flow very smoothly. Characters are very well developed. When trying to decide whether 
 to get an Xbox 360 and PS3. this game was the deciding factor in helping me make my decision, and 
 that was about a year ago, MSG4 hadn't even been released yet. So as you can imagine I am quite 
 happy it turned out the way it did. It is one of those games that once you've completed it, you 
 just wanna put it in and go through it again. Especially with the graphics and such, one is bound 
 to miss SOMETHING the first time around. In the words of Jim Rome- "Phen-ominal!" Playing this 
 game just has me yearning for what's next hoping that there will be a next 
::::::

::::::
UserName: King-gamer
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 4, 2008 12:13 am PT
Review:  4 years had passed since the release of Metal Gear Solid 3, Kojima and his team has taken a long 
 time to produce the final game, Metal Gear Solid 4 (MGS4) , and the question is, is it worth the 
 wait? Well, the answer is most certainly yes, MGS4 is a stunning game, from the adrenalin pumping 
 action, to the amazing cut scenes and the unbelievably detailed graphics, MGS4 is most definitely 
 one of the best action games ever if not one of the best game of all time.
  
  Once again you take up the role of the legendary soldier, Solid Snake who had been called out of 
 retirement for one final mission - to locate and assassinate Liquid Ocelot. This time around, you 
 get to travel to the harsh lands of the Middle East, the jungles of South America, the cities of 
 Eastern Europe, Shadow Moses island and more as stealth your way through enemies, gun them down, 
 and pick up some new weapons and moves along the way.
  
  The most noticeable and jaw-dropping thing about MGS4 is how good it looks. Everything in the game 
 is absolutely astounding, the character models, textures, particle effects, and animation is so 
 amazing it's a wonder how the guys at Kojima Production still manage to get the game running at 
 a smooth 60 frames per second. In the heat of battles however, the frame rate does drop considerably 
 to little over half, but unless you have a large widescreen television, the difference is hardly 
 noticeable, though, I advise you to get one because you won't be getting the full experience without 
 a large television. This is by far the best looking game to date.
  
  Unlike most action games that usually force you from a stealth sequence to an action sequence, 
 MGS4 doesn't have that. You have complete freedom in MGS4, there are no "stealth levels" or "action 
 levels", if you feel like running around and shooting guys you can do that, or if you prefer to 
 sneak your way around, that is perfectly fine, it's your choice.
  
  The controls for this game have changed a lot from the previous games as well. You can now use 
 the right analog stick to pan the camera around, making it easier to see your surroundings and 
 catch enemies hiding behind corners, this also aids you when you are hiding behind walls as you 
 can pan the camera to see where your enemies are even when hiding. You can also zoom in to a more 
 Resident Evil style, over the shoulder view, or for more precise aiming, you can zoom in to first 
 person which will take out your sense of awareness, but still good in many ways.
  
  One other impressive thing is that all of the cut scenes in the game is done using only the game's 
 engine. It looks so good that developers did not need to make separate videos for each cut scenes. 
 This also means that there is absolutely NO load times between each cut scene and gameplay. After 
 every cut scene, the game merely swings the camera behind Snake, a life bar, mini map and few other 
 things pop out and there, you're in the game. This means you should constantly pay attention, because 
 you may not even notice you're already in the game. With that said, the game has superb voice acting 
 for each scene. Though the game has never been officially translated, but even so, the voice actors 
 did a pretty good job.
  
  There people who complain about how there are too many cut scenes, or how each are too long. Yes, 
 the game does take you out of the action every so often, with cut scenes that can be more than 
 10 minutes long, which is long for a video game. In total, the game has up to more than 10 hours 
 of cut scenes. Some people may ask, why not just make a movie? Well, for starters, this is MGS, 
 known for their unique cinematic cut scenes, and Kojima already planned a movie based on the series.
 
  
  Story drives the MGS series, and MGS4 wouldn't be successful without a great one. Trying to leave 
 spoilers aside, MGS4 has an amazing story that wraps up all the stories of the previous games. 
 Anything that cliffhangers left behind from the first, second or third games is all wrapped up 
 here, and ends it all beautifully. MGS4 does try to help players new to the series to get into 
 the game by explaining what happened previously, but still, it is better that you played all previous 
 games as the story in MGS4 tends to jump around a lot that may confuse you.
  
  A prematurely aged Snake is suffering from rapid aging due to the side effects of being a clone, 
 but that does not mean he will fail. He will meet up with some old friends, Meryl, Otacon, Roy 
 Campbell, are all there to assist him.
  
  The stories takes many twist, and sometimes you maybe surprise that things didn't turn out the 
 way you thought, and that's the reason why MGS4 is so good. The story can be very unpredictable, 
 and with each mystery solved, more comes up, which keeps the game exciting.
  
  The central bosses of MGS4 are known as The Beauty and the Beast Corps, They are a group of really, 
 sexy ladies inside powerful metal suits of armor. The members are Crying Wolf, Laughing Octopus, 
 Screaming Mantis, and Raging Raven, each of them is named after their emotions. These bosses can 
 be hard to beat, but they are both fun and challenging making them fun to fight.
  
  Solid Snake's arsenal grows larger this time. You can know use the Solid Eye, which is a new item 
 placed over Snake's eye allowing him to use a mini map, and locate nearby enemies. Another interesting 
 new feature is the Metal Gear Mk. II. This miniature version of the larger Metal Gear is a great 
 robotic companion that you can use to spy on enemies while you hide. It can send out a long electrified 
 whip to knock out enemies, and can even turn invisible for a short amount of time. Other special 
 items include an Ipod for music, a Sony Erricson hand phone, and many other real life products.
 
  
  The other great feature is the ability to tailor weapons into your own style. You meet up with 
 a sales person named Drebin, who sells you guns, ammo, upgrades, and many other stuff. The currency 
 you use in the game are in Drebin points. Every time you take out an enemy, you can pick up his 
 weapon and it will turn in to Drebin points that you can use to purchase new weapons or upgrades. 
 You can even purchase ammo in the mid of battle which some people might complain it makes the game 
 too easy as you can never run out of ammo as long as you have enough Drebin points. Yes, this may 
 make the game a little easier, but Nothing that will make the game unbalanced.
  
  This game is so big it is done on a dual layer Blu-ray disc, and it even has multiplayer, which 
 is another big feature in MGS4. The multiplayer in MGS4 can be called a it's own separate game, 
 in fact it's on its own separate disc. Multiplayer supports up to 16 players online, using the 
 same graphics, same 3D engine, same mechanics as the normal game. You can still stealth and crawl 
 around and hide in a barrel, or a cardboard box, but none of this works that well against a smarter 
 human player. There are several different multiplayer modes, including team death match and one 
 of my personal favorite is when one player plays as Snake and rest of the players try to catch 
 him. While multiplayer in MGS4 is no where nearly as good as those found on Call of Duty 4, the 
 game is still fairly balanced, and a solid addition to the main game itself.
  
  -------
  
  Positive:
  -Amazing presentation
  -Outstanding graphics, animation, effects and textures.
 
  -Amazing Story
  
  Negative:
  -This is the last game featuring Solid Snake as the protagonist.
  
  Overall Metal Gear Solid 
 4 is an amazing game that MGS fan should play, and it is the primary reason why you should buy 
 a PS3. We salute to you Solid Snake, and kudos to Hideo Kojima for producing one of the greatest 
 games of all time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gamereviews2008
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 3, 2008 2:29 am PT
Review:  Snake is back, and as amazing as ever. You play Snake, who can blend in with enviroments and hide 
 in dustbins, this game is the best ever created. I think you should read up on the previous games 
 first, before you play this one, or play them. Although, it's easily a easy plot to figure out, 
 and possibly the best stealth game i have ever experienced...
  
  First of all, the story is easyily figured out, no mistakes and written superbly. Voice acting 
 is also superb, no mistakes in sentaces, well, maybe one but you can't tell, and Snake once again 
 offers a mind blowing performance. Now, the graphics in this game are the best i have seen, better 
 than Grand Theft Auto 4 and better than Tomb Raider, the characters look amazingly well made, with 
 detail to every feature and every clothing item. Now, as Snake you can hide in dustbins and barrels, 
 and that's fun, but don't stay in a stinky bin to long as you'll get caught. The whole point is 
 to sneak around, and to avoid getting into a shoot out, so why not step up againt a wall and blend 
 in with it? Even a mellon can make you turn green. You can jump through buildings, take out enemies 
 slowly and get involved in bad ass boss battles tat are very hard. A hard game, but long. One chapter 
 can take you up to about a hour to complete, worth the money.
  
  The locations are very well designed, with ladders you can climb and boxes to hide in, oh, did 
 i mention the online mode? Well, go online with 16 friends to battle the rebels, sneak around, c 
 reate your own character and have fun! Amazingly done, the best game for online mode, well, there 
 is Call Of Duty 4, but that doesn't even beat it! Using you gun comes into the story alot, along 
 with gadgets, machines and solid eye's. Fireing your gun is super, and feels like your in the game 
 itself! One heck of a game, will take you a long time to complete, a nd a sad ending, but we won't 
 spoil it for you! Any budding gamer and Metal Gear fan will love this game.
  
  Overall, amazing, a great 10.0/10.0! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 29121994
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 3, 2008 1:22 am PT
Review:  Metal gear Solid 4. Whether or not you have played the other games in the series or not, you absolutely 
 have to play this game if you own a ps3. i truly find Mgs4 to be one of the best games i have ever 
 played. It is so amazing, epic and immersive that the not so distant future which the game is set 
 in seems absolutely real. Mgs4 is played through 5 different acts. Each act has its own epic ending 
 where you will be left in awe. Mgs4 is a game that gives you alot of options as to how to handle 
 each and every situation, for example, you might need to get from point a to point b, you can either 
 sneak past, kill everything in your way or you can stealth assassinate each and every one of your 
 enemies. There isn't much i can say though for me to let you know just how good a game it is, you 
 just have to play it for yourself. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: insectus
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 2, 2008 5:35 pm PT
Review:  How to review a game like MGS4?
  
  Without doubt this is a different level of gaming, perhaps even a level that the audiences aren't 
 ready for. The audiences, or the game industry itself has yet to reach this threshold narratively.
 
  
  The plot is extremely complicated and more ellaborate than most movies today, there's no point 
 in describing it in detail, because the fans already know it, and the newcomers can really only 
 experience it themselves. What is important here is that it tells the story of an old weary soldier, 
 someone made for the battlefield, who has one last mission before his imminent death. The emotional 
 impact of this tale is weaved like nothing ever made in gaming before, and you'll sure walk away 
 feeling like the characters are actual people that you'll remember for years to come. The conclusion 
 is also extremely satisfactory, bringing an worthy end to this great saga.
  
  Technically, the game goes above the average in every aspect. Sound and music are excellent (apart 
 from some unsfashionably corny dialogue) , and graphics are astonishing, rarely just showing some 
 ugliness on some details.
  
  But artistically is where the game really shows itself, for its technically proficient visuals 
 are used to depict an artistically marvelous whole with some many rich detail that sometimes you'll 
 feel you're not being given the chance to enjoy to the full just the visual experience.
  
  As for gameplay, its solid both for stealth action and for third and first person shooting, however 
 close combat can be cumbersome occasionaly, and some moves aren't exactly intuitive to pull off. 
 There are also a lot of sweet gadgets to play around with and fool the enemies.
  
  There are also on rail shooting sequences that really allow the player to go on a killing spree 
 instead of always sneaking.
  
  However, the spectacular cutscenes are also where the game shoots itself in the leg. Spectacular. 
 Yes. Narratively exccelent. Yes. Too long? This will be forever a mather of opinion among gamers. 
 In my opinion, for the most its balanced, but in some areas, particularly in the third act, i really 
 wished there was more actual gameplay. The story is very interesting, but its still a game and 
 therefore I want to play it and not just whatch it. The end sequence (around 70 minutes if i'm 
 not mistaken!) is surely over the top, but more acceptable since its not just the conclusion for 
 the game, it's the conclusion for the saga.
  
  Finally, the multiplayer part is very well put together, not with any really original mode but 
 with great gameplay. However, Metal Gear Online is almost a game itself, so it shouldn't really 
 be reviewed with MGS4.
  
  This is the present pinnacle of game making in my opinion, but alas it would never get a perfect 
 score from me, because it's exccelent but i really feel it needed more gameplay or less exposition.
 
  
  Still, it's an experience that for better or worst will never be forgotten by anyone who plays 
 it till the heartpounding end.
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: CrazyGamer9163
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 2, 2008 2:59 pm PT
Review:  Metal Gear Solid 4: Guns of the Patriots is one of the best games ever made for the Playstation 
 3. I never tried the online because I didn't have access to play online at the time. The games 
 graphics are very unbelievable. It's so detailed, you can see the pores off of Old Snake's face 
 when you see him in a cut scene. MGS4 has great voice acting and sounds. The long cut scenes are 
 very enjoyable to watch. The story has to end, (which sucks) but it is very good and extreamly 
 interesting and will keep you on your toes all the time. The difficulty of the game is what ever 
 difficultly you set in on ( if you set it on easy, it will be easy) . The controls for a new person 
 to the series will be very, very frustrating for the first 15 minutes, but after that you will 
 master it. The game is nice and long which is very good. It took me about 31 hours to beat the 
 game for the first time on Big Boss (Hard) difficulty. Overall, it's a great game and a must have 
 for people who played the first 3 MGS games, and I think the rookies to the series should rent 
 it just in case you don't like the controls or how you have to play the game. Either way, it's 
 a great game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Neomaniac15
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 2, 2008 12:07 pm PT
Review:  With it's stunning graphics and addictive gameplay Metal Gear Solid 4: Guns of the Patriots is 
 almost without a doubt the best game on the PS3 to date. MGS4 picks up where MGS2 left off with 
 Snake and Raiden hunting down a very secret group known as The Patriots. As Snake says in the beginning 
 however, war (along with Snake himself) has changed. All soldiers are connected to nanomachines 
 in some way and are controlled through the System. Snake, due to circumstances you need to play 
 the game to know is now an old man and likewise must cope with the fact. You as the player must 
 also cope with Snake's age in a few subtle ways. Back to gameplay: it's changed a lot, but in a 
 very good way. The game has taken on a few western gameplay techniques such as a 360 degree rotating 
 camera and an over-the-shoulder shooting mechanic. As the official GameSpot review says the new 
 controls are well placed and it doesn't seem like a shooter was just thrown in with a pro-sneaking 
 game or visa versa. The only bad thing to be said about MGS4 is the fact that you have to install 
 the game at certain points which really puts a damper on your game experience. I view this as more 
 of an annoyance rather than a negative factor of the game and as such give the game a perfect 10. 
 One last thing: you remember how the circle button was always used to select things intstead of 
 the X button? this has changed and now the X button selects things. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: snake2215449
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 2, 2008 11:48 am PT
Review:  Metal Gear Solid 4: Guns of the Patriots is a story-driven adventure game, with seasoned hero Solid 
 Snake drafted for one final mission. Set across stages including the Middle East and South America, 
 the now aged Snake has been asked to assassinate his old adversary, Liquid Ocelot. To do this, 
 however, he must make his way through a series of battlefields, using his legendary stealth abilities 
 and all-new OctoCamo suit to avoid detection and to reach his target. With series favorites such 
 as Meryl Silverburgh, Raiden, Hal 'Otacon' Emmerich, Eva and Roy Campbell returning, and with all 
 new gameplay features including a remote-controlled Metal Gear Mk. II and enhanced CQC (Close Quarters 
 Combat) system, Metal Gear Solid 4 rounds out the Metal Gear saga with a fittingly cinematic and 
 gripping final outing. 
  
  The world of Metal Gear Solid 4 is quite a bleak one. In fact, in many ways, it's precisely the 
 one that Solid Snake and Otacon have been hoping to avoid. Set six years in the future, war and 
 conflict are no longer a sporadic occurrence with hot spots around the globe; instead, the entire 
 planet is engulfed in constant battle. War has become its own self-sustaining industry, replacing 
 the overall global economy with the contracts of private military corporations, or PMCs, that sell 
 their services to the highest bidder. These mercenaries constantly try to prove their effectiveness 
 on the battlefield to gain even more contracts, which causes more and more destruction as nanomachine-enhanced 
 soldiers clash in cities, in buildings and on the streets. With such a chaotic environment, not 
 even civilians are safe from the constant fighting, as skirmishes can break out at any point. 
 
  
  This is the setting that Solid Snake has been called out of retirement for: one final mission issued 
 by Col. Campbell to save the world from one last threat. Snake is initially inserted into the war 
 zone of the Middle East undercover as a UN PMC inspector to gauge how the situation on the ground 
 is being handled by troops there. Of course, he has a more direct task that takes advantage of 
 his specialized skills: he must find and assassinate Liquid Ocelot, who has become the head of 
 five of the largest PMCs in the world. That's definitely easier said than done, as Ocelot has surrounded 
 himself with a group of deadly comrades -- including a quartet of deadly females known as the Beauty 
 and the Beast Corps who appear to be half woman, half machine -- to eliminate Solid Snake.
  
  I haven't gone over all of the features within the title, such as the photo gallery which stores 
 and displays pictures taken by Snake with his camera, or the virtual range which lets you practice 
 with the various firearms that you have within the title. Nor have I mentioned the exquisite evolution 
 of the control scheme, which is the best one yet. But the one other significant feature of MGS4 
 is the inclusion of Metal Gear Online, which provides a multiplayer feature to a package that is 
 already solid (no pun intended) with its single-player campaign. Technically, Kojima Productions 
 didn't even need to include this section within the game, particularly because it's a starter pack 
 and will be expanded into a full online product by itself. But what's included on the disc is a 
 good sneak peek of what to expect from the multiplayer realm of Metal Gear.
  
  Similar to that of the beta test, Metal Gear Online features five multiplayer maps for up to 16 
 players to blast their way across. The starter pack now includes two additional stages not seen 
 in the beta, Urban Ultimatum and Ambush Alley. Urban Ultimatum is a large stage that's more impressive 
 due to its verticality than its various nooks and crannies that you can explore  many players 
 can climb the ladders attached to the buildings and take up positions as snipers on rooftops. Ambush 
 Alley, by contrast, is all about stealth and surprise, as the bombed out rubble and smashed buildings 
 provides quite a bit of cover for players to engage and eliminate unsuspecting enemies.
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: eleduel
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 2, 2008 11:31 am PT
Review:  The 1st time I played it.. i thought it was a short game... but that wasn't the problem... the 
 thing there was that I went through the whole game in 4 days... now that I'm playing it again, 
 it seems to last what it should last... love it...
  
  Pro's: Graphics, gameplay, interactions, weapons, so many things I can't just remember. Also, very 
 good on-line experience, voices, disguises and suits, characters, story, exelent character control, 
 great realism, ...
  
  Con's: way too adictive, no alternative missions like in MGS2, you can only have one multiplayer 
 character... = (
  
  I just recommend to play the previous versions for PS2 so you have some background of the story 
 when playing this one. 
  
  Go and buy this game... don't be fool as me, and buy the collector's edition, if there's any left 
 :P 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Cycloptersaurus
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 2, 2008 2:45 am PT
Review:  Over the past few years, there has been a debate raging over whether or not games could be classified 
 as art, if it was possible for them to bridge the gap between immersive storytelling as seen in 
 cinema and the kind of immersion that a player experiences as they control what happens in a videogame. 
 Metal Gear Solid 4 for the PlayStation 3 proves that the answer is a resounding yes.
  
  The game starts out with a cinematic showing Snake in a Middle Eastern warzone, PMCs (Private Military 
 Corporations) in intense combat with local rebels. The visuals are absolutely outstanding  some 
 of the best visuals I've ever seen in any game. When the camera zooms in on Snake and the HUD appears, 
 I couldn't believe that I was playing a game that looked this good; the visuals are probably the 
 best I've seen in a game to date. The game then goes on to go back and forth between gameplay and 
 cinematics fairly seamlessly throughout the rest of the game, giving the player the sense that 
 they really ARE Snake.
  
  The biggest achievement here is that the game wraps up all of the outstanding questions from the 
 previous games into a cohesive storyline that makes sense, leaves no loose ends, and is endlessly 
 entertaining. Even if the player has no previous knowledge of the series, the game is still is 
 a resounding achievement in its own right. I was glued to the television for the duration of the 
 game, and came as close to forgetting I was playing a game as I ever have. The story unfolds at 
 a steady pace, slowly increasing in tension as the player learns more about what is going on. I 
 won't spoil anything, I'll simply say it gets better and better as the game goes on, as the player 
 grows even more attached to the characters they've learned about in the past games. Also, Raiden 
 is a huge bad-ass; it's like Kojima productions went out of their way to do it as a big **** you" 
 to folks that didn't like him in MGS2. "You didn't like playing as him then? Well now he's insanely 
 awesome  BUT YOU CAN'T PLAY AS HIM!
  
  One of the best new gameplay innovations is the simple fact that the player can choose to play 
 the game however they choose. Obviously, they can go through, hiding against each wall using the 
 new Octocamo system (A natural and straightforward evolution from the different cammo in MGS3) , 
 slithering along the ground outside the sight of the enemy, hiding in dumpsters, putting Playboy 
 magazines on the ground to distract the enemy, and so on, but now thanks to the insane weapon selection 
 (60+!) and the ability to fight alongside the rebels armies against PMCs, the Rambo option is actually 
 viable.
  
  The player is able to access these weapons via a new economy system, wherein the player acquires 
 "points" by collecting guns that they already have in their inventory, and "selling" the duplicates. 
 They use these points to buy guns, gun upgrades (scopes, laser sights, suppressors, grips, etc) 
 and ammo from an in-game store.
  
  That is not to say that stealth doesn't still play a huge part of the game. Even if you go "Rambo", 
 there are some places where you must use stealth  and even when full-on combat is the chosen option, 
 the player still has to be tactical about it. They can use the Metal Gear Mk. II to scout ahead, 
 use CQC to hold soldiers as human shields while they use one of the many pistols to shoot other 
 soldiers, and so forth. Avoiding alerts is still very important. The new Psyche and Stress meters 
 have to be monitored and maintained in order to keep Snake combat-ready, and too much careless 
 combat can negatively affect these both severely. Of course, the player can't be stealthy the whole 
 game, as there are a number of wonderfully intense boss fights.
  
  The atmosphere in general is something to be praised. The visuals, obviously, are incredible. The 
 animation is second to none, and the sound is amazing. All of these elements come together and 
 create one of the most immersive gaming experiences in history.
  
  I have two complaints. One is that when the player is taking cover on a wall, they can lean out 
 to the left or right, but cannot peek out over the top of short cover. While it could be argued 
 that MGS started the actual mechanic of sticking to walls, games like Gears of War have since evolved 
 into an actual cover system, both leaning out around and above walls. In MGS4, there is a more 
 significant emphasis on combat than in past games in the series, so this mechanic would have been 
 welcome.
  
  Secondly, the online has some major balance issues. The game is easily worth the price for the 
 singleplayer alone, and they may well patch some of this (MGO as seen in MGS4 is a "starter kit") , 
 but as it is now the game is essentially headshots only. The torso can take some 15 bullets to 
 take out a player, whereas a single headshot takes down anybody. There are a number of cool innovations, 
 such as the evolving upgrades (increase in effectiveness as the player uses them more) and the 
 nanomachines that allow the player to see where their allies are at all times when "linked" with 
 other players but all the same, I still find myself going back to WarHawk and Call of Duty 4.
 
  
  Obviously these are both minor complaints, and if you have a PS3 you would have to be crazy to 
 not buy this game. If there ever was such a thing as a "killer app", this is that game. Immediately 
 after completing this game, I started a second campaign. I don't believe I have ever done this 
 before; I have played games multiple times in the past, but never immediately afterward. I cannot 
 recommend this game enough, and it is the finest single player gaming experience I have ever had. 
 This is the kind of game you never forget.
  
  http://www. devastationstudios. com/kent/ 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SSBFan12
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 1, 2008 8:44 pm PT
Review:  In the game you start off in a truck and Snake is wearing assiassins creed outfit. When you get 
 out of the truck the adventure starts you start killing men and then these big machines with creature 
 legs come and stomps on your men. So when you get into this building yo take off you outfit and 
 it shows Snake really old. In the game you are really snake and your partners are Octacon your 
 informer, Marill and her team a small squad that helps you, and last your weapon specialist is 
 Murdoc I think it just can't come to me. You also have this suit called the Octo Camoflauge suit 
 it can camoflage your surronds. You can also unlock suites like Altairs suite. The good of the 
 game is that you can't get very tired of playing. The bad is that the clips are pretty hard and 
 it is the last of the Metal Gear solid in the series. This is why I rate this game is 10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: -Milli-
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 1, 2008 2:30 pm PT
Review:  Following Metal Gear Solid 3: Snake Eater, this game totally blew that game out of the water, it's 
 upgraded almost everything I could think of, great gameplay, the story is amazing, the videos are 
 insanely long, but that is deffinately not a bad thing. The enemies are smarter, better detailed, 
 and somewhat well armed this time around, of course this game stresses stealth, which is awesome, 
 a full collection of awards for this game or the emblems, as they call it, new camoflouge that 
 is quite amazing! The Octo camo is very very very well done, I couldn't find any artistic mess 
 ups, the game flows very well and a lot of old faces come to this game! (Included Snake himself, 
 he's quite the coffin dodger now) But Snake can sure move much better then most men who seem that 
 old! The online play on this game is... Well it's pretty good, the clan system is excellent, the 
 gameplay is very laggy, however. That's a big let down, but there is set to be a lot of downloadable 
 content and you can customize your character! Everyone's got to love that feature! A lot of game 
 modes online, all and all this has to be one of the BEST games I have ever played in my life, whether 
 you're into shooters or not, this game is excellent!
  I put the difficulty to hard, based on the "Big Boss Extreme" mode, it has many other difficulties 
 aswell, so you can adjust to your skill level! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kaitoe
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 1, 2008 10:52 am PT
Review:  Metal Gear Solid 4 is a cinematic masterpiece. Every cutscene it contains, and the gameplay it 
 has, has been refined and polished to perfection. That being said, there are a few quirks along 
 with it.
  
  Story:
  Being the fourth and final game of the series, Metal Gear Solid 4 is not exactly a game for a newcomer 
 to the series. In order to enjoy the story best, one would either have to play the previous three 
 games, or, read up on them on Wikipedia. As a finale, it tightly wraps up the story created and 
 expanded on throughout the first three Metal Gear Solid games, and after many twists, turns, and 
 the occasional humor, it gives a satisfying ending that will surely leave an imprint on everyone 
 who plays it. Overall, a newcomer to the series may be taken back by the complexity of the game. 
 But veterans of the Metal Gear Solid series, will enjoy the game a lot.
  
  Gameplay:
  If one were to read the cover, they'd see "Tactical Espionage Action"; and the game is just that. 
 However, it can be played many ways. Weapons such as rocket launchers and machine guns can be bought 
 so a person can play the game as an action game. Or, a person may play it as a sneaking game, with 
 only the tranquilizer gun, a cardboard box, and stun grenades at their disposal. Along with weapons, 
 players are given the choice to used CQC, or, Close Quarter Combat. For the final game, it has 
 been refined, and therefore, much more easier and satisfying to pull off. Sneaking has been made 
 easier as well, with the introduction of the Octocamo: A suit that can change its pattern to mimic 
 the texture (s) of the floor, wall, etc. Like Metal Gear Solid 3, the game is now played with a 
 third-person view. The top-down view found in the previous games are gone. However, the game has 
 kept the first-person view, which can only be used when aiming and firing weapons. The introduction 
 to new enemies such as the bipedal walking machines, the Gekkos, give the game a unique experience 
 as well. All in all, the gameplay is amazing. It never gets repetitive, one can play it in many 
 different ways, and there are also times where the player is put on vehicles to shoot down enemies.
 
  
  AI:
  The Artificial Intelligence that enemy soldiers contain is very good. When alerted, soldiers take 
 specific positions, inform their superior, and are suspicious are everything. They look and work 
 like a team, flanking the player if they get the chance. While it's not the absolute best AI I've 
 ever seen, it is impressive nonetheless.
  
  Graphics:
  The graphics must be seen to know what I am talking about. It is truly a masterpiece. The attention 
 to detail on every model is amazing. While there can be some blurry textures every now and then, 
 most are frighteningly detailed. Characters are outstanding as well. They contain the textures 
 and animation that rival those in Uncharted. Even walking up and down steps have specific animations. 
 Also, with motion capturing, the cutscenes bring the characters to life. Being a gritty game, the 
 environments are intentionally desaturated and have a distinct colour pallet. They also coincide 
 with how Snake has gotten old as well. Unlike many new games, Metal Gear Solid 4 does not overuse 
 effects such as Specular Mapping, Bump Mapping, and Bloom, creating life-like and believable environments. 
 The scale and amount of stuff going on in the background are startling as well. There are usually 
 many enemies in a map, and they can be seen interacting with enemies, killing them, and winning 
 fights. With everything going on, it is probably enough to make someone utter "wow" in shock and 
 amazement. However, maps are still linear. However, while they are linear, the maps are big as 
 well.
  
  Sound:
  The sound in the game has been given the same attention as the graphics. With the power of Dolby 
 Digital 5.1, the feeling of immersion is enhanced. Every effect is accurately produced, whether 
 it is the sound of a Snake crawling through grass or the sound of gunshots erupting all around. 
 The voice acting is top-notch as well. For the fourth game, the original voice actors have returned. 
 David Hayter is still the one and only voice of Snake (in English) , giving Old Snake a distinct 
 and raspy voice, successfully complementing the aging of Solid Snake. While the dialogue can be 
 long, and sometimes awkward, the voice actors help make the characters come alive. The orchestral 
 score composed by Harry Gregson-Williams and Nobuko Toda exceed many movie scores as well. Each 
 song has been carefully composed and both complements and enhances the experience.
  
  Replayability:
  Metal Gear Solid 4, is a game that will keep a person playing for a while. There 
 are many trophies and weapons to collect, and items to unlock as well. Along with those, there 
 is the Metal Gear Online Starter Pack. In Metal Gear Online, the graphics and sound seem to be 
 the same and in Metal Gear Solid 4. The online portion of the game is very fun, and even if a player 
 gets tired of unlocking items and collecting weapons, Metal Gear Online will keep the player coming 
 back for a while. However, the sign-up process may be a little tedious for some people.
  
  Also, the game requires a couple installs as well. The first install takes about nine minutes while 
 the rest takes less than four. While they can get annoying, it can help signal a person to take 
 a break and stretch. Also, while loading times are short, they are found in many places. However, 
 they do not compromise the quality of the game.
  
  Overall, Metal Gear Solid 4 is a must have for anybody with a PS3. While it has some faults, it 
 pushes the bar to a level only some games have reached. It excels in many categories, and no area 
 of the game is "left behind". It is one of the best games ever made, and it is also a serious contender 
 for Game Of The Year 2008. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: metabeau
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 1, 2008 8:23 am PT
Review:  Metal Gear Solid 4 is a must have for all PS3 owners. It is arguably the best stealth game ever 
 and also one of the best third-person games ever. The cut-scenes are simply inspirational; Metal 
 Gear Solid 4 is one of the only games whose story rivals that of a Hollywood movie. The graphics 
 are great even if you don't play it in HD. The CQC in Metal Gear Solid 4 is the best that you will 
 find in any game ever. Nothing is more satisfying than sneaking up on an enemy and knocking them 
 out.
  Many people have criticized the game because of Snake being an old man who looks pathetic compared 
 to the other soldiers. Just because he looks old and weak that doesn't mean he can't inflict serious 
 damage on the enemy. Making Snake old was a risky choice but it has paid off. For the first time 
 in a Metal Gear game you don't feel invincible. 
  If you manage to complete the game you will realize there are a lot of reasons that you should 
 replay the game on a harder difficulty. There are over 60 weapons in the game and some cost literally 
 millions of Drebin Points. So if you want to use all the weapons in the game you may have to play 
 it all the way through a few times. There are many unlockables that can only be unlocked by completing 
 the game more than once (e. g. costumes, ranks, items) . 
  There are a few problems with the game the biggest of these is actually the cut-scenes. They are 
 far too long and if you do skip them you won't have any idea about what is going on. Also the makers 
 say that you can play it in first-person view but that is simply not true. If you complete the 
 game on normal or easy then you will be very frustrated when you play the game again on hard. If 
 you crouch and then proceed to walk past your enemies it is very unlikely they will hear you if 
 you are playing the game on easy or normal. If you are playing it on hard it is very unlikely that 
 they won't hear you because they seem to have super sensitive hearing.
  Apart from those flaws in an almost flawless game Metal Gear Solid is the greatest game to date 
 and nobody can argue otherwise.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: bmassarani
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 1, 2008 5:54 am PT
Review:  I am very fond of the Metal Gear series, especially Metal Gear Solid. I remember thinking the game 
 was so cool that I actually bought the game before I bought a PS. Needless to say, I went out and 
 bought a PS3 just for MGS4.
  
  This was a fantastic game, with an extremely intricate backstory and a taste for the dramatic. 
 The MG series has worked hard to perfect the "sneaking" style, and in MGS4 they really allow you 
 to branch out and play the game how you want (sneaking verse shooting) .
  
  To be honest I was ready to rate this game a 7/10 while I was playing (until I got to chapter 4!) 
 The gameplay mechanics, graphics are all great, but the story and the cutscenes really seemed to 
 get in the way. Literally a friend stopped by as I was playing and had to wait an hour before I 
 had a chance to show him the game outside of a cutscene. And I never thought I would say this, 
 but In my opinion the story could have been toned down a little more. 
  
  MG has a HUGE amount of backstory to it, but I think that by trying to cram explanations for all 
 4 games in, they made it harder for first-timers to pick the game up and enjoy without going on 
 wikipedia and reading the back story for all the games. (I comment on this because that same friend 
 has never played any of the MGS games)
  
  
  The Good - This thing is a total package... simply amazing. 
  
  The Bad - Cutscenes interrupted 
 the flow of the game
  
  The Ugly - There is HUGE amount of story here... it will probably intimidate those that are new 
 to MG. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: latin_boi
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 31, 2008 5:50 pm PT
Review:  The year was 1998. Konami releases the original Metal Gear Solid, a Playstation title that remains 
 to this day one of the most compelling and fun games the system ever had. The game introduced one 
 of gaming's most memorable characters ever, Solid Snake, and a cast that also remains one of the 
 best in video gaming ever. Fast forward 10 years later, after one of the highest rated PS2 games 
 (Metal Gear Solid 2) , and the prequel that explained everything we wanted to know (Metal Gear Solid 
 3) , and here we are now. Metal Gear Solid 4 is a simply awe-inspiring, tear jerking, all around 
 amazing combination of gameplay, storytelling, and audio/visual presentation you simply must play 
 if you call yourself a gamer.
  
  That being said, Metal Gear Solid 4 is mainly for those who have stuck with the series since its 
 humble beginnings back in 1998. The majority of the cast is back from previous games, along with 
 a few new faces, and even some unexpected ones. I will refrain from giving away too much, because 
 the story is simply something you have to experience on your own, without anyone telling you the 
 details. The bulk of MGS4's accomplishments lie within Hideo Kojima's expert storytelling. With 
 Snake's final mission, he's provided closure, explanation, and even the possibility of a future 
 for his series. Despite the fact that it will make you scratch your heads at one point or another, 
 and the sometimes excruciatingly long cutscenes can seem a bit much, Metal Gear Solid 4's story 
 is an absolute marvel, and raises the bar for future games wanting to tell a story. Simply put, 
 Metal Gear Solid 4 will make you cry, one of the accomplishments so few games have ever done.
 
  
  As far as gameplay's concened, the Metal Gear Solid series has never felt better. Despite the fact 
 that the game still emphazises stealth and secrecy, players can choose whether or not they want 
 to stick to shadows or blow up enemies with RPGs. It'll be more rewarding to go the stealthy route, 
 but that doesn't mean it isn't fun to blow stuff up. That being said, Metal Gear Solid 4's wide 
 range of weapons makes blowing stuff up all the more easy and fun. The sheer amount of weapons 
 and customizations for them is completely mindblowing, and it's almost impossible to use every 
 single weapon in the game. It is comforting, however, to know you've always got a backup in case 
 you run out of ammo. The actual gameplay for Metal Gear Solid 4 has actually changed too to better 
 accomodate those who want to just run in guns blazing. There's now an over-the-shoulder camera 
 view to assist you in aiming your weapon, and the always classic first person view to assist with 
 accurate shots. Now, just because there's a lot of gameplay changes in MGS4 to help accomodate 
 those non-stealthy players, doesn't mean Hideo Kojima didn't give us stealthy people a few new 
 perks as well. Immediately after starting the game, you'll notice Old Snake has a new suit. With 
 this new Octocamo, Snake can actually blend in with his environments based on what he's lying on 
 top of, or leaning against. This helps a lot against the smarter AI by making sure you can always 
 remain invisible no matter how odd of an environment you're in. Speaking of tough enemies, MGS4 
 doesn't disappoint longtime fans by bringing a great array of tough and fun boss battles. The Beauty 
 and the Beast enemies you'll face are both psychologically intriguing and tough, and they'll provide 
 a great challenge to players. You may even experience a couple of little easter eggs (MGS4 is full 
 of them like previous MGS games) during a few key boss fights. Enjoy. Apart from all that: the 
 weapons, the customization, the Octocamo, and the improved CQC, Metal Gear Solid 4 plays roughly 
 the same as other Metal Gear games. It's challenging, fun, and gives you all the options you need 
 to get your mission done how you want it to get done.
  
  Graphically speaking, Metal Gear Solid 4 is unrivialed when it comes to overall presentation. As 
 far as environments are concerned, only Uncharted has it beat, but as far as character models, 
 effects, and overall design, Metal Gear Solid 4 takes the cake. Another item of note is that Metal 
 Gear Solid 4 is one of the few PS3 games to run in all 480, 720, 1080i and 1080p, so you'll definately 
 get the most out of whatever TV you run the game on. There's nothing much that can be said about 
 MGS4's graphics except that they're simply gorgeous. Character faces, and bodies look and feel 
 like real people. The explosions look great, and the Octocamo works really well when it comes to 
 the sheer amount of environments you can blend into. Another great thing about the game is the 
 scale of it. You'll go against huge enemies (aka Gekko) , and the game does a very great job of 
 portraying both the immenseness of your foe, and how small you look compared to it. Overall, Metal 
 Gear Solid 4 raises the bar in graphics in addition to gameplay and story.
  
  Another great thing about the game's presentation is the audio. The combination of fantastic music, 
 and unbelieveable voice acting adds to the already unbelieveable presentation. The music itself 
 is what most often will lead you to tears, as the music accents the most dramatic events of the 
 game, and the voice actors each do an incredible job in making each character unique and memorable. 
 Most notably among the rest of the cast are the dynamic duo: Snake and Otacon. David Hayter does 
 a great job in making Snake sound old with his trademark grunts and huffs, and an even more scruffy 
 voice than in the past. Christopher Randolph makes Otacon arguably my favorite Metal Gear Solid 
 character. His happiness, his sadness, his conviction, his determination, his doubt and his disbelief 
 all are believable, and it makes what would otherwise be your "sidekick" a complex, and believeable 
 character.
  
  Overall, there's nothing more that needs to be said about Metal Gear Solid. It's a beautiful mixture 
 of expert storytelling, fun and challenging gameplay, awe-inspiring music and voice acting, and 
 a beautiful presentation. This may be Snake's final mission, but it certainly is one to be remembered 
 for all time. Metal Gear Solid 4 is easily one of the greatest games ever made. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: simonsix
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 31, 2008 1:26 pm PT
Review:  MGS4 is one of the best games ever created.
   ets.
  just big wow for this best game of year 
 2008
  
  If you call yourself a gamer,
  this title is one you can't miss
  some will say that the game is overrated well, i am not so sure they ever played this game
  cause 
 if you do you will feel like a real movie-star who's trying to survive and it fells good.
  
  I was looking for bad things in this game, the searching ends with nothing
  everything in 
 this game is too perfect and i don't think that there are similar games who keeps the perfection 
 so well like this one.
  
  The multi-play is one of the best for the PS3 not a COD4 but in it's way it's just plain fun even 
 if you are rookie like i was you still will be able to learn and
  become a good soldier .
  
  So sad that this brilliant series has come to an end but i am sure they will come out with 
 something good
  
  So long Snake 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Raujj-ka
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 31, 2008 12:36 pm PT
Review:  MGS4 is set in the not too distant future where war has become the basis of the Earth's economy. 
 MGS4 sees the return of many many great characters and some kick ass new ones like the B&B corps 
 (Beauty and the Beast corps) .
  I especially liked the new Raiden vs. the Gekkos - neeto. Anyway Solid Snake returns for his final 
 mission aged by some defect in his DNA. Combat is not like he remembered it. ID tagged soldiers 
 now have ID tagged guns and gear which you just pick up and use.
  The graphics were brilliant. Albeit there some defects in them but overall they were stunning. 
 The game play left little to be desired as it was very easy to grasp the controls. The controls 
 were a little different to the previous games in the series. However despite their ease the controls 
 were very adapted to suit the online game which I thought the waiting time on the automatching 
 time was shocking; I had to wait 4 minutes just to play a game. However I found that if I used 
 the free battle feature I'd get a match much faster though with people far better than I. To shoot 
 (talking about MGO and MGS4 now) you have to hold down the aim button to fire or the attack button 
 would just mean bash the opponent with the butt of the gun. The CQC was pretty good. You could 
 either equip the stun knife and use CQC to grap your enemy and slit their throat or after Naomi 
 gives you the syringe you could hold them up and disarm their nanomachines which I'm guessing knocks 
 them out because it's blue in the item menu.
  The boss fights are absolutely brilliant. The first one with Laughing Octopus requires you to use 
 your wit and observational skills to find her as she's in possession of the OctoCamo like Snake. 
 It can also prove a bit frightening if your playing her late at night and are tired (like I was) . 
 Raging Raven however is just a simple case of aim and shoot though beware of her minions flying 
 through the tower and knocking you flat.
  Crying Wolf is the same principle as Sniper Wolf from MGS1 for those who've played it. However 
 don't be fooled by Screaming Mantis as she is a whole other game to Psycho Mantis so don't try 
 switching the the control pad slot (I did and was real frustrated that it didn't work) .
  The story itself is incredibly deep and gripping. The characters are all incredibly deep and 3D 
 unlike in tacky alien themed FPS games.
  All in all you must get it if you have a PS3. If you have a 360 go round your cousin's and play 
 it on theirs if they have it and a PS3. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: metalmaster12
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 31, 2008 5:18 am PT
Review:  Without a doubt, Metal Gear Solid 4 is the best game I have ever played. It may even be the best 
 game i ever WILL play. The single player mode is nice and lengthy, it took me about 20 hours to 
 finish it, including mission restarts. 
  
  The first thing that hit me was the amazing graphics. I felt like I was really in the Middle East, 
 and that I really was Snake. The next thing that I noticed after the prologue level was the stellar 
 quality of the friendly and enemy AI. Sneaking past entire waves of troops can be a really heart-pounding 
 experience. The blood effects in the game are also fantastic.
  
  Stealth is a big component to the game, try to blast your way through the first act and you'll 
 see why I say that. There are times where the action gets frantic, such as when the enemy sees 
 you and opens fire, or when aggression is the only way out of a situation.
  
  The storyline in MGS4 is amazing. The questions raised in the previous MGS installments are all 
 answered. This was my first Metal Gear game, and there are various flashbacks and references to 
 the previous games so the even new players can get the same experience out of the game.
  
  The multiplayer mode is a lot of fun, too. You may start ripping your hair out at the lengthy process 
 of signing up for an online account, but it's worth it. Various new game modes and maps are just 
 the beginning, though. I could tell you everything, but the list would go on for days.
  
  In short, MGS4 is an amazing game, a game that will be remembered for years and years to come. 
 Get this game and you'll see what I mean. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fmobliv06
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 30, 2008 10:15 pm PT
Review:  MGS4 is, in my humble opinion, the best video game ever created. Now I don't mean to put the game 
 up on a pedestal and say that everyone will love it; rather, MGS4 was the perfect game for me to 
 sit back and enjoy, and I'm sure that many others feel the same way. Snake's final foray into the 
 video game world stands at the cutting edge of everything: the graphics are the best I've seen 
 in any game, as is the sound, and the refined gameplay makes it easier to play the game in a way 
 befitting of one's preferred style. Without a doubt, MGS4 deserves all of the perfect reviews that 
 it's been getting.
  
  Immdediately after booting it up, players will recognize two things: The amazing graphics and the 
 gripping music. Graphical quality is always on par with many CG movies, or at least close to it, 
 and it doesn't cease to amaze even in the last moments of the game. The music that accompanies 
 the gorgeous action is full of life and drama, which often gives the game a larger than life feel.
 
  
  Many improvements have been made over the last Metal Gears in the control department. Whereas before, 
 sneaking around was obviously preferred over shooting because of bad targeting, it is now equally 
 as viable to shoot through certain levels. This gives the entire game a very non-linear feel because 
 it is possible to play through much of the game as a shooter, or on the flipside it is possible 
 to play through the entire 18-20 hour story mode without killing a single enemy. 
  
  I was actually surprised by how many edge of the seat action moments were strewn throughout MGS4 
 considering that technically this is still a stealth game. The set piece battles are simply stunning, 
 whether they're boss fights or on rails shooting sequences. Finally, MGS is famous for its memorable 
 boss battles (among other things) , and this iteration doesn't dissapoint. A few of the early bosses 
 weren't quite the best I've seen, but the later battles really take the cake. 
  
  The Metal Gear series is also known for its complex storylines, and MGS4 delivers in this regard 
 as well. The story is certainly complex, and there are a ton of twists, but I found that it was 
 actually possible to follow it all the way through. This is an especially notable feat because 
 I had never actually played Metal Gear Solid 1-3. I had, however, done plenty of research on the 
 series, so that I wouldn't be left out in the cold when MGS4 decided to play up the nostalgia factor. 
 There are several moments in the game that will certainly bring a smile to the faces of those who 
 have stayed with the series all of this time. Most importantly though, MGS4's story remains emotional 
 and accessable for those like myself, who haven't actually played through the originals. The characters 
 were fantastic and the overall plot was superb, and I know that I won't be forgetting about them 
 for a very long time. 
  
  In addition to the single player story, there is a multiplayer mode called Metal Gear Online. It 
 takes a really long time to download updates and whatnot for the game, and it takes a little while 
 to create a profile too. Its inclusion definately benefits the game as a whole, though, as the 
 shooting action is good enough to warrant some extended play.
  
  The one area in which I can fault Metal Gear is in the length of some of its cutscenes. Don't get 
 me wrong, I loved every second of every cutscene. But sometimes it felt as if I was watching more 
 than playing. In total, I'd say that somewhere between 1/3 and 1/2 of my 18 hours spent with MGS4 
 was spent watching cutscenes. Fortunately, Kojima and his team work just as well with their cinematics 
 as they do with gameplay, proving beyond a shadow of a doubt that they reign supreme in the video 
 game world.
  
  Graphics: 10/10: About as good as a CG movie. In other words, far better than any other game.
 
  Sound: 10/10: The driving, emotional score fits the game perfectly.
  Gameplay: 10/10: New controls allow for unprecedented freedom in completing goals.
  Entertainment: 
 10/10: Couple one of the best stories ever told in gaming with gripping gameplay to get the best 
 game of all time.
  Overall: 10/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: codalloo
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 30, 2008 6:54 pm PT
Review:  Solid Snake is one of the most well known video game characters thanks to the immense popularity 
 of the Metal Gear Solid franchise. The first game was revolutionary for it's time in almost every 
 area; graphics, story, control and accessibility. Metal Gear Solid was one of many cornerstones 
 of the Playstation's exclusive lineup and continued to be the epitome of the console's available 
 franchises throughout the PS2's lifetime with the releases of MGS2 and MGS3. Each game in the series 
 continues the amazingly unique and imaginative story of Big Boss' clones, or sons, manifested by 
 the "Les Enfants Terribles" project, while Solid Snake became the protagonist of the story his 
 "brother" Liquid became his nemesis. Throughout the series' lifespan fans have become thoroughly 
 attached to the characters involved in the story and have begun to care deeply about their fate. 
 In MGS4 Liquid Ocelot continues his attempts at world domination while Snake does his best to finish 
 him off once and for all with the help of many allies including his good friend Otacon, who provides 
 you with many necessary gadgets, the cyborg ninja, Raiden, the useful yet mysterious weapon launderer, 
 Drebin and of course Meryl Silverburg and Rat PT 1.
  
  The story of MGS4 is as deep and involving as it's predecessors and will keep you guessing until 
 the game's dramatic conclusion. The story is presented through beautiful cutscenes rendered in 
 real-time which feature incredible voice acting, animation and facial expression which look almost 
 photorealistic. The time you will spend watching cinematics rivals the time you'll actually be 
 playing the game, but it's awesome. Every plot twist, every answered question and every masterfully 
 delivered line will keep you thirsty for more, and MGS4 delivers.
  
  The gameplay has been massively overhauled; shooting, sneaking and hiding has never been so fun 
 or beautiful. The game takes place from a third-person perspective and you are given a multitude 
 of options on how you can choose to play the game; you can sneak through the entire thing and barely 
 enter firefights, or you can run and gun everything in sight with a minimal amount of stealth involved. 
 Otacon provides you with many useful gadgets such as the OctoCamo suit which allows you to quickly 
 blend in with your surroundings to avoid enemy detection, the Metal Gear Mk II which can sneak 
 around corners and take down enemies for you while you avoid them and the Solid Eye which provides 
 you with night vision, binoculars and much more. The shooting is over the shoulder but you can 
 also switch to first-person view with the push of a button for more accurate shots. All these elements 
 come together seemlessly and make MGS4's gameplay dramatically better than previous entries in 
 the series.
  
  The game is also very easy for newcomers to pick up and play because of the frequent flashbacks 
 which help explain details of the story that the player may have missed. 
  
  All in all, MGS4 is an excellent game, the story, gameplay mechanics, and amazing graphics will 
 make you wish the game was longer although you will be satisfied with the conclusion. Snake's final 
 mission is his best by far. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lofty401
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 30, 2008 3:32 pm PT
Review:  A really quick review here. I thought the game was perfect, but there were some bad points as well. 
 The good points are, amazing graphics, good gameplay, thick and entertaining plot for previous 
 fans of the series, great soundtrack (as to be expected) , I could go on.
  
  The bad - The plot doesn't work for non-fans, it's TOO thick, and the cutscenes are too long. The 
 only way I found that I could make the cutscenes feel like they took up LESS time than the gameplay 
 without skipping them was to play the higher difficulties, which you can bet someone new to the 
 series won't do.
  
  This makes it fairly well proportioned though if you are playing it on the higher difficulties 
 but if you're playing it on the lower ones be sure to grab some nibbles and a drink as it does 
 feel like you're watching the screen forever.
  
  As a long-time fan of the series and a games developer i'd have to give it a ten though, it's a 
 piece of art it really is. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: redtiger676
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 30, 2008 2:39 pm PT
Review:  I remember the old days where I would spend hours upon hours playing the original Playstation. 
 While Final Fantasy VII ate up a lot of that time, Metal Gear Solid was a "solid" (no pun intended) 
 second place. I played that game to death. And I loved every minute of it. I'm happy to say that 
 Metal Gear Solid 4 has brought me that experience once again, as has every other MGS game since 
 the original. Hideo Kojima masterfully wraps up this incredible series of games with incredible 
 story telling, excellent graphics, and some truely unforgettable characters.
  
  I was completely immersed in the storyline and the characters from the moment I started playing. 
 The story is gripping and compelling, and it is wonderfully told, with some amazing voice acting 
 and incredible (albeit lengthy) cut scenes. I really felt for each and every character in this 
 game, and I really enjoyed seeing some old faces on a next-generation system. 
  
  The graphics in MGS4 are just incredible. I remember one of the first large-scale battles I played 
 in the game, where after everything was said and done, I sort of snapped back into reality and 
 noticed that my mouth was hanging open and I was leaning on the edge of my seat. The explosions 
 look amazing and the detailed environments are some of the best I have seen. 
  
  One thing I really enjoyed about MGS4 was that it just felt really natural. If I wanted to run-and-gun, 
 I could run into a battle and blow some faces off. If I wanted to sneak, I could crouch behind 
 some crates and jump out and snap an enemy's neck. All the gameplay elements were smooth and felt 
 just right, as is expected of a MGS game. This game really hit the nail on the head and mastered 
 it. I couldn't believe how fun this game was to play. 
  
  In the end, Metal Gear Solid is a lengthy and compelling thrill ride full of twists and turns, 
 answers, questions and betrayal, and of course, humour. Several parts of this game had me cracking 
 up laughing. It isn't very often that a game can do that for me. Metal Gear Solid 4: Guns of the 
 Patriots is one of the best games I've ever played, and I recommend it to anyone who is looking 
 for a satisfying gaming experience. If you own a PS3, you have to play this game... scratch that... 
 even if you don't own a PS3, buy one and play this game. You won't regret it. Congratulations, 
 Hideo.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: lon3lysnake
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 30, 2008 7:16 am PT
Review:  We are lucky enough to witness the best game that ever made. No joke, but I doubt if there is a 
 better game going to release in the coming decade.
  
  Nothing to say about the graphics, kojima already tried their best to acquire the maximum graphic 
 technology on PS3, you could expect MGS4 to be the prettiest game available on this generation 
 consoles.
  
  Gameplay is a huge improvement over previous MGS titles. While older MGSs tend to be more japanese 
 style, so the control and camera view is all bit of strange. In MGS4 kojima has totally redesign 
 the way MGS is played. The idea of 3rd person and 1st person view mixed together really gives you 
 a totally amazing experience. Weapons are another highlight of this game, you could expect over 
 50 variety of weapons to use. Each and every weapons are created in high detail that gives you 
 the most realistic experience. Trust me, I've played tons of shooter games, and MGS4 is one of 
 the few that really gives you a promising realistic.
  
  There are tons of videos in the game. Kojima is more than a game developer, he is also a brilliant 
 film maker. Those MGS4 cutscences are amazing, and the story is just great.
  
  I've noticed many people are addicted to the MGS4 single player, but let me tell you, MGO, the 
 MGS4 muiltplayer is as addictive as the single player. You first start off to create a character, 
 I believe a mercenary the player will be using. You pick your custome and gear, then there's a 
 skill slot which players can pick 4 out of 20 skills, similar to COD 4's perk system. Now, the 
 real fun begins. You will be competing other players like many other multiplayer games, but unlike 
 other multiplayer games, in MGO, you will be able to use both 3rd and 1st camera view same as single 
 player, which really brings the game to another level.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: lwa02vkc
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 30, 2008 4:56 am PT
Review:  Metal Gear Solid 4, it's a good game. The end to the decades long Metal Gear saga. Metal Gear fans 
 should get a copy of this game. Just the game alone is enough to convince many gamers who hesitated 
 to make the jump to next-gen console to get a PS3.
  
  I was so looking forward to this game before I finally bought it. During the installation of the 
 game to the harddrive, I was admiring the amazing graphics of Snake chain-smoking, the smoke, the 
 texture of his suit is so real. The graphics of the game throughout is crisp. Not just the cutscenes 
 and but in real time gameplay too. Sometimes you cant help but to put your controller down to admire 
 the wonderful crisp pictures. The game is capable of running on 1080p, so for those who have a 
 HD TV you will be wowed by the graphics.
  
  For me , the early excitements kinda get built up too much even before the release of the game. 
 The finale. Everybody wants to know how the story ends. Im one of them too. One downfall of this 
 game is its endless cutscenes. There was just too many cutscenes in the game. MGS4 is more like 
 a interactive movie experience, than a gaming-experience. Despite that, it's still a damn fine 
 game. And this time the cutscenes are more informative compared to MGS2, kinda tie the loose ends 
 of all the convoluted storylines the preceding events built up.
  
  Besides the cutscenes blip, everything else is good. The sneaking can be really testing on one's 
 limits in Extreme mode. The boss battles are good especially the one with Raging Raven. However, 
 the last boss fight with Ocelot is damn stupid. When Solid is attempting to sneak past PMCs, sometimes 
 I cant find the logic when the PMCs are already engaged with the local militants in battle and 
 the former caught sight of snake, they would risk themselves in the line of fire just to get to 
 Snake. Not too bright on the AI.
  
  The game has lots of replay value especially for Metal Gear fanatics to acquire all the emblems 
 after completion of the game. And a lot of humorous conversations too between Otacon and Snake. 
 
  
  I have not had the chance to try out Metal Gear Online due to lack of broadband. 
  
  Overall, the game is SOLID !!! VERY SOLID !!
  
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: stjimmy222
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 30, 2008 2:12 am PT
Review:  The much anticipated finale in the Metal Gear Series has finally hit PS3 consoles everywhere. And 
 boy did it hit hard. The long awaited end to the series shows Mr. Kojima and his teams abilities 
 and creativeness stretched to the furthest realms their imaginations will allow. The game is full 
 to the brim with action, gripping storylines, tear jerking moments and spats of comedy mixed in 
 with nostalgia is plenty to satisfy any Metal Gear fans. 
  
  The game is ultimately thrilling to those gamers who are fortunate to have the control of the legend 
 that is Snake at their fingertips. Not wanting to sound like those fanboys who are too busy jacking 
 off after "pwning" someone on Halo (please...) but this is by far one of the best games i have 
 ever played.
  
  Downside
  
  The game is not for people who haven't been with the series from the start. The complex storylines 
 (and lengthy ones at that) are just sometimes too confusing to take in all at once for even those 
 diehard fans. Recommnded that newcomers start from the beginning. Not saying you are inept of understanding 
 at all, just saying its best and you will get the full experience and emotion that comes with Metal 
 Gear.
  
  Apart from that, the game is nearly flawless, unlike certain "masterpieces" such as GTA IV, but 
 that's another issue. The references to the previous games, the awesome cinematic directing and 
 the basic feel of everything being as it should be in a Metal Gear games is awfully brilliant.
 
  
  I love the game. Maybe thats just me but then again I have loved the series throughout. Hopefully 
 you will too. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: -Masterchef-
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 30, 2008 1:18 am PT
Review:  Now, after reading raving reviews of this game, I had immediately bought it, hoping that the gaming 
 community was right and that MGS4 was as great as it was hyped up to be. In short, it pretty much 
 is.
  
  Story:
  Having only played MGS3, I was missing out on a main portion of the story, so I used wikipedia 
 plot synapsis' to help me understand the universe of Solid Snake. I can't honestly say that the 
 story was that great, until the end at least (though that probably has to do with my lack of knowledge) . 
 Some cutscenes are unnecessarily longer than they could be, and skipping them is out of the question 
 (who on earth would completely skip the story?) . As a result, I was forced to listen to a lot of 
 fluff and occasionally odd and embarassing moments, such as Otacon crying or Liquid Ocelot maniacally 
 laughing. 
  
  Gameplay:
  However, the gameplay of MGS4 more than makes up my issues with the story. The core shooting has 
 finally gotten a overhaul, allowing you to shoot over the shoulder instead of before were you were 
 forced to go into first person, take out your gun, and aim awkwardly around the screen. The shooting 
 is solid and all the controls and physics feel right. With the new shooting mechanic, you are now 
 given a option to play through the game like a Gears of Warish shooter, or to go stealthy with 
 CQC and plenty of manuevers.
  
  Graphics:
  There's no pretending it's not true, MGS4 is one of the best looking games of all time, if not 
 THE best looking game. Everything from the character models to the explosions is brilliant. However, 
 I have some issues with the framerate. It's smooth enough, but still doesn't seem to be as perfected 
 as it could be in normal game. When you switch your Solid Eye to night vision, however, the camera 
 and movement all looks much smoother, though that's probably due to less detail from the NV..
 
  
  Sound:
  Everything sounds as you'd expect, good voice acting and effects, typical of MGS
  
  Value:
 
  The game might take some 10+ hours to complete, but that's only with cutscenes. Actual gameplay 
 time can range from 4-8 hours depending on skill. This is my main issue with MGS4, the fact that 
 it seems too short on missions for it's name. There is MGO, the online portion, but to be honest, 
 it's not really that much fun and quality found in single player seems to be lost online. (Voice 
 acting is terrible online and even the graphics don't seem quite as good) . The unlockables should 
 keep you playing through campaign at least a second time, but no guarantees this game will keep 
 you occupied for weeks.
  
  Miscellaneous:
  GS and other sites rave about how "deep" the weapon customization is, but to be dead honest, there's 
 practically only one or two options for each part of the gun, and most guns don't even support 
 that many parts (the ideal model misleadingly showcases the M4 Custom which is one of few guns 
 which supports full customization) .
  
  All in all, MGS4 is a game you should get if you own a PS3, but if you heavily look upon value 
 instead of gameplay, skip this title. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Frost47
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 29, 2008 9:58 pm PT
Review:  I just recently bought the PS3 80 GB bundle. I was going to trade in MGS4 when I got the bundle, 
 until I saw the "Not for Resale" label on the back of the box, since I'd played Snake Eater but 
 never really gotten into it. When I popped in the game I was blown away by the opening cinematics, 
 and I thought that the gameplay was pretty fun. I began to think that I might just slowly beat 
 the game, maybe playing it in between other games. I was sure wrong about that. 
  
  MGS4 is the best game I have ever played, I honestly can't think of anything the game could really 
 have improved on. The gameplay was immersive, soundtrack was spectacular, graphics revolutionary, 
 cinematics amazing, and the sheer creativity of the game blew me away. I somehow played the game 
 about 8 hours a day for three days, even with football, physical therapy, appointments, and other 
 things. 
  
  When I played, the game really sucked me in. I became Solid Snake, feeling the shots, and recoils. 
 It then came to me that anyone that dissed the game was probably an Xbox 360 fan boy.
  
  I'm still in awe over this game, and would highly recommend it to any PS3 owner. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheIceman360
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 29, 2008 4:17 pm PT
Review:  I have to say one of the best games i had ever. MGS4 what can i say, i waited two years for it 
 and it is worth more than ur money and bungies money. The knocks every thing from graphics to gameplay 
 mgs4 is a must have. Yes this is the last of the MGS games konmia has said but with a storyline 
 like this there is no end. Snake meets up with his old partners and rivals to face the biggest 
 threat to the world liquid ocelot the rival of many inculding big boss. They had changed a lot 
 since mgs3 like guns and how to couzimize them. but there are some similarites that u can't have 
 without a mgs like cqc crawling and snake. Plus finally the best online gaming ever better than 
 halo3 and gears of wars. that is  
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: victormgs777
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 29, 2008 1:56 pm PT
Review:  Overal 10/10
  This is one of the the best games of all time. It has everything a casual or hardcore gamer likes. 
 There is no reason why anyone would not like this game.
  Graphics 10/10
  No doubt the graphics are the best to date on any console. The scenery and levels have tremendous 
 detail down to the last rock on the battlefield. The cutscenes are spectacular and it feels like 
 watching a movie. The characters look almost real. 
  Gameplay 10/10
  This MGS combines the previous stealth aspect as well as a Call of Duty 4 style action. Snake can 
 go in stealthy or Rambo style and shoot everything and person on the battlefield. 
  Story 10/10 
  The story is just as complicated and intriguing as the previous games. In this 
 game all questions from previous games are answered along with new questions that come up in MGS4. 
 Although the story is complicated its very easy to get sucked into it. 
  Sound 10/10 
  The sound effects in this game are perfect. They capture the sound and mood of war along with great 
 music. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rolmanus
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 29, 2008 12:05 pm PT
Review:  Every story, what has a beginning, has an end. The Metal Gear Saga has beginned 20 years ago, but 
 even if it's so old, it has to and too. In 1987, Solid Snake, a rookie soldier, stopped Big Boss, 
 then, in 1990, he did this again, and became a Legend. Eight years later, he had to face with his 
 Brother, Liquid, and with the truth: His only a Clone. Three years later, the misterious Patriots, 
 and the lonely rookie, Raiden, made his Debut. In 2005, we saw the beginning, the origin of Big 
 Boss, and Ocelot. Now, in 2008, everything ends.
  Metal Gear Solid 4: Guns of The Patriots was the only real reason, why I bought my PS3. And not 
 every game can make me buy a game system. And only this one can, an expensive one like the PS3. 
 So, lets see, what is Metal Gear Solid 4! MGS4 is a little different from the previous games. Especially 
 the first 2 acts. It's on the battlefield. In a war. But it's still a sneaking game. There is still 
 alert, there is still hiding. We are equipped with the whole new OctoCame Suit, witch is a fantastic 
 little toy. The Facecamo, witch is a part of the OctoCamo, is also great. The new CQC moves are 
 just awesome. The new Gun-buying/laundering system is also a really good thing, I mean we don't 
 have to search for new weapons anymore, and at the top of it, there are 70 weapons! Metal Gear 
 Solid 4: Guns of The Patriots isn't a game for everyone. If you've never played the previous games, 
 you won't feel the whole experience what the game can give you. The characters, the whole story 
 is just impossible to understand, if you didn't played MGS1-2-3. But! If you ever loved MGS, and 
 mostly if you still love MGS, Metal Gear Solid 4 is kinda' heaven for you. The final Chapter of 
 the Metal Gear saga gives answer for every single question, you ever had about it. I am serious. 
 The MGS series is a series, what can't just be ended simply. It's perfect, so the ending had to 
 be perfect too. Hideo Kojima is a genious. I know he doesn't thinks this, but I know he is. He 
 prooved this with MGS1, almost with MGS2, and totally with MGS3. So, is the conclusion also one 
 of the bests? No. It is the Best. I never thought I'm gonna say this ever, but there is a game, 
 what IS better then MGS1, and that game is MGS4. Hideo Kojima did it. He made a perfect conclusion. 
 In the Review deck, I said, I won't buy a PS4. Why is that? Because with MGS4, I saw everything 
 what a game can give to a man. Becouse I saw the thing what I've waited from 1998, the end of MGS. 
 Becouse there wasn't a game, there are no game, and there won't be a game, what will be even half 
 as good as MGS 4, except for the previous MGS games. Those are a little more than half as good. 
 I'm sad. I'm sad, becouse it's over. I knew this will happen, but I've never really realised it. 
 But now, I know, it's over. I'll miss You Solid Snake. But you've earned your rest. Farewell Snake, 
 I'll never forget you.
  
  Graphics: I think I'm right, if I say: Metal Gear Solid 4 is the nicest game. ever made. The cutscenes, 
 the codec, the gameplay, THE ENTIRE GAME IS INCREDIBLY NICE!!! Nicer than Crysis, Nicer than Uncharted, 
 Nicer than everything. 10/10
  
  Sounds: The voice acting is better than ever, the sound effects also great, and the musics... Harry 
 Gregson-Williams... You are one of the greatest music writers of the world. I'm serious. Metal 
 Gear Saga, Father and Son, Guns of the Patriots, and these are only a few, of your perfect works... 
 not to mention Old Snake. The Here's to You music is the perfect one for the game: If you are a 
 fan of the game: Here's to you. This game is for us. The fans. Thank you Hideo Kojima. Thank you.
 
  
  Controlls: MGS4 has the best controlls of the MGS games. It's different. But better, easier, less 
 complicated, even if it has more things. I'm suprised! 10/10
  
  Gameplay: I think a already said it. It's perfect. Exciting, interesting, everything is perfect 
 in the gameplay! No, not just in the gameplay, in everything. THIS GAME IS TOTALLY PERFECRT!!!! 
 I CAN'T SAY ANY NEGATIVE THINGS!! EVEN IF YOU'RE NOT A FAN, YOU'LL ENJOY IT MORE THAN EVERY GAME 
 OF THIS YEAR!!! IT'S TOO MUCH! I CAN'T FIND ANYTHING BAD!!!!! HIDEO KOJIMA, YOU RE THE BEST GAME 
 DESIGNER/DIRECTOR IN THE WHOLE WORLD! 100000000000000/10
  
  The good: The graphics, the voice acting, the musics, the controls, the story, the experience, 
 the characters, the new things, the WHOLE GAME!!
  
  The bad: Nothing. I'm serious. NOOOOOTHIIIIING. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ONLYDOD
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 29, 2008 9:17 am PT
Review:  Before I begin, I would just like to say that MGS4 is not a game for someone who has never played 
 a game in the series, you'll be confused by the storyline big time and as this game has a big emphasis 
 on story telling you'll probably hate it. 
  
  Now thats out of the way i'll get started, MGS4 continues the story in the Metal Gear Solid series 
 and is the last installment to feature Solid Snake, it is up to him to save the world from Liquid 
 Snake and yeah, I don't have much to complain about with this game, it's superb in many ways and 
 it will be a long time before I ever experience a game as good as this, it is definitley the best 
 game I have played on my PS3 and will always remeber the first playthrough as one of my favorite 
 moments in all of the time I have been gaming. Like I said, I don't have much to complain about 
 the game, the gameplay is fun, challenging and easy to get used to. The story will keep you so 
 intrested that you will forget about anything else you had planned for the day (providing you are 
 a MGS4 fan) . The graphics are some of the best on the PS3 aswell. Now as the majority of this game 
 is near perfect I will now go onto what is wrong with the game. 
  
  1. The story is still a little difficult to follow at some points even for big time fans of the 
 series like myself.
  
  2. The game has to install inbetween every chapter. This one really annoyed me, I can't see why 
 it has to do this everytime you play the act and it can really get annoying when you get really 
 into the game and don't want to stop playing. 
  
  3. Getting onto Metal Gear Online is a joke, having to go through a different subscription service 
 (Getting a Konami ID and Game ID) shouldn't be required and it personally put me off playing it. 
 In all fairness MGO is a seperate game, the MGO that comes with MGS4 is merely a starter pack, 
 as far as im aware MGO will be realeased seperately at some point.
  
  And thats about it really, like I said, this is a game that should only appeal to the fans of the 
 series. If your a new comer to the series I HIGHLY suggest that you start of with MGS1, the long 
 cutscenes in MGS4 will come across as very boring and time consuming if you have no idea what is 
 going on, learn about the history of the games story and they will keep you intrested.
  
  Overall, MGS4 is a brilliant game and what I would call the PS3's best game, any Metal Gear Solid 
 fan should pick this up, it is a great ending to Snakes Story and you owe it to yourself. Newcomers 
 to the series beware, you will find the story confusing, difficult to follow and boring as you 
 won't have any idea what the hell is going on. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: paddy-mac
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 29, 2008 8:06 am PT
Review:  one of the best games to date if you dislike the game your in the minority
  This is the game that will start ps3s rise and it will top the industry end of a saga but not the 
 end of this game it will still sell in 5 years time as a hit xbox can smell defeat with this game 
 as xbox exclusive games cant top this and wont it is the only game that can actually challenge 
 gta and its doing a pretty good job too incredible one of the best series ever and its brought 
 to an emphatic climax sadly but still good end to the saga and again one of the best games to date 
 take a week off and emerse in meatal gear solid 4 now !!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!
  
  Best game ever 
 
  
  amazing
  
  
  comment back and tell me what u think of the review 
::::::

::::::
UserName: psyball
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 28, 2008 8:39 pm PT
Review:  Mr. Kojima has a well earned reputation for being a film developer that some how got roped into 
 the wrong industry. Its certainly not a bad thing, infactim sure that if he were in the film idustry 
 he would be broke and jobless by now. At times im left feeling that he is taking advantage of video 
 games inexperiance as an art form to shove all he has to say down our throats and jesus, he's got 
 alot to say. 
  If you have played Metal gear solid 2, and actually watched all the cutscenes, then you probably 
 have a pretty good idea of what your going to get from this games story. Shocking, boring, epic, 
 shallow, deep, and always insanly convoluted, this is the most accurate description i can give 
 if you are unfamiliar to the series. Of course there are always the moments where I start to get 
 to thinking that Mr. Kojima is too preachy for his own good, much like the episode of bugs bunny 
 when Elmar explains to Silvestar the importance of investing his money to futher the cause of global 
 capitalism (Bravo to those of you who recognize what this extremely long setence is reffering to) , 
 it just doesent fit.
  Oh yes, the gameplay. Well, its fine. What else do you want me to say? The gameplay what not the 
 focus of Mr. Kojimas vision and netheir is it the focus of my review. Other than that the graphics 
 are nice, the sound is fitting, and the voice acting, while somtimes cheesy, is profficient.
  In the end though, i feel satisfied saying goodbye to snake. Even though Mr. Kojima would be more 
 suited to say, the position of a paranoid schiztofranic cult leader, I was mildly moved by his 
 preachings. If your a fann of the series, you wont be dissapointed, and if your not you wont be 
 converted. 9.0 for fans, 6.5 for non fans. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hazahaxa
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 28, 2008 1:13 pm PT
Review:  Well obviously we always knew this was going to be good when it came out, but the problem was, 
 I thought it was going to be the best game ever, leaving me slightly disappointed when it finally 
 came out. This has affected my rating of it slightly. However, this is an excellent, innovative 
 game, that if anyone doesn't enjoy, they are completely crazy. Amazing unique gameplay, and some 
 brilliant memorable set pieces, such as the Metal Gear Ray/Rex fight. Brilliant. The online mode 
 is also a brilliant addition to the game, with the new mode where you have to hunt out Snake and 
 kill him, also whilst fighting the opposition team. It's a brilliant idea and a different game 
 mode from the usual free-for-all, team deathmatch, capture the flag etc. Not as good as Snake Eater, 
 but definitely one of the best PS3 games out there, leaving many others way behind to eat it's 
 dust. If you have a PS3, this game is a must have. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: codeye1
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 28, 2008 11:44 am PT
Review:  MGS4 is set in the not too distant future where war has become the pillar that supports the global 
 economy.
  
  The game sees the return of Solid Snake but he has mysteriously aged rapidly. The game also sees 
 the return of many MGS1 & 2 characters.
  Long story short Liquid Snake or rather now Liquid Ocelot has come up with a plot to take control 
 of the SOP system (Sons of the Patriots) and the overall system so he can be the master ruler of 
 the world.
  
  Gameplay...
  MGS4 introduces an adapted form of gameplay for its online mode. this gives you more movement options 
 than the first 3 games. Basically you can now move around in the crouch position, you get an over-the-shoulder 
 camera view when you aim and MGS4 also retains the CQC interface from MGS3 although it is slightly 
 different.
  
  A few things that let the game down are that you were able to buy ammo in the middle of a battle 
 rather than procure on site, the game loses most of the need to sneak because you're always out 
 in the open on a battlefield and one thing that was just really wrong was that Solid Snake just 
 didn't seem like Solid Snake anymore, he was just some old man who just isn't up to challenge anymore 
 although he still kicks ass. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: disposableheroV
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 28, 2008 1:20 am PT
Review:  this game is so awesome. i cant explain how awesome. it is like half game, half movie (in a good 
 way) . the best, most compelling story of all time. it has the greatest graphics ive ever seen. 
 its extremely, like insanely detailed. i have never played a metal gear game ever before and i 
 understood this completely. it is impossible to fully explain how amazing this game is with out 
 playing it for yourself. if i could i would give it infinity out of 10. i was so into it i played 
 it almost nonstop all weekend. call me crazy or nerdy or whatever but i know im not the only one 
 who had this reaction. probably 5 million more people lol. if there is a PS3 around you in your 
 reach that you are able to play, get MGS4 or ill slaughter you. too bad all my buddys on xbox will 
 never be able to get this haha. unless you want to play it on 12 disks. this game just made my 
 life 10 million times better. it has probably been one of the best weekends ive ever had EVER. 
 man im going to go play it over and over again. later... oh and remember (GET IT!)
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: gangster480
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 28, 2008 1:00 am PT
Review:  this game is the best game I have played not counting god of war. the graphics looks amazing. tons 
 of easter eggs and unlockables you can mess around with. It only takes a couple seconds after the 
 game starts for you to realize that It is a great game. If any game deserves to be called perfect, 
 It is this game, the story is great and the gameplay is beyond any thing I have experienced before. 
 sure the cutscenes are long but you get to interact with them. It offers some of the best boss 
 fights in the gaming world. the final boss battle was awesome. the cut scenes was made so perfectly 
 that it seems as if your watching a hollywood movie. the shooting mechanics have improve a lot 
 since other mgs games. In terms of gameplay it has little in common with previous games because 
 it has been perfected which makes it feel just right. Ladies and gentlemen, buy this game, because 
 there wont be a game that is comparible to this game for quite sometimes, or possibly ever. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Frapas
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 28, 2008 12:17 am PT
Review:  This game still proves to be one of (if not the best) games ever created, its totally different 
 while staying true to the metal gear series, this game wraps up the whole franchise in an aura 
 of perfection, despite the lengthy cut-scenes, the story was deep and intriguing and the game play 
 was well worth the wait. With the deepest, non-repetitive (Zelda) , amazing stories I've ever had 
 to take part of or play or even hear; I believe Hideo kojima deserves an Oscar for that type of 
 story telling. In my opinion, it takes the no.1 spot for best game ever created. P. S. (if you have 
 not played any of the other metal gears, and have no comprehension of the story line what so ever, 
 i would not advice you to play this game, because u will be lost in a mindless daze of what the 
 characters in this game are talking about.) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NavySeal-103
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 27, 2008 5:07 am PT
Review:  First I'd like to say this:...... Hahaa I feel so sad towards the Xbox 360 players.
  
  Now then, lets get started.
  Metal Gear Solid 4 Guns of the Patriots. (MGS4) Is the best stealth 
 and action game. MGS series has lot of history and it have only being successfull.
  
  Your going to notice that the game is so big or some other performance issues the game needs a 
 few minutes loading time to pack the previus file and unpack the next one when new act begings 
 but after that the game dosen't need any loading time, only when you get to new area withs loads 
 the next area like in 4 seconds. It might sound a pain in the a** this unpack and pack loading 
 but it's not, believe me.
  
  Ok since I'm talked some crap let's go to the gameplay and other important stuff.
  
  MGS4 storyline 
 is just good. Hideo Kojima has made once again a perfect story full of drama, sorrow, joy, rage. 
 As expected a lot of twists happends in the game.
  
  Audio & Effects
  
  Voice acting is solid as ever so no need to worry about anything on that end, there ain't nothing 
 bad said about it. Effects, sutch as lightning and explosions are good but I'm not sure is it the 
 best that game has to offer but I think it's perfect.
  
  Graphics
  Simply GOOD. Charaters and the forest, citys, looks very good. MGS4 has more than good graphics 
 and I haven't never noticed some thing what makes me stop and I have to really look closer to say: 
 omg bad graphics, heck no MGS4 has best graphics what I've ever seen.
  
  Controls
  
  Easy to get hold of. There are some new things that Snake is going to able to do so I list some. 
 Snake has three stances, 1. Stand. 2. Crouch (you can finally move in crouch position) and 3. Prone 
 (you can crawl while prone)
  Snake has some new CQC moves but all are familiar to the MGS3 so no big steps there.
  While Snake 
 holds up enemy (Snake: ''Freez !'') so the enemy stops and drops the weapon and puts his hands 
 up. Now in this situation you can steal his main weapon ! Then you could do a body search, aproach 
 from the front and press the action button and Snake does a body search and trys to find all items 
 the soldier gots, but the whole body search time you need to press at certain times action button 
 so Snake can take the item from the soldier.
  There where some cool things, but much more is in the game and you have to discover them by your 
 self.
  
  Since the enemy guns is still ID locked you'll meet a good friend that can unlock your ID guns 
 what you have found from the PMC enemys and finally able to use them. So you can actually use the 
 enemy weapons and ammo.
  MGS4 has a lot of weapons, I was very suprised the number of weapons that the game had.
  There 
 are lot of weapons like I said but all most every weapon can be customized. Example one, you take 
 the trusty M4A1 Carbine and add a red dot sight to CQB situations and perhaps a RIS. Or you might 
 put a little better scope for long range shots and put a grenande launcher under your rifle and 
 much much more like tactical flashlight or lasersights, and some other parts.
  
  Snake has to worry about his camouflage too, don't worry it's not as a big hustle like in MGS3 
 :) Your camo that is called ''octo-camo'' When you stay still about second or two your suit changes 
 the apperance to the environment that your in to, so you'll have always the best possible camouflage.
 
  
  You need to worry about your psyche gauge, this is like stamina but it lowers when you have high 
 stress. Stress will come from hot or very cold plases or stress might get higher if your enemys 
 are on to you.
  
  MGO (Metal Gear Online)
  
  There is so much to be talked about MGS4 and MGO but I try to keep this as short as it can be :)
 
  
  This is a online gameplay (oh yeah, they finally did it !) .
  You make your custom charater and start playing, you level up in skills sutch as pistols, assault 
 rifle, shotgun, submachine gun, blade, CQC and lot lot more. So you have many skills what you can 
 level. Each skill can be leveled to stage 3 (master) .
  
  There are lot of maps and game modes and more is comming via updates (thanks for the KONAMI who 
 is very active) .
  
  -LAST WORDS-
  Belive me this game has playing value, I have played the offline story mode about 8 times what 
 takes about 25 hours when you play it trough the first time, and the next time it might take only 
 20 hours or less. I have completed the game in 5 hours (a lot of rushing :) ) But offline playing 
 is so much fun.
  
  And not to mention the online gameplay (MGO) what offers a Metal Gear Online expirience, this is 
 a game of the century and is worth every euro or dollar. I would be ready to buy this game again.
 
  
  If you love action or stealth, this game is the best. OORAH! Thanks Hideo Kojima and thanks KONAMI. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jekyll
Rating: 8
Date: Jul 27, 2008 4:43 am PT
Review:  Filled with all the hallmarks you've come to expect from the Metal Gear franchise, "Guns of the 
 Patriots" expands and improves on all of them. However, its own backstory also becomes its curse 
 as they overuse FMV to get you through it all, which bogs the game down to an excruciatingly slow 
 level.
  
  In a world where soldiers have nanomachines in their bodies to assist their combat skills and guns 
 are ID-locked, there's bound to be someone to try to manipulate the system: enter Liquid Ocelot. 
 Running in smooth, jaw-dropping 1080p resolution, Snake (armed with more weapons than ever, the 
 best weapon mechanic in which to use them yet, and help from the ever-faithful Otacon) visits desert 
 cities, South American jungles, Arctic blizzards, and more to discover both the architects of the 
 plot, as well as just how long the plan's been brewing and all it entails. Sneaking around or guns 
 blazing, the choice on how to proceed is yours, but time's running out, with our hero now dubbed 
 "Old Snake" and suffering the effects of accelerated aging. Can Snake catch up with and defeat 
 Liquid before his body's aging catches up with him?
  
  
  The best to say about the game is the attention to both major gameplay elements and background 
 minutiae. Revamping the gunplay makes firing guns the way you want more in line with other shooters, 
 while the details of things far in the distance (to say nothing of what's in your face) makes everything 
 feel all the more real. Complementing the weapon mechanics are more weapons than ever before, along 
 with gunrunner Drebin, who sells guns, ammunition, and allows you a vast array of customization 
 options like sights and grips to give your weaponry more oomph. CQC is also upgraded a bit to allow 
 more variety, though with the better gunplay mechanics, you may use it less than ever before. The 
 self-referential humor the series is known for is also in play, funnier and more clever than ever 
 before, and gives a nice break to the often morose mood.
  
  The game does have some major flaws, most notably the unconscionably-long cutscenes. When you feel 
 the need to actually put save points in the middle of them, that should be a sign you're going 
 the wrong direction. It's admirable they think to let you save in the middle of the multiple 40-minute 
 sequences the game has, but it doesn't change that there's just no need for one over 10 minutes, 
 especially since they're often filled with, well, filler, that advances nothing of the story. Part 
 of it is trying to wrap up all the loose ends of previous games, but unless you've played them 
 all in quick succession, you've probably forgotten half the game's backstory as it is, leading 
 to eyes glazing over, zoning out by the 15-minute mark, and tearful pleas of, "just let me play 
 the game, already!!!" The climactic boss fight is a gigantic letdown, as instead of being the ultimate 
 test of all the skills you've learned during the game, they say "here, learn a totally new combat 
 style instead." Also, like most of the boss fights, you quickly learn it's also not challenging. 
 The online game is also a disappointment, as everything that makes the game a wonderful stealth 
 experience makes online a dull, plodding affair where you feel you're moving through molasses. 
 Tack on not using your PSN ID, but requiring you to get a Konami ID and Game ID (and the online 
 registration FAQ listed in the manual generating "page does not exist" to boot) and it's all just 
 nonsense. Compared to games like "Resistance", it just doesn't hold up to the same standard.
  
  A saving grace is both the sound and graphics. They may both very well be the best ever in 
 gaming so far. From lighting and weather effects, to every ripple and dimple in Snake's muscle 
 suit, there's not a bit of detail left uncreated or sound left unrecorded for your ears. The control 
 of the game (both camera and combat) is a series best, giving you the control over Snake you wish 
 you could've had in "Snake Eater". Depending on your time spent looking for goodies and using Drebin's 
 shop, you should clock in around the 20 hour mark with single-player only, nice bang for your buck. 
 Either with or without previous MGS experience, the game's a clear recommend for purchase (I'd 
 give it a 9.0 if the cutscene issue was resolved) , you do have to be prepared to sit still for 
 too long stretches of time between actually getting to enjoy the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: evilplans
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 26, 2008 11:56 pm PT
Review:  This game has the best story I've experienced. So let's start off on gameplay. Stealth has never 
 been so fun, and the addition of octocamo is great for hiding pretty much every where you can find. 
 There's hundreds of guns for every topic you can name- stealth, destruction, survival, room clearing, 
 or just fun. The boss fights are challenging, but still fun. The reason is they all require different 
 manuevers to take a boss down. And once you kill a boss you will hear about it's past so you now 
 why it is what it is. Some people complain about the length of the cutscenes, but it truly adds 
 to the epicness. The only problem i had (which isn't a flaw at all) is that the cutscenes could 
 be confusing, but that is probaly only because I've never played any of the previous Metal Gears. 
 But I caught on pretty soon. Otherwise I definitely recomend this to anyone. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wires4thejester
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 26, 2008 11:46 pm PT
Review:  This is the first Metal Gear Solid game I ever played. Regardless, Metal Gear Solid 4 was an enriching 
 experience to play and still is. It takes everything about playing video games that is fun, challenging, 
 and puzzling and turns it into one of the most enriching experience in any media to date.
  What drives the gameplay, actually wasn't just the gameplay itself, but it's story. Like a happy 
 theatrical play disassembling into a somber swan song, what confused you about this story is that 
 there were too many plotholes to fill. And believe it or not, they all get resolved. Even if you 
 hate this kind of game you'll be thrilled to know trhat the story is enough to handle your entertainment 
 alone, but that's not all. The gameplay is solid and it takes everything good about gunplay and 
 turns it into a masterpiece. A triumph on absolutely every single level. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fun-and-games11
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 26, 2008 3:44 pm PT
Review:  When the first three MGS games came out I use to watch my cousin play them and I actually found 
 them kind of boring. Then when I saw there was a 4th one coming out soon I said to myself "Not 
 another one". Later on when more and more preview started coming out I actually started getting 
 interested. It was about a week before the game came out that I started obsessing on it. MGS4 was 
 the reason I wanted a PS3 and it was the first game I bought with my PS3, I dont regret it at all. 
 This is now my favorite game and it is extremely fun to re-play again and again. If your looking 
 for a good way to spend 60$, dont hesitate to get MGS4. The game is not so long depending how you 
 play the game. You can decide to play stealthy and take your time making sure that you never get 
 spotted or you can just run through the map killing anyone in your way. It's more rewarding to 
 play stealthy by the way. My first time playing the game, I tried to be the most stealthy possible 
 and I finished it in around 20 hours. 
  
  This game is filled with extremely long cinematics but it is'nt a bad thing because it keeps you 
 interested and they give you time to relax after fighting a boss that could sometimes be stressing 
 and hard. You can set the level of difficulty in the game so it is'nt a game that is too hard or 
 too easy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Adonymous
Rating: 8
Date: Jul 26, 2008 12:19 pm PT
Review:  Metal Gear Solid 4 (PS3)
  
  This was one of my most anticipated games of 2008. After many months of waiting, and getting teased 
 by amazing trailers I finally got my hands on MGS IV. Popped the disk in, and was set for an adventure 
 of a lifetime, or so I thought.
  
  The game is story-heavy, perhaps the biggest story-telling game this gen. Cut-scene after cut-scene 
 after cut-scene. The game tries to wrap everything up, which while helps the story, it also gets 
 irritating. The cut-scenes are amazingly done, but they are tedious and will tire you out. Honestly 
 it felt as if I spent more time watching cut-scenes and codec chats, then actually playing the 
 game. If you hate cut-scenes, stay away from this game, if you love cut-scenes well be ready to 
 start hating them.
  
  Once a cut-scene ends if you're still awake, you'll get to actually move, a little bit, but you'll 
 get control of snake nonetheless. The game plays much like previous Metal Gears, but has an array 
 of new features. The main new feature is the octo-cam, which allows you to blend into the environment, 
 which helps you sneak and hide from enemies. Another new features is first person shooter, you 
 can aim like in an FPS. I do have some complaints about the gameplay though. First, snake is slow. 
 I understand that he is old and all, but he is terribly slow, running feels like walking, walking 
 feels like crawling. Next gunplay, you are given a vast amount of different weapons, and this is 
 good, if you had the chance to use them. Honestly there are so many different weapons, and customization 
 options, but you won't use 90% of the weapons, especially on higher difficulties. The game encourages 
 stealth, so you'll end up using your silencer putting people to sleep most of the time, while in 
 your arsenal you hold Frag grenades, an RPG, AK47, a machine gun etc. Its a shame really that we 
 get all these weapons but don't use most of them.
  
  Lastly, online. HORRIBLE. MGSIV does not use the PSN, instead uses Konami's own network, so before 
 you can get online, you have to create a Konami ID, which is a pain in the butt, then you have 
 to create a character ( you can only create 1 character, to create a 2nd one you have to pay a 
 fee) . The gameplay online is weak, everyone moves around slowly, getting a team together and actually 
 using tactics is rare. Online was a disappointment for me. 
  
  Overall the game is beautiful, top-notch voice acting, top-notch cut-scene choreography, a great 
 story, but lacking gameplay and online. I expected more. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SM1LER7
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 26, 2008 9:25 am PT
Review:  As a newcomer to MGS, I did not know what to expect from this game. I was however pleasantly surprised. 
 First off the good. The controls are in my opinion excellent. After about a half hour of playing 
 moving through the environment is relatively easy thanks to the intuitive movement controls. Combat 
 controls were good, and were not as clumsy or sluggish as some other 3rd person games (like GRAW 
 for example) . A combat cover system like GRAWs would have been nice though as you cannot shoot 
 over obstacles and remain in cover (you can shoot around corners however) . The Octocamo camouflage 
 works well and looks cool, but does make things a little too easy. The weapon selection was nice, 
 if not overly expansive, with a wide assortment of guns of many types even if you wont need to 
 use all of them. They can also be customized with many attachments, such as silencers (M14+Silencer=PWNage) . 
 The cqc moves were also good, being easy to use, with the ability to be lethal or non lethal as 
 necessary. Lastly most of the boss fights were fun, but were not as epic as I expected them to 
 be (there were a few exceptions of course) . Now the bad. The most glaring problem is that the gameplay 
 is short. First time through may be 7 hours of gameplay, but second and on will be 5 or less, some 
 emblems expect you to finish in less than 5. Acts 3 and 5 definelty could have been longer. Like 
 most of the good gamers of late it is short but sweet (COD4 and Halo3 im looking at you) . The cutscenes 
 were definetly too long for my taste but from what I have heard this is not a new problem to the 
 series. They consume about 6 or so hours. Now for the gray areas. The story that makes up those 
 6 hours is both good and bad. I thought the basis for the story was good, and the characters were 
 deep and well done, but the story can become so convoluted and confusing you may go crazy trying 
 to keep up. Even to a Tom Clancy and LOTR fan like me it is a little much. And some plot devices 
 are a little silly (Ocelot+liquid's arm=liquid ocelot?) . Last gray area is the AI. During combat 
 they were pretty smart, tried to out flank you, usually took cover, and were pretty good shots. 
 Non- combat they could be inconsistent. If you are not well camouflaged and out of their way they 
 will spot you, but at the same time you can snipe their buddy in the head and not notice (they 
 may go into a caution however) , but they can hear you creeping around from a quarter mile away. 
 In short MGS4 is one of the best games I have ever played and as a newcomer it has got me interested 
 in the series. With some good gameplay and story telling it gets an excellent rating, but is kept 
 from perfection by that gameplay being too short and the story being too much. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: patrickncompany
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 25, 2008 4:44 pm PT
Review:  The last adventure of Solid Snake or now known as old snake is just amazing.
  We travel around the world for his final quest from the middle east to south america , russia and 
 other places.
  It may take even a playthrough to master the game but it is well worth your time.
  There are 
 60 weapons to choose from and many easter eggs are hidden inside the game itself.
  The graphics are awesome , so is the gameplay.
  What pulls my rating down to 9.5 is that you 
 need alot of patience if your an all guns blazing guy.
  If Kojima found a way that everytype of gamer would be able to play the game, it would have recieved 
 a ten.
  The game immerses you into the dirty secrets and evil of what the past has done and you have to 
 stop it.
  The bosses are great and the rewards are also very good.
  Its very rare for a game like this to come around and people , appreciate it and buy it if you 
 dont have one.
  This is the reason why i bought the ps3.
  There are no lags in the game , the AI are perfect and they are challenging to overcome.
  There 
 are various obstacles/puzzles too and there are dozens of alternative routes for us to go.
  Kojima has done an excellent job in the final franchise of the game , and the ending was beautiful 
 too.
  I hope you too will experience what i felt. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: efoxneo
Rating: 8
Date: Jul 25, 2008 9:53 am PT
Review:  I am going to try to make this quick. I have played every Metal Gear game, and in many different 
 versions. My favorite of the series was by far the first Metal Gear Solid made for PS, PC, and 
 the remake done on the Gamecube. I think I may have finished the original 30 or so times, under 
 3 hours as well, it was a great balance of gameplay and cutscene, and may be my favorite video 
 game of all time. Then, Hideo Kojima decided to become a director instead of a game producer and 
 made the great (although kinda crazy at times) movies Metal Gear 2, 3, and now 4. These "games" 
 have a huge Japanese flair and grand story telling, and the cutscenes in MGS4 have some of the 
 greatest action scenes outside of Hollywood. The gameplay however is so limited I sometimes forget 
 to pick up my controller to press X or R1 to see flashbacks and things in first person. I just 
 beat the game on Normal this morning and of course didn't skip any cutscenes. It took just under 
 20 hours, and If I skip every cutscene in the game I know it will less then a third of that in 
 gameplay, maybe less then a quarter if I'm quick. If you want to play MGS4, I suggest at least 
 playing MGS1, and after that everything else almost gets explained through cutscenes anyways, almost 
 as if I didn't need to play the second or third games. If you want to know about actual gameplay 
 in more detail, go to Gamespots review, it was about right on, and I cannot complain about it much, 
 outside of the fact that it takes a lot of 7.62 rounds to kill a human sometimes, so go for headshots 
 when you can. The story comes to a huge end to the entire series, but for some reason, I think 
 there will be more to come for our main characters. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: submissions72
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 25, 2008 7:42 am PT
Review:  I will keep this short and simple. 
  
  CONS:
  1. There truely is ONE MAJOR FLAW in this game.. ONE... Not enough gameplay. Usually I would write 
 not enough gameplay and too many cut scenes but the cut scenes are so beautifully created that 
 it's hard to say anything bad about them. There are certain parts of the game where there is a 
 cut scene where the players could have easily played them out instead of making it into a cut scene. 
 But I will not take ANYTHING away from the cutscenes just aside from the fact that there's not 
 enough gameplay. 
  
  PROS:
  I'm not gonna list ALL THE PROS about this game because there are just way too many of them. This 
 is THE BEST LOOKING game in PS3 and it has a tremendous plot that will keep you playing whether 
 you're a newbie to the MGS SAGA or A veteran. BUT IF YOU're a noobie you'll be somewhat lost but 
 you can always catch up on your knowledge of MGS on WIKI or download the MGS Encyclopedia from 
 the PSN network. 
  
  This is ONE PS3 Game that SHOULD NOT be missed.
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: BLuFAlc0n
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 9, 2008 8:57 am PT
Review:  MGS4, is a stealth-action game, which you use the character named 'Solid Snake', in fact 'old snake', 
 in this one, there has been a few games for the main series of MGS, begins from the MGS3, as you 
 start using Big Boss, in that version of the game, to Snake's final chapter, and when Konami has 
 made some good games, this is Konami's masterpiece. Graphics is very well polished, well great, 
 and very detailed, compared to any PS3 game.
  Also, better that Cod4, GTA4, and more. Gameplay is very awesome, the controls are aceptable, and 
 great, hiding through things, changing your attire and making you look different, full of cutscenes, 
 and with dualshock 3, it will be way better. You can also use the Altair attire from Ubisofts' 
 Assasin's Creed, and the Solid Eye is really great it's like your byakugan in the game, can switch 
 easily from 3rd person to 1st person to over the shoulder view ( I call in the 2nd person view) , 
 it even has Metal Gear Online for free, and MGO plays really great, even with a headset. Shooting 
 is great, oh and you even have your heatset in game, and can get a limited edition of that headset 
 in real, and can even get a solar-powered gun, even the battle against Liquid is really great. 
 Sounds are very good, kinda like SSBB for the Wii, the theme of love is in that version of the 
 game, a lot of great tracks, that Konami really pulled off. Oh almost forget, that it even has 
 its own iPod in the game, and you can listen through different music, and even can change the language 
 to Japanese, cool! Presentation is great as well, packed with a lot of highly detailed cutscenes, 
 it just won't stop, but who cares, the cutscenes are actually good, you can buy the game for 30 
 brand new, and plus with an awesome sleeve, Overall, the game is almost perfect, and the only and 
 the BEST game for the ps3, probably the best 7th gen game ever, (with SSBB) and beats all ps3 games 
 out there, NOW ps3 finally has a super awesome game that thrashes GTA4 and a game that the X360 
 will never have. Snake's final chapter is probably Snake's best version of Metal Gear. And if a 
 lot of people just wanders about and saying 'you won't be needing that much memory in a ps3 game' 
 MGS4 has made the exclamation point!, and served those 360 fanboys, because this is the first ever 
 game to hold a 50G dual-disk Blu-ray game!
  
  Goods/ +
  Awesome Graphics
  Awesome Gameplay
  Awesome Sounds
  Lots of Secrets
  Lots of Easter Eggs
  Cheap for a PS3 
 game
  MGO is great
  You get a free iPod in the game
  You can use the Altair outfit of Assasins Creed
  The cutscenes are pure HD and feels like a movie 
 watching them
  Storyline is really great, unless you're new to the game
  Can change the language to japanese
  Opening is just super cool
  Better than GTA4
  The X360 
 will never have this game
  
  Bads/ -
  The game is very long
  You would be lost if you don't know the story of metal gear
  Long loading times - as it's the 
 first ever dual disk blu-ray game, (50G)
  
  Gameplay/Innovation - 10/10
  Graphics - 10/10
  Sounds - 10/10
  Value - 10/10
  Presentation 9/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: trapezanidis
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 27, 2008 6:39 pm PT
Review:  Metal Gear Solid 4: Guns Of The Patriots is the best game out on Playstaion 3 at the moment, with 
 all new features and cool stuff put into the game, this makes it a one of a kind superb video game 
 masterpiece. 
  
  the story is about the legendary Solid Snake sent into a middle east war zone to put an end to 
 the Liquid's insurrection. Snake has now got the latest sneaking suit aka octocamo this new octocamo 
 can blend into any environment, also equipped with a robotic drone and a solid eye, the solid eye 
 shows real time information when looking at a guard snake can identifie that guard and find out 
 what army there with what weapon there carrying. 
  
  Solid Snake is not the same man as most remember Snake has aged, he suffers on the battlefield 
 with cramps and saw bones, he also has a psyche gage that needs to be payed close attention to 
 otherwise... 
  
  He also has a stress gage the really neat idea about this stress gauge is that when it go's to 
 100 Solid Snake go's into combat high and becomes a more accrete shot. New guards aka PMC Troops 
 deployed by outer heaven move with stragedy and tactics. 
  
  Weapons are fully customizable, with add on's such as flash light's scopes laser sights grips an 
 lower attachments like grenade launchers ,ect, ect. 
  
  The new gun mechanics are really good you can shot from over the shoulder view though your scopes 
 first person view or auto aim. 
  
  You can now move around in first person view also. Solid Snake Can now roll around, lie on his 
 back and shoot, 
  
  the good thing about Snake being able to lie down and roll on his back is that when you get hit 
 and fall down on the ground you don't just have to get up now you can press the triangle button 
 and roll on Snake's back and shoot from there. 
  
  The cut scenes go for a long time the game is a very cinemactic experience scenes go from 10 to 
 30mins to an hour and 30. The sound effects are incrediblel awesome. 
  
  Best surround sound yet, the music score is wonderful composed by Harry-Gregson Willims and another 
 guy. The graphics are amazing. And by the end you play this game you'll wish it never ended and 
 you'd be overwhelmed by the experience you have. 10/10 best game out at the moment 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Skippyj9
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jul 24, 2008 9:21 pm PT
Review:  Metal Gear Solid 4 features the best gameplay mechanics of any Metal Gear Solid game. That's the 
 only improvement this game makes, and it ends up falling short in all other categories.
  
  The bosses are interesting, but the fights with one slight exception are mindlessly simple, and 
 easy compared to the other parts of the game. Sneaking is a less viable option this time around 
 and expect to be using you stun gun often. But you don't need to worry about ammo because you can 
 now buy it whenever you want. This can be seen as a good or bad thing, personally I was indifferent 
 to this simplification, seeing as the shop is well integrated into the gameplay.
  
  The story is fairly average, and soul-crushingly disappointing as the fourth MGS title. Every little 
 detail is explained to you and the game does not allow you to come to your own conclusions. If 
 you are expecting a bloodbath, sadly nanomachines seem to be the answer to almost every near-death 
 experience in the game. I was able to just groove with the story until the final long cinematic 
 which just barrages you with so much pointless information, boring scenes, and more nanomachine 
 **** that by the time the twist comes around, I didn't really care. And this is coming from a huge 
 fan of the series from the the first MGS on the Playstation.
  
  Not much needs to be said about the graphics because they are the best to ever grace a console. 
 Period.
  
  Metal Gear Solid 4 is a must have title for the Playstation 3. It is truly a killer app and you 
 won't regret the purchase. Although I did not enjoy the story, it was not so bad that it ruined 
 the series for me, it was just mediocre. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JudgementEden
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 24, 2008 5:41 am PT
Review:  Metal Gear Solid 4 has been anticipated by countless fans of the series. I would go so far as to 
 say all of the fans of the series had this in their top three most wanted games so far. Now, it 
 has finally come.
  
  You begin the game by watching this weird commercial esque scene. You can press any button on the 
 controller to change "channels" to other commercials. One of the scenes you can watch has David 
 Hayter (the voice of Solid Snake) being interviewed. It is very weird and has no bearing on the 
 story, but its fun to watch. Eventually it ends and you will now begin watching the intro of the 
 game.
  
  I wont mention what happens in any of the scenes for sake of spoilers, but I will say the dialog 
 is top notch. Also you will notice that once the opening intro is done, the transition from scene 
 to gameplay is seamless and incredible. You then begin to control Solid Snake (or Old Snake as 
 he is called throughout the game) . If you have played the other installments of the series, you 
 should probably notice how different your surroundings are. After playing the last installments, 
 this seems like a totally new environment. Not because of the setting, but because of how much 
 goes on around you and how many soldiers are present. Thats mainly noticeable in the beginning 
 however, as you do get used to it.
  
  A little ways into the game you will run into the Beauty and the Beast group. Which consists of 
 Laughing Octopus, Raging Raven, Crying Wolf, and Screaming Mantis. All of them look gorgeously 
 detailed and intimidating to boot. When it comes to weapons and gadgets, that area should not disappoint. 
 From the Solid Eye and Metal Gear Mk. II to the M4 Custom and a plethora of unlockable weapons, 
 you may never stay with a permanent staple of weapons and gadgets.
  
  Story wise, the game never fails there either. As others who have played the game have said: It 
 explains everything from past games in the series. Once the story starts, it never lets up. There 
 are too many things to spoil with this game, so I'll stop here.
  
  Alot of people have said that if you own a PS3 and haven't given MGS4 a chance, your not a real 
 owner. I may not say that, but they may be right. And besides, this is Solid Snakes last mission, 
 his last game. You may as well give him a big salute, he will be remembered. He will always be 
 Solid Snake. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ppleong
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 24, 2008 4:39 am PT
Review:  Ok, this is my first time writing a review, I'll put this simple, this is the one game that everyone 
 should buy, the graphics, is the best looking console game to date, beating Drake's Fortune, Assassins 
 Creed and it even looks better than Devil May Cry 4, and is beautiful as ever This is the most visually 
 appealing game of the PS3, Just about every scene in the game is rendered in real time with a few 
 exceptions, All 3D models are perfectly rounded off, smooth, and shiny, but at the same time the 
 game manages to keep a very gritty and dark look. The cut scenes are done greatly, with great camera 
 angles, in game cut scene camera zoom control and tons of other little interactive pieces. The 
 game manages to looks like a high end HD movie
  
  The sound is broken up into 2 parts, music and sound effects, and voice acting: now the music has 
 always been a strong point with MGS, with beautiful scores from Harry Gregson Williams, and this 
 one has the best scores from any movie, it is just that good. The sound effects are great, as always 
 the ALERT sound that has been made famous in the series, makes a return. And you hear beautifully 
 done sounds throughout the whole game whatever it my be, nothing gets left out, its as if you are 
 right there and you see the action and hear it to make it feel like you are a part of the game. 
 Now for the voice acting. All the voice actors return to reprise their roles as the characters 
 that they have played in the past, the execution of the voice actors: lip syncing, emotion, staying 
 in character, sharing the same state of mind like loss of breath or feeling of pain, is FLAWLESS! 
 
  
  Now the controls are very fluent, very simple, and easy to get used to so no problems with that. 
 (not that there was any control problems in any of the previous installments.) The enemies AI is 
 very well done, you don't feel like you're fighting a bunch of bumbling idiots that don't know 
 what they're doing, as always, Kojima has made sure that people actually think like people. They 
 won't fall for the same trick twice, if they fell for it in the first place. Now for the story. 
 What is there to say, everything gets tied up from the last 6 games, Metal Gears 1 and 2, Metal 
 Gear Solid 1, 2, and 3, and portable ops. 
  
  But lastly I think maybe the cut scenes is a bit too long, maybe MR Kojima and his team can make 
 some more extras mission, example: sunny is taken by PMC and snake is going from point A to point 
 B to rescue her, something like act 1 & 2, like rescue mission but only there is on defending or 
 attacking team not MGO and can put up on PSN for us to download like Ninja Gaiden Sigma game, they 
 have survival mission, I think is help a lot.
  
  This is the most rewarding game that I have ever played in my whole life, and if you have the opportunity 
 play it. You will not be disappointed. 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: richblay
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 24, 2008 2:37 am PT
Review:  This is one of the best games I've ever played. The intricate storyline, the interesting characters, 
 and the stellar gameplay make Metal Gear Solid 4 an instant classic. Sneaking around and figuring 
 out ways to get past the surprisingly intelligent pmc soldiers just never gets old. And blasting 
 away at helicopters and tanks is just as fun as it sounds. And there's nothing quite like the wonderful 
 tension you feel as you slowly walk behind a guard to choke him out. The visuals are just flat 
 out stunning, and the cinematics rolls into the gameplay so smoothly that many times, it'll catch 
 you by surprise. And the interplay between cutscenes and actual gaming makes for a really interesting 
 experience. Though some of the scenes can be quite long, it's actually worth it to go through them. 
 They make the game more than just another shooter, but they help transform metal gear solid into 
 something different. It almost feels like an interactive movie, though at the end of the day, you'll 
 be crawiing around and shooting people much more than you'll be watching snake crawl around and 
 shoot people. Overall, this game is just flat out brilliant. Buy it, play it, love it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Uesugi-dono
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 24, 2008 2:01 am PT
Review:  First, allow me to laud praise. MGS IV is an amazing game. Beautiful, well-scripted, well-acted, 
 and it's really really fun to play. In the series, going all the way back to MG, I would say IV 
 is #2, behind only the masterpiece that is MGS III: Snake Eater, and just slightly above the first 
 MGS. I love the fact that this one ties in so tightly to the rest of the series and answers questions 
 left open in the series. Kojima is insuring that the series finishes with a bang. 
  
  However,
  
  The one fault that lies glaringly open on this game is the combat system. The cover 
 system is atrocious, especially in the wake of GTA IV. The same can be said about the shooting. 
 It takes an eternity to aim your gun manually. By the time you swing around to fire you've already 
 eaten 30 rounds of enemy fire. The Auto Aim system is so incredibly useless even the guidebook 
 advises against using it. If they had only had a system akin to GTA IV, with a fast lock on the 
 nearest enemy allowing your to thumb up on the stick for quick headshots and an intelligent cover 
 system this game would have been FLAWLESS.
  
  Still, even with this almost crippling flaw, this game is easily the best game on the next-gen, 
 yes even better than the other 800 lb. gorilla GTA. Snake, we salute you.
  
  (Now I want them to start over with MG I with the new technology!) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: yamore
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 23, 2008 11:08 pm PT
Review:  It has really good graphics, great gameplay and very interisting storyline and cut scenes.
  If you havent play this game what are waiting for!!!! go ahead and buy it, you wont regret it 
 I can asure that.
  This is a very solid game thatv comes with the end of the Metal Gear Solid saga the best way that 
 was possible. You can really notice the work that the developers of the game did in every detail 
 of the game game rendering characters appearance in other words every part of the game was actually 
 amazing.
  Until now I did not see a game so well done as MGS4 on the PS3 console, the only thing that hope 
 is that all of the games that are develop from now on are develop in the way this game was using 
 all the Blue ray disc and the PS3 potential. Anyone who plays this game will enjoy it as much as 
 I did if they like tactics, espionage kind of game if that is although if they are not familiar 
 in those genres of games they will get introduce to it in this excellent game.
  Ten thumbs up for this game!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Richie2k6
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 23, 2008 9:17 pm PT
Review:  With possibly the greatest story of all time, possiiibly the greatest graphics the video game work 
 has ever seen and possibly the greatest gameplay features the gaming world has ever seen, MGS4 
 solidifies itself as a classic. If you haven't played MGS1, 2 or 3, playing MGS4 will make you 
 go back and try out the predecessors. Phenominal gameplay, stunning graphics, possibly the greatest 
 story in gaming history. If you have a Playstation 3 and you don't have MGS4, you must have a mental 
 disability. Not having MGS4 and having a PS3 is like having a car with no gas - there's no point. 
 The online experience is great and you can beat campaign over and over without being bored. Easily 
 the greatest PS3 game available and it overpowers GTA4 and will overpower Gears of War 2. Game 
 of the Year easily, game of the decade quite possibly, game of all-time a definite candidate. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jg4xchamp
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 23, 2008 8:14 pm PT
Review:  Metal Gear Solid 4 has finally arrived. Finally Hideo Kojima is ready to put the final touches 
 on this legendary franchise. Finally Kojima is ready to finish a story arch that can be considered 
 one of gaming's biggest and grandest storylines ever. But does Kojima deliver a package that is 
 stimulating and thought provoking, or has he created something that is simply more imaginative 
 but just simply shallow.
  
  In short- Thought Provoking and Stimulating. This review will probably have some slight spoilers, 
 but never anything massive. Simply put Metal Gear Solid 4 offers a story that is deep as it is 
 a bit convoluted . The presentation is unlike any other game out there, and the multiple cut scenes 
 stay true to the MGS standard. Some will argue that there are too many cut scenes, and in some 
 ways that may be true. However there might not be any other way to tell such a heavy handed story 
 like this. 
  
  Metal Gear Solid 4 takes place in the not so distant future where War has completely changed. Proxy 
 Wars, War Economy, PMC's are the big thing. The Patriots form of control has changed everything, 
 skill and soldier instincts are no longer a requirement to be a soldier they can just be given. 
 The storyline is deep with themes and questions but it never sides with any one side in the bigger 
 issues. It is just there to provoke ideas, thoughts, and interest. The core story may be your typical 
 good guy chases bad guy, but the sheer amount of depth is something that can't be overlooked. 
 
  
  In the case of Metal Gear Solid 4 it has to be the final answer to all the questions that Metal 
 Gear Solid fans have after playing all the previous games. For the most part just about everything 
 gets answered; like who are The Patriots, what is happening to Snake, what about Foxdie?, what 
 ever happened to Raiden? Etc. It may be a lot to take in 1 play through and some will need a second 
 play through just to understand the whole scope of the story. Every MGS character that alive will 
 make an appearance from Naomi to even Eva and all of them will play a big role in the story. Every 
 character gets there goodbye and grand finish, but none of them get the grand finale quite like 
 Solid Snake. 
  
  This is Solid Snake's story and you play the entire game as Solid Snake. In his final performance 
 in an MGS game David Hayter does another outstanding performance as the voice actor for Solid Snake. 
 The characters in this game are as loveable as ever, and the story will defiantly pull no punches 
 on your heartstrings. 
  
  So the story goes out with a huge bang, but what about the gameplay? Well for one the formula stays 
 true to series past, you watch as much as you play. However this minor issue will be offset by 
 the fact that the quality of your play is excellent. The gunplay has gotten massive tweaks. Now 
 with the added RE 4 sty1e camera for aiming, and better mapping of controls MGS 4 has the gunplay 
 to finally deliver on the action as well as stealth. Add on your RE 4 like merchant giving you 
 probably the largest amount of ammunition you have ever had in an MGS game. Each gun can be customized 
 and modified. You can add scopes, silencers, laser sights, and even shotgun add-ons. 
  
  However at the heart and to the hardcore MGS fans it will always be a stealth game. The game takes 
 over and evolves the MGS 3 formula. Instead of always having to go your backpack, now you have 
 an octocam suit. Giving you the ability to just take on the proper camo with your surroundings. 
 Unlike previous games where you worked in corridors now you will mostly be working on giant battlefields. 
 There will be some industrial environments, indoor corridors, and a return to one of MGS's more 
 haunting areas of interest but the idea of this game is "hiding in plain sight". Something the 
 game does very well. You won't be in an empty environment, you will be in the middle of a war zone. 
 Explosions, gunfire, soldiers, and a ton of different routes to work with. That said the game is 
 still pretty linear, but you will be given many options to move on forward. 
  
  In MGS 3 the secondary bar that mattered was stamina, in MGS 4 the secondary bar that matters is 
 Stress. Solid Snake has become an old man now, he has aged. Thus he is now "Old Snake" so a new 
 addition is the stress meter. When Snake's stress meter gets to high it starts to effect his performance. 
 He gets tired quicker, his aiming and shooting skills are off, and he can be wounded much quicker. 
 The idea of is to keep him well hidden and out of action. So while yes you can go gun blazing, 
 on the higher difficulties you will be asked to hold yourself in check and be more methodical with 
 your approach. Another nice addition to the stealth is a threat ring. A super soldier like Solid 
 Snake should be able to sense the presence of danger surround him. With the threat ring you can 
 now have a sixth sense for where enemies are coming from and how close they are getting. This covers 
 up any blind spots and helps you attack in a meticulous manor. 
  
  MGS is a franchise that has made a big name for itself on two things Story and Boss fights. In 
 the case of MGS 4 one can argue that Kojima finally has what it takes to challenge the brilliance 
 of the boss fights from Metal Gear Solid 1. The Beauty and Beast boss fights offer a nice challenge 
 and are unique in everyway. The different tactics and similarities to some of the big previous 
 boss fights really offers a lot of quality action, and the rewards are even sweater. Throw in you 
 duel with a character who seems immortal, to a Metal Gear Showdown, to your final bought with Liquid 
 Ocelot and you have boss fights that cover the range of strategic, challenging, action packed, 
 cinematic, and Epic in everyway. 
  
  The tech in this game simply outstanding. Graphically the only fault you can find is maybe a few 
 bad textures, other than that it is STUNNING. It may not be a Crysis (what is?) , but it is easily 
 the console graphics king. The animations are fluid and convincing. It all looks and feels natural. 
 The character models are all perfectly done, as are the faces of each character. The lip synch 
 is perfect and the hand gestures of each character during cut scenes just offers a convincing performance. 
 The lighting is brilliant, the explosions are some of the best in any game, the art is beautiful, 
 and in short the game looks Fantastic. However in this case MGS 4 is trumped by its even superior 
 audio. All the voice actors are convincing, the explosions, gunfire, music, etc are all top notch. 
 If you have a surround system then Please, and I MEAN PLEASE CRANK IT UP when you play this game. 
 It is something that just needs to be experienced. The audio work is the best in GAMING period 
 and can only really be topped by music rhythm games. 
  
  Metal Gear Solid 4 is a game that is broken into 5 acts and for the most part the game can range 
 from 20-25 hours on your first full play through (meaning watch all the cut scenes) . MGS 4 is a 
 game where the story is part of the experience and in this case overwhelms the gameplay. If you 
 skip the cut scenes it might be a 10 hour game maybe 12 at most. The replay value comes from the 
 multiple difficulties, the AI, the options on the battlefield, and some great unlockables/emblems. 
 The game offers a very nice squad based MP experience as well called Metal Gear Online. For the 
 most part it is solid, but I wouldn't exactly call it earth changing. Future additions are on the 
 way. 
  
  Metal Gear Solid 4 does have some flaws that some should consider. The story is heavy handed, just 
 like having a grand story is a positive, in the case of MGS it might be a flaw to some. There is 
 a TON of story in this game and a ton of cut scenes. For those of you that don't enjoy story or 
 cut scenes this may be a deal breaker. While the story is good the writing might have some issues. 
 The characters tend to regurgitate the same stuff on a consistent basis and really breaks up the 
 flow of the story in certain cases. The ending is REALLY LONG and so are other cut scenes. The 
 gameplay while good has some control issues. The controls take some getting used to and require 
 multiple button inputs for certain actions that other games do in quicker ways. The cover system 
 is seriously flawed. You have to break out of cover just to shoot over the top, something that 
 honestly should not be overlooked in an era with games like Gears of War and Uncharted. However 
 none of these flaws is game breaking in anyway, as they are just issues that could have been better 
 with some improvements. 
  
  That said Metal Gear Solid 4 is thought provoking and stimulating. The game offers some of the 
 most nostalgic moments in video game history. It invokes and breathes nostalgia like few games 
 ever do. New additions like The threat ring and improved gunplay help the series with the action 
 as well as the stealth. The expansive story and single player is some of the best in gaming, if 
 not the best. For a Metal Gear Solid fan this is what you call proper fan service. The game not 
 only lives up to the high expectations but surpasses all the hype anybody could ever put on the 
 game. Solid Snake and Hideo Kojima bid farewell to Metal Gear Solid and its fans. A farewell that 
 will go down as Legendary and worthy of one final Salute. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: koolmankris
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 23, 2008 3:50 pm PT
Review:  Metal Gear Solid 3 came out nearly 4 years ago, and was re-released in 2006 with a much-needed 
 update to the frustrating camera system which plagued previous games. It also came with a couple 
 older Metal Gear games (from way way back) as well as a new online mode. While this was all pretty 
 good, it just wasn't enough for me. MGS3 helped fill in a lot of gray areas in the series' complicated 
 plot, but didn't clear up any confusion left behind from the ending of MGS2. So, since late 2001, 
 fans have been waiting to find out what happens to Solid Snake next. For those who've given up 
 waiting so long, one look at this game should almost instantly change anybodies' mind. The Solid 
 Snake we remember from the good old days is back and badass as ever, and it's certainly been worth 
 the long wait. The first and foremost thing to note is that you can't judge the game by just looking 
 at it. Even though Snake looks like an old man, he can still hand out plenty of ass-kickin's and 
 look cool at the same time. If you're a little confused, Snake isn't as old as he actually looks. 
 Due to the fact that Snake is a clone, and because he's been infected with a mysterious synthetic 
 virus (known as FoxDie) , he's started aging rapidly over only a few years. Returning characters, 
 such as Otacon, look as if they've barely aged a day. It's no surprise that some familiar faces 
 return, like Liquid Snake, who's merged with (and possessed) longtime villain Revolver Ocelot after 
 apparently dying at the end of MGS1. While the new story is just as complicated and ridiculous 
 as ever, it still sucks you in and doesn't let up. I don't want to give away any more of the plot 
 because there are so many twists and turns that it might ruin the experience. If you're new to 
 the series, I'm sure you'll still have a good time, but I really strongly recommend playing the 
 other games first. Longtime fans will undoubtedly find plenty of "easter eggs", and will appreciate 
 the many inside-jokes and references that newcomers might not notice. Still, there's plenty of 
 enjoyment to have through watching the lengthy cinematics. Some people will probably find these 
 cinematics really annoying, but I think they're really entertaining, and done even better than 
 most hollywood action films. The music and voiceovers are a bit cheesy at times, but they're all 
 done so well that you might forget you're playing a video game. Visual design is also some of the 
 best I've ever seen, with really sweet lighting and shadows, lush outdoor environments, detailed 
 and sharp texture mapping, and highly realistic characters and facial animations. Possibly my favorite 
 update in MGS4 is the huge arsenal of weapons you get to use. Nearly every gun from past Metal 
 Gear games is back, but there are even more we haven't used before. These range from typical handguns 
 like the desert eagle, .45, 9mm, and the tranquilizer pistol, all the way to RPGs, grenade launchers, 
 sniper-rifles, and the deadly rail-gun. Upon first finding a new weapon, it'll usually be "ID Locked", 
 meaning only its original owner may use it. Luckily, you'll run into a guy named Drebin, who sells 
 and buys weapons on the black market. If you find a locked weapon, he will remove the lock for 
 a price, as well as sell you new and rare weapons. To purchase any of these services, you find 
 and spend "Drebin Points", or DP. These can be earned by finding and selling copies of any gun 
 you already have, and by doing things like killing certain enemies. Aside from weapons and ammo, 
 you can also buy upgrades for some guns. These include scopes, laser sights, supressors, foregrips, 
 flashlights, and more. Once you finish the game, you can then go back and play again and keep everything 
 you unlocked in the previous game. This is sorta similar to Resident Evil 4, which is also a game 
 I really loved. There is a lot of incentive to keep coming back to play again and has enough unlockable 
 goodies to keep people busy for a long long time. If you don't have a PS3 yet, this game is the 
 strongest argument to own one, and it's the reason I own mine. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jqh97116
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 23, 2008 2:15 pm PT
Review:  MGS4 is the best game I have ever played, with deep story telling, exceptional graphics, awesome 
 gameplay, great online, and very nice features, this game is a masterpiece.
  The story takes about 20 hours to beat when you watch all the cutscenes and if you take your time. 
 There are multiple difficulties so if you are good at action games or not it doesn't matter, for 
 more diehard MGS fans (like me) we see a lot of improvement from past games, the ability to do more 
 complex moves, like walking while crouched, rolling while in prone, flipping over in prone, and 
 those are just a few examples.
  The aiming has improved also, with over the shoulder and first person. The guns are very realistic 
 and have appropriate recoil, magazine size, and look. All 69 guns look almost real. 
  A new feature that I think is amazing is almost every gun can be customized with an array of different 
 accessories. Including flashlights, scopes, laser sights, suppressors, almost everything you need 
 for your mission.
  This game definitely deserves a 10 with its exceptional gameplay and graphics. In my opinion there 
 is no game like it.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: GothicSinner
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 23, 2008 3:17 am PT
Review:  This game has to be one of th most brilliantly satisfying games I have played! MGS4 takes the cake 
 as it has one of the best storylines I've ever seen, one of the best voice acting I've ever heard 
 and the graphics of the game are truly amazing. With a game like this you will shed a tear here 
 and there and a laugh aswell as the storyline is quite emotional and also a beauty to see. The 
 new CQC has been improved and for me it is quite good (once you get the hang of it) The new 1st 
 person view mode is also something new and which I also liked. The octo suit is something truly 
 amazing as I have never seen a game so perfectly made for stealth. 
  
  The bosses in MGS 4 are quite something. You have Laughing octopus which is a master of disguise, 
 raging raven which is capable of flying and sending it's mechanical ravens to attack, crying wolf 
 has the ability to use a gatling gun and attack you at very fast speeds, screaming mantis (who 
 later on you discover was controlled by your old enemy, the one and only psycho mantis) has the 
 ability to control and manipulate soldiers with her two little puppets, Vamp which is the bisexual 
 immortal vampire and last but not least your oldest of enemies, you're twin brother Liquid (but 
 as called in the game liquid ocelot.) The last battle you get when facing Liquid Ocelot is something 
 truly amazing. I have never seen Snake show such beautiful CQC in any of the other previous games. 
 
  
  The allies you get are also some of the best allies you can ever get. Raiden (for some reason is 
 now a cyborg ninja) is one helpful ally, he can kill several gekos in a blink of an eye. Otacon 
 who is your old and trusty friend, he will give you several hints during the game and as well he 
 will give you valuable items. Sunny is the little girl who will help Otacon in the creation of 
 the Mk II and the Mk III, she is one smart kid!!! you have Drebin who is one of the best allies 
 you will have on the game as he will Launder any gun you find on the way, sell you custom items 
 and as well as refilling your bullets. You have the Rat patrol team (which is controlled by your 
 old friend Meryl) This team will back you up when you are in a sticky situation. Rosemary (who 
 is the current wife of Roy Campbell and your personal stress manager) will tell you whats your 
 status on your health and your surroundings. Big Mama who later in the game find out she is Eve 
 helps you protect Big Bosses body. And lastly we have Naomi Hunter, she plays one major part in 
 this game and she is the one who gives you the antidote to combat the foxdie that's currently circulating 
 in your body. 
  
  In conclusion this game deserves a perfect 10/10 as it is truly the best damn game you are gonna 
 find on the market till now!!!! So long snake you've deserved this rest :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: aaronbecerril
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 22, 2008 6:56 pm PT
Review:  Metal Gear Solid 4 is the best thing out in the market at the moment even if u dont know the story 
 u can play it and enjoy it, and even when u finish the game with MGO (metal gear on-line) the game 
 becomes endless the story the graphics the on-line game this game has everything in it, this relay 
 is a Next-Gen game and if PS3 game are going to be like this in the future, its going to be an 
 great system!!!
  
  The game system is great, a movie like sensation trough all the game with the flashback cut seens 
 is also a great plus.
  
  The controls are fast to get used to and the camera movement is fantastic the way u can move around 
 the camera gives the the game that extra nice touch to the battle sensation.
  
  The graphics are truly amazing the move and in game image is the same all the time, there are even 
 moments in the game that u think ur watching a a movie with real life actors.
  
  The sound effects and music are great it relay feels like ur in a war zone and the voice acting 
 is amazing as usual in any metal gear solid game.
  
  
  Hope u enjoy as i did, great game MR. KOJIMA
  by: Aaron Becerril
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: maxxaddict
Rating: 4
Date: Jul 22, 2008 3:44 pm PT
Review:  I bought this game because of the rave reviews. This is the first Metal Gear Solid game I've ever 
 played. I was told by the game store guy that you could play this game and follow the story even 
 if you've never played Metal Gear Solid before. Whats with all the solid .... liquid... Ocelot who 
 ???? I wish I had rented first. The game looks great and I suppose playing an old man with a mullet 
 could be fun but.... solid snake..... c'mon not without Viagra ! This game wants to be splinter cell 
 but isn't quite there. 
  
  I can't stand the controls. Hold this button for this or tap it and get that. Select a weapon from 
 the drop down menu then equip it..... Microsoft war?.....
  
  If you do all the sneaking around your supposed to it would take an eternity to finish this game. 
 Sitting in one spot waiting for a soldier to walk past you then running for your life mullet waving 
 behind you is not my idea of excitement. If Snake is so tough why does he spend so much time cowering 
 in a dark corner sucking his thumb, stroking his mullet, and waiting for danger to pass? 
  
  Overall this game looks nice.... I might give it some more time but...... who knows. I usually 
 know in 10-15 minutes if the game is for me; this on is not. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Falkien06
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 22, 2008 1:41 pm PT
Review:  You are the player (Old Snake) and must navigate the game world in order to progress, using stealth 
 and cunning this where where espionage action comes in word in addition to traditional combat. 
 It uses third person view with full camera manipulation, but also allows the freedom to play in 
 first-person mode. Personally the first person is quite pointless as it isn't that accurate unless 
 the opponent is still and even if you shoot him once he should remain still for the kill. So stick 
 with third person view. Players can also use a new form of camouflage called "Octocamo," which 
 replaces the camouflage system featured in Metal Gear Solid 3. Also there are box hiding and barrel 
 hiding.
  
  Metal Gear Solid 4 wraps up the series and it also comes with metal gear online with the same controls 
 and the ability to customize the player you wish. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Def_Joe_Griffe
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 22, 2008 10:02 am PT
Review:  I looked forward for playing MGS4 for a year, and it felt amazing when I got it from the store 
 the same day it was released. Although the first 30 minutes of the game didn't impress me, I started 
 to like it very much near the end of Act I.
  
  Graphics and sound effects are both heavenly, it's always a pleasure to play MGS4 thanks to them. 
 OctoCamo, Drebin's Shop, improved CQC and gaining allegiance with the militia were all very nice 
 ideas. Story is also great, but VERY hard to understand if you haven't played any other games in 
 the series. All the characters are quite well designed, especially Old Snake and Drebin were very 
 well-designed characters. 
  
  However, there are downsides. The B&B unit is completely impersonal and all the boss fights were 
 quite boring. They could've also been a little more challenging. The last two acts were way too 
 short and there wasn't much sneaking in them. 
  
  Overall, MGS4 is a great experience, especially if you understand the story. The gameplay is always 
 a pleasure, and the game has got a lot of value. Just one playthrough isn't enough, you have to 
 play the game through a lot of times until you have more emblems and weapons. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: reaper-1978
Rating: 6
Date: Jul 22, 2008 8:56 am PT
Review:  after all the hype and as i`m new to the ps3 i thought i would give it ago and it was ok but i'm 
 more into action shooter's like (call of duty and gears ) than stealthy shooter's and as such this 
 is the first metal gear game i have played (maybe this is the problem :S ) but did think the adverts 
 on the press start button screen were funny and no wonder snake looks so old he smokes more than 
 me and i'm a right chain smoker :D
  
  only payed 25 for it so can't really complain and i'm sure the next person that buy's this copy 
 will love it :D
  
  i was susprized to see that it`s only a 720p game and not 1080p :S let's hope the next wave of 
 ps3 games will all be 1080p :D
  
  well the end of my first review on this site and i hope i haven't upset any of the metal gear fans 
 as i bet they all love the game but as the title say's it just wasn't my cup of tea. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: aussieyabo
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 21, 2008 11:51 pm PT
Review:  No real words can describe MGS4 as well as "amazing." There is no real reason to tell you about 
 it, I wont you to see for yourself. My friend has played all MGS games except number 1. He told 
 me about it and I didn't take much notice. Now I'm a newbie to the series and as I played through, 
 it all started to make perfect sense. Some things are very sad, some things will keep you on the 
 edge of your seat. The boss battles are also very good, just like the main game. This game is the 
 reason to buy a PlayStation 3 system. Even if you already own another console. No matter what type 
 of game you like, you will think you really are Solid Snake while you play this game. It keeps 
 you coming back for more, even if you have finished the game.
  
  THIS MAY CONTAIN SPOILERS*
  
  Legends die hard, the ending to MGS4 is such an amazing ending 
 for Solid Snake it should be in the headlines. We salute you, Snake. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: stangsaleen2000
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 21, 2008 11:32 pm PT
Review:  To start this review I must bring up that I highly recommend playing through the first three before 
 playing MGS4, bare through the other three, game play wise they don't match up to MGS4 but I believe 
 the other 3 were well worth playing through because of how great this game is.
  
  So as you can tell, I am a big MGS fan, please take that into consideration for this review. 
 
  
  This is by far the best game I have played on the current gen. systems (ps3, 360, wii) . It has 
 amazing game play, very detailed story, long cut scenes that lead straight into game play, great 
 characters, and one of the best story endings of any game I have played. Right when I began the 
 game I couldn't get it out of my mind until I finished it, all together around 20 hours of game 
 play, maybe 30 hours with cut scenes included. Well from that you can tell this game has very long 
 cut scenes, sometimes up to almost an hour and a half, but they included the pause and skip features, 
 which were much needed. If you don't have much patience for cut scenes or even heavy amounts of 
 dialogue, then this will be a very difficult story for you to get through, but if you are a fan 
 of MGS then you are well prepared for them. 
  
  Enough of story because I don't want to give away any plot spoilers. The game play has been greatly 
 improved from the past games. The new style of camera has once again been proven to be a great 
 change. The small control issues I had with Snake Eater (for example when he is crouched, he will 
 craw if you move forward) has been fixed and I couldn't find any issue of controls what so ever. 
 The game is more set up for you to play as you wish; if you want to sneak around, but you get caught 
 you can easily bring out weapons and shoot your enemies down. The new third-person style of gun 
 control works great for fire fights, and there are many situations where you must use it. 
  
  As you progress through the game, new styles of game play elements arise as you gain new equipment. 
 These elements aren't anything new if you are used to MGS, but they are improved. The game takes 
 you through many different environments and new boss fights that are at sometimes the most exciting 
 moments in MGS history. 
  
  The multiplayer is a nice feature but you must have a lot of patience and that doesn't go well 
 for an online game. It is fun at sometimes, but if you don't play the game everyday, then be prepared 
 to die very often. 
  
  All together, this is the best game I've play in a very long time. It ended one of my favorite 
 game series greatly. All I can say is if you are looking for a good game series then give MGS a 
 try, but remember through all the hard work of the first three that it pays off greatly in the 
 end, and if you are a fan of MGS and haven't played it yet, then get your hands on this game now. 
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kuraime
Rating: 8
Date: Jul 23, 2008 5:58 am PT
Review:  The shine of Metal Gear Solid games has steadily went downwards. The first Metal Gear Solid was 
 first of its kind in the old Playstation. A cinematic movie/game crossover with a helluwa plot 
 twists and fun gameplay. MGS2 was the same with better graphics, but a disappointment to some since 
 Snake wasnt obviously the main character. The things that were new and innovative in the first 
 one were a standard now, so playing with enemy AI wasnt that much fun anymore. MGS3 went to the 
 same direction, except that the plot wasnt about Snake, but his predecessor Big Boss. Retrospectively 
 I liked this game more than MGS2, although its storyline wasnt that good.
  
  Now MGS4: Guns of the Patriots. The game hooked me in from the first seconds, but then again I 
 am a fan and cannot review this game objectively. Id imagine that newcomers would be somewhat lost 
 from the first meters. 
  
  Anyway, the storyline is once again its supporting structure and from the start its obvious that 
 this is a interactive movie rather than a common game, since it takes more time to watch the movie 
 sequences than to play the parts in between them. But no matter, we are used to it by now. Gameplay 
 is fine, but not really that much fun as it was in the original. The only reason that kept me playing 
 it was to see what happened next or ultimately, how does it all end. 
  
  After playing halfway the first act, I found myself hoping that the act would come to an end soon 
 and we could get out of that place. It was much more fun to sneak in an enemy infested area alone, 
 without an army beside you. Even though you can kill both sides, I found myself helping the other 
 side even though I didnt really want to. When I finally got to the next act and thank god to a 
 new setting, I was downed by the fact that there was again another group fighting by my side. Damn. 
 Something that restored my interest a little were the boss battles (or the first boss battle to 
 be exact, the second was dull) . They brought me back the old MGS feeling of how the hell do I damage 
 the boss. I loved the boss battles most in this game, especially the first and the third. 
  
  The game was pretty much the same, except luckily the armies beside you dont appear in later 
 chapters anymore. There was a real treat to old veteran fans of the first game, but I was spoiled 
 of those beforehand and they didnt give me such an impact as they probably will give you. The ending 
 was adequate enough to satisfy me and the gameplay worked fine until the end.
  
  This game is purely for fans of the previous games and newcomers should play the them first. Still 
 the plot kept me interested until the end, but there wasnt much of a replay value for me. I played 
 it again just to get the Altair (from Assassin's Creed) costume, but the game itself felt boring 
 now. Maybe it truly is about time to put this franchise to rest. I for one hope so. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: warhawk256
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 21, 2008 4:55 pm PT
Review:  This moment has been 20 years in the making. The characters of Metal Gear hold a certain place 
 in most gamers' hearts, whether they grew up with them or not. After years of plot twists and questions 
 left unanswered, Metal Gear Solid 4 finally brings a sense of closure to the saga of Solid Snake.
 
  
  As an old man with his last living moments ticking away, Snake regretfully puts his body through 
 one final mission, this time to prevent Liquid Ocelot from gaining complete control over the nanomachines 
 inside the body of every soldier on the planet. Snake just isn't what he used to be, though, and 
 you can really feel his physical agony being conveyed. Just about every aspect of the story is 
 depressing, yet the game does a great job of keeping players glued to their TV sets, dying to know 
 what happens next.
  
  What may come as a surprise, however, is the game's ability to stand on its own as an intense and 
 exciting action game. MGS4 impressively balances its obligation to answer all of the fan's questions 
 with its role as a slickly-paced stealth adventure full of memorable in-game moments.
  
  With all due respect to the previous entries in the series, this is the most "playable" MGS yet. 
 You may be surprised to find similarities to third-person tactical shooters like Ghost Recon Advanced 
 Warfighter in terms of controls. While not a shooter in the purest sense, MGS4 is flexible to anyone's 
 desires to barrel head-first into battle with gun's blazing.
  At least to a certain extent. Snake will acquire enough gadgets, artillery, and health-recovery 
 items to take down whole armies, but just because you can shoot everything that looks funny at 
 you doesn't mean you should. The objectives become more oriented towards stealth infiltration and 
 remaining undetected the farther you go along, and there are some problems that even guns won't 
 solve.
  
  That's probably the most stand-out aspect of the gameplay: there's never just one right method 
 for everything. There's rarely even one right way to go. It all depends on how hard you're willing 
 to make things for yourself, as well as your threshold for patience as a gamer.
  
  You're going to learn to love Drebin Points rather quickly. They're a currency that allows Snake 
 to purchase more ammo and weapons on the spot, and earning them is as simple as picking up dropped 
 weapons. There's never any worry about having the wrong weapons for the current situation. Need 
 to take out a chopper? Just buy some RPG ammo.
  
  Nowhere are the new gameplay mechanics more welcome than the multiplayer component, Metal Gear 
 Online. Leveling up skills like your accuracy, ability to see enemies, and running speed can make 
 the multiplayer addicting fun for dedicated players. There's certainly nothing else quite like 
 it, for better or for worse. Headshots are stupidly deadly and easy to make, brute force tends 
 to trump cunning stealth tactics, and the entire interface is better suited to a PC environment 
 (you even have to register two separate login IDs from a web browser just to start playing) . Whether 
 it hooks your or just frustrates you will probably depend on how quickly you pick up the control 
 scheme and become adept at the nuances of the maps.
  
  Graphical presentation continues to be one of the series' strongest suits. Finding visual faults 
 is a difficult task, indeed. The inconsistencies in framerate aren't even worth discussing, considering 
 the immaculate attention to detail in almost every aspect: character modeling, lighting and shadows, 
 animation, etc. The faces are so good that Snake can even wear different masks and still have all 
 of the lip-syncing and emotive expressions during cutscenes look perfect.
  
  Series creator Hideo Kojima certainly has a flair for the dramatic, and the cutscenes in MGS4 are 
 as long and over-the-top as ever, both in fight choreography and voice acting. The amount of non-interactive 
 story exposition outweighs the total amount of time players have direct control, to the point where 
 you'll probably get 7-8 hours of actual gameplay sandwiched in between 10 hours of cutscenes. Once 
 the warm feeling of getting reacquainted with old friends wears off, some of the dialogue sounds 
 downright painful. Crying just doesn't sound sincere in video games these days. The cutscenes are 
 skippable, for those not interested.
  
  For those unfamiliar with the Metal Gear universe, players will be completely lost by the plot 
 before things even get started. That said, MGS4 is worth doing some research over. You might even 
 find the universe more interesting that you thought. Resources like the free MGS Database on the 
 PlayStation Network are readily available to help players get up to speed.
  
  MGS4 is unapologetically designed to please existing fans in terms of its story. If you couldn't 
 get into Metal Gear before because of its controls and gameplay, though, you'll find them much 
 more accessible this time around, allowing you to finally enjoy the intrigue that Kojima has been 
 spinning for two decades. Still, the fan service and nostalgia trips can get excessive at times. 
 The boss fights have nearly the same structure as every other game in series, including the original 
 on the PlayStation 1. You'd almost think Kojima had run out of creative ideas. Almost.
  
  Metal Gear Solid 4 is an action thrill ride, tense stealth experience, emotional rollercoaster, 
 heartwarming nostalgia trip, technical powerhouse, and intense competitive multiplayer game all 
 rolled into one. Solid Snake can finally take a well-deserved rest knowing he starred in one of 
 the most kick-ass action games of this generation. And this reviewer, being a former cynic of Metal 
 Gear himself, has certainly been turned into a fan. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: llvllaster
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 21, 2008 2:39 pm PT
Review:  Well what can i say about this game?! By now you've probably heard tonnes of positive reviews, 
 and they're all completely correct!
  
  Metal Gear Solid 4 is the game that Sony fans have been waiting for. It blends gameplay, cinematics, 
 and story PERFECTLY, i haven't seen a game as polished as this since the old N64 days.
  
  Basically this game is the final of the Metal Gear Solid Quadrilogy, and pretty much puts all of 
 our un-answered questions to a closure, through many incredible and dramatic events that take course 
 throughout the game. Some sections of the gameplay are honestly spectacular, and have you literally 
 putting your controller down to watch in amazement.
  
  As you can see i'm trying not to give any spoilers away as you need to see them for yourself, but 
 theres tonnes of new gameplay elements that invite a newer audience into the Metal Gear Solid adventure. 
 This time, the gameplay is less stealth, but also incorporates a lot of action elements into it 
 too, with the shooting mechanics being tweaked noticeably well, so the player can go through the 
 game pretending that snake is Action Man, or go through the game in traditional Metal Gear Solid 
 stealth fashion! There are points in the game that require you to do both though.
  
  Visually, this is the best game i've ever seen. The scenery is outstanding throughout the various 
 scenarios during the game, and it's just an absolute joy to look at. The character model's also 
 look incredibly realistic, and also act realistically. The AI has been improved dramatically, but 
 there's still some minor faults there.
  
  Musically, this is on par with the Call Of Duty series. Playing the game you're constantly in the 
 middle of drastic gunfights, with bullets and grenades being fired only feet away from you, and 
 the sound definately gives you the feeling of you're in danger. The music score is also outstanding 
 throughout the entire game, which completely draws the player into the game, and makes the game 
 feel like a high budget blockbuster film.
  
  There's not much more i can say to praise this game, i knew this game was gonna be amazing before 
 i bought it, but damn this puts the expectations of gaming onto a hole new level! This game blows 
 the previous Metal Gear Solid games out of the water, on top of pretty much every other game out 
 there.
  
  Get it... now!
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: REBEL2100x
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 21, 2008 1:27 pm PT
Review:  THIS GAME OWNS!! For the people that never played MGS4 you guys have to play this game! Seriously 
 this game pwns everygame right now. I used to think that Gears of war would be the best but DAMN 
 I WAS SO SO WRONG!! Jeez! this game seriosuly deserves a ten. For PS3 owners, if you guys want 
 a good game, this is the game for you. 50GBs of blu-ray Cp which makes the graphics so good! GUYS 
 YOU HAVE TO GET THIS GAME. 10 sites gave this game a 10/10. I know my review is really bad but 
 im just saying this game rapes any game thats out even if games come out too! Omg I cant believe 
 im not playing this game right now. If you guys dont have this game then your crazy. THIS SHOWS 
 PS3s POWER!! I sold my 360 for a PS3 and it was totally worth it just for this game!! Do yourself 
 a favor and Get this game damnit!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nicklech16
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 21, 2008 12:56 pm PT
Review:  The MGS-series was always well known for its epic style of story-telling. The cut scenes have gained 
 some kind of cult status in the video gaming culture and were always a major part of the entertainment 
 a MGS-game offered the player. But with Guns of the Patriots this highlight of the series is raised 
 to an even higher level!
  
  While playing the game it's sometimes hard to believe that you're not watching a movie. The cut 
 scenes are simply outstanding and never seen before in such professionalism! A lot of Hollywood 
 Blockbusters could become jealous of MGS 4's staging and storyline! But what's even more satisfying 
 is the way these phenomenal movies are integrated in the game play! When you're watching a 45-minute-cut 
 scene and suddenly the camera angle changes, the HUD appears and you're right in the middle of 
 the action it's ... well, it's hard to believe that you're not watching a movie!
  
  The gorgeous visual design contributes to this remarkable experience. Combined with the crystal 
 sharp sound design, MGS4 is technically by far the most stunning console game I've ever played! 
 But besides the presentation and technical aspects, the game also offers a bright variety of game 
 play. Sometimes it forces the player into some really interesting ways of playing. But generally 
 he can choose between seemingly a dozen options of how to progress through the level: Snakes many 
 animations, the possibilities of the Camo-Suit and the countless different gadgets offer a lot 
 of replay ability. 
  
  But regardless of how you play Metal Gear Solid 4 it's definitely nothing less than an epic masterpiece! 
 The way this game combines cinematic story telling with awesome game play variety is as well terrific 
 as it is unique! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hanslacher54
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 21, 2008 12:21 pm PT
Review:  Metal Gear Solid 4 is amazing. It has to be the best stealth/action game ever made. The story is 
 the best ever put in the game. The boss battles are incredible. It has a lot of replay value since 
 you get multiple Emblems every time you beat the game, but if you ever get tired of the single 
 palyer you can play the fantastic muliplayer. It has many new features like an awesome new camo 
 system where you blend into the things around you. Also you can customize your weapons and you 
 can also buy ammo whenever you want. Also, it's kind of a first in the series but you don't have 
 to use stealth. You can go head-on with action but it won't be as easy as stealth. Well that wraps 
 it up Metal Gear Solid 4 is a game that will be talked about for a long time. If you have a PS3 
 or like stealth/action games or you are a fan of Metal Gear you have to owe it to yourself and 
 buy this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Singh-Iz-King
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 21, 2008 11:06 am PT
Review:  Metal Gear Solid 4: Guns of the Patriots is the most technically stunning video game ever made. 
 It's also a fine example of storytelling prowess within its medium, combining gameplay and narrative 
 so slickly and beautifully that it's impossible to extricate one from the other. It's likely you 
 will emerge awestruck from your first play-through, wishing the experience would continue yet nonetheless 
 satisfied with its conclusion. It's difficult not to sound hyperbolic when discussing MGS4 because 
 every part of its design seemingly fulfills its vision, without compromise. There is no halfway.
 
  Solid Snake, Metal Gear, Liquid Snake .. When you hear these names you think of the best gaming 
 series ever made in history. Well with Metal Gear Solid 4 that expectation is taken to the next 
 level of gaming.
  The graphics of the game is the best thanks to next-gen technology. the people looks almost real 
 with the face impressions and details on the body and face and when you see people talk up close 
 you see the winkles form like are real person around the lips and cheeks . the places on the maps 
 looks real good I mean looks real grate. Feels like a real battle field when you explosions ever 
 where around you when the action takes place.
  The sound is grate gun sounds real and the explosions do too. When your in a battle where both 
 side are fighting you can hear both sides yelling giving orders etc.. it just feels like a real 
 battle.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jhoffman89
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 21, 2008 9:29 am PT
Review:  To start off, the Metal Gear Solid saga is one of the best video game sagas to date. Great graphics, 
 great weapons, great characters, great voices, the acting in done beautifully, and I love the storyline. 
 
  
  If you haven't played this game (most people with a PS3 have) you need to. There is no better game 
 in the world. This game beats the Halo series by far. If I could rate this game, I would give it 
 more then a 10/10, yes, the game does get boring after you have played through the game more then 
 three times, but the online gameplay keeps me playing it. This game easily beats Grand Theft Auto 
 IV (although it is a good game) and deserves a beyond perfect rating.
  
  I can't say enough about this game, but everyone must play it. There are only a couple problems 
 with this game. One, I wish they would include more vehicles to drive (not a big deal) , and two, 
 I wish the story mode was longer, although depending on which difficulty level you are on, the 
 game could take a while, but I wish there were more levels/places to play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cena925
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 21, 2008 2:17 am PT
Review:  Definatly the Game of the Decade, if not the best game in History, Metal Gear Solid 4 : Guns of 
 the Patriots sees series faveourite Solid Snake travelling the Globe in hot pursuit of his Nemesis 
 - a fusion of his own Twin Brother, Liquid Snake, and the Triple-Crossing Patriot Spy Revolver 
 Ocelot. On his journey, Snake encounters new enemies and new machines as well as some old allies 
 and an unexpected visit from an old man, believed to be long dead until now...
  
  From the very first second, the Game throws you straight into intense action, with the player chosing 
 to fight on their own side, or form an alliance with the local Militia Group to overthrow the PMC 
 (Private Military Company) assult. Either way, Snake's ultimate goal is to Assassinate the head 
 of the "Mother Company" PMC Outer Heaven; Liquid Ocelot before he launches a Nuclear Strike against 
 the Patriots which would see the collapse of the American Economy, leaving Solid Snake with a time 
 limit.
  
  Add to this, the new MGS4 Bosses: The Mysterious "Beauty and the Beast Corps" whos sole purpose 
 is hunt down and kill Solid Snake, as well as the seemingly immortal Vamp staging a dramatic and 
 welcome return to the series. Each and every Boss battle is innovative and original, yet they feel 
 familiar and comfortable to anyone who's played the other Metal Gears. As well as amazing Boss 
 fights, Guns of the Patriots give the player extreme amounts of freedom in terms of how they want 
 to complete their mission - This time around, Snake has his very own "Gun Shop" in the form of 
 a shady Gun Launderer calling himself Drebin 893 who Unlocks all of Snakes ID-Locked weapons and 
 sells him Ammo and Other items not obtainable anywhere else in the game (Like Unique Guns and Snake's 
 trademark Infinate-Ammo Bandana) . This means the player can stock up on enough Guns and Ammo to 
 lead their team of Resistance Fighters to victory against the PMCs, or avoid the on-going war altogether 
 and use it as a distraction to Sneak into the enemy stronghold undetected.
  
  With a Killer plot, and even more Killer plot twists, Metal Gear Solid 4 : Guns of the Patriots 
 is a must have PlayStation3 title, but it is recomended that you play through the first 3 Metal 
 Gear Solids in order to grasp the story properly and enjoy the game to the full. With intense Stealth 
 and even more intense Action to entertain newcomers, but strong enough to hold Series Fan-Boys 
 by the neck, MGS4 is sure to have you on the edge your set all the way through, with you savouring 
 every second and playing through again and again and again to unlock the Tons of bonus material 
 locked away inside the game. 
  
  Well worth the 39.99 price, Konami's latest blockbuster raises the bar yet again and continues 
 to lead the way in Gaming and re-define the Stealth Genre for years to come. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: underdogm
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 21, 2008 2:16 am PT
Review:  The graphics and sound are truly amazing.
  When I first played the game I was stunned. For a second I really thought I was in the Middle East 
 during a war. I really felt the emotions of the characters and I really got into the game.
  Some say that the cutscenes are too long. Well some of them are indeed long but their definitely 
 worth watching. They really explain the story well and are (most of the time) full of action.
 
  
  The gameplay is perfect! It is full of action and has a good difficulty. The Metal Gear Solid series 
 are originally based on stealth, but if you don't like that, or aren't good at it, you can still 
 complete the game through other ways.
  
  I just completed the game for the 7th time and I still can't get enough. The game amazes me every 
 time I play it, and I just love to watch the cutscenes over and over again. 
  Although the story has a few gaps, it is still a great game and a must-have for every PS3 owner. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: killakomando
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 29, 2009 12:09 pm PT
Review:  Ok, first off, this game is revolutionary in all aspects of the word. Graphics, sound, replayability, 
 just all unsurpassed. The game superbly crafted, and fits past stories in the mix with uncanny 
 flawlessness. every single question you have about the series will be answered through this gripping 
 and cinematic story, the revamped OTS aiming (over the shoulder) makes picking off enemies and 
 scouting, fair and fun even on the hardest difficulty.
  
  There are ALOT of cutscenes that will have you not on the edge of the seat, but you will be layed 
 out on the floor with a bloody nose because the action is so intense. the game can be a run and 
 gun, or a TEA (tactical espionage action) . with reaping great rewards no matter how you play it. 
 Online is the most fun i've ever seen on any game, its fun no matter what your skill. I swear you 
 will have fun losing.
  
  Not only that, the online componets offer the same weapon customization as in the 1p campaign (provided 
 the host hasn't set the rules otherwise) weapon customization is accurate, detailed and fun, even 
 if you dont see your favorite weapon (if you're a gun fanatic) you will find something that will 
 make you feel all warm and fuzzy inside. If you have any skeptic thoughts about this game, throw 
 them out the window, this game is not a leap of faith, it is and assured victory, an emotional 
 action-packed, joyride that will have you satisfied with how snake handles his final mission.
 
  
  With that said, all you really need to play is mgs 2 & 3 to grasp the concept of the story, playing 
 1 will help you understand this story to the dot on the "i".
  
  
  Get This Game  wont regret it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fluffers623
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 20, 2008 7:56 pm PT
Review:  first off, let me say that kojima did an amazing job with this game. he took his sweet time, but 
 it was well worth it.
  
  it starts off with a lonely man in the back of a truck. he quickly encounters enemies. u get off, 
 and your ak47 jams. u take a dead guy's gun (thief) .
  
  than u encounter big creatures. they give you a fight but u are able to use ur camo to safely get 
 out.
  
  the game lasts for about 10-12hrs if ur plahying on the harder difficulties. this is before cutscenes, 
 so be prepared to play for around 25 hrs if u watch every single cutscene. the gameplay is up to 
 date, so you can press r1 and you will do a cqc move rather than O in the older games. that is 
 very nice to have. another great thing are the gfx. they are simply amazing in motion. prolly one 
 of the best games have to offer.
  
  in all this game is a system seller. if you have that extra cash, buy a ps3. u will not be disappointed. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: redvsblue9191
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 20, 2008 7:54 pm PT
Review:  This game is amazing and will always stand out as a game worth playing. This is the first Metal 
 Gear Solid game I have bought and played in the series. I now want to go and buy all the games 
 before this game so i can fully be immersed in the epic story line spanning the life of Snake. 
 This game was good from beginning to end. The epic storyline, great battles, and amazing cutscenes 
 are what make this game beautiful. The fact that after i beat it and asked a friend how they beat 
 a part i had trouble on, and their response was different than how i beat the part made me want 
 to replay the game. The titles system as well as unlockable weapons, costumes, and other items 
 made me play this game more than once. i would definitely give this game a 10 out of 10 with a 
 high replay value. It looks good, plays good sounds good, and is a game i would recommend for any 
 avid gamer. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: doomgladiator
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 20, 2008 3:14 pm PT
Review:  Metal Gear Solid 4 is the perfect ending to 20 years of Metal Gear games. It is, without exaggeration, 
 the best game yet developed. There are three keys that make this game what it is: Perfect. 
  The first key is the gameplay. It doesn't matter how pretty it is if it isn't fun, and MGS4 is 
 fun. From sneaking to shooting to giant robot battles, Metal Gear Solid puts all the best gameplay 
 styles into one masterpiece. The stealth is better than Tom Clancy's Splinter Cell. The shooting 
 easily matches Call of Duty 4. The robot fight far surpasses the Armored Core series, and the hand-to-hand 
 boss fight at the end could be a fighting game by itself. If a game developer took that fight and 
 made a game with the same style of gameplay, it would be a masterpiece. 
  The second key is the storyline. This game has one of the most immersive storylines I've ever come 
 across. Voice acting is great and there are plenty of characters to keep track of. With so many 
 plot twists and references to earlier MGS games, you really have to work to keep up. 
  The graphics are the best I've ever seen. That isn't an exaggeration. Sometimes I can't tell the 
 difference between a cutscene in MGS4 and a movie. 
  Metal Gear Solid 4 is truly a work of art. I have a code when I write a review: if you can find 
 an actual problem with the game, don't give it a ten. My rating speaks for itself. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gummy_joe
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 19, 2008 11:20 pm PT
Review:  I have played all the other metal gear solid games excluding portable ops and in my opinion I think 
 this is by far the best.
  The story is hard to describe but basically in the year 2014 all guns are micro chip controlled 
 with some robots swimming around the guys body keeping track of everything (EVERYTHING ; ) ) but 
 liquid as being his usual bastard self wants to take control of this system calling it guns of 
 the patriots, thus the name of the game, the story will keep you playing until the end to see if 
 everything works out right.
  Most of the time you will want to sneak past a guard to avoid raising alarm or getting plugged 
 like 50 cent, but unlike games such as splinter cell and Mission impossible you can blow em away 
 with a heavy weapon if things go sour like milk in the sun.
  like the predecessors the boss battles are: fun, fast paced and frigging long, and half the time 
 you will have to fight off enemies while attacking the main target. In previous game you fought 
 groups like the rouge fox hound members, dead cell groups and the cobra's but this time you fight 
 the beauty and the beast corporation with each having an animal and emotion, each is tough in her 
 own way.
  when you have done single player you can try your hand at multiplayer, the sign up process is long 
 and hard but when its done you get rewarded with a great sensation that is fun to play.
  all in all it is fantastic thing that has entered the world, if you have been looking for an excuse 
 to get a Playstation 3 then this is it 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ChrisNeal1990
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 19, 2008 4:18 pm PT
Review:  (small Spoilers) This game lives up to the Metal Gear Solid name (as we knew it would) . One of the 
 things i love about this is the new OctoCamo (the new camouflage suit Solid Snake wears in this 
 game, you just lie down or crouch and you automatically camouflage, & you also get the FaceCamo 
 later on in the game. The one thing I didn't quite like about this game though was the length of 
 the story mode, I thought it was way too short; sort of like they rushed the ending. This game 
 is deffinently worth getting though and it has amazing graphics. Enjoy!  
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: scja25
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 19, 2008 1:15 pm PT
Review:  *May contain small spoilers*
  
  It's no surprise that MGS4 lives up to the hype, this amazing game has one of the best story lines 
 a video game has ever had. 
  With all the weapons and items to choose from, you'll never get bored of the game play.
  It's 
 time to take down liquid, but he's not your only enemy, choose to play through the game anyway 
 you want, you can beat the game without killing anyone, go stealth and kill the least amount of 
 people, or blast your way through the enemy with your strongest guns. 
  Sneaking across a level in the grass and trying to take out the enemy without being detected is 
 always fun, in fact every time you play the same level the chances are that it's going to be totally 
 different from the first time you finished it.
  With so much to do in this game, and so many emblems, costumes, weapons, and much more to unlock, 
 you will for sure play through this game more then once.
  This huge game is packed with MGO and makes the best Metal Gear Solid experience ever, and is a 
 must have for Metal Gear Solid fans, so I give it a perfect 10.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: kaorikaori1992
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 19, 2008 7:06 am PT
Review:  OMG! Playing Metal Gear Solid 4 basically reminded me how much I love the game. The story line 
 was deep, the game play was easy to learn as usual, the graphics were amazing, the characters were 
 not cheaply made, and the action sequence always had me wanting more! I give this gave this game 
 a 10.0 because compared to all the other Metal Gear Solid games, this had to be the one that showed 
 us that they had updated a lot especial for the new gen systems. And the creators really impressed 
 me because the game never froze on me, loading times were not slow, and there were hardly no glitches 
 or bugs which is a big thumbs up. I recommend this game to any Metal Gear Solid fans, action packed 
 fans, people who play games for stories, or people who love konami games lol this game is the second 
 game that set the mood right for this year since GTAIV, Mass Effect, and Burnout Paradise. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: trapper94
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 19, 2008 6:28 am PT
Review:  You start in the middle east fighting with the rebels. When you first start playing you will be 
 blown away by it's graphics ecspeciallly if your playing in HD. The main objective through the 
 hole game is to sneek through battle feilds helping the rebels and much as possible.
  
  If you are spotted by the enemy you must shoot the one who spotted you before he can inform the 
 HQ. If he does reinforcements will move on your posistion so you have to try your best to not get 
 spotted. If the enemy does inform HQ you have to find a way out of it. 
  
  You pick up new weapons through out the game but you cannot use all of them becasue of SOP. This 
 is were a man named drebin comes in. You meet him and he sells and buys weapons ammunition and 
 can unlock weapons for you from SOP. You can also buy buy attatchments to any of your weapons.
 
  
  Do not skip the cut-scenes of this game If you do you will miss out on most of the story and be 
 confused.
  
  There s even a long motorcycle chase in the game which is IMO the best scripted chase all time. 
 
  
  When aiming a weapon you can enter first pearson veiw, but this is reallly hard because all of 
 the weapons have alot of recoil.
  
  Snakes sneaking suit is call octocamo. When you place youself against a wall the suit changes the 
 exact color of the surface your pressed against.
  
  As in previous games CQC is brought back this times it's even harder and deadlier than ever. It 
 is really hard to learn all of the CQC moves but is worth it because it is so satasfying.
  
  There are a few bosses in the game and every time you beat one you get another gadget that 
 helps you through out the game. And if you beathem the non-lethal way you get something even more 
 special.
  
  The cover sytem is not really necassary because you cannot peacout and shoot your weapon in fast 
 because it's more like being hidden then shooting your weapon.
  
  The online part of MGS4 is a different game entirely so I will make another reveiw fo that.
  
 
  Even though stealth games are not my kind of game for what it is it's perfect! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SolidSnake16312
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 19, 2008 4:18 am PT
Review:  now this game is exactly what the ps3 needed. this a beautiful game that makes its predesessors 
 look like dr jekyll annd mr hyde well not really but u know. i'll start off with the best and sometimes 
 the worst aspect the story!
  
  Story: i'll say it this story is convolouted if you havn't played the last metal gear games if 
 u google it or even better play the last games then this is the game that proves that videogames 
 are an art. this story has a point and is not just defeat bowser to get the princess. the story 
 takes a trip down memory lane with an act that if i repeated would be a super major spoiler but 
 all the games have led up to this climactic conclusion. every last one of the characters that a 
 re still alive in the metal gear universe are back! Naomi, Eva, Vamp, raiden but don't worry he's 
 cool this time! along with some new characters such as drebin who is a gun launderer who is mysterious 
 and calm and even adds emphasis to the gameplay. overall this story is a 10/10!
  
  Graphics: if u thought that mgs 3's graphics were good then get this game and it will prove u wrong. 
 this whole game and even the cutscenes are used with the in-game graphics the cutscenes flow beautifully 
 straight into gameplay without loading! facial expressions are fantastic and this graphics engine 
 show s a beautiful splitscreen gameplay that u have to see to believe this is definintely a 10/10!
 
  
  Gameplay: lets just say that the gameplay is freakin awesome and i know they've change the camera 
 but its a good thing giving u more conttrol thn previous games. this game has been made a bit more 
 accesible for new players with more emphasis on weapons made easier by the new camera and by a 
 new character called drebin who sells you ammo, new weapons and upgrade for drebin points. people 
 are going to be going but thats not metal gear! well there are definintely sneaking parts and you 
 can get various emblems for not being seen once and there is various routes allowing for the more 
 sneaky players to get through unnoticed. there are new gadgets as well such as the solid eye for 
 night vision a radar and binos, the mk.2 which can be used to scout out and shock enemies and octocamo 
 which allows you to blend into your surroundings automatically gameplay is made even funner by 
 action sequences such as a turret chase on the back of a tank, a motorcycle chase and a certain 
 walking tank boss battle. speaking of boss battles these ones are done exceptionally well with 
 you having to think but there that hard. such as the screaming mantis fight. 10/10
  
  overall a master piece at 10/10!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: _fIrE_
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 18, 2008 7:20 pm PT
Review:  Brilliant graphics, intuitive gameplay and an engaging storyline. I bet that's been said all too 
 many times in reviews... Metal Gear Solid: Guns of the Patriot lives up to it. It has been given 
 a 10 out of 10 by the editors at gamespot for a reason.
  
  I don't have much experience with the Metal Gear Solid series (None with the original Metal Gear 
 series) , but I played Metal Gear Solid on Playstation when I was younger. I completed it several 
 times for better times, secrets and other incentives. I tried Metal Gear Solid 2 and 3, but they 
 didn't live up to the first of them. They had somehow changed it all. With Metal Gear Solid 4, 
 it feels like they have realized what was missing. This is the true sequel to the first in the 
 series, and it's also the fitting end.
  
  The story begins with Solid Snake pretending to be a soldier to infiltrate a proxy warzone in a 
 Middle Eastern city. Your mission is to defeat Liquid Ocelot; Revolver Ocelot with Solid's genetic 
 twin's arm, Liquid Snake, attached to him, effectively turning him into Liquid. Due to his genetic 
 code, Snake is getting old fast, and to boost he smokes a lot.
  
  You meet his sidekick, Metal Gear Mk. 2 after a short while, and you are able to control it during 
 the game. Soon after, you encounter Drebin, an arms dealer who strips ID guns from their DNA restrictions. 
 You are able to buy guns, ammo and special items from him whenever you wish from this point on. 
 The currency in-game is called Drebin points. You gain points by picking up weapons on the battlefield 
 you already have acquired.
  
  The game would be extremely difficult without OctoCamo, a suit that changes texture when in close 
 proximity to walls, floors or anything big enough. The Mk. 2 is also capable of disappearing, but 
 to a greater extent. It can turn completely transparent. The trusty and humorous cardboard box 
 is back, and now you can also hide in a barrel. You have the aid of a visibility-percentage meter 
 and a stealth circle that will expand when you are making noises or can be seen. It will also display 
 any noises others make. You also have a presence circle around Solid, that raises itself when any 
 enemies are close enough.
  
  Several guns and devices are available to your disposal, to facilitate the style of gameplay you 
 prefer. You are actually rewarded for the gameplay style you choose. If you want to be covert, 
 run and gun, or never kill anyone the game gives you Drebin points, items and badges accordingly. 
 Whatever style you choose, you will never feel cheated.
  
  Characters from previous games make appearances, and they are all introduced properly. Since this 
 game is supposed to wrap up Solid's story, there are few new characters. 
  
  Cutscenes can become long, but several interactive sequences in them make them worthwhile even 
 on the second playthrough, like zooming and different angles. Just remember to watch out for symbols 
 appearing on-screen.
  
  There are several easter eggs in-game, and much of what is said and done has more meaning to it 
 if you have played the other games in the series. (I got a big grin on my face when I saw the beginning 
 of one of the later acts.)
  
  There was one thing that bothered me a little with MGS4. When you finish an act, you are required 
 to install a new portion of the game to continue. This occurs on every playthrough. Granted, they 
 probably did it to minimize the install time at the beginning, but it gets a bit tiresome.
  
  I enjoy games that take me a long time to complete. Metal Gear Solid 4 took me 18 hours to 
 beat. This is quite a while, considering that this is not a sandbox game. That's not including 
 several attempts (and some fails) at completing it at harder difficulties and other rules of engagement. 
 It's one of the longest games I have played the last 5 years.
  
  This is the game that should have been bundled with the Playstation 3 when it launched. I recommend 
 buying it, even if you have little experience with Mr. Solid Snake.
  
  
  Reviewers note:
  
  I did not review the online portion of the game, because I have little experience 
 with it.
  This is my first ever review of a game. If this gets a lot of thumbs down, I'll never embark on 
 such a mission again. I feel bad for all the professional reviewers, because this is hard work. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: meharu
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 19, 2008 3:55 am PT
Review:  -Story:
  
  "The legendary soldier Solid Snake is back, this time you will play through his last mission in 
 an open war-zone between two rival factions: a civilian militia and the well-equipped private military 
 PMC soldiers. Snake's main objective is to stop Liquid (Snake's brother) from gaining control over 
 the S. O. P (Sons Of The Patriots) system. The S. O. P system is an AI that controls soldier's emotions 
 in the battlefield, so they won't feel guilt when killing other enemy soldiers, they even won't 
 feel the pain after being shot or injured. The system also control the weapons used by PMC soldiers, 
 they can even know how many bullets fired from each and weapon. Liquid died nine years ago ago by 
 Fox Die, a virus developed by Dr. Naomi Hunter, Fox Die is designed to kill a specific target who 
 have specific genetic code. Nine years ago Naomi injected the virus into Snake's body, but it didn't 
 cause any effects on Snake, instead, Liquid was the victim. So how Liquid came back? Ocelot appear 
 in his own physical form but possessed by Liquid who control Ocelot's behavior, actions, ans thoughts. Again, 
 Snake's orders is to take him down but Snake is aging at a vast accelerated rate, so Snake looks 
 old!. Gray hair, wrinkled skin, back aches and bad coughs, despite all that, he still likes to smoke".
 
  
  "Raiden, a former Fox-Hound member returns too, but this time as an unkillable cyborg-ninja. Unfortunately, 
 he is not a playable character like in Metal Gear Solid 2 but still he plays an important role 
 in the game's storyline. Most of Metal Gear Solid characters return, Meryl, Mei Ling Dr. Naomi Hunter 
 and even Raiden's fiance Rose. Can't name other characters or they will be spoilers. The storyline 
 is one of the best ever made, it holds many surprises, shocks and twists but the ending explains 
 everything and it is satisfying".
  
  -Graphics:
  
  "The game runs on a total new engine, it is a little bit similar to MGS3's engine but much more 
 enhanced, everything is highly detailed and more realistic than any previous games. Characters like 
 Meryl, Naomi, Mei Ling and Rose look better than ever. The B&B (Beauty and the Beast) unit consists 
 of four bosses that you will encounter through the game, each and everyone of them have been scanned 
 and motion captured from real models, giving them skeleton and skin textures more realistic than 
 any of the game's other characters, Lynadall Jarvis and Yumi Kikuchi anyone?. Sunny places look 
 bright, vivid and detailed brilliantly, every area is graphically unique, like the Middle East, 
 South America and Eastern Europe, so it doesn't feel like only the locations and the surrounding 
 are changing, they all look like you are really in a total different zone. Besides all of that, 
 the game supports the highest resolution 1080p".
  
  -Game play:
  
  "You are in an open war-zone and you need the right equipment to get the job done. Snake old buddy 
 Otacon supports him with advanced new gear, like the Solid Eye. The Solid Eye is an eye patch that 
 will give you access to an advanced identification friend or foe battlefield scanner, it can also 
 be used as binoculars and night vision goggles. Snake also gets a new camouflage suit know as the 
 OctoCamo which got the ability to mimic to the immediate enviroment by copying it's textures and 
 patterns. The OtoCamo can mimic everything, from walls to floors and you can simply return it ti 
 it's original form simply by shacking the controller. New to the series is Otacon's latest invention: 
 the MKII (Metal Gear Mrak 2) , the MKII is a small robot that can scout the surrounding areas, shocking 
 enemies and leaving them unconscious and picking up item and weapons without being spot by enemies. The 
 funny part is that Snake uses a Playstaion3 controller to steer the MKII. The battle system is reinvented 
 from the ground up, it is renowned for it's military-grade recreations of real-word weaponry".
 
  
  "There is loads of weapons that you can pick up and others that you can buy. Every weapon, grenade: 
 all types like smoking, stun grenades are like weapons used in real life, lots of them are customizable, 
 so you can add additional parts to submachine guns, rifles and enhance their performance.
  You can add laser sights: so you can clearly see where you are aiming, fore grips: which increases 
 stability and accuracy during rapid fire and aiming, light: for targeting in dark places, suppressors: 
 which muffles the sound from shots fired, you can even attach grenade launchers and shotguns to 
 submachine guns so you don't have to change your equipped weapon. Every weapon you pick up will 
 become available in your inventory and when you pick a weapon you already have it will be sold 
 automatically to Drebin, earning drebin points is important because you can exchange the points 
 you earned by new weapons and ammo. Drebin is a gun launderer and besides selling you weapons and 
 ammo he will launder ID locked guns used by PMC soldiers. It is unbelievably realistic when engaging 
 in battles, it is so much deeper and got a new smooth, comfortable over the shoulder view system".
 
  
  "You can play the entire game by your own rules, you can sneak without into other soldiers without 
 making any alert or you can engage in battles. There is the psyche gauge that will affect Snake's 
 performance and aiming stability when it is low, crouching will help when you are sneaking, there 
 is a circle around Snake that will alert you to threats. When there is nearby enemies, a hump will 
 appear on the circle and it will follow them as they walk past you, when the hump is red, that 
 means that you are exposed and in pursuit. Snake can still hide and this time you will have the 
 drum-can, when hiding inside it you can roll over unsuspecting soldiers, there is also the dumpsters 
 but it will make you smell alerting guards and attracting swarm of flies. Lots of new moves are 
 added to the series, you can crawl on your back and use new CQC moves, so you can unarm enemy soldiers, 
 hold them and search them to gain extra items and ammo, choke them or slit their throats. Overall 
 Metal Gear Solid 4 is not only the best in the series but also one of the best games ever, a real 
 gift from Hideo Kojima". 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hemregul
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 18, 2008 1:53 am PT
Review:  Im going to keep this real short. I've been playing games for over 25 years and I can quite safely 
 say that MGS is one of the Best I have ever played. The balance in the story line and action is 
 great keeping you on your toes wanting for more !!! 
  
  One thing that I recommend is to play the game on a 46 or 52 nch Full HD TV in a pitch black 
 room with a good Surround sound system. I makes hell of a difference.
  
  I remember the face (Stupefied with awe and amazement) of my colleague watching me play MGS who 
 use to tell me (before he saw MGS) that I made a bad choice by getting a PS3 instead of a XBO360. 
 She Just bought one a week a ago and is playing MGS with a feverish dedication... I also gave here 
 the old MGS versions that I had so that she could really get into the story... 
  
  In any case If not for anything else I can say that MGS is worth buying a PS3 and I think this 
 says it all. The only thing I am sorry for is the news that this will be the last of MGS games. 
 But I guess everything that's great has to end one day or another.
  
  In any case I am waiting in anticipation for the next game On the PS3 that will claim to be good 
 as MGS.
  
  Have fun playing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CA_Sports
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 17, 2008 11:49 pm PT
Review:  There is way too much to say about this game, so I will keep it simple.
  
  Best graphics in a video game.... ever.
  
  For fans of the game.... What the F just happened.,.
 
  
  A great experience that I thought would not end so easy, but so is life. There were boss battles 
 that were so hard that you need a hint or two. There were also some, namely vs Liquid, that were 
 way too easy. But it was an awesome ride anyways.
  
  A great game that should not be missed by anyone. Go back and play MGS1, 2 and 3 if you need to, 
 but if you have to, do it.
  
  WOW!
  
  I think this is the best series I have ever played bar none. GTA is great, as well as way too many 
 other to name. This tells a fantastic story that may give you a headache, but if you played the 
 previous titles on a regular basis, you WILL love this game. I really hope the saga is not over, 
 but if it is, it was an amazing story, Hats off to everyone who made this game. It could not have 
 been better.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: deanbezic
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 17, 2008 7:58 pm PT
Review:  Sound: The voice acting and translation of your "friendlies" (on easy mode) to the chatter of the 
 PMC, Frogs and "Beauties" is absolutely mind boggling. Its like listening to that of a movie. Its 
 very realistic and entertaining, and you feel as if you could place yourself in the shoes of old 
 snake. 
  10/10
  
  Controls: Sharp. From FP to third person, the controls are stable. ( Thank god they removed the 
 sixaxis from the FP by the way!!!) Auto aim, could be a bit better, but who uses that anyway. Different 
 weapons handle so well, and specials that you can unlock, such as the sorrow doll actually works 
 well with the PS3 motion control. 
  9.5/10
  
  Story: Immersive. Watch the cut-scenes, for - you are truly missing out if you don't. Its one of 
 the best movies I've ever seen. All of it is real time, and there are plenty of plot twists and 
 unexpected changes throughout the dialogue heavy plot. 
  10/10
  
  Multiplayer: Mind Boggling. Absolutely amazing, vast environments and effects. The stealth gameplay 
 is the real showcase of the experience. Some of the best modes are the ones where you hunt down 
 one player who plays snake, and who is equipped with all of the arsenal of weapons at their disposal. 
 
  10/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: The_Tron
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 17, 2008 5:00 pm PT
Review:  One of my favorite quotes about this game "Next time someone tells you that video games aren't 
 art, slap them with MGS4". This game is a masterpiece, I know people will complain about the amount 
 and length of cut scenes in the game but when you have a story this grand and amazing (while alittle 
 odd at parts) it only serves to bring you into the story and not let go. While it does have beautiful 
 visuals for the most part their are only a few parts where it really looks like it's 1080p. Each 
 of the boss battles are incredible, some of the most memorable boss battles I've played yet (end 
 of Act 4, you guys know which one I'm talking about) , some of which I actually got up and yelled 
 in amazement. Oh yah, and the game has multiplayer. And it's good, not COD4 great but it's pretty 
 damn fun, especially sneak mode, it just gets the adrenaline going sneaking around as snake in 
 the middle of a team deathmatch and trying to get players dog tags. While the multiplayer is fun 
 it's definitely not the selling point of mgs4, the single player really is just incredible. Oh 
 and for all the Raiden haters from MGS2 (I know I hated him too) he almost redeems himself, as his 
 battles with vamp were pretty damn badass. All in all one of my favorite games of all time, definite 
 GOTY contender. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gamedevil120
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 17, 2008 4:02 pm PT
Review:  As many of you already know, you once again pick up your pistol with MGS action hero, Solid Snake. 
 Kojima seems to never let down his audience. Solid Snake is on his final mission: to stop Liquid's 
 insurrection. Liquid has taken control of the Patriot AI: GW. He develops a system called the "Guns 
 of the Patriots." Every PMC soldier seems to have been stuck in the neck with nano machines. Every 
 solider on every battlefield on every continent are monitered. Liquid can now control every solidier 
 with nano machines. Except for one. This is where Snake comes in. The Gameplay seems to grow on 
 you. The new control and mechanics scheme have revolutionized while some remain the same. It takes 
 about half and hour to get used to. Snake still uses some of the same stealth tactics. Crawling, 
 leaning, hanging, running around in a boxing. CQC once again returns and is easier to control. 
 Also, you can move in a crouched position. Your suit can take any color scheme of any object you 
 lean on. While the game suffers annoying installation times, you'll always want to come back for 
 more stealth action. When you complete the game, you may restart the game and play on the same 
 file with all your items and weapons from the previous run through. There will be many characters 
 returning into the series. Some in which you befriend and some you become enemies with. The flowing 
 of the cutscenes into the game play are remarkable and it feels like you are the main character 
 in an awesome action movie. But heres the bad part. If you are one of the many impatient people 
 and skip all the LONG (YES LONG) cutscences and codecs, you'll be missing out on one hell of a 
 ride. There are 69 weapons to aquire all in which have their advantages and disadvantages. Too 
 hot or too cold weather can have an impact on your stamina bar. Hot = Shade Cold = Shelter. When 
 your stress goes up, then your efficiency goes down. You can also throw up. While keeping the game 
 realistic, Kojima delivers. THATS RIGHT. DELIVERRZZZZ. Heh makes me wonder why he wasnt satisfied 
 with it when it released. Perfect ending to the PERFECT series. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SfGiants11
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 17, 2008 3:47 pm PT
Review:  The first thing that you should know about me before reading my reviews is that I place a very 
 heavy emphasis on story. That's not to say that the plot will make or break a game for me, but 
 it can make an average game great and send a great game over the top. Metal Gear Solid 4 falls 
 under the latter category. You've undoubtedly heard that the game is chock full of cutscenes, and 
 this truly is the case. To put things in perspective, my first playthrough took 20 hours and 45 
 minutes, but my second playthrough (a speed run, not taking my time to explore and skipping all 
 the cutscenes) took just under 6 hours. That's not to say that there are 15 hours of cutscenes 
 here, because I really took my time to explore and get the full experience the first time through, 
 but there is a lot there, sometimes up to an hour at a time. Will this turn some people away? Likely, 
 but for me it was a bonus. The dialogue, direction, and visuals are truly of cinematic quality 
 and I never once felt bored. At times these scenes are exciting and action packed, while at others 
 they are subtle and emotional, but never dull. Of course, a great deal of your enjoyment hinges 
 on whether or not you played the first three Metal Gear Solid games, mostly because you will be 
 completely lost if you haven't. Kojima's series is notorious for oceanic depth and complexity (along 
 with some stunning twists) that seem worthy of a John Grisham novel. I was never anxious to get 
 through a cutscene so that I could get to the gameplay.
  
  Which is truly an astounding feat, since the game plays like a charm. There are basically two styles 
 of gameplay here: run 'n gun, and stealth. The major achievement of it all is that the decision 
 is up to the player, making the game feel all the more responsive to your choices and preferences. 
 The series has always focused primarily on stealth, and you get your fair share here. This time 
 around you'll get the help of several interesting new gadgets, the most helpful being the new Octocamo 
 suit which takes on the color and texture of the current background. The one that I found to be 
 more interesting was the MK 2, a small robot that allows Snake to scout out areas and even disable 
 patrolling guards. 
  
  But what really made the game fun, in my opinion, was the added attention to combat this time around. 
 You fire weapons through a 3rd person, over-the-shoulder view similar to Gears of War and Uncharted, 
 and it works incredibly well. The camera is very loose and controllable so there are never any 
 problems with vision, and there is an abundance of weapons of all types, although I found myself 
 sticking to the same small arsenal for most of the game. About half of the game takes place in 
 a warzone, giving you the feeling of taking part in massive battles (if you choose to engage) , 
 and all of the weapons have a great feel to them. What I found, however, is that it was far more 
 rewarding to sneak through an area rather than shoot my way through, and some locations make it 
 almost impossible to fight through because you'll get swarmed and taken out within seconds.
  
  In terms of the presentation, MGS4 succeeds and excels. Visually I was positively blown away. 
 This game gets my vote for the best graphics I've seen for any console (fantastic design, textures, 
 realism and animation) . The environments, which vary from a jungle to an eastern European city 
 to a certain other area that differs greatly from the others (trying as hard as I can to avoid 
 spoiling anything, but this was one of the more clever and nostalgic additions to the game) , are 
 lush and expansive. The characters look incredible, and even better, they move and react with stunning 
 realism. On the audio side, the game delivers on an equal level. The music is fitting of the epic 
 theme, swelling and dying at the appropriate segments, and the voice acting is, as usual, spot 
 on.
  
  I do have to admit, the boss fights this time around aren't quite up to par with the previous three 
 Metal Gear Solid entries, although they're still entertaining. On one final note, I have to say, 
 the conclusion of the game was spectacular and entirely satisfying. The last 20 minutes or so are 
 put together perfectly, and there's even a surprise so shocking that it only falls just short of 
 the ending of Metal Gear Solid 3. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Cruento
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 17, 2008 12:00 pm PT
Review:  After playing through the entire Metal Gear Solid collection that was recently released for the 
 PS2, I felt prepared for MGS4. Truth is, nothing can prepare you for this masterpiece.
  
  As a technical work, MGS4 falls short of "Revolutionary" like that of its predecessors. MGS4 looks 
 about as good as any other game out there, but doesn't stand out quite as much as say, MGS3 did 
 among the other PS2 games. Nonetheless, it is a both visually and audibly pleasing.
  
  The story is truly where MGS4 shines, and from beginning to end, MGS4 doesn't disappoint. Some 
 minor faults exist, and some of the missing gaps seem filled rather than fulfilled, but the game 
 still has a powerful and moving plot. While the ending is fulfilling in every way in my opinion, 
 there are moments in the game other than the ending where you are in complete shock and truly appreciate 
 the message these moments bring.
  
  While it is certainly not *perfect*, it is still a masterpiece that no one should miss out on. 
 My only advice is to not take this game lightly, and prepare yourself as best as you can. Play 
 the series through once first, then end it with this game, it will be much more gratifying. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Maxninjaman
Rating: 6
Date: Jul 17, 2008 11:18 am PT
Review:  the first thing i have to say about the game is ... this is not deserving a 10 i mean c'mon i played 
 the third game which was realy good compared to this one, i didn't even complete the game yet because 
 of all those CUTSCENE that most of the time just slow's the game down for no reason except piss 
 you off but when you do get to play you just feel like your on a rail to get to another video which 
 is very very frustrating since you bought the game hoping you would actualy do something but no 
 it's not a game IT'S A MOVIE even the trailer looked like a movie trailer and it was! take my word 
 don't play this unless you want to play in a movie with a very boring story...
  
  Anyway most of the people won't agree with me but i don't care because me and my friend like a 
 ton of games but this one just didn't make it if i wanted to see a good movie i'd rent one but 
 this is truly not a game!
  
  So Closing comment go buy the older MGS games if you want something good don't buy a Ps3 for this 
 monstrosity 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Aidara
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 17, 2008 11:11 am PT
Review:  was that i didn't finish it because i sow the ending when my brother was playing. It is not just 
 a game about killing and sneaking around the story mode have a deep meaning that when you see the 
 ending you will The understand. graphic is the best graphic i ever seem in a game it is even better 
 than the graphic of GTA4. The story mode is linked from all the games of MGS. I am not a fan of 
 MGS but after playing this one for 10 hour i couldn't let go of the remote. the online is good 
 because you spent more time killing other player than sneaking around. Even tough i am not a fan 
 i follow the story until now i am disappointed that this is the end but i am happy that it was 
 a good ending. i understand the story better than some people and i liked it even tough it was complex 
 . it was complexly good. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AranJatt
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 17, 2008 3:48 am PT
Review:  Its hard to put into words what this game is but I'll try.
  This is the only game out so far to acctually test the capabilities od the PS3. The graphics are 
 stunning and animations are top notch. You cannot tell some of the environments are in game imagery. 
 The shading to the sound of bullets flying by all seem real. The textures look great almost all 
 the time and it is very hard to find something visually that isn't polished in this game. But it 
 isn't just the graphics that make this game come to life. This game tells an intricate story that 
 gets you involved with the characters. The great voice acting and subtle facial expressions really 
 bring the story to the next level. 
  The gameplay is just as polished as the graphics. Controls are better that ever and the first person 
 shooting is much improved. You are given a variety of weapons and tools to help you get through 
 the game. But the fun part is figuring out how, and which ones to use. The great thing is, there 
 is more then one way to get through the game. You could go through complete stealth style, guns 
 blazing, or somewhere in between. It is really up to you. 
  It is possible to complete the game without even killing a single PMC solider.
  With the addition 
 of online play and many unlockables, this game has it all. The amazing story and longevity. One 
 of the best games I have played! And whats even more insane... if you played the previous installments, 
 the game will be even better for you! 
  
  
  Graphics.........9.5
  Sound..............9.0
  Controls..........9.0
  Gameplay........9.5
  Overall..............10.0 
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: diangelogrey
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 16, 2008 10:37 pm PT
Review:  As a long time Metal Gear fan I was really excited to get MGS4 Guns of the Patriots. When my copy 
 arrived I quickly unwrapped it and inhaled the delicious smell of new software and fired up my 
 PS3 to give it a go. 
  
  My flatmate and myself sat down and as the intro played our jaws dropped and for the next week 
 or so on and off we sat captivated (me as a player and her as a spectator) to what I personally 
 feel is one of the best game titles spread over any gaming system ever be released.
  
  One thing I should confess is I never finished Metal Gear Solid 2 or Metal Gear Solid 3, however 
 I did the first title on the original Playstation and then also on the Gamecube with Twin Snakes. 
 
  
  Metal Gear Solid 4 to me feels totally different to those games. The graphics are stunning with 
 everything polished nicely from the first trucks glimmer in the sun in the intro right down to 
 the closing game scenes. 
  
  The graphics are great but what really sets Metal Gear apart is the story which is lengthy deep 
 and well told. If you haven't played a Metal Gear Solid game before do not lose heart and not get 
 this title because the game WILL NOT leave you confused. Nearly everything is explained perfectly 
 and with the addition of the Metal Gear Solid Database you can look up anything you could possibly 
 want to know.
  
  Game play wise the controls are very easy to get the hang of and the new button layout is much 
 nicer then on the MGS3. CQC (Close Quarters Combat) is very easy to pull of in this game as is 
 stealth with the addition of "OctoCammo" which makes for some very humorous moments.
  
  Konami and Hideo Kojima have added so many touches to this game that is a title nobody should pass 
 on. 
  
  I think 10 out of 10 is just right for this game. 
  
  This is the next Zelda: Ocarina of time as far as what it will do for gaming.
  
  Groundbreaking... 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LuongoRox1
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 11, 2009 3:21 pm PT
Review:  Instant Classic. MGS4 is my first game in the series (yes, it's true) and I rented it to give it 
 a try, since I'm new to the series. I've had it maybe close 10 hours now, and I already love the 
 game. Any gamer, and especially any hardcore gamers should have this game in their collection, 
 it is a must have!
  
  The characters are extremely good, and since this was my first MGS game, it was interesting to 
 learn a bit of the backstory to the Colonel and Meryl. The stealth aspect of this game is great, 
 and once you get a hang of them, the controls are very easy. The gunfights are fun, and the camo-suit 
 is probably the coolest thing I've ever seen in a videogame.
  
  My one knock about this game, can also be a good thing. In order to reveal each character's story, 
 they had to add extremely long cuts scenes. Kinda took me out of the game for a while, which was 
 annoying. Especially in the first mission when there was practically, a cut scene after everything 
 you did.
  
  Other than that, I'm going to say this is the best videogame I have ever played, and is the best 
 that is currently available on the Playstation 3. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dazpen90
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 16, 2008 5:58 pm PT
Review:  GRAPHICS: The weapons is great the 3rd person view could of been better but still great..... The 
 forest.. Snow and ect looks awesome you could not ask for better graphics. The models looks like 
 our life if you now what i mean lol.
  
  
  GAME PLAY: Great story it is great how they have brought all the metal gear solid story to this 
 final game. The best part of the game is shadow moses because its makes you feel like your playing 
 the first metal gear but with awesome graphics it is just amazing how its change since the fist 
 time solid snake went to shadow moses. All i can say about the game play is BRILLIANT!!!!!!
  
  SOUND: Great sound could not ask for better this game is 100% perfect nothing wrong with it.
 
  
  ON LINE: Sorry but the on line is disappointing and very upsetting they did a crap job on the on 
 line play sorry.
  
  If you like to play games offline you should get this straight away it is amazing 
::::::

::::::
UserName: moss81-brady12
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 16, 2008 4:02 pm PT
Review:  The best game i have played in a while. It doesn't dissapoint with all the high expectations it 
 had up until release. No doubt the best game available for the Playstation 3 right now. I just 
 wish the game never had an ending because it was so great to play i never wanted it to end. The 
 graphics are also the best I have seen on any platform out there. The game also offers great replayability 
 due to the fact that after you beat the game you are going to want to try at achieveing the Big 
 Boss emblem which if done is a great hard earned accompishment. The game is also very story driven 
 but in a good way since the amazing story is what anchors the amazing game. Also this new metal 
 gear solid offers a lot of new gameplay elements such as trackin/trailing someone ( cant say due 
 to spoilers) , using nightvision to follow footprints, these new gameplay elements make this Metal 
 gear as good if not better than its predecessors. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jacob2124
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 16, 2008 3:57 pm PT
Review:  Its hard to put into words what this game is but I'll try. First off, this game takes all the potential 
 of the PS3 and puts it to use. The graphics are stunning and animations are smooth. The environments 
 are very lifelike, from the shading to the sound of bullets flying by. The textures look great 
 almost all the time and it is very hard to find something visually that isn't polished in this 
 game. But it isn't just the graphics that make this game come to life. This game tells an intricate 
 story that gets you involved with the characters. The great voice acting and subtle facial expressions 
 really bring the story to the next level. 
  The gameplay is just as polished as the graphics. Controls are better that ever and the first person 
 shooting is much improved. You are given a variety of weapons and tools to help you get through 
 the game. But the fun part is figuring out how, and which ones to use. The great thing is, there 
 is more then one way to get through the game. You could go through complete stealth style, guns 
 blazing, or somewhere in between. It is really up to you. 
  With the addition of online play and many unlockables, this game has it all. The amazing story 
 and longevity. One of the best games I have played! And whats even more insane... if you played 
 the previous installments, the game will be even better for you!
  
  
  Graphics.........9.5
  Sound..............9.0
  Controls..........9.0
  Gameplay........9.5
 
  Overall..............10.0 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kitsukage
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 16, 2008 3:56 pm PT
Review:  Ever since I first started playing Metal Gear Solid, back when it hit PlayStation, I've always 
 looked forward to the next instalment. I might not be one who likes shooting games as much as most 
 people do, because frankly, I find most of them shallow on storyline, and other aspects that really 
 drive a game, but the MGS series brought a new meaning; "Tactical Espionage Action". Ever since 
 playing the MGS series, I've taken a great liking to the concept of taking one man, and slipping 
 through an enemy base, unnoticed. To top the MGS series off, they also had deep storylines, and 
 I can only wish I got the chance to play the games that had started it all off.
  
  Though MGS4 takes a different perspective than the previous games, the primary goal is still to 
 go through the game in an attempt not to be seen. The controls have become more fluent to that 
 of being able to take a different stance in the battles that wage on around you, giving you a mass 
 inventory of weapons and the keen movement of that of some shooting games, allowing you to carefully 
 aim and kill enemies, while crouching and moving.
  
  The bosses can be a pain, if you don't know what you're doing, but the action you get, during those 
 battles is brilliant. The only issue I have with them is the small part after you initially defeat 
 them. They don't damage you; or at least in any way I've seen, but regardless of ineffective attacks, 
 (all they do is grab you) they can still be a pain to take down, for a second time. They tend to 
 sidestep most every shot you fire at them. (though its only four of the battles, spread out through 
 the game, so it isn't that bad)
  
  the OctoCamo was brilliant, in execution. It brought back the camouflage from MGS3: Snake Eater 
 and made it into something beyond. It was a very handy, and indispensable tool throughout the game, 
 and more so once acquisition of a particular item allowed for more effective use of it.
  
  The Apple adverts were rather noticeable; there being an iPod in your inventory, and Otacon's computer 
 on the Nomad, and his laptop being of Apple brand, but the iPod was a nice touch, allowing you 
 to listen to some great music from both past MGS games and other productions that Konami have created. 
 The only issue would be that the iPod can only be used when selected in the item window; once you 
 switch to another item, you unfortunately, cannot listen to the song. It was also nice to see that 
 there were still those sort of cameo appearances from Konami games; Zone of the Enders posters 
 and computer wallpapers, as well as several other things. all made an appearance in the game, and 
 funnily enough, a PSP also made entry.
  
  Couple all this with a surprise appearance by something from the past, and Otacon's interesting 
 comment, at one point in the game, and it makes for some nice comedic points, in the game.
  
  Regardless of what some people say about the game, such as "the scenes were way too long," 
 or "There wasn't enough game play," I feel that the game was a perfect blend of a conclusive story, 
 leading through Solid Snake's final mission, and great action, putting the player against a countless 
 number of enemies. I also think that some people seem to forget that Metal Gear Solid is one of 
 those games that has a huge amount of story; from past experiences, should they have played Metal 
 Gear Solid before the fourth game, they should have prepared themselves to sit through lots of 
 story-based scenes. Being the final mission of most likely, the most memorable character in any 
 series, there were no doubts that a lot of loose ends needed to be tied up, to finish the series. 
 With that, I will warn that potential spoilers may appear, in the next few paragraphs, so if you 
 have not played the game, and wish to keep a sense of surprise, for when you do, please refrain 
 from continuing.
  
  ------------------------------
  
  There is a lot of stuff in this game that I don't think many would have guessed to be true. A few 
 of the most dominant surprises would stand to be the roles that EVA and Sigint played, in the games, 
 as well as the true fate of a character of the past. MGS4 held a splendid blend of each game that 
 has been set into this series; from the original games from long ago, to those more recent, such 
 as Portable Ops and Snake Eater.
  
  It was all brought into one final pinpoint, where everything became clear, or in some cases, more 
 questions strung into players' minds. One very nice touch I felt was good was the use of the four 
 characters' code names from the original PlayStation Metal Gear Solid; Octopus, who was initially 
 observed in MGS1 as the DARPA Chief and never actually battled against, Raven, Mantis, and Wolf; 
 of whom Sniper Wolf was actually my favourite boss from the original MGS game. I'd also like to 
 add that Crying Wolf has an insane ability with that Rail Gun; being as effective as Sniper Wolf 
 was, with long-range shots in blizzards with the thing.
  
  I think I can speak for most fans, when I say it was kind of painful; seeing such an iconic character 
 go through some of the things that Snake had gone through, in MGS4. I, personally, couldn't help 
 but cringe with each blow that was dealt to him, towards the end of the game, but I felt that the 
 final battle was a great way to conclude a struggle that had played over a number of games; more 
 notably, three of those games; including MGS4, against a long-time rival of Snake's.
  
  One of the things I most liked about MGS4 was the return to Shadow Moses. Although run-down, with 
 very few areas to explore, the memories that came back from going through the small number of areas 
 there were was brilliant. I also really enjoyed using REX, which I never actually anticipated to 
 happen. The inclusion of it in the game was a great conclusion, in the Shadow Moses clean up.
 
  
  -----------------------
  
  Well, I think I'll conclude my musings over the game's story there. It kind of went from a Player 
 Review to a comment on the story of the game.
  
  In the end, what I'm trying to say is that MGS4 brought together most everything from the past 
 games and added its unique twists to the plot, as well as brought some shocking truths up from 
 the characters we thought we already knew. The game was brilliant, and would not have been an MGS 
 game, as we all know them, were the scenes sliced up, as most people complain that they should 
 have. I'll say that with MGS4 being a finale, it wasn't meant to be for those new to the series. 
 To love the MGS games, you really need to play them from the beginning; not only to become accustomed 
 to their game play, but also to familiarise yourself with the characters; what they used to be 
 like, and such, as well as being patient to enjoy the games, as a whole, instead of just being 
 an "action junkie", as some people could call those who prefer going straight into the action.
 
  
  But it is worth noting that for the impatient people, you can actually skip cut scenes, and go 
 straight to the next part of the game.
  
  All MGS titles are lengthy on story; there's no denying that. If you're a sharp fan of the MGS 
 series, this is definitely a game for you to get. If you're just the kind of person that likes 
 to go guns blazing, its possible that MGS4 isn't really your type of game, but if you are interested 
 in the series, but haven't played the previous games, I'd suggest going back and getting them from 
 wherever you can. To truly love the masterpiece of MGS4, you really do need to have played them 
 all; at least from the PlayStation, onwards. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bigbear3391
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 16, 2008 2:33 pm PT
Review:  
  He has done it again. Mr. Kojima's love for cinema & games comes across again in this absolutely 
 must own title. Even if you have never played any games in the series (shame on you) you will love 
 this one. For all of you who have played from the start, you are insane not to want this. The action 
 takes place in beautifully detailed locations. The action & story telling is what we have come 
 to expect from Mr. Kojima. ONLY BETTER!! You will see old & new faces, learn a great deal of history 
 & back story in the series, see whats been up with characters lost. 
  
  Boss battles will leave you speechless. It has the right amount of OH S***! moments. As with all 
 other games in this series, if you run & gun, your done. Its all about stealth. For you action 
 junkies there is plenty of action. My personal opinion is that creeping around makes for more intensity. 
 If you are alone fighting against 2 squads in most other games you have a high chance of survival 
 because they are almost always weaker than you. Few shots each with a rifle & they are done. Not 
 here. Smart AI with real military tactics & almost as much hit points as you makes sure that you 
 get a feel of realism. Now i am not saying that its not a far fetched story but Mr Kojima prides 
 himself on keeping the mixture right between real & fantasy.
  
  Followers know that Mr. Kojima does his research on weapons, history & locals. A lot of what you 
 see is based on real projects that the US & other countries military are developing.
  
  If this is indeed that last in the series I would like to give a personal thanks to Mr. Kojima 
 & everyone involved in this series. It has been, & will continue to be the bench mark that ALL 
 games, not just this genre, should aspire to. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: iamcool2121
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 16, 2008 12:57 pm PT
Review:  Metal Gear Solid 4 makes it debut on the PlayStation 3 and delivers on all aspects and redefines 
 how stories should be told in a video game and is simply a master piece. You return as Snake and 
 your mission is stop Liquid from carrying out his military vision using the "Guns of The Patriots 
 with SOP (Sons of the patriots system) The story is simply filled with on the edge of your seat 
 action and the cut scenes are played like a movie so sit back and relax and enjoy the show. You 
 have allies as well like Raiden, Meryl and Rat Patrol and Otacon so obviously you are not alone. 
 You also meet Drebin a gun launderer that helps you remove the weapon id locks from the weapons 
 you find and you can buy weapons from him when you find weapons and items that are sent to his 
 shop from money when you have more of the same weapon. The new over the shoulder feature works great 
 because it gives you the option of being not only stealthy but you can gun them all down. You also 
 get the first person mode as well. The graphics are simply amazing and so realistic that the characters 
 look so life and the environments are well done too. The weapon models look and sound amazing that 
 you could just reach out and use them yourself. The AI is very smart and will kill you at all costs. 
 Metal Gear Solid 4 is very lengthy and will keep you busy for a very long time depending on what 
 difficulty you set it to. They also added to the cut scenes real time actions so it is not like 
 the previous installments where we just see the walls of text and one picture so that's a real 
 plus. Also you can listen to snakes i pod so that was a very nice feature as well as many little 
 things that you can discover. The boss fights are perfectly executed and are some of the greatest 
 fights ever put into a video game. The sound is crisp and clear that it makes you feel like your 
 at the movies. Metal Gear Solid 4 makes you feel like you are apart of the war taking place almost 
 as if you were there. The fire fights are great too because so many soldiers are on screen at once 
 and in one part of the game you go under cover and find big mama and hop on the back of a motor 
 cycle and shoot Liquid's troops. So variety in the game exists. Now you can get unlockables after 
 every time you beat the game and see if you can get them all like for example remember alitar from 
 assassins creed? well you can get his clothes and much more unlockables. When your done with the 
 single player or just want to take a break after beating it so many times, Metal Gear Solid 4 features 
 a fully functional online service where up to 16 players can play in one game and the service is 
 called Metal Gear Online.
  You also have many game modes to choose from like Team Deathmatch, deathmatch and much more. Metal 
 Gear Solid 4 is the game that the PS3 has been waiting for and will impress anyone. i recommend 
 Metal Gear Solid 4 to anyone who is a fan of the series and likes stealth action shooting games. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: archangel_hp
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 16, 2008 11:21 am PT
Review:  It's been a while since I have written a review, but what better opportunity to do it again than 
 this one. Metal Gear Solid 4: Guns of the Patriots is not only one of the greatest games ever and 
 a must have for anyone with a PS3 out there, but it is also the conclusion to the best game series 
 ever. It is unfair, however, to call this game the best game ever. I wouldn't vote against it, 
 but you have to admit that the greatness of this game is mostly the story, and that story is so 
 great because of the back-story of the other games in the series. Aside from the great story, we 
 have the amazing gameplay that has always characterized the MGS series. For newcomers, the game 
 will feel sometimes that rather than playing a game you are watching a $60 dollar movie. But once 
 you are really into the game, your will definitely change your mind. Playing this game felt so 
 amazing; it kept me in suspense and made me believe I was right in the battlefield with Snake. 
 However, I did felt that although they were good, most of the boss fights weren't as imaginative 
 as the previous games. But hey, sometimes it's really hard to improve what is nearly perfect. For 
 me, the graphics and sound were awesome. I have to admit that this is merely my second "present 
 generation" experience, and maybe, just maybe, there are better things out there. But I compare 
 this game's graphics and sound to the ones of the other PS3 game I have and they are far better. 
 That is for the single player experience, to that you have to add the Metal Gear Online that is 
 included in the disc. I still haven't played that one, but I think that the single player itself 
 is just enough to earn a perfect ten. Think of MGO as a great addition to a masterpiece. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Richard_Praxton
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 16, 2008 8:24 am PT
Review:  I could open up this review with a witty line like "Metal Gear undoubtedly 'sneaks' it's way into 
 the position of 'Best PS3 Game'," but that would just be stupid and lame. Instead, I'm just going 
 to say that if you own a PS3, buy this game. Yes, that's right. Stop reading my review. I assure 
 you it's not really that interesting anyway. 
  
  Of course I'm just kidding. On with the amazingly well-written review...
  
  Along with the 
 first three games in the series, Metal Gear Solid 4 sets a standard for all games of the current 
 generation, a bar which which can only be matched by games both equally ambitious and immersive. 
 Gameplay and story are combined to a degree which has never been seen in games before, be it seamlessly 
 or not.
  
  To start, the graphics are unmatched. Other than a couple jaggy shadows here and there, everything 
 has been painstakingly detailed to a sickening degree. Yes, the graphics will make you spew chunks 
 of utter glee. Character models, guns, beards, cigarettes, you name it. It's all nearly perfectly 
 executed. If you disagree, you're an idiot.
  
  Dealing with the more arguable aspects of the game, the gameplay is very similar to the previous 
 iterations, save for a few button re-maps and a number of new moves. If you feel at home on the 
 others, then you'll feel at home here. Even more impressive is how the developers left the game 
 so open-ended, allowing players to play the game in any style they want. That's right, you can 
 sneak, fight, run, or polka your way to the end. And for the pansies out there, you can just shoot 
 everyone with the tranquilizer gun. For cool people, however, the game will offer varying degrees 
 of difficulty and great replay value not just for the unlockables but simply for experimentation. 
 I found myself on my tenth playthrough only to see if I could take the left path on a certain section 
 of the game without using chaff grenades while keeping my OctoCamo (don't play dumb with me, you 
 know what it is by now) on it's default setting (meaning a constant crappy camo index) . A new addition 
 is a method of purchasing new weapons and ammo through an in-game store, a la Resident Evil 4. 
 Once again, this can be used or tossed away, according to your preference.
  
  Just because every other reviewer does it, I'm going to throw the word "convoluted" into this review 
 to describe the story. Oh, and go ahead... open your issue of Game Informer or Electronic Gaming 
 Monthly, or find a review on this very site. I bet you a Coke you can't get through three without 
 encountering that word once. Anyway, the plot is only followable by anyone who's played the previous 
 games or Hideo Kojima, and who knows, maybe neither of them. Either way it's entertaining and involving, 
 if not necessarily skillfully written or performed at all times. But I'm just being nit-picky. 
 Anyone who likes Metal Gear (except for a few completely likeable and understandable fanboys) will 
 enjoy the story, full of as much intrigue and drama as the others.
  
  Audiophiles will adore this game. The sounds, from bullet ricochet to character voices to gaseous 
 anal discharge, are superb in quality. I can safely say every time I've played it I've heard something 
 new. The soundtrack is most definitely jammable, other than a few of the obnoxious in-your-face 
 I drank too much coffee this morning Harry Gregson-Williams tracks (you know, the ones with the 
 ridiculous electronic percussion that just sounds like a PC trying to play a drum and bass song 
 with six programs chewing and spitting out the CPU usage statistic) . 'Love Theme' is a beautiful 
 suicide-accompaniment lament which serves as the opening theme of the game, and is my personal 
 favorite. God bless sound waves and our ability as humans to perceive and interpret them.
  
  As you can see, I've gone against my natural instinct to spoil everything (Snape kills Dumbledore! 
 Sorry, had to get it out) by keeping anything that has to do with the plot untold (the kid's therapist 
 is a ghost! Sorry, dammit. That one slipped) . Although this ultimately made for a boring, vague, 
 and completely unhelpful review, it did eat up two hours of my time which could have alternatively 
 been used to sleep or do something constructive, so I'm happy. Suffice it to say there are plot 
 twists and surprises abound.
  
  In closing, Meat Gear Solid 4 has undoubtedly sneaked it's way into my heart, as it will undoubtedly 
 yours.
  
  Oh, and Rosebud was his sled. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DarkDante152
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 16, 2008 11:15 pm PT
Review:  Metal Gear Solid is the 4 installment of the Metal Gear Solid series and the final mission of Solid 
 Snake the hero of previous Metal Gear Games. This time around, Snake has aged considerable this 
 time around and is out to put a stop to Liquid Ocelot's plan to create the Outer Haven that Big 
 Boss had envisioned so many years ago. This time around, Snake infiltrates various environments 
 such as South Africa, The Middle East and Eastern Europe (Some of the other environments I shall 
 not tell you since some are surprises or could be considered spoilers by some) . The game-play remains 
 the same with a few improvements such as the over the shoulder view which makes aiming easier, 
 being able to walk while crouching and rolling while lying down, which you can also lie on your 
 back and attack from this position as well. The core game-play is great combining stealth along 
 with action in a very nice mix of the two and their are a large amount of weapons available to 
 run and gun with (if the player chooses to do so) also some of the weapons are unlocked by inputting 
 passwords or earning certain emblems (your ranking when you complete MGS4) so theirs incentive to 
 play the game more then once to unlock and find everything weapon and items (aka ipod songs and 
 other goodies) . The game has various levels of difficulty allowing the casual gamer to play it 
 but give the hardcore gamer a challenge (the boss extreme is the hardest difficulty) . The bosses 
 in this game are great although their not as great as the previous bosses in the Metal Gear Solid 
 series. The music in Metal Gear Solid 4 is truly amazing, with each piece fitting in at the right 
 at the right moment to give the story that cinematic quality. You can also collects ipod songs 
 some of which have unique abilities such as increasing the rate at which snakes heal restores or 
 increase his stability when shooting. Overall Metal Gear Solid 4 offers the most amazing story 
 every created and told through a video game. (although you may get lost in the story if you haven't 
 played previous Metal Gear Solid games) , the game-play is amazing allowing for some diversity (action, 
 stealth or a combination of both) , it's accessible to just about everyone in terms of being able 
 to choose your preferred difficulty setting. Metal Gear Solid 4 is one the best games to come out 
 this year and on PS3. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kobethebest
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 15, 2008 3:20 pm PT
Review:  This game is great. I'm not one of those metal gear fan boys or a follower nor do i have any of 
 the other games, but this game was great from being stealth to shooting people up. Metal Gear Online 
 is great also for the long run, or you could just play the singe player over again to get maybe 
 the big boss emblem which i have. The only bad thing maybe is that the cut scenes are very long 
 some maybe lasting for about an hour, but it tells a story. There are a lot of great things online 
 that you could try to achieve like say the ranks and stuff. The game may have been a little too 
 dramatic about things but you could always skip the cut scenes if you want like i did, but that 
 was my Big Boss Emblem run. Without the cutscenes, the game would be pretty short, so try to at 
 least watch the cutscenes when playing the game if you're a Metal Gear Solid fan, which i think 
 they would. This is a definite masterpiece and other games should follow. A must-have game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SS4EVGASM
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 15, 2008 7:07 am PT
Review:  When I first heard about Metal Gear Solid 4, I wasn't very excited because I had never played an 
 original Metal Gear Solid game, but when I bought MGS4 just about a week ago, I fell in love with 
 it. Obviously the story is extremely complex so I went on wikipedia to study up before I played. 
 So now I'm gonna put things in order.
  Graphics: These are the best grahics for any game I've ever seen, every element of picture and 
 sound and just the natural feel of playing makes the game feel amazing when played.
  Story: Like I said, very complex story, it would be hard to understand for some people, but if 
 you listen and really get into the game, you may even cry at scenes near the end of the game because 
 its such an emotional and moving story.
  Gameplay: The first time I went through this game, I didn't try all the features of the game, but 
 the second time around I was amazed. I like it how you can choose FP or TP, the weapon mods just 
 give it that nice extra touch, making friends with the militaries against the PMC's is a very interesting 
 element to the game, sneaking can be slightly boring at times but is cool when you run up and CQC 
 the guards.
  Online: I can't really say anything online because its a bit annoying to get used to the menus 
 and layouts, so I haven't played much online, but since online is pretty much MGS4 with your friends, 
 it will be really good.
  Extras: This game has so many extras that just make me think, "I can't believe they actually bothered 
 doing that, but I'm glad they did." Things like all the fun hidden little easter eggs, the high 
 amount of weapons, and how good they actually look in the weapon veiwer, the ipod is a very nice 
 feature, the environments have realistic war things like shot windows, burning cars, blood stains 
 in some discret corner EVERYTHING, its all amazing, one of the most amazing things is that the 
 cut scenes are extremely long and very nicely animated, and a VERY interesting thing is how you 
 can control Metal Gear Mk. II during mission briefings, where all characters are doing something 
 or showing emotion even if there not in the normal cut scene, espiecially Sunny; while Snake is 
 down stairs talking to cornal about the next mission, you can go upstairs and watch Sunny playing 
 PSP and making noodles, even when she's making the noodles, (let me remind you that the noodles 
 are not even part of the actual cut scene at all) you can see the wavyness of the noodles and the 
 vegies.... it just amazes me the amount of detail into such obscure things, another eg. if you 
 let one of the beauties follow you for 2 mins then kill them non lethaly, the area turns white, 
 and if you have a camera, they do poses, and dance to ipod songs, I mean, who the hell would have 
 found that out?!?! They spent all that time doing the motion capture and they hide it that much, 
 it make me really respect MGS4. And how many Otacon codecs they made, there is a new one like almost 
 every 2 minutes.
  Overall: The best game ever made, way better than GTA 4. For the price you buy this game is WAAAAAAY 
 worth it, the stuff this game has is worth like $350. If you have a PS3, buy this game. If you 
 don't have a PS3, buy one so you can play this game. Throw away the crappy Xbox and buy the lord 
 of all games.
  XBOX 360 OWNERS, BOW DOWN TO THE BEST GAME YOU'LL NEVER  
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ronniepage588
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 14, 2008 11:32 pm PT
Review:  Well where do you start?
  MGS4 is truely a halmark of the gaming industry and one of the defining moments of gaming history. 
 
  MGS4 is the first perfect 10 game, for me, this generation so far. there is many reasons for it. 
 
  
  Gameplay is the main thing i want to talk about here. i may continually edit this to make it better 
 written and make it more thorough. : MGS4 is full of such an unheard of amount of gameplay variety 
 and theres so many different gameplay mechanics and features that its probably one of the most 
 diverse games ever made. you can choose many ways to play this. Go all out stealth and stay as 
 hidden as possible. Go RAMBO and mow your way through guns blazing. Or balance it however you like. 
 But dont worry, even if you go for the less action stealthier approach, you'll still be in for 
 a treat as far as action goes. MGS4, like i said, has tons of variety, not just in controls (you 
 play this game splinter cell like 3rd person, or cod4 like first person, and then theres tons of 
 gear/uncharted like cover system and excellent shooting) , but in level design.
  *SPOILERS AHEAD* 
  In the first two acts, you're mostly challenged with infiltrating war zones 
 in the middle of heated battles. in these acts you can join the war, or use the battle to your 
 advantage to get through it, or work effortlessly to totally avoid it. expect some high octane 
 moments and certainly thrilling and chilling cut scenes including a wild nano-machines gone bad 
 zombie chase sequence (yeah thats right, zombies in mgs, done extremely well)
  In the third act it turns into a noirish spy gameplay where you're tasked with locating and tracking 
 and following a target through out streets in the middle of the night. stealth is key, but theres 
 tons of things that get in the way and many suprises and mysteries all around (like a dick tracey 
 wannabe that will spook you) . many consider this the weekest gameplay of the the game but remember, 
 its entirely not unlike playing most of GTA4, and people seemingly LOOOVE that game, but i thoroughly 
 enjoyed the serious tone and setting. But even if you really dont enjoy that long slow paced tracking 
 mission, it pays off with an absolutely amazing chase rail-shooter sequence that will take your 
 breath away. this absolutely puts the chase scene at the end of cod4 to shame. expect the most 
 cinematic gameplay you have ever witnessed (imagine playing the chase scene in the matrix reloaded 
 with slow downs bullet time and all) , its that good and then let the greatest cut scenes roll. 
 
  In act 4, if you've been following this series for a while now, you're in for a realllly big treat. 
 kojima once again does things that movies could only wish they could do. act four begins and your 
 playing mgs1, ps1 graphics and all. after infiltrating the base, in a cut scene snake a awakens 
 from an eerie dream. and wadda ya know, you're infiltrating shadow moses all over again. this time 
 the place is deserted but theres nothing the machines patrolling the place. in this act you'll 
 find yourself right at home with metal gear solid. stealth, but not necessarily crawing silently 
 in shadows, but rather avoiding enemy detection as quickly as possible, because you feel a sense 
 of urgency due to the story. avoiding detection is definitely a must here as, without a handy chaff 
 around, you wont be taking on these enemies, they absolutely bombard you (really shows off the 
 power of ps3, becuase theres seemingly hundred of enemies swarming you if you get caught) after 
 lots of infiltration and a lengthy memorable boss battle, you'll eventually work you way to more 
 boss battles, insanely cinematic and super unique split screen action, you find yourself in the 
 seat of something you've been dying to sit in. finally Kojima delivers us a chance to control metal 
 gears, and boy is it incredibly well done. first you'll bombard youre way out of shadow moses, 
 and then encounter liquid in ray and a metal gear fight ensues, with highly destructible environments 
 and all. o0o0 its sooo satisfying. 
  act 5 is serious pits in serious metal gear stealth. youre tasked with infiltrating a highly protected 
 base with highly trained patrols in really tight corridors. you must be fast and very strategic 
 getting through here. from there you get into some boss battling, and then some more incredibly 
 unique cinematic gameplay that is heart wrenching to go through. kojima creates a way for you to 
 seriously connect with the struggle of snake by forcing you to nonstop button mash. yeah theres 
 button mashing in mgs4, but only when its done for a reason, because here snake is burning alive 
 and he has little time to reach an objective, so for about 5 minutes you have to nonstop button 
 mash and watch as snake insanely struggles and drags himself to a doorway, you start pounding these 
 buttons like "oh come onnnnnnn just a little further ahhhhh!!" its awesome. after this and some 
 cut scenes your forced to an obligatory final showdown with liquid and its a cqc battle. and its 
 definitely the most well done fight scene in a movie, or game i've seen in a very long time. its 
 very much like god of war in that you pound in combos and then when the moments right, the screen 
 prompts you to push different buttons to unleash a fury on liquid like tossing him on the ground 
 getting on top and beating his face into the metal floor. 
  and don't forget your handy metal gear mk2 through out all this which is a handy device that lets 
 you see whats ahead and take out any minor dangers like stunning enemies. and theres also the drebin 
 points system of buying, selling, collecting, and customizes well over 60 to 70 different weapons, 
 its addictive and it adds a lot to replay value
  
  graphics: outstanding. thats it. no they may not be as photo realistic as lets say gt5 prologue 
 or crysis but considering how much technical things that arent always seen like the amount of usable 
 and customizable high detailed weapons in the game, the vast amount of gameplay mechanics, the 
 deep well thought out controls, things like health, psyche and stress, little rats running in and 
 out of sewers and alley ways (guinea pigs in south america) , birds flying around (you can kill 
 any of these things) , real-time wind that actually becomes a part of gameplay, metal gear MKII, 
 octocamo thats definitely fun to just run around blending for 20 minutes when you first play it, 
 amazing real time cut scenes, tons of details in the environments like propaganda over the loudspeakers 
 in cities, all diferent types of enemies with differing AI (rebels, pmc's, gekkos, scarabs, haven 
 troops, bosses etc.) and so much more make you realize that if this game was as simple as cod4, 
 its graphics would dwarf crysis with all of the extra processing power. but thats not to say these 
 graphics aren't comparable to best out there, which is amazing. its really fun just to go into 
 the menus and view up close the different items and weapons (they look the same in the menu as 
 in the actual game) and look for details like fine print on the MG Mk2 just to read it saying press 
 button to open door so tiny that you'd need a magnifying glass to read in real life, now thats 
 cool detail. its makes you wonder how a game like cod4 thats so renowned for its graphics, got 
 away with such cruddy in-game details like the guns, they only look good when your holding one, 
 but the enemies guns dont look nearly as detailed, well that aint the case in mgs4. 
  story: its outstanding. its well written, thoroughly wrriten at that, with outstanding voice acting- 
 the best i've heard in a game yet. everyone seems so human in this game- with otacons va really 
 standing out this time around for me. its a very fitting end to a great story of a great modern 
 fictional hero. 
  presentation- outstanding
  mgo can go in a differnt review, but as for lasting appeal, the game its self is highly replayable, 
 you WILL want to relive many of its amazing moments just to go OH SNAP all over again. and theres 
 lots of guns to collect and customize, but mgo is the true lasting appeal. its an excellent online 
 game and shows huge potential for whats to come. 
  note: this isnt complete i will be editiing a lot i just wrote this in a few minutes. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: seancgn68
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 14, 2008 2:42 pm PT
Review:  I am brand new to this series as I never owned a PS or PS2. However, I will say that I think this 
 is by far the new king of the PS3 in terms of its awesome gameplay, beautiful graphics, amazing 
 sound, excellent story, and overall fun. It is a must have for PS3 owners. I imagine if you are 
 already a fan of the series, you will love it. If you have never played a Metal Gear game before, 
 I suggest downloading the Metal Gear Solid Database for free from the Playstation Network. It will 
 help fill in the back-story, and let you enjoy the game's story even more. Regardless of whether 
 you do this or not, I can't imagine anyone not enjoying this game. I have beaten this game twice, 
 once on normal and once on big boss hard. Yes, the cut scenes can drag on a bit, but I found myself 
 completely sucked in to the story, a nd the incredible cinematics. The multiplayer I must say is 
 a little frustrating as far as getting online. There are a few updates you must download and install 
 (and we all know how slow PS3 updates and installs are) , and you have to go through a cumbersome 
 registration process with the developer that has pretty stringent password requirements to get 
 online. Once on, I did enjoy multiplayer, although I did have a hard time finding a game. Multiplayer 
 is not a huge deal for me though, so I only took off half a point for this. Get this game and enjoy!!! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: darthpickel
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 14, 2008 2:41 pm PT
Review:  this game was revolutionary, had a great story, and good gameplay but it wasnt as good as the other. 
 the game was awesome the first time around but it starts getting boreing after a while. it was 
 good but it didnt really feel so much as a mgs game. part of that was becuase of the camo. it was 
 just to easy not like the other ones were all you had was a box and some cigarettes. another reason 
 it didnt feel like a true mgs game was becuase the levels. in every mgs game you are basicly in 
 the same level through out the entire game it. i also miss the way the people would shake when 
 you put a gun to his head or balls. back to the levels. the areas you entered each time were to 
 big and open for a mgs game. it was supposed to be a war so they needed space but id rather have 
 it in a place were there would be a couple of terrorists in each area guarding it. so it was a 
 good game but a disapointment to me. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: UmZz
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 14, 2008 2:01 pm PT
Review:  Let me start by saying that i rarely (by this i mean never) write reviews about anything, let alone 
 a game. So the fact that i have bothered this time round must mean this is no ordinary game. 
 
  
  My advice to you is BUY THIS GAME; if you have a Playstation3 system and you don't have this game 
 then you should be ashamed of yourselves.
  
  THE STORY:
  In my opinion the criticisms of MGS4 being "more story-less game" are wasteful. Fans to the series 
 will agree that MGS4 has certainly been an amazing end (or maybe not the end?) to this epic story. 
 Any unanswered questions have been resolved in this title and quite rightly so. In fact, those 
 who are not familiar to the series finding themselves confused should go back and play the previous 
 titles, you won't be disappointed. Even i can admit that hour-long cutscenes can make you impatient 
 but the storytelling in MGS4 is arguably one of the game's strongest attributes and to take it 
 away would simply make the game boring. It is true that MGS4 is like a movie, but that is what 
 makes it such a revolutionary game...
  
  GAMEPLAY:
  Keeping loyal to the classic MGS gameplay it is still as heartpacing as ever. Although the A. I 
 can be a bit weak at times, this game is still pretty challenging (play Big Boss Extreme mode and 
 you shall see) . For those unfamiliar to the series there are two ways to play this game: You can 
 try and blend into the background (using a cool chameleon-like gadget) and pass enemy soldiers 
 undetected! Or you can go in with guns blazing! either way your heart will still be beating a hell 
 of alot faster once your done... The octocamo suit is really ingenius and makes you feel like a 
 futuristic Rambo! 
  
  CONTROLS:
  The controls have been changed slightly since some of the previous titles (eg: now it is L1 to 
 aim and R1 to fire) which is understandable as most games these days feature similar controls. 
 These seem easier which is definitely a good thing. I havent used it but the game also features 
 Dual Shock Rumble (controller vibration) which should add to the intensity of the game!
  
  GRAPHICS:
  The graphics turned out to be better than i had expected, especially when there is 
 so much going on at one time on the screen. The fps drops sometimes but it is tolerable because 
 of the detail! Probably some of the best presentation of the PS3's potential so far.
  
  SOUND:
  Adding to the tense nature of this game, when you are found and an army of soldiers are 
 headed your way, the background music is as good as ever. Anyone playing this game would be stupid 
 to turn music off in the settings at any point during this game... especially the music when the 
 enemy is searching for you in "Caution" mode.
  
  BOSS FIGHTS:
  The boss fights are extremely tense and each one in its own respects! (Though i still prefer the 
 boss fights in the original Metal Gear Solid on the PS1) Each boss has to be defeated by different 
 means and skills which makes it a real test. Although If i was to be really picky i would say one 
 or two boss fights were a bit to easy on Normal mode (definitley not the case on the hardest difficulty!)
 
  
  REPLAY VALUE:
  Fans of the series will know that there is no better feeling than playing any MGS game for a second 
 time on the hardest difficulty (and for some getting through the game without ever being seen) 
 This also makes the game very different to playing it normally (believe me) . There are tons of 
 weapons and items to buy and plenty of rewards to unlock. This game will have you cut-off from 
 the real world for weeks, so don't worry about making any plans!
  
  In closing i would just say that all games have thier flaws, but without a doubt this is one of 
 the best games to be released in a very long time. I can't (and i won't) compare this game to any 
 other title directly, because there is no other game like it. PLAY THIS GAME, and see for yourself.. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MGSNAKEATER
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 14, 2008 1:56 pm PT
Review:  This game really is the best I've ever played to date ... It's certianly the best game in the series 
 to say the least.
  
  You won't find better graphics anywhere, and you certianly wont find better detail in the faces 
 of the characters.
  
  The Metal Gear series has the best story I've ever seen in a video game with one of the biggest 
 shockers at the end that many didn't see coming.
  
  Some great online play that's also one of the best I've ever seen.
  
  All in all this game 
 deserves a 10/10 no doubt ... But before playing MGS4 yu might wanna play MGS1,2,3, & Portable 
 Ops ...
  
  *Spoilers*
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  Hideo Kojima is such a phenominal director and bringing Big Boss back at the end of 
 the game was one of the most draw dropping moments in the history of video games ... anyone who 
 is a fan of the series most likely cried the day they saw Big Boss say, "this is good ... Isn't 
 it?" 
::::::

::::::
UserName: -DF-EliteKiller
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 14, 2008 9:41 am PT
Review:  Its been a while, but it's here and what do we think of it? Amazing. Every question you had of 
 the MGS series is given to you in clear answers. The outstanding graphics are only a small portion 
 of this game has brought us.
  Metal Gear Solid 4: Guns of the Patriots has one of the best storyline gaming has to offer. Although 
 its not for everyone, its great gameplay and graphics as stated before... are small portions of 
 what it really is. The Storyline is twisting and emotional, and knowledgeable , but only to those 
 who have played the series of Metal Gear games. Those of witch are new and pick up Metal Gear Solid 
 4 as there starting game, will be left most likely confused. The Story provides the information 
 of what has been occurring throughout the MGS, and finished it to a great extent. Its gameplay 
 is still fun, but much of its story is told through lengthy cut-scenes. Back on gameplay and graphics, 
 it's clear, smooth, and just plain fun. Custom weapons, emblems for game completion, facecamos 
 to collect, and the joy of stealthing or killing your way through hordes of enemys has brought 
 fans what the've been waiting so long for. Sadly it has its flaw, as its not a "perfect" game. 
 The Single-player can lack its greatness toward the end and some of the boss fights seem a bit 
 pointless at they provide no real "epic" fights. Although as for the ending. You must figure out 
 on your own what MGS4 has in store for fans! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Azuki
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 12, 2008 7:11 am PT
Review:  What can one say about metal gear solid 4? Perfect? nope. Close to perfect? pretty much.
  
  Now i'm sure 99.9% of metal gears fanboy community will argue with me but I must say the game certainly 
 delivers in alot of areas but in others, well it could have done better.
  
  The stealth mechanic overall is utterly brilliant and I now refuse to play any stealth game now 
 that doesn't feature my character wearing a suit that automatically adapts its texture to match 
 its closest surroundings.
  If kojima wanted to show how 'stealth should be done' he certainly did it with this game.
  
 
  I have never played a previous metal gear solid game (gasp!) and I must say I wish I had. I have 
 no idea why I've avoided the franchise until now, probably because my first and only experience 
 with mgs prior to 4 was under a minute of playing mgs3 and getting so frustrated with the controls 
 and camera I instantly ejected it from my ps2. Sadly I never gave the game another chance. So naturally 
 upon hearing about mgs4s revamped control/camera systems I took interest and boy am I glad I did.
 
  
  Now I'm not going to review the story, the acting, plot, etc that the games are famous for. Bottom 
 line no other game has had a story so ridiculous yet at the same time as awesome as metal gears. 
 By mid way through the game I was actually attached to snake and when you find out that one way 
 or another hes going to die sooner rather than later it really hurts. This man or character rather 
 is certainly worth all the praise and idolization he receives. A fitting end to a legendary figure 
 of video gaming.
  
  Now story and awesome characters aside this is still a game and like all games it is imperfect. 
 There is and never will be a perfect game in any genre, if there was, what would be the point in 
 making new ones?
  
  As a stealth game, MGS4 works, it is by far the best i have played, the funnest and on the higher 
 difficulties, the most challenging and most satisfying. There is something about the way you can 
 silently sneak up behind an enemy, latch your arm around his neck and wait for him to pass out, 
 or do the bad thing and end his life with a quick knife to the jugular execution. The best part 
 of this game is most of the time you have the option to kill or not kill, its up to you. And strangely 
 despite being on my 2nd play through now I can neither 'only knock out' or 'only kill' in this 
 game, because no matter how hard you try sooner or later the 50 or so incredibly well modeled, 
 animated and sound recorded weapons are just too appealing to pass up. Its like kojima filled the 
 game with shiny delicious candy and then said 'no you shouldn't have any!'.
  
  Should they have left out all those awesome weapons, the handy upgrade system and 'rpg like' drebin 
 points system behind it all? well no but yes. On the one hand its an action game and everyone else 
 has guns, lots of guns. But on the other hand snake is an assassin, a stealth soldier and 'going 
 in rambo style' is as far out of character for him as 'not cutting guys in half with blades' would 
 be for kratos.
  
  The third person shooting is fine, its cover system is somewhat 'behind' compared to a title like 
 gears of war or uncharted but then the enemies in mgs aren't too bright offensively speaking so 
 its not like a more dynamic cover system would have been needed anyway. Basically you cant latch 
 onto walls and then shoot from behind them, you have to un-latch, shoot, run back, repeat. The 
 enemies do however do some cool stuff while your sneaking, they seem to have actual awareness of 
 each other and you feel like your creating your own tension whilst trying not to be spotted by 
 them, very cool.
  
  Anyway there's not much I can say that hasn't been said already about the title. If you own a ps3 
 then you should get mgs4, if you want a ps3 and need a reason to buy one, mgs4 is a good one. The 
 game isn't for everyone but it is certainly the most 'open' version in the series to date.
  Plus if the long convoluted cinematics aren't your thing every single one can be paused or skipped 
 though if that were your intention I'd say don't bother getting the game as the story after all 
 is what has defined the franchise and set it 'just a little higher' than everything else over the 
 years in that department. My only complaint about the cinemas really is that you cant re-watch 
 them after game completion, some are so wicked you really REAALLY want to show them to people and 
 you cant. sigh
  
  If you're worried about having missed the previous 3 games like I was don't worry as the major 
 or key events of the games are all reiterated in one form or another. The running theme of the 
 game is basically control and a 'potential' society that humanity could become someday. If nothing 
 else by the end of the game you'll at least be aware of private military corps and the effects 
 that nano machines could have on the world some day.
  Most people agree that nano tech will be the next 'internet' as far as worldwide technology revolutions 
 go and considering its already used in things like glass that changes light filtering levels and 
 paint that 'heals' scratch marks the games overarching ideas can be believable to some degree. 
 Though I'm sure most people would have trouble believing that nano machines could be used to control 
 and monitor physical and mental conditions of people if you think about it its not to far fetched.
 
  Of course like with everything kojima does he certainly pushes the 'realism' envelope. Raiden 
 stopping an object 500 or so times bigger and heavier than himself for one example. lol
  
  On a side note (potential spoiler) , this game has THE BEST mech combat EVER and its so sad it lasts 
 for so little time. 
  
  You'll possibly be thinking Raiden is a badass by games end, I hear that people hated him in mgs2 
 so I gather that the changes made to his character in 4 were fan-driven. Less whine more face palm 
 for the win. Even if snake is doomed to death and to never grace another game you know that a game 
 all about Raiden would be pretty freaking sweet. I'm fairly sure kojimas goal was to make him very 
 likable by the end of mgs4 and I'm certainly looking forward to any game that he may star in. Who 
 doesn't like cyborg sword wielding kung-fu super humans? Though I could have done without the not-so-subtle 
 homosexuality, (vamp licking 'white blood' off himself *cough*) . bleh 
  
  On aside note, I never played online so I didn't bother going over that part but I'm sure its as 
 good as every other 'we need to add multiplayer because people wont shut up if we don't' mode. 
 
  
  I want to download the music, dear god I could listen to the menu music in mgs4 for days on end. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: EnaVRi
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 26, 2008 9:55 pm PT
Review:  Well I'm giving it a 10 even it's not perfect... What is?!... Bravo Kojima and the team...
  
  Okay lets start with the bad first:
  
  1. The game is too short... Well it's a minor thing... 
 But I would like to spend more time with snake... 
  
  2. The cutscenes are extremely long... But at least the graphics are beautiful...
  
  3. Constant 
 installing after finishing an act...
  
  The good things:
  
  1. Great graphics, see for your self. There isn't any other game that has this quality graphics... 
 Props to the Bluray... Smooth animations, very detailed, vast environments, great character designs... 
 The octocamo effect, superb detail!
  
  2. The story... WOW... Enough said... If you had played all the metal gear games (well atleast 
 MGS1, MGS2, MGS3) , you will experience the most epic and mindblowing story in gaming history... 
 This is how a game should present the story... The story is heavy... BUT, there are many funny scenes...
 
  
  3. The boss fights, MGS series always gives you challenging boss fights... The Guns of The Patriots 
 really gives you great epic boss battles...
  
  4. Controls... It's good, the best in the series... It's easy to move, shoot, and whatever you 
 wanna do in the game...
  
  5. Voice acting is AWESOME!
  
  You should have this game... It's legendary!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: NonyoBizness
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 14, 2008 5:17 am PT
Review:  I have long been a fan of the MGS series... actually MG in general dating way back to the Nintendo 
 days.
  
  This is an amazing game and although it's flawed, I will give it a 10 being it is by far the best 
 game on the PS3.
  
  It sucks for ps3-only owners that they are not getting Splinter Cell: Conviction... more than likely 
 it's an exclusive for the XBox360 to match mgs4. 
  
  I do however, feel that gamespot is biased in their review of this game because it has been long-anticipated, 
 highly advertised, and they just love the series. If this game said Splinter Cell: Solid or something 
 else as the title I do feel their score would be a bit different.
  
  Me rating this game a 10 is for different reasons than they state. I'd say the critic average of 
 9.2 makes a lot of sense being critics are supposed to break the game down technically, etc... 
 
  
  Anyway, THIS IS A MUST HAVE FOR PS3 owners! If you don't get this game, then why even bother owning 
 a ps3 unless you're replacing your entire dvd collection with blurays? Go out, buy this game.. 
 and stop reading! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Joser15
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 13, 2008 5:47 pm PT
Review:  All the Hype of Metal Gear Solid 4 is true and evrthying u cood evr want in a video game from 3rd 
 person shooter to 1st person... or b a spy, or kick some ass... and story so though out i coodn't 
 believe it... so herz a list a things each being a total of 2 points adding up to 10.
  
  Graphics- 2.0: that HDTV does wat u want wit any VG and on MGS4 it looks like the next thing 2 
 life... except for a few super minor parts...
  
  Sound- 2.0: evry gun sounds like it shood sound like and evry step sounds rite... with the enivorment 
 sounds is the then best next thing to life
  
  Gameplay- 2.0: nothing seems out of place and its not like they jus threw somthing in jus cuz...
 
  
  Acting- 2.0: u kno the people they picked to do this kno's a thing or 2 bout VG acting and do a 
 stupendous job at it.
  
  Story- 2.0: a story that gits u hooked from start 2 end... if u play this game u hav 2 watch it 
 through the 1st time... or u will b missing a few things and not 2 4git but i highly recommend 
 watching it.... therz probably at least 2-3 hr. of cinematics... its phenomonal
  
  Total: 10 out of 10
  
  i recomend this game 2 anybody who has a ps3 and i encourage thoze who 
 r thinking of buying 1... this iz how all ps3 games shood b....
  
  P. S. out of like 20 or so games ive rated this, this is the 1st 10 ive evr given
  
  BUY THIS 
 GAME OR RENT IT!!!
  
  P. S. S. anything less than a 9.5 rating u shood not reed....
  
  hav a splendid day!!!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: thiagofali
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 30, 2008 5:50 am PT
Review:  This game is really a landmark in 2008, nevertheless it still has one or two flaws which can hinder 
 the smooth enjoyment by the average player. 
  
  The game has stunning graphics and a very intelligent screen play and edition. For the fans of 
 the series, the flashbacks add more fun and reminiscence of the good old days when the graphics 
 were so good that you could not even see and distinguish properly the characters due to the poor 
 definition. Thereby, the flashbacks which the player experiences in this game are sometimes almost 
 impossible to distinguish due to the speed at which they occur and the poor graphics. Even so, 
 it is a nice and unusual feature.
  
  The learning line is quite smooth and the game at the standard level of difficulty is rather easy 
 to finish, despite certain chapter bosses which can break this smoothness through which the game 
 flows. A paramount example is when you reach the very end of the game, fighting against Screaming 
 Mantis. Until then, the game has been relatively easy and all of a sudden it turns into an almost 
 impossible mission against this obnoxious creature (yes.. I had problems beating this one) . So 
 maybe the level of difficulty could be more consistent and uniform, increasing slowly throughout 
 the game instead of abruptly. 
  
  Even with some flaws, overall, this game is excellent and can give you at least 3 or 4 days of 
 fun... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: The_Great_Woggy
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 13, 2008 3:47 pm PT
Review:  For people who never played a metal gear game before this one, don't play it before you played 
 any of the others as you'll be missing the MG factor.
  
  Anyway this game is probably one of the most epic and greatest game I or anyone else has ever played, 
 The action starts straight off from the beginning and doesn't end except for a brief stealth period 
 in the europe stage. The story is pure brilliance it surprised me alot as alot does go on in its 
 lengthy cinematics (which you can skip) the whole animation pyshics, soundtrack and the whole shabaz 
 is amazing you can even customize the guns which I found great.
  
  To be honest there's too much I can mention to praise this game I've got not even one bad point 
 for this game although I want to play a game involving the story after sons of liberty and before 
 guns of the patriot as alot seems to of happened between them.
  
  All I can say now is YOU NEED TO BUY THIS GAME. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FraserFlave
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 13, 2008 12:50 pm PT
Review:  No matter how hard i try to find a fault it becomes an impossible task like finding the holy grail. 
 The Playstation has been waiting for a game which can not only showcase the dynamics of engineering 
 but also the sheer skill involved in creating a such a complex story line.
  The visuals amaze me as i seem dabble Snake to every area of the map just to watch the ingenious 
 OctoCamo taking shape.
  The story-line creating years ago still stands stronger than ever, unlike Snake who has aged ever 
 so quickly due to his cloned genes but how can that stop the true patriot of the world. Characters 
 old and new make sudden or long lasting appearances bringing together, MGS1,2 and Snake Eater. Mantis 
 appears for a more cameo appearance whereas Eva boasts an aged wonder from the Big Boss' period. 
 
  Piecing together the storyline is no easy effort but Hideo Kojima CQC's competition straight into 
 the locker with a jaw dropping cinematic experience.
  
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Pharoah__Link
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 13, 2008 10:35 am PT
Review:  No, I'm not a fanboy and I am a newcomer. Really all I had to do was read the storylines on good 
 old Wikipedia. Anyways this game is amazing the only "flaw" I could find with this game is that 
 either cutscenes are a bit boring if you don't know the storyline or that the single player experience 
 ends after precisely (well for me anyway) 19:28:59. But I just skimmed through the single player.
 
  
  Story: I never put up this category but with this game it is absolutely necessary. The story line 
 is simply amazing. Yes the cutscenes are long but they are awesome. They are either dramatic or 
 filled with action or just plain entertaining since they're better than most movies that came out 
 recently. But let me warn you the last cutscene is an hour and a half long. Yes that will turn 
 you off but would you rather go through all the channels on your TV and find nothing or watch this 
 cutscene. I think you get the point.
  
  Gameplay: For me perfect gameplay means that it never gets old. No matter how many times you play 
 the game it feels different in a good way. This is mainly because of the smart AI and the many 
 difficulty settings. Many people complain about the AI being stupid this is because they played 
 the game on Liquid Easy. The controls will take getting used to, but hey nothing wrong with a learning 
 curve is here?? There is online included but it is not very good however it is a separate game 
 that was simply included with MGS4. Well it is obvious since the online is called Metal Gear Online. 
 I will post a review for MGO sometime soon. 
  
  Graphics: The BEST part of the game. On standard definition beautiful on HD well pretty hard to 
 describe. There is NO framerate at all. The graphics are so good there is one little blurry texture 
 out of 100. The art of the game is great. The graphics really make you feel you're part of the 
 world since it looks so real. 
  
  Sound: MGS4 has some of the best voice acting I've heard in a game. Along with the best sound track 
 ever in a game. I never listened to the game with Surround Sound and all that fancy stuff but with 
 a standard definition 27 inch TV that was enough for me. 
  
  Value, tilt: MGS4 is worth $60 and includes a good multiplayer experience (MGO) and singleplayer 
 experience that deserves to be called perfection. If you have a PS3 and you are a huge fan of MGS 
 then do yourself a big favor and get this game. If you are new download the MGS4 Database that 
 will have all the info on the MGS series. This is the best game I've ever played and is the best 
 reason to own a PS3. Hope this review helps you make the right decision! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sparda_5509
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 13, 2008 3:40 am PT
Review:  like i said this game was revolutionary it was my favorite game so far if was made in to a movie 
 it would make numerous awards and the gamespay was simply amazing i have never got in to a games 
 story line so much its to bad that it was in the last game of the series the next one would be 
 great i dont even how they would get it started though. raiden made a great come back from m g 
 s 2 he started really funny to completly badass and its /////warning spoiler alert it really suck 
 that snake and the whole family dies that means no more mgs and snke dies thats not cool  
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Tonychicago
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 12, 2008 8:30 pm PT
Review:  hands down to the game of the year of 2008 this game is honestly 1 of the best mgs games out there 
 and there all good also but wow this game is killer though the game is longer then the other 1 
 in the series about 20 hours the score is great in this game lots of action also its almost perfect 
 the game though its a very long game at the end also the game can get pretty hard at a hard level 
 its just an amazing game if you know what i mean the action great in this game kojima done his 
 work well in this game i'll tell you that your gonna go for 1 hell of a ride if you know what i 
 mean hands down to the best metal gear game you can just fall in love with this game if you know 
 what i mean just buy this game you will love it the graphics are great in this game 10 out of ten 
 gamesplay good i just love the game its so wroth buying 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Wild_Card
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 12, 2008 8:23 pm PT
Review:  Metal gear solid 4 is a true masterpiece. The cut scenes are brilliant equal to nearly any big 
 budget hollywood movie. 
  
  The graphics are the best i have yet to see on any game. Only the videos of killzone 2 look to 
 posably out shine them. if that. With only a hand full of textures from time to time to point out 
 as less than great. the art style goes for the realistic and does it well, while at the same time 
 showing us some cool futeristic mechs. The weapons are mostly current real life tech. with a few 
 things the devlopers dreamed up. an almost perfect bleand of realism and fantasy/sci-fi. 
  
  The game play is a mix of action and stealth. in most case's the player can choose wich style 
 they wish to use. There are four stander diffuculty levels. my first play threw was on the easyest 
 level and it was a breeze. i cant see any one with any exp with gameing haveing a hard time at 
 all on that level. my current play threw is on the next up from easyist and its noticibly more 
 diffcult. But not to the point were i have had to realy work at it. from what i can tell the options 
 for diffuclty is made to order and adjustble for any gamer. 
  
  The sound is the best i have heard yet in a game. the sound effects are rich and belevable . the 
 voice acting is spot on and in some case's worthy of an award. All though some of the scripting 
 is on the corny side. 
  
  I have yet to try the online so im not going to include that in my score but fear not MGS fans 
 becasue even if it didnt have online i would not count off for it as i am not much for online play.
 
  
  The story is a bit hard to follow as there are so many things going on. this is do to the game 
 being something of a wrap up and tieing up all those loose ends from the past 3 games. But its 
 top notch no less. has a few twist and a nice paceing.
  
  The cut scenes are bar none the best i have ever seen and for better or worse thay are a LOT of 
 LONG cut scenes. at times i feel im watching a movie more so than playing a game. But hay it would 
 be a great movie so lol. to be honest if i had my choice i would have like to have had more game 
 play time than cut scenes. That is realy the only negative i have with the game to much time watching 
 and not enough time playing. how ever As the cut sceans are so very well done i just cant take 
 off for that. 
  
  There are a TON of extra things in the game. one of my favroite is the I-pod. you can find new 
 songs and even down load real podcast from the devlopers. Its alot of fun hearing them talk about 
 the game as im playing it. There are alot of weapons in the game and most are customizable. I wont 
 go into great detail on that as im sure any one reading this will have heard enough about the spacifics 
 in game site reviews. 
  
  this game is with out a dout one of the best games i have ever played. while I cant say its my 
 #1 game of all time i will say it would have to be on my top 10 list. And most likely THE best 
 of the current gen consoles. Do your self a favor and pick this gem up ASAP. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shabab12
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 12, 2008 5:31 pm PT
Review:  Im going to keep this short as many of you already know how amazing MGS 4 is. being a metal gear 
 fan from MGS 1, i Believe Hideo Kojima has offered the ultimate fan service in MGS 4, from the 
 *SPOILER* return to shadow Moses to actually controlling a metal gear were some of the best moments 
 i have ever had. It got to the point in which i didn't want the cutscenes to end. I wanted to carry 
 on watching (which you will be doing a lot of) . 
  
  The only drawback i see is that newcomers to the series will have an awfully hard time getting 
 into the story. There are however many websites out there, even wikipedia, which summarize the 
 story well enough to understand it. This does however take away some of the dramatic effect.
  
  MGo extends the life of the game further altoh finding a non lagging game is a rarity. To summarise, 
 MGS 4 is by far the best in the series and raises the bar for what is expected for me this generation. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kyoku-Ryu1986
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 12, 2008 12:19 pm PT
Review:  Metal Gear Solid 4: Guns of the patriots is a game that will become classic.
  Even after many years, that graphics and gameplay will improve and reach a state that today we 
 can't even imagine, it'll be a game that everyone must play. And that is cause of it's great story 
 plot.
  Previews metal gear games (in psone, ps2, NES, psp, etc) were pieces of a puzzle creating a large 
 story with many turns and twistes and MGS4 in ps3 comes to complete this puzzle and answer in many 
 questions. It's story is pretty mature with many dramatic moments and for people that have played 
 previews MGS games it will show things that will make them stare and don't believe they're own 
 eyes!
  As the story advances becomes more interesting unveiling many secrets and making the viewer to 
 doubt everything he knew so far and puting him into thoughts about what just happen also the story 
 is so deep and complex that not even a moment lets you figure what will happen next. The scenario 
 is so addictive that keeps your attention till the end. Every time an event happens the excitement 
 reaches the limit. This story will cause many emotions to anyone who play it. Sadness, relief, 
 danger, regret, nostalgia will be the main feelings on this game. Also here we have a great assembly 
 of familiar characters each one has his own part in this epical story. Spectacul cinematics accompany 
 this great scenario to increase the excitement at the utmost. 
  All this together makes the game like it's a hollywood movie!
  The graphics are todays best!
 
  The characters are well designed with care in every detail, with realistic body movements and 
 facial expressions looking like a real person. The backround is extremely well designed with a 
 massive amount of details. Characters along with the backround creating a very realisting scene 
 of a battlefield with explosions around the place, shootings, buildings collapsing, helicopters 
 bombing the whole place and all that ingame in real time!
  A gameplay with endless possibilities offers you a choice to interfere a battle and fight like 
 any shot 'em up game or sneak through it without leting anyone notice you. You can threat an enemy 
 with a gun and even searh him for items, you can lure enemies by making noise, you can fool enemies 
 and avoid them using camouflage, you can use an enemy as a shield while you restrain him to protect 
 yourself from others enemys fire, you can use your scout abilities and track a target from his 
 footprints and many other things. In this game you can find a pretty large collection of weapons 
 and also you can buy and customize anyway you like.
  This game is a must play and i believe that it will touch everyones hearts and the experience through 
 that game can even make you a better person.
  I want to say that the problem of todays game world is the casual gaming and we have to be grateful 
 that creators like Kojima making that kind of games with such a wonderful and deep story, even 
 today that the majority of gamers are prefering the casual gaming and ignoring games with complex 
 gameplay and deep story plot.
  
  Thank you Kojima! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tudyniuz
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 8, 2008 4:45 am PT
Review:  Metal Gears Solid 4 : Guns of the Patriots is a special game. This is probably the most anticipated 
 game of the year 2008 and it's also a game that has to bring the PS3 what it never had before, a 
 better game than any other on XBOX 360. This game also is expected to be the final work of Hideo 
 Kojima in the Metal Gear series. It does everything people expected. It is an incredible experience 
 from begining to end.
  As many PS3 games it has a pre-installation which doesn't take long but which makes you more anxious 
 about what you are about to face. The game starts like an Academy Award winning movie. The game concetrates 
 on combining the experience of playing video games and watching a movie. The guys from Konami did 
 a great job of combining the two. Every cinematic fits perfect with the game. And you never feel 
 like the cinematic just started without notice or without sense. This game is a masterpiece. After 
 playing it for a while you will realise that you have never played anything like it before. It is 
 just stunning.
  The vast majority of good games stand out for one or two elements that feel better than in every 
 thing else. But in MGS4 everything is better than in anything else. The graphics are amazing. I don't 
 think that there are many low textures in this game, everything is as sharp as it good be and everything 
 that happends around is just as real. The AI is very good, beeing able to spot you very quickly if 
 you make any sudden or loud moves. The sound in the game is top notch. Begining with the incredible 
 precise sound effects, with the perfect music, and the top notch voice-acting, this game is the beste 
 ever.
  The gameplay has also been much improved and the shooting is far more precise than in any other 
 MGS. The number of moves that Snake does in the game is pretty high and every move he makess seems 
 very real.
  A big bummer for some may be the long cinematics which are longer than the game itself. But this 
 game is the ultimate story telling machine. It tells the story of Solid Snake beautifully. This game 
 is really a tribute to the legend which is Solid Snake.
  I would recommend this game to everyone. It is trully a must have. This is just one of those games 
 that you simply have to buy. Even if you don't really like the idea of the game, or the fact that 
 cinematics are long, you still have to buy this game. The experience that this game delivers is incredible 
 and you can see that the producers really cared about the product. What came out is this game which 
 deserves a perfect 10.
  
  My Score 10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: queovole
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 12, 2008 8:50 am PT
Review:  Metal Gear is the best game out there, today July 12 2008. The story is a bit confusing though. 
 You need to have played the previous MGS's to fully understand the game. If you don't have a PS3 
 you are truly missing out. I'm looking to beat it a second time using the highest difficulty when 
 my Dualshock 3 controller gets here. You need it to fight praying mantis, I missed out on that 
 cause I only got a sixaxis at the moment. Maybe they should have made an MGS4 dualshock 3 controller 
 bundled with the game...
  
  You can use stealth or attack enemies head on. The bosses aren't that difficult once you find their 
 vulnerabilities. Sometimes you can't even tell the difference between gameplay and cutscenes. Half 
 the game is like a movie. I hope more games in the future will look like this.
  
  My props to Kojima, he proved that the PS3 is superior in graphics than the other systems. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: D-Camo
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 12, 2008 5:28 am PT
Review:  After the first trailer for this game was released way back in 2005, fans and casual gamers were 
 drawn in by the crisp visual and audio quality in the trailer. Even though the trailer was a rough 
 presentation of what would lead to the multiplatinum selling game that surfaced in June, it became 
 a hot topic, especially on video game forums.
  
  As this game is a PlayStation 3 exclusive game, gamers had to get themselves a PS3 to be able to 
 play this godsend game, including myself, which burned a hole through my pocket or in other words, 
 gave me first degree burns.
  
  Metal Gear Solid 4 lives up to the hype it generated within the last 3 years. Every aspect of this 
 game has been developed from top to bottom by those that brought us the entire Metal Gear and Metal 
 Gear Solid franchise.
  Hideo Kojima, the director of all past MG and MGS games, set a high standard amongst individuals 
 within the video game developing community with this game.
  
  Lets get to game. Metal Gear Solid 4 is created on a Dual Layer Blu-Ray Disc, and this is done 
 because Kojima wanted a visually astounding game. I'm happy to say that it worked, and not only 
 that, Kojima managed to squeeze every pixel and fully utilise the Cell Processor of the PS3. The 
 graphical quality is so vivid and crisp that you are able to see small details on the faces of 
 character within the game, such as syringe marks, wounds, cuts, and even during certain cutscenes, 
 we can see the sweat drying up from, Old Snake, the main character's face. Whenever an explosion 
 occurs, if Snake is within the immediate vicinity, we can see the screen literally getting covered 
 in dust and smoke.
  
  The audio quality has also been refined so that now we have a more crisp sound generated with every 
 action. Whenever Snake crawls, crouch walks or even walks upright, there is a different sound emanated 
 from it. If players listen closely when they fire a weapon, there is a different sound produced 
 for every weapon in the game. Even when the rounds fall to the ground, the sound generated is different.
 
  
  Players can control Snake in three different camera modes; Third-Person, Over-the-Shoulder and 
 First-Person view. Utilising all three camera modes will help players in traversing through the 
 games various scenarios.
  New features to the game are the OctoCamo and weapons customization mode. Replacing the traditional 
 camouflage system that was extensively used in Metal Gear Solid 3: Snake Eater, Snake is now equipped 
 with a muscle suit which incorporates the OctoCamo technology which is based on the mimicry technique 
 of an octopus. To break it down, the OctoCamo gives Snake the ability to camouflage himself instantly 
 into his surrounding. If Snake goes prone or even hugs a wall for a mere second, his suit changes 
 colour and texture to mimic whatever surface he is against, fooling both the naked eye and infrared 
 sensors. The weapon customization feature is to help player create even more efficient and battle 
 oriented weapons to suit their need on the battlefield, and this feature become available at an 
 early stage in the game.
  
  Also incorporated with the MGS4 games that players have, is Metal Gear Online. This game is a refined 
 version of the game that was previously released with MGS3: Subsistence. MGO allows player with 
 a PlayStation Network account to engage with other player around the world for tactical shooter 
 games. A stand alone version of MGO will be also be released.
  
  All in all, MGS4 is a truly satisfying game that is definitely worth buying a PlayStation 3 for. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RPGFan4tic1985
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 12, 2008 1:39 am PT
Review:  WARNING: Unintentional spoilers may be ahead
  
  There are games that we know are going to be great. Metal Gear Solid 4 was going to be a great 
 game. From the moment people realized that this was Kojima's swan song, that Metal Gear Solid was 
 actually looking to wrap itself up, and that it would do so in style on the Playstation 3, everyone 
 was waiting with anticipation for this title.
  
  There are games we know are going to be great. This game goes above and beyond and expectation 
 you could possibly have for it. It is an extremely powerful story... driven by fantastic gameplay 
 and characters that will remain etched in our memory for years to come.
  
  Gameplay: Taking everything that worked well in previous MGS games and putting it together, Metal 
 Gear Solid 4 plays like a dream. Total camera control with the right analog stick never leaves 
 you screaming at the screen. CQC (Close Quarters Combat) is again a very complex yet fascinating 
 hand-to-hand system that was properly expanded for the first time in MGS 3. For those who aren't 
 into the hand to hand confrontations, however, rejoice. With 69 different weapons and a great system 
 of acquiring new weapons as well as restocking ammunition and items from the start menu at any 
 time, MGS 4 accomodates any and all types of gameplay. Whether you stay true to the "Tactical Espionage 
 Action" and go through with a no-kill clear, or you love doing it Rambo style and go running down 
 the halls with grenade launcher and rail gun in hand, MGS 4 is glad to provide you with the tools 
 you need. 10/10
  
  Sound: I cannot express how pleased I am that more and more video games are getting the soundtrack 
 treatment of blockbuster films. Previous Metal Gear Solid games were known for their title tracks 
 and excellent music overall, but in my opinion Metal Gear Solid 4 tops them all in sheer emotion 
 and scale. I will say again that Metal Gear Solid 4, especially for those of us who have been following 
 the series from the very beginning, is an extremely emotional game. Without the proper soundtrack, 
 many of the moments that are now immortalized in my memory would not be nearly as endearing. From 
 fast-paced tracks to the "Old Snake" theme, this entire soundtrack is definitely worth a purchase, 
 and helps to make MGS 4 even more memorably. 10/10
  
  Story/Characters: 
  Otacon. Meryl. Mei Ling. Naomi. Sunny. Campbell. Ocelot. Eva. Liquid Snake... Solid Snake. These 
 characters join the ranks of dozens of others that gamers have played and interacted with in the 
 past. The way that the characters in Metal gear Solid 4 interact, especially with a fuller understanding 
 of the games that came before, is a great thing to see. 
  
  Character after character faces their demons, both the ones that lie within themselves and the 
 ones that threaten them from outside. Friendships are made, relationships mended, love is found 
 and lost, all in such a way that we genuinely grow attached to these characters and feel their 
 pain in their times of loss and anguish. 
  
  This isn't about laying to rest a flower girl in an underground lake... this is about understanding 
 the utter humanity that has been put into each and every one of Kojima's characters. Take the main 
 bosses for this game as an example: The beauty and the beast squad. Being the last game, Kojima 
 doesn't have much time to hint at later appearances or possible comebacks. He wraps up each boss 
 rather cleanly, but not in such a way that they are inconsequential to the story. Each of their 
 back-stories serves to enlighten the player of the horrors of war and the terrible things that 
 it does to those caught in the crossfire. They aren't "bad", nor are they "good". Simply results 
 of a violent and cruel world. 10/10
  
  Overall: This is an unforgettable gaming experience. I cannot think of a game that has impacted 
 me like this game has... ever. If you've made it this far in my review you'll probably notice that 
 I'm simply gushing over MGS 4 and maybe that isn't entirely professional. You're probably right. 
 But the fact (at least for me) is this: Metal Gear Solid 4 is the best game I have ever played. 
 Its combination of fantastic storytelling, excellent gameplay and epic score really has turned 
 it into a masterpiece of a game. It's a story that has unfolded over the last 20 years, and it 
 has finally come to an end... an end that nobody really wanted to see... but one that will live on 
 for years to come. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sephiroth228
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 12, 2008 1:19 am PT
Review:  I don't even know where to start with this game, but I'll try anyway, so bear with me. Metal Gear 
 Solid 4 is, in short, the best console game that I have ever played. I used to tout Final Fantasy 
 7 as having this title, but after having completed this game, I'd have to disagree with myself. 
 
  
  Every single factor about this game, the gameplay, storyline, graphics, depth, etc. all so perfectly 
 fleshed out, that I have trouble playing any other console game because they simply aren't even 
 half as good as this. 
  
  This game makes you feel like you're right in the center of the battlefield. It's very similar 
 to that feeling that the Call of Duty series gives you, but it's done much better. Even without 
 vibration, I had to look around the room I was sitting in to realize that I was not actually Snake... It's 
 just that realistic. The graphics, sound, and epic scale of battle suck you into the game and make 
 you feel like you have a real impact on the battlefield, and you do. Everything you do influences 
 how a battle will turn out. 
  
  Do you want to simply spend big bucks on a rocket launcher and blow up a tank, or do you want to 
 blend in with your surroundings and sneak right past hundreds of enemy soldiers to get by, or perhaps 
 you should commandeer the nearby mortar and destroy giant groups of enemies. You could stay back 
 and snipe plenty of them, hide behind cover and take them out "Gears of War" style, or beat the 
 crap out of them using the extremely in-depth hand-to-hand combat system. These are only about 
 one fourth of the things you could do out on the battlefield to get where you want to go, making 
 MGS4 one of the most freedom-based games ever. You can tackle any situation however you want to.
 
  
  The storyline is extremely satisfying. All questions left unanswered from previous games are answered 
 here. Some of the cutscenes literally made me laugh, some made me pissed off, and some almost made 
 me cry. They're just that awesome. Imagine watching the most awesome movie you've ever seen, and 
 then controlling what happens in that movie.
  
  The way that gameplay seamlessly shifts into cutscenes with no loading times, and then back again, 
 is a great way of allowing the story to be told while still keeping you on your toes. Personally, 
 I became so obsessed with knowing what would happen next that I played for 9 hours straight at 
 one point, and wasn't the least bit tired of playing afterwards. No console game has ever kept 
 my attention for this long, and after beating it, I immediately started playing again on the max 
 difficulty setting. You won't get tired of this game, making its replay value extremely high.
 
  
  Without even talking about Metal Gear Online, because I'd have to write for a much longer time 
 about how good it is, I have to say that you will not find a better console game than this. It 
 is really the best console game I have ever played, and arguably the best console game ever made. 
 If you have a ps3, but don't have this game, buy this game now. You will not regret it.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Saar54
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 11, 2008 9:36 pm PT
Review:  You want a true game? You want a game that delivers epic gameplay, perfect story, stunning graphics, 
 scary boss fights, awesome replayability and endless online play? Then get MGS4. This game blew 
 me away, no lies, no joking, i'm not being a bandwagon jumper or anything i'm telling you from 
 my personal experience of playing through this epic achievement. I'm a MGS fan since the beginning, 
 if you are, then buy it instantly. If not, still play it because you cannot go without this. Playing 
 it will only do justice, watching cutscenes won't. This game will make you question many things, 
 it will make you feel hopeless and powerless, then it will make you feel like you're on top of 
 the world. There are TONS of hidden items, the online is superb giving you perks and levels to 
 gain, and once you finish it I will GUARANTEE that you will want to replay this game on a different 
 difficulty. This is no Halo that's only good for online play, this isn't GTA4 which isn't good 
 for just running around and blowing everything up, this is MGS4, by far the best game ever created 
 to date. I can say that with a good 12 years of gaming under my belt. You want to play this game, 
 other wise you will be missing out on an achievement of such greatness. MGS4 is the definition 
 of E P I C.
  
  10/10. ( I have never rated anything a 10/10) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GamerDude911
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 11, 2008 8:06 pm PT
Review:  Hideo Kojima debuts his popular MGS franchise on the next gen PS3, and hes done a damn fine job 
 of it.
  
  STORY:
  
  Hideo Kojima was very clever with this game, he thought that there were gunna be people who are 
 going to play Metal Gear Solid 4, who havent played the previous Metal Gear Solid so he made the 
 story simple enough for first timers to understand, topped with flashbacks which can viewed via 
 prompt by pressing X to re-kindle your memory when a certain character or event is mentioned in 
 a cutscene.
  
  GAMEPLAY:
  
  This game's controls are very easy, simple to grasp and are very convenient to use during gameplay. 
 The game's levels are heaps of fun to play through and are cleverly designed, as you are controlling 
 Snake you sometimes feel part of the game, everything Snake feels you feel which makes the game 
 much more immersive. The boss battles are awesome and full of action and heaps of fun. Kojima mixed 
 a perfect blend of cinemtaic cutscenes, action and gameplay.
  
  ITEMS & WEAPONS:
  
  There are heaps of items and weapons to find, collect and unlock throughout the duration of the 
 game. Some new items like a iPod and OctoCamo are the most obvious additions in the game. You can 
 unlock new songs and podcasts for the iPod during the game. The OctoCamo is your suit which can 
 blend exactly to your backround making you ominous. And you cant forget the love of Snake's life, 
 the cardboard box. Its the same cardboard box with some added realism like when Snake walks while 
 under the box it will bob up and down like it would in real life. The weapons are awesome and fun 
 to use. Nuff said.
  
  OVERALL:
  
  You have to get this game. Now.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Timeaisis
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 11, 2008 6:38 pm PT
Review:  I went into playing MGS4 with mixed expectations. On one hand, I wanted it to live up to the other 
 games expectations, secondly, I wanted to see some great new combat features, and thirdly, I wanted 
 this to wrap up all the other game's overarching storyline. This might be a biased review since 
 I'm an absolute fanboy for the MGS series, but trust me: this game is excellent. I haven't stopped 
 playing it for a month now... and the replay value is insanely high. Take the past MGS games great 
 single player, put customizable weapons, tons of easter eggs, unlockable equipment, emblems, alternate 
 routes, and 5 different difficulty levels, and you really can play this game over, and over again.
 
  
  Gameplay: The first act throws you right into the action. For the first ten minutes I basically 
 ran around and figured out all the cool stuff I can now do. Snake's as agile and tactical as ever, 
 despite his old age. Fans of MGS3 will be happy to know that CQC is back in its full form (minus 
 interrogation, if you wanna get techincal) with some new additions. Holdups are 100x easier to 
 perform in this game, and are frankly, better in general, as Snake can body search and enemy and 
 then quickly knock them unconscious. With OctoCamo, Sneaking is balanced and fun: never too hard, 
 but certainly never too easy. It adjusts to your surroundings if and only if your completely still 
 lying or crouching, so its never blatantly unfair: the enemy will spot you if you move, make noise, 
 or come between them and their path. Besides the new addition of OctoCamo (no more camo menus! 
 Woo!) , all the other sneaking techniques have returned. Hanging, crawling, rolling, etc. Plus, 
 you can walk around in a nice crouched-stance from now on, making things alot easier for Snake.
 
  
  The best gameplay aspect of this game is by far the variations of play. You can literally approach 
 a situation hundreds of ways: do I sneak past, or go in guns blazing? Do I CQC this soldier or 
 tranquilize him? Because the combat system is so much more polished than the previous games, you'll 
 want to get into firefights sometimes, and the good news is Snake can defend himself now! Alert 
 phases don't spell instant death anymore. With an excellent over the shoulder aiming system, and 
 first person view system for precision, Snake can defend himself excellently against any enemies 
 he faces. With the ability to dodge roll to the side, strafe while aiming, roll around when he's 
 prone, and turn over onto his back while on the ground, make battles more exciting -- you'll want 
 to play through the game multiple times just to try everything in Snake's arsenal. Besides combat 
 and stealth, numerous gadgets add nice flavor to the game. The Solid Eye acts as a radar and general 
 HUD. It displays enemy information (health, stamina, etc) , as well as whether they are allied or 
 hostile towards you. The Mk II allows you to control it (a small robot) that you can scout for 
 items or render guards unconscious. Apart from these toys, the enviroment itself greatly improves 
 gameplay. The first act, for example throws you in the middle of a war between two opposiing factions 
 the PMCs and the rebels. You can sneak you're way through the battlefield as they both fight, or 
 aid the rebels and take out some PMCs -- giving you ally status with them where they will not attack 
 you. There is much more gameplay elements that are introduced later, but suffice it to say: right 
 when you think you have the grip of things, the game throws new challenges at you. MGS4 really 
 is a fresh, new experience every time. The only drawback I find is that I wish there was more time 
 in the game for you to use the excellent new gameplay elements they've added, instead of watching 
 cutscenes.
  9.7/10
  
  Graphics: I don't need to spend too much time on this. Just look at them... pretty darn great if 
 you ask me. 10/10
  
  Sound: Nothing can be said for how great the sound effects in this game are. From explosions, to 
 screaming soldiers, to bullet fire, to subtle breezes and dust. Nothing makes you feel more like 
 your in the battlefield than all these sounds zooming around you. Its really quite remarkable. 
 10/10
  
  Storyline: Well, folks... this is MGS4 biggest, most exciting component, or its weakest. The reason 
 I say this is because, if you are a fan of the series, you should absolutely love it (albeit some 
 random parts that you don't -- but overall you'll love it) . But if you disliked the last 3 games, 
 you probably won't love it so much. Not that MGS4 has a bad storyline, its just that MGS4 spends 
 ALOT of time telling its story. So, even though anyone can appreciate the depth and scope and grandeur 
 of the final chapter of the Metal Gear Solid, not everyone can bear to watch it all unfold instead 
 of play it. I, for one, am in love with the MGS series, and furthermore, am in love with MGS4 and 
 how it seamlessly ties everything up and answers (almost) every question. It really is remarkable 
 how Hideo Kojima and co. could do such a thing. It really begs the question: is he just making 
 this all up as he goes along? Or was this planned from the beginning?
  This really has an amazing conclusion. Be sure to stay when you think its all over, because seriously... to 
 anyone who knows the slightest about MGS: you're jaw with literally drop.
  10/10
  
  Gameplay vs Storyline: The first 2 acts are really action heavy, and not many will gripe at the 
 cutscene bits, as they're mostly action anyhow. The 3rd, 4th, and 5th chapters, however, are very 
 heavy on cutscenes, and less on gameplay. My favorite part of the game, I will say, is Act 2, simply 
 because the gameplay is amazing, but thats not to say that the 3rd, 4th, and 5th acts are without 
 merit: they really do throw interesting challenges and great boss fights at you, they're just not 
 as exciting or adaptable during future playthroughs.
  
  PROS:
  +Great Gameplay
  +Excellent Storyline
  +Great replay value
  +Amazing graphics and sound
  +Highest production 
 values of any game I've ever seen
  
  CONS:
  -Acts 3, 4, and 5 are sometimes action-lacking.
  -Some scenes are odd, unusual, unrealistic (classic 
 Kojima... but I'm glad he left his strange charm in there)
  -You won't entirely understand the true nature of how amazing this game is until a couple of days 
 after you play it.
  
  Remember: When you beat it, let the storyline kinda sink in for a little while. It may seem strange 
 or random, but after a couple days you'll be in awe at how amazing MGS4's storyline really is.
 
  
  MGS4 is a truly amazing game, but its not for everybody. If you can't stand listening to dialogue, 
 and just want to kill, kill, kill then this isn't the game for you. Go play COD4 or something. 
 But if you are a fan of the series or new to the MGS universe and likes thought-provoking games 
 that are simply fun to play, then MGS4 will literally blow you away.
  
  OVERALL: 9.925/100
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: xriceballx
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 11, 2008 4:51 pm PT
Review:  Fans of the series should already be familiar with the story. Those new to the series should definitely 
 start with Metal Gear Solid: The Essential collections, it'll make the fan-service much more meaningful! 
 So lets start with what makes this game so sexy, next-generation graphics. If you haven't noticed, 
 the game boast tons of beautifully rendered cut-scenes. The cut-scenes are all very enjoyable to 
 watch. There are some interactive flash-backs and nostalgic codec moments that will appease anyone 
 who has ever played the series. 
  
  However being a next-gen title, why can't we actually play these cut-scenes out? Some of the battles 
 like the one between Vamp and Raiden was really nice. Watching men thrusting each other is beautiful. 
 The actual battle though, is definitely not as special as it could've been. Don't get me wrong, 
 the choice of weapons are enormous and the FPS mode is definitely a plus, but completing the entire 
 game in FPS feels unintuitive. CQC *close quarter combat* is less compelling than the game makes 
 it. Overall, it does indeed feel like your controlling an old-snake, and I'm not sure if that's 
 a positive thing considering how underwhelming the combat is. Seeing how this is designed as a 
 stealth game, it can be forgiven for the fact that your not expected to be the Terminator.
  
  When your out in the field, you'll follow a linear path from point A to point B. Your radar 
 will inform you which way you'll have to go. There will be times where you'll use special gadgets 
 to get through the game, and that's where Snake makes use of his new accessories. The Octo-Camouflage 
 allows snake to blend in with his background, a definite upgrade from Snake-eater's tedious menu 
 system. Another neat gadget is the MK II, which is basically a remote-controlled robot that allows 
 snake to quickly sneak up on an opponent and stun them. The biggest addition to snake's accessory 
 and my personal favorite is his IPOD. That's right, you don't have to smoke a cigarette to look 
 cool, why not listen to some nostalgic Metal gear music? Or even Japanese-Pop for that matter. 
 Not very conventional but very cool!
  
  Another addition is the mysterious gun launderer Drebin. Every time you pick up a weapon, you'll 
 earn currency for it which you can buy new weapons and unlock ID's to use them. Drebin always makes 
 an explosive entrance. He's very charismatic, bold, and his assistant is a coke-addict Chimpanzee! 
 
  
  Metal Gear Solid 4 proudly carries the torch and continues the tradition of stupid enemy AI. I'm 
 saddened that Kojima has taking out the classic *knock*, "huh? What was that noise?". It's pretty 
 stupid in itself but its very conventional! Anyways, enemy soldiers are everywhere, rival factions 
 are constantly at war and its your job to stick a fork through them or avoid them altogether. Thrown 
 out the window are the lone soldiers who duty is to patrol an empty wall. Soldiers are usually 
 much more mobile, much more alert, and are well trained in whipping Snake to the ground. They of 
 course, always falter to the old snake-in-the-box trick, and the playboy magazine with naughty 
 pictures in hi-def!
  
  The sound department is where MGS IV shines the most. If there's a reason to get the limited edition, 
 it would be for the soundtrack alone. You'll skip a heart-beat as Raiden takes out an army of Geckos 
 with some ultra-heart pumping music. Old music makes their return with new ones that brings a feeling 
 of an epic movie. The charismatic voice actors bring every scene to life, making you cry, sweat, 
 suffocate, thirsty, hungry, laugh, tensed, bored, scared, it has all the colors in the rainbow 
 baby! One character I find truly atrocious in the world of metal gear solid IV is the voice actor 
 for Sunny, the little girl who appears to be 9 years old but sounds much, much Older! Overall, 
 lip-syncing is nice and characters are very lovable and fan-serviced. Otacon is a total hunk and 
 the female cast has been giving a doll-face and more focus on their breast and buns. Don't be surprised 
 to see snake in a sexy ultra-tight suit. This game is picture perfect.
  
  
  The game is broken down into chapters, each with its own mission briefing and installation. The 
 presentation is great, and the environments are interactive. You can actually move the MKII around 
 during these briefings and mess around. Each chapter takes place in a different environment, thus 
 the game never gets old and its one of the few games that actually made me want to finish it in 
 one sitting. The ugly green codec in the past has been replaced with a virtual cut-scene. No longer 
 will you be required to carry key cards (thank you Hideo!) or use other codec frequencies. I completed 
 the entire game without using the codec (unless it was mandatory of course) .
  
  My only gripe is the over-rated CQC and the mundane fan-service that feels like Kojima is forcing 
 it down our throats (I've seen it 1o years ago, come up with some new tricks Kojima!) . I would 
 prefer to be treated with cut-scene after hard work is earned. It's like over-indulging on eye-candy, 
 that satisfaction isn't there anymore. Nevertheless, the story is rich with heart-touching moments 
 and tons of nostalgia that breaths life into this game and its series. I honestly felt I was there 
 to experience the drama 1o years ago. Metal Gear Solid 4: Guns of the Patriots is a wonderful experience, 
 a rare one that transcends in story-telling, drama, character development, interactions, graphics, 
 and sound. It's definitely a rare breed that attaches to your heart, but at the same time it's 
 also spilling out "fans only". Take a trip down memory lane, it's a roller coaster filled with 
 tears and joy. But don't forget to play the other installments or you'll be left hanging. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Hakaru_Osagi
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 11, 2008 2:24 pm PT
Review:  An amazing game all around. A great integration of stealth, assault, and deception. No matter what 
 your particular playing style is, you'll be able to play through this game many times and still 
 find new ways to take down your enemies. In fact, you're even able to pit your enemies against 
 each other. For stealth you can silence your weapons, blend into the environment with your octocamo, 
 hide in cardboard boxes and drum cans, you can use cqc and your stunknife to knock out your enemies, 
 and you've got the silent but deadly knife kills. For assault you've got a wide range of rocket 
 launchers and rifle for any situation. You'll have times when your target is right in front of 
 you but you cant get to it because there is a war zone in your way. All you need to do is search 
 for your own way that suits your style. This game has many options for you and has an immersive 
 story that any fan of the series will love and remember for quite some time. I give this game a 
 perfect 10 and suggest that if you haven't played it yet you should pick up a copy now. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: spKeeper20
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 11, 2008 1:40 pm PT
Review:  Once i started the game and saw the opening sequence i said "This is awesome". Do not worry this 
 is not going to be a review on how great it is. I will be telling whats good about it and whats 
 not so good.
  
  Story: This is definitely one of the best told games ever made. If this is your first Metal Gear 
 game i highly suggest checking out the story up until now. 
  
  Gameplay: Great gameplay. Theres a mix of fast paced fighting and stealth fighting. In most areas 
 you can choose to either remain hidden or whip out a machine gun and blast away. 
  
  Graphics: Some of the best graphics I've seen on my standard TV. So dont worry if you don't have 
 HD, they still look great.
  
  Sound Effects: Great sound effects. The sound of bullets whizzing by your head in a heated battle 
 is an awesome experience.
  
  Other Stuff: It's great how the cut scenes turn into gameplay. There is no blank screen and then 
 it shows your character. The camera just swivels around to the over shoulder view and shows the 
 HUD when the cut scene ends. So in effect the cut scene graphics are the gameplay graphics.
  
  The Bad: Like most people know by now the cut scenes. I don't mind good cut scenes that may 
 last 5 or maybe even 10 mins. But these scences tend to be very long. Some are 30 minutes long 
 while others may only be a minute or two. Some are very exciting including the opening one and 
 others are boring such as when they explain things that happen and why.
  
  The whole weapon shop is a good idea but i don't think its implemented very well. You can access 
 the shop whenever you want which in a way can take away part of the challenge. You may be pinned 
 down by snipers and not have one of your own. Instead of needing to find away around them you can 
 just access the store and buy one right there. 
  
  Well that's about all I've got for this game. Definitely worth buying and if you don't want to 
 then you better rent it because it one of the best games I've ever played. 
  
  And no I am not a fanboy. I do have a 360 and love many of those games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BloodShead
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 11, 2008 11:40 am PT
Review:  the games lives up 2 the hype and from the start everything about this game is epic.
  
  everything about this game is just brilliant, the game play with the new over the shoulder shooting 
 and the octocam work brilliantly, and the story is fantastic even tho there are some random bits 
 (like sunny cooking the eggs) the only bad point i can make is that, when in the middle of the 
 battle field trying to help the militia fight the Pmcs, the militia spot you, into alert mode and 
 try to take you out and then forget completely about the Pmcs shooting them so some of the a. i 
 could be improved.
  
  overall this is the number one title for the PS3 and anyone who remotely likes the series should 
 get this game, newcomers would like it too tho it may be harder to follow the story.
  
  i haven't yet played the multi player but from what i have seen it looks great. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AHaliassos
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 11, 2008 2:05 am PT
Review:  This game is the best game I played in my life. The graphics are incredible, the storytelling and 
 the actors are also great, and the gameplay is very fun. I'm not going to tell you the story because 
 you might want to experience it by yourself, but I have to tell you that you should never skip 
 any of the cutscenes because then you miss have of the game. Some people consider all this heavy 
 storytelling as a disadvantage, but I consider it as a nice part of the game and without the great 
 storytelling, it wouldn't be the same experience.
  
  The gameplay is also very good. It's third person shooter, but you can also change it to FPS. The 
 places that you will explore are amazingly done. Also the AI of the foes is excellent. This game 
 is a must own for all ps3 players.
  
  Snake, as all MGS fanboys know, is the main character in the game, but there other well made characters 
 as well that are really fun. The gadgets in the game are plenty. You even have an i-pod in the 
 game. You can choose your music to put on the background.
  
  This game is a must own for all the ps3 players. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: M3RC3tHeShOoTeR
Rating: 8
Date: Jul 10, 2008 5:46 pm PT
Review:  The game was worth buying. The angles and cammo suit is cool. The storyline was great. I had a 
 few issues with the controls, they can be confusing. The multiplayer is a plus for other fps companies 
 with the in game chat sys. I don't think you should have to pay for char. tho that is kinda lame. 
 I don't think you should have to buy the game and your characters as well this makes the game less 
 desireable for me atleast I am trying to collect the games and by the time I get them they Have 
 20 new things I have to buy. I have played the multiplayer a little and the seperate servers are 
 good for all the dedicted players and the rating system for multiplayer games is a nice addition 
 as well as the intro comment. I like the ending of the game was vary epic for the series. I thought 
 the in game movies were a little long winded and took away from the gameplay. I wanted to do more 
 with snake. The storyline bounces around to each character evenly and adds something new to the 
 game. A little more story for all the charaters involved leads to a better emmersion into the game 
 with emotion. A nice feel for metal gear. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 1noteshort
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 10, 2008 4:03 pm PT
Review:  Where do I start? From start to finish, I was hooked. No other game have I come home from the store, 
 ate my lunch, and played until I had to stop. Once I stopped, the next morning I just had to start 
 again. This is perfection. It's game that is 60% gameplay and 40% cutscene. Think of it as the 
 best movie you will ever play. Metal Gear Solid 4 takes place 5 years after the Big Shell and Metal 
 Gear Solid 2. Snake (who is voiced by the Masterful David Hayter) is dying. He only has about one 
 year to live and Liquid is spotted in the middle east. Campbell asks him for one last mission and 
 Snake takes it. From there, the game is a masterpiece. The best graphics I have ever seen in a 
 game period. It even tops Call of Duty 4 (at least I think) . It does a great job of making you feel 
 in the moment, as if you really were Snake at times. This is done by scripted events. These might 
 include a wall falling down in front of you or a Gekko falling/jumping in front of you. In other 
 words, you wont get an experence like this anywhere else on any game. When your not playing, your 
 watching, watching some of the best cutscenes in history. Sometimes as your playing, the screen 
 will split into two and a cutscne will play AS you play. The controls are a massive improvement. 
 Everything is much more simplier that before. The sound once again makes you feel as if your right 
 there as Snake. Some of the new items and addions you have is the Octocamo, which replaces that 
 pause, switch camo, unpause play system. Now its, stop, lean, and blend or, stop lay, Triangle, 
 and blend. It was a much needed addtion. The Metal Gear MK 2 replaces the Digital camera and Binocs. 
 You control the MK 2 like you would a remote control car that can shock people in the arse and 
 bring you back their piece, yeah you heard me right. I could keep going. The story is among gamings 
 best and this is a game that NO PS3 OWNER SHOULD MISS!!!!! Because I am on dial up, I do not have 
 the Playstation Network, so I could not review MGO along with MGS4. If you wish to see a review 
 of MGO see GAMESPOT'S REVIEW of METAL GEAR SOLID 4: GUNS OF THE PATRIOTS. 
  
  *if you can still find it, the Limited Edtion is worth the extra $10 at gamestop.
  
  -1noteshort 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sub-raid
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 10, 2008 3:25 pm PT
Review:  Metal gear solid 4 is not just a game it is more than a game! It deserved 10/10 and it must get 
 100/10. Well I played it and it was more than I expected. Everything is great in it, gameplay, 
 weapons and gadgets, story, sounds, characters... There are new things and bright new ideas that 
 make the game even better, like the camouflage thing and the box thing and a lot of cool weapons... 
 U know I played a lot of good games like GTA4 , orange box , halo 3 , gears of war , bioshock , 
 call of duty 4 ... but they can't be compared to MGS4 , it waaaaay better and cooler . This game 
 is perfect. Actually i have never played a perfect game before .To be honest I won't get bored 
 from this game ever! When playing I realllly enjoy it more than any game. 
  BUY THE GAME PEOPLE! MGS4 IS A REASON TO OWN A PS3!!
  If u don't buy Metal Gear Solid 4 u will 
 loose I mean it took 10/10 isn't that a reason to own the game. Who doesn't buy is the biggest 
 idiot in the world.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: deathstars412
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 10, 2008 2:00 pm PT
Review:  This game was very interesting and very awesome in many ways. Like the storyline was great, sure 
 you play as old snake but hes still the same snake in the other games. Anyway the boss battles 
 are cool to beat like the beauty and the beasts have thiere own abilities to attack you. The octopus 
 has camo to hide everywhere, the raven can fly and can shoot rockets at you, the wolf moves very 
 fast and has a sniper rifle so she can shoot pretty good and the mantis which controls all the 
 beast with her powers. The graphics are the best I have ever seen in my life so thats all I have 
 to say about that. Sound is very real, gameplay just like the other ones, I just wish they would 
 make another one so they could keep on selling and the legend will keep living. Some characters 
 in the game are back and they are much better then ever. If you havent played the other metal gear 
 games and go to this one, you are going to be very confused because most of the storyline has to 
 do with the past and at the end it will all add up to what is going on and what will happen next. 
 Im just glade this might get game of the year one day, but gears of war 2 might beat it so youll 
 never know what will happen. we just have to sit down and wait. Until then great game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Shygirlfrumfl
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 10, 2008 1:44 pm PT
Review:  I was wrong about Metal Gear Solid series, it's not like all of those other war/shooting/adventure 
 games. Metal Gear Solid 4 is truly a amazing epic game. Now I never played Metal Gear Solid 4 but 
 I watched my brother played through it and I gotta say it's the best game that I have seen in a 
 very long time. I really liked how they made the scenes so dramatic and how they made them seem 
 so real. The gameplay was a new experience to me now normally in the games I play you just fight 
 but in Metal Gear Solid 4 you could do hundreds of fun things in it. The characters were just simply 
 interesting and unique in many different ways. The storyline was amazing and it seemed very realistic... I 
 really cant think of anything else to say about this game except its a must play game and its possibly 
 the greatest video game yet. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: blademaster2008
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 10, 2008 1:15 pm PT
Review:  this is the best game i've ever played hands down, its a fitting end for one of the best series 
 of all time ive ever played.
  
  gameplay: 10 the gameplay is immersive, Kojima Productions takes hold of you and even gives you 
 stuff to due during mission briefings, its amazing that when you do stuff like know on a wall or 
 move a can that the guards react like normal people 
  
  graphics: 10 the graphics in this game were amazing, they were the best graphics i've seen from 
 a game, this game is proof that the line between movie and game is indeed blurring
  
  sound: 10, the sounds were amazing, from the gunfire to the knocking on a wall to distract a guard 
 all th sounds was clean and crisp
  
  one of the parts of the game that made my mid up about whether it was the best was the storyline 
 never have i seen a game that uses story from before my birth if i remember correctly 
::::::

::::::
UserName: titanviper2000
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 10, 2008 11:47 am PT
Review:  What doesn't this game have? I'm not a great big fan of the series, but this game wowed me from 
 the moment I popped it into my PS3. I probably can't say anything that hasn't already been said, 
 so I'll make it short. The graphics are top notch. There were times it felt like the cut scenes 
 were a bit dragged out, but on your first run through, they are a lot of fun to watch. I think 
 the main thing that made this game stand out was the main character. Solid Snake, or in this iteration 
 Old Snake, our hero really shows that he's got what it takes to stick it to the man. The voice 
 acting was really great as well. I give this game a ten because, even though it has it's flaws, 
 they are so minute that they really don't detract from the fun. Plus, I've never had as much fun 
 on a second play through as I had with this game. Lots of easter eggs, lots of weapons to find 
 and unlock, and the story finally made a lot of sense. What more could we ask for. MSG 5 perhaps, 
 please Kojima? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: god_of_shawn
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 10, 2008 10:52 am PT
Review:  1st of all, this game is amazing. And i am not joking, i had not seen a game that have this kind 
 of quality for ages. Kojima sets the bar TOO high this time, it will be hard for developers to 
 even touch it.
  
  From hollywood rendered cutscenes to fast paced action to sneaking missions, this game totally 
 crush every other games in it's path. 
  
  The graphics is amazing, it's 1 of the best i had seen yet. Char models very detailed, every words 
 and tags on their body can be seen, it's not blurred out as some games does it.
  
  Gameplay wise, it's also 1 of the best i had ever seen, 69 weapons, face camos, camos that allow 
 you to auto track the surface and camo it to that colour. Bosses are all amazing, full of easter 
 eggs! Everything's so epic... plus when Snake visits Shadow Moses... it brings memories of playing 
 MGS1... the song, The Best Have Yet To Come, instant classic! 
  
  You can even take pictures using the in-game camera, import it to your HDD and upload it to the 
 net to share with everybody. Ipod musics are amazing, but if they have a patch for in-game music 
 it will be a blast. Since the 2.40 firmware supports in-game music. 
  
  The A. I is pretty good, wait till when you guys play Big Boss Extreme mode (the hardest difficulty) 
 and you will get what i mean.
  
  Cutscenes can be as long as 20mins MAX, but it's amazing, it's like a fan service for MGS fans (i 
 am a fan of MGS) .
  
  Metal Gear Online is pretty good, but kinda too easy to get headshots and get killed. You can easily 
 get all headshots in a game. But if you have a friend to play with you, it's really fun. Plus they 
 have a clan support, and it supports emblems pictures, it's really nice. Expect to have tons of 
 expansions that Konami will release in the next few months, the online is currently kinda like 
 a starter pack.
  
  Average players will take 20 plus hours to complete the game, but i took 16 hours on my first run 
 though. Cutscenes are included in the timer of the game.
  
  Kojima is a GOD in making games, i totally appreciate his time and effort spent in this game, he 
 had made a wonderful game, he totally deserves my respect. 
  
  THIS is the game that every PS3 owners should buy it, you won't forget the gameplay experience. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NG16
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 10, 2008 10:42 am PT
Review:  Metal Gear Solid 4 arrives and shows everyone the potencial a game can have as an entertaining 
 thing. Metal Gear is not just a game, and i'm not saying this because i'm a ps3 fanboy, or x360 
 hater, MGS4 is more than a game because of all its quality, the game is shurely one of the games 
 with more interest and care from their creators, and that is noticeable. MGS 4 is extraordinary, 
 more than a simple game, its a movie.
  The game may be too short if you play it in an easy or normal difficultie, not because is a short 
 game, but because its so funny and so involving, that you just don't want to stop ply it, so i 
 suggest you play it on hard difficult, so make the game the most funny possible. The game has something 
 like 20 hours to spend, and you will not forget them.
  Along the fourth chapter of the MGS saga we control only Snake (and the very useful Metal Gear 
 Mark II) , a point that can be negative, when we play the game and when we see all the storie ilvolving, 
 all misteries being created and solved. Snake begins in the Middle East where he will fight against 
 the PMC's and, depends what you decide during gameplay, the militia, that is against the PMC's. 
 Then, we are taken untill the jungle were we will get to rescue a girl that will help us. After 
 is journey in the jungle and a lot of impressive and envolving intermediate movies ( some have 
 more than 15 minutes, and you should see them all cause you won't forget them!!) Snake goes to 
 an already known place, Shadow Moses. After that, and during i assure you will get a lot of happiness 
 if you play it, i will not tell you what happens, all storie of MGS is solved and it arrives to 
 the end......
  If you got a ps3, it will be almost a sin if you don't get MGS4. Try not to lose this game, cause 
 there won't be many games like MGS4.
  And this game becomes even better with the extraordinary small things, like using a Playboy magazine 
 to distract an enemy, and then explode a sleeping gas grenade putting him in a long sleep opening 
 the way to you, or when you just infiltrate in a militia's hideout underground, and you get discovered, 
 you run beetween all those tunels and when you encounter a room whith pigeonholes, you desperately 
 get inside of one and hide from the guards..... the emotions you get when you imobilize or hide 
 from enemies are given almost just by MGS4, making him something not to lost.
  
  NG16, Portugal 
::::::

::::::
UserName: munkeypoo45
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 9, 2008 7:01 pm PT
Review:  when i first got this i game, i wanted to play the other games to figure out the story but i decided 
 to play a little bit and when i started playing, the game kept into the story.
  
  mgs4 can suck you into the story and make keep playing the story to figure out what happens next. 
 
  
  storyline- even though i have never played the other metal gear solid games, this game had intense 
 battles, and missions. after each mission or act is done you want to find out what happens next.
 
  
  game play- mgs4 has superb game play. the aiming system or over the shoulder is amazing. it can 
 also go into first person view for a more accurate shot. and the CQC is one of the most fun things 
 to do. also the octocamo is great to use when your trying to hide. there are a variety of weapons 
 to choose from such as a sniper rifle to a light machine gun.
  
  graphics- mgs4's graphics is one of the most beautiful games up to date. when your on the ground 
 and there is an explosion in front of you. the dirt comes onto the screen which makes the experience 
 more enjoyable.
  
  overall- i rate mgs4 a 10 for its storyline that keeps you playing until you have beaten it on 
 every difficulty. superb game play with great mechanics into it. and for the beautiful graphics 
 that Konami has produced. and it has online which will keep you playing for a long while.
  
  Mgs4 is the best game i have ever played!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DirtyRedd15
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 9, 2008 6:35 pm PT
Review:  To tell you the truth, I never thought I would have liked any of the upcoming MGS games after playing 
 the first one. It was so difficult to me that I just stopped playing it all together. Well, a few 
 weeks ago I was in Wal-Mart and saw it... just one more on the shelf. So I decided to buy it, you 
 know, give it another chance. And folks, let me tell you; that may have been one of the best things 
 I could have done in my life! This one game has got me re-interested in the MGS series again...
 
  
  Graphics and Cutscenes are amazing as well as the storyline. This is the type of game that will 
 have you sayingOne last mission and I'll take a break" but you find yourself still playing until 
 the next day. Dont worry if you're not an expert at these types of action/strategy games. There 
 are several different difficulties that will suit any player from N00B to VET. So dont wait any 
 longer! After reading this review I suggest that you go to the nearest video-game store and buy 
 it, order it online, get it off of EBay... What ever it takes! Just get it! This game will make 
 you proud to be a PS3 owner. Yes, It's just that darn great!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Xomonuchi
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 9, 2008 12:36 pm PT
Review:  Metal Gear Solid 4 is the best game I have ever played in my entire life ,, it is one reason to 
 own a ps3 and a reason to play video games, it has truly lived up to its expectations.
  Having played games like Halo 3 , GTA IV , Gears of War and Resistance Fall of Man , Metal Gear 
 Solid 4 is better in everyway , it has better graphics , better gameplay and better story .
  
  Metal gear solid 4 is not just a game! it surpasses gaming and takes it to a whole new level 
 of interactivity
  
  
  A brilliant mixture of storytelling and gameplay 
  Mind-blowing audiovisual presentation 
  Tight and compelling shooting mechanics 
  Gratifying 
 stealth mechanics 
  Lots of cool gadgets and weapons that you can tailor to your own style of play.
  
  This Game 
 will stay in our memories until we die! And we truly wishes that comes a Metal Gear Solid 5! And 
 I don't think that it will come a day that a game will surpasses this one! This game is SOLID!!!!!!!! 
 
  
  Solid "Old" Snake u will always live in our Hearts! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GODofSUPER
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 9, 2008 11:03 am PT
Review:  The game returns even Solider. It's really sad to see a great character to appear in his final 
 game, but all great things must come to an end, read this review to see the ending of this characters 
 amazing life, and let me tell you it was hard for me to think after I finished his amazing game, 
 sadden now, I will write this review, hoping for another Metal Gear Solid game, "Metal Gear Solid 
 5."
  
  Story - 10.0
  The story is just amazing, some parts were heart-warming, other were totally extreme the way they 
 ended it was just beautiful, and it truly is the mission to end it all, and right this minute I 
 am still thinking of the game and am happy in its overall direction.
  
  Gameplay - 9.9
  The gameplay was awesomely improved and some of the ways to point your gun is shockingly awesome, 
 you can blend into the environment and do all kinds of possible stuff you can think of, just some 
 of the things I thought you could you, you couldn't do but, overall its the best gameplay ever.
 
  
  Graphics - 10.0
  The best graphics I've seen yet, hands down just pure amazing, the sands swishing in the air, the 
 characters moving smoothly in the hard environment, its just so beautiful in a way I can't explain 
 and I enjoyed the graphics very much.
  
  Sound - 10.0
  They incorporated mostly every song made for Metal Gear Solid, Metal Gear Solid 2 and Metal Gear 
 Solid 3 and some music made for this game, its really amazing, I loved the sound, the bullets flying, 
 the people screaming, what more could you ask?
  
  Replay Value - 9.8
  You'll probably replay through the game to improve your skill or for the extra items you get, but 
 overall the replay value is very great, you'll replay at least 3 times, maybe even more.
  
  Overall - 10.0
  The game is truly one of the best games ever, the games epic story and its gameplay 
 are extreme, and Solid Snake's story will be around to live forever, but come on, I can't finish 
 this review without this... "Make a Metal Gear Solid 5!" But if not please continue on with the 
 Metal Gear Series. In sadness I pay tribute to the Metal Gear Solid Series, We will never forget 
 you Liquid, Solid, Solidus, some other people and the people that created everything, Big Boss 
 and Major Zero.
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: dodfod12
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 9, 2008 4:54 am PT
Review:  Alright, this is my first time I've written a game review, so don't take this too seriously. 
 
  
  Metal Gear Solid 4: Guns of the Patriots is nothing short of pure brilliance. Everything about 
 the game is superbly crafted - the visuals and sound are unmatched, and the gameplay is simply 
 magnificent.
  
  The game's controls are easy to grasp, and the first few minutes of gameplay allow you to get used 
 to them. The game allows you to play the game in any way you desire - you aren't punished for using 
 outright force, and you aren't rewarded for stealth tactics. This unbiased approach to gameplay 
 makes the game all the more enjoyable, and you can easily switch tactics in a matter of seconds.
 
  
  Even with visuals, sound and gameplay aside, Metal Gear Solid 4 thrives in another department - 
 story telling. The narrative is the result of amazing writing and direction, and it definitely 
 drives you to play for longer and longer. Plot twists are common, and many are truly unexpected. 
 
  
  The awesome single player experience aside, Metal Gear Online is a fantastic game in itself. While 
 the story element is missing from the multiplayer, the great gameplay definitely makes up for it.
 
  
  So, if you're a Playstation 3 owner and/or a fan of the Metal Gear Solid series and Hideo Kojima's 
 work, I highly recommend you pick up this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Eaglet100
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 9, 2008 2:19 am PT
Review:  I think of myself as a veteran of gaming and an insane addiict of the gaming world, yet this is 
 the first review I have felt compelled to write, thats probably because I am too busy playing and 
 reading other reviews and previews, but this game, this game is different, I just had to write 
 it down......
  In my opinion it leaps over its competitors, it wins the gold with ease, it conquers the real classic 
 game of games.
  
  The story line is spookily compelling, really drawing you in to the characters emotions and pure 
 essence of gameplay, heck, its the closest I will ever get to starring in an oscar winning movie, 
 just pure genius.
  
  Graphics, well, what can I say, just when I thought it couldnt get any better?
  
  Guns and 
 Gadgets, I am now on my fifth run through of the single player campaign and I still only have my 
 toes in the water, there is still an unlimited amount of bits and pieces to get my excited knashers 
 into.....
  
  Thumbs up aswell to length and depth of the single player campaign, I have yet to taste the online 
 experience, dont need to, single player has me well and truly hooked, so well done guys.
  
  All take note, this game is one to beat, and I sure aint gonna bet my well earned pennies on a 
 competitor. This is the best so far and will remain so for a very long time........ 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ReaperV7
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 9, 2008 9:08 am PT
Review:  And let me tell you something.... It was worth the wait. Metal Gear Solid 4: Guns Of The Patriots 
 is a brillant brillant beautiful game. I have been playing the Metal Gear Solid series since it 
 was first released in 1998. My dad bought me and my brother a PS1 with Metal Gear Solid. It was 
 actually the first game that made me into a gamer to this day. 
  
  So enough talking about me.... Lets talk about Metal Gear Solid 4: Guns Of The Patriots. 
  
 
  The Gameplay- I absolutely loved what they did to the game. Not only have they added a 3D camera 
 but they added the ability to do over-the-shoulder aiming. Everything is so much easier to execute 
 now then it was in previous Metal Gear Solid games. Pressing against a wall and peaking in first 
 person mode are a few things that where fixed. The badass thing i love about MGS4 is that you can 
 any path you want. If your feeling brave you can just go straight through PMCs taking out everyone 
 in your path.... OR you can go in quietly trying to sneak past the enemy. 
  
  
  The Sound- I havent heard a more realistic game in my life. This game sure does sound great. From 
 the whips and wizes past your head and explosions in the background from a mile away. This game 
 sounds GREAT!!!
  
  
  The Boss Fights- The boss fights are just right not ridiculously hard... but not too easy either. 
 Some require thinking and some require brute force. Its perfectly balanced. They are hella cool... and 
 sexy...
  
  The Online- So you probably heard that the online isnt the best mutliplayer game in the world right? 
 Well you heard wrong. MGO is the best damn mutliplayer ever. Its soooo in-depth and fun to play. 
 basically all the game play elements are in from the single-player which makes this game a BLAST! 
 Also hosts can have the option to put drebin points out... which is kinda of the same system in 
 the single player but you have a certain layout of guns and spend your points on guns/ upgradeable/ 
 pistols/ and or different types of items like grenades, smoke grenades, stun grenades, etc. 
  
  Here are the game modes....
  
  Death match- Normal death match mode
  
  Team Death match- 
 Normal team death match mode
  
  Rescue- Red Vs. Blue... One team defends and one team tries to rescue the target.
  
  Capture 
 missions- Its a normal capture the flag kinda of match
  
  Sneaking- One person is Snake another is the Mk. II.... everyone else is separated in 2 teams.. Red 
 vs. Blue.... While Red and blue are fighting each other while trying to find snake. Snake is out 
 on the battlefield trying to collect 3 dog tags while sneaking. He also has a friend to help him 
 out the Mk II. The mk. II goes around and stuns people. 
  
  Team Sneaking- This mode recently came out FREE of charge... Basically what it is ... is Red vs. 
 Blue... One team guards 2 targets. And the Other team has stealth camo trying to collect at least 
 1 of the targets and has to bring it back to a marker. If one of the stealth people are seen their 
 stealth camo turns off for 4 seconds making them vulnerable to attacks. 
  
  Base Mode- Red Vs. Blue trying to take over as many bases as they can. 
  
  Sure there are slight 
 fps drops during BIG EXPLOSIONS and sure you have to install each act..... BUT none of that effects 
 the greatness of this game. 
  This game is everything I dreamed for... Thank you Hideo Kojima and thank you kojima productions!!!!!
 
  
  I salute you solid snake. You deserve your rest.
  
  
  10/10
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: mistervengeance
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 8, 2008 6:19 pm PT
Review:  i'm going to keep it simple. please note i only rated this ten because i couldn't rate it 9.8.
 
  
  1. controls- fantastic, improved over the broken clunkiness of the first 3 games, however can still 
 be clunky when you're trying to do a lot of things at the same time.
  
  2. story- finishes almost every aspect of the story. great story, however several dialogue scenes 
 are boring and unnecessary. the ending has some parts that are cliche, but overall it's satisfying.
 
  
  3. gameplay/cutscenes- gameplay is amazing, it just works completely through the game, with some 
 very interesting and amazing gameplay sequences at the ends of almost every act. during the end 
 of the game, cutscenes start to take over. you can clear the gameplay of acts 4 and 5 easily within 
 2 hours on normal mode. however, this doesn't lessen the overall game and the gameplay is still 
 overall amazing. cutscenes are much longer than previous games, but if you watch them you will 
 not be dissapointed.
  
  4. online- very slow and unpolished gameplay, but some people will enjoy this. it's a love or hate 
 thing. this is the only major flaw with the game.
  
  5. graphics- very good, but not the most technically impressive ever.
  
  6. etc- you can run 
 through the whole game without having to buy any weapons or attachments, unlockables are exciting, 
 i really wish this had trophies. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MeltTech
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 8, 2008 3:44 pm PT
Review:  So before buying my PS3 on 12.4.06 I was never a FPS player. I bought the first SOCOM on PS2, and 
 was really turned off after it. See as how the PS3 was launched with a few games and one stand 
 out, Resistance, I had to have something to play. So then on to COD4 after all the reviews. Then 
 after seeing some footage of MGS4 I was excited about the graphics, but not so much the gameplay. 
 Then the reviews came. Then the game came. The I just had to have less than a week after it was 
 released. I think I got it on Thursday, after a Tuesday release. So let's get into my first GS 
 review.
  
  Starting out, choosing difficulty level, was well, difficult. I was no noob, as I got PWN in R: FOM, 
 and did some PWNING in COD4 in short stints. So I chose the lowest level. Way too easy. But, it 
 helped me learn the mechanics, and the controls, and the overall 'technique' to run, or sneak Snake 
 around.
  
  Controls: 9.0
  After playing COD4 and swapping guns with ease, it can get a bit cumbersome in MGS4. Although the 
 method of loading alot of weapons and items at once, is much better. Aiming and zooming in, and 
 sniper action is great. Driving the MKII is friendly. Using the Solid Eye is even super easy, although, 
 you could assign a single button to swap camera functions instead of going into the item list. 
 The iPod, yep, iPod, works like an iPod. And wow, Sony can't fully implement iPod connectivity 
 in XMB, but Kojima can get exclusive rights to use an iPod in MGS4. It's great!
  
  Gameplay: 9.5
  There might be the .5 deduction here simply for my noob factor. But things could 
 be a little better. Action seems a bit slow at times. There could be more 'different' levels. The 
 one level riding on Drebin's truck was cool. Driving the Metal Gear was super awesome. Why not 
 more of this? Why not over take a Gecko for an entire level? Kind of short on gameplay too. The 
 cutscenes are amazing, but too long, some lasting 30 minutes in length. After it's all said and 
 done, you almost feel like you played the cut scenes in a great movie.
  
  Graphics: 10
  Nothing more to say other than simply the best yet for the life of the PS3. The cut scenes are 
 amazing. The briefings are great too. With multiple cameras, and angles, you get all the action 
 at once. The cutscenes run at a great pace with no sluggish times and no artifacts that I've seen.
 
  
  Replay: 10
  With four different difficult levels and tons of hidden items, mp3s, camos, and hopefully soon 
 trophies, the replay factor is endless. Sure, there are some getting through the game in 5 hours, 
 but who's enjoying that? I'm not going to watch it, because I'll never do it, or intend to do it.
 
  
  Online: 9
  The ease of getting matches is super easy. Being able to choose different modes, one after another 
 would have been better. I'm docking points also because of the difficulty to use a BT here. Easy, 
 I know, but who uses them? The online controls aren't layed out in the manual, so it's kind of 
 trial and error. Online runs at a slower pace to me, not as smooth and as quick as the single player 
 mode, almost like it's in slow motion. It's going to be hard to get a 10 from me when COD4 is the 
 best online gameplay I've run across. My wife is gone to the store now, so I gotta crank up the 
 PS3 and get some more levels knocked out. MGS4 is a must buy for the PS3 group. Hands down. There's 
 no bad part of the game, only a few improvement oppurtunities here, that I'm sure will be obsolete 
 in MGS5. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Linadain
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 8, 2008 1:54 pm PT
Review:  This is a really great game worth a score of 10/10 no doubt, the graphics are amazing, story unbelievable, 
 one of the best games I have ever played ! I hope that there will be a MGS 5 one day, I love snake 
 I am really going to miss him the story really was truly a masterpiece there was only one thing 
 I didn't like about it and that is not enough game play mostly cut scenes which is not bad but 
 its also not good at the same time I really wish I could have played it longer it was about a 9 
 hr game play period with cut scenes about 20 hrs, any way I loved the game a lot and hope more 
 games would be as good I find a lot of games now days slipping and not that many games making me 
 feel like I use to when playing games in the 90s now there were a lot of great games in those days 
 FF 7 MGS 1 a lot i could wright a long list of games I love back in the day lol but it looks like 
 game publishers are concentrating more on graphics then game play just wish more games had nice 
 story and game play like this one.. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mr_t1012
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 8, 2008 1:42 pm PT
Review:  First, we have to get something straight. Metal Gear Solid 4 is not for everyone. People who are 
 not fans of the stealth genre or who have little patience will not enjoy this game, but for everyone 
 else, this is possibly the greatest games you will ever play. A story arc that has bean weaved 
 by Kojima for 20 years is culminated in the best Metal Gear game yet. The story is simply amazing, 
 and keeps you glued to the game to find out what's next. The game play mechanics are phenomenal, 
 Giving you the option to sneak past everyone, Blaze everyone in a hail of gunfire, or a little 
 of both. Although it is linear, the game makes you feel like you have freedom, and with so many 
 different weapon and items in your arsenal, you have literally hundreds of options on how to tackle 
 a situation. The set pieces are especially good, giving you loads of variety and straight up fun. 
 The controls are intuitive and work well, but it will take you a while to get used to them because 
 they are much different than your standard third-person shooter. The only rub with the game play 
 is that there's too little. About half the game is cut scenes. Although admittedly they look amazing 
 and for the most part are a treat to watch, it's just that some of them become too long and start 
 to drag. On the other side though, some of the cut scenes will make you say WOW and wish you could 
 record it and watch again later. All the characters are interesting and believable and look very 
 nice. Although you wish you could just skip them and get right to the action. Missing the cut-scenes 
 is missing the point. And speaking of action, the boss battles are very hectic and satisfying to 
 play. The online play is a good addition to the single player campaign and, although not as addictive 
 as something like Call of Duty 4, is a good diversion if you're looking to do something else than 
 the mammoth single player mode. Now onto the technical side of things. The graphics are amazing. 
 The cut-scenes and actual in game graphics run off the same engine, and look absolutely stunning. 
 Special effects look good and maybe if you looked closely for enough time you might see one blurry 
 texture out of a million sharp ones. The game is extremely polished. The sound is excellent too, 
 especially if you have surround. Explosions, gun shots, and little environmental noises sound nice 
 and the voice acting is excellent as well. Some of the music is questionable but mostly fits the 
 tone of the game and there are a lot of old-school Metal Gear tracks to listen to on your iPod 
 item which although pretty useless, is insanely cool. Now there are hundreds of little surprises 
 and nostalgic moments that would make a longtime Metal Gear fan giggle with glee so I'm not going 
 to go into detail about what they are. There's just so much detail and love put into this game 
 it's incredible. I could go on and on praising MGS4 but there would be no point. There's only one 
 way to experience a masterpiece such as this: You need to play it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: liquidsnake1987
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 8, 2008 1:35 pm PT
Review:  This review is spoiler free.
  
  As a long time MGS fan, I can gladly say this game will not disappoint any true fans of the series. 
 If you are a current PS3 owner, then this is the game you have been waiting for. Just like I bought 
 a PS2 for MGS2, and a PSP for MGSPO, this is the true reason I bought a PS3. 
  
  Story
  With any spoilers, all I can say is that I enjoyed the story from start to finish. If you have 
 no knowledge of the background story of the MGS series, then prepare to be lost. I highly recommend 
 reading about the past installments, or experiencing them for yourself. Although MGS4's story is 
 superb, it does have its flaws. It is no suprise that the MGS series relies on heavy cutscenes 
 to present its story; do not expect anything different from this one. It contains some of the longest 
 cutscenes in any game you have played before. Mainly because it has to close out all the unanswered 
 questions from the past installments. If you are a MGS fan, then the heavy cutscenes will be of 
 no problem for you. If you are a rookie to the MGS series, the cutscenes could be a turnoff.
  
  Gameplay
  MGS4's gameplay supresses the past installments in so many ways. First, the camera 
 is similar to that of MGS3: Subsistence. Kojima and his team have finally made it to modern times. 
 The gameplay has been revamped offering the players mulitple choices going through certain situations. 
 You could do it the traditional way by going through stealthy, or you could go guns blazing. The 
 latter being the more difficult choice. Going guns blazing isn't as easy as it sounds. You do have 
 a whole arsenal of weapons (over 70) , which most of them could be customized to your own preference. 
 However, you will find yourself using the same weapons over and over again because most of the 
 weapons are useless. The Drebin points adds a little twist to the weapon customization, but they 
 aren't terribly hard to get. MGS4's gameplay never gets dull. Each act (5 different acts) overs 
 something unqiue that would keep you entertained. Each act after the first one consists of boss 
 fights that will prove to be a challenge to beat. MGS4 is a game you could play more than once, 
 which is a major problem for most games this generation. There are so many easter eggs to find, 
 different routes you could take, different choices you could make. 
  
  Sound
  MGS4 will blow you away in the sound department. It makes you feel as if you are really there with 
 Snake through his battles. Explosions, bullets flying, bodies dropping of all never sounded so 
 realistic. The soundtrack will make you emotional. Kojima and his team have made you actually feel 
 something for the characters. The music will make you shed a tear for some of the characters in 
 this game. The voice acting is superb as always with the MGS series. David Hayter really hit the 
 nail on the head with this installments. 
  
  Graphics
  Since its first showing back in TGS 2005, MGS4 has blown people away in the graphics department. 
 MGS4 has some of the best character models in a game, and the scenery in each ACT look different 
 from each other. The screen shots really dont do MGS4 any justice. I wasnt expecting much from 
 MGS4 in the graphics department; however, you have to see it in motion to greatly appreciate it. 
 MGS4 does suffer from framate problems hear and there, but they are hardly noticeable during the 
 gripping cutscenes. It also has a few texture issues, but you will be to busy stunned by the overall 
 visuals.
  
  Online
  MGO is no Call of Duty 4 or Halo 3. It uses the same exact engine as as MGS4, which is its biggest 
 flaw. MGS4's engine is fine for the enemy AI, but for real life people it is not. MGO is not the 
 full package, you will have a total of 5 maps, with the ability to creat only one character online. 
 If you want a different character, get ready to open you wallet. Apart from this setbacks, MGO 
 is pretty addictive. I have put 20+ hours into the online mode itself. More updates for MGO will 
 be released from time to time which could improve MGO in the long run.
  
  Conclusion
  MGS4 is an experience they should not be missed if you are a PS3 owner. For many of you, this is 
 the reason you bought a PS3. MGS4 is not a perfect game, no game is. However, it really raises 
 the bar in terms of stealth action gameplay, sound, and presentation. MGS4 is a total package, 
 well worth the $90 I spent for the the limited edition. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: blackjack652
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 8, 2008 11:46 am PT
Review:  When I first got this game I thought that it would be like the others and dont get me wrong those 
 games are great to play over and over again. But this one is completely diff. First of all the 
 designers changed the firing and weapon controls so that it is easier to wield a weapon sight it 
 and then fire it. Next they added so many more weapons that it can be overwhelming to even have 
 them all. Yet the best part to the weapons is that you can buy them this time no more searching 
 everywhere you go to in the area looking for cool new guns that you can use, this time you can 
 either find them and sell them or you can well buy them.
  
  The next thing that I like about the game is the great story telling that you are provided. But 
 sometimes it fills like the game has just too much of that great faeture to it, but even besides 
 that you are well informed for every single mission in the game and all of the characters and what 
 they have been up to. Another neat thing is that while on some missions you will hear voices of 
 past conversations from other games for ex. when on the Shadow Mosses part of the game when in the 
 air vent you will hear your master talking just like he did in the first game.
  
  Now I have been talking about all of the good things in the game but there are some bad ones. I 
 think that the boss battles are just too easy my little brother even beat mantis second to the 
 last boss of the game and the only other is the excessive use of the storytelling. But hands down 
 this is the BEST! game i have ever played and I recommend it to all that have the Playstation 3. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jackson84
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 8, 2008 10:23 am PT
Review:  First thing firstI'm a big Metal Gear FanI love the series and all the characters. I love everything 
 about this game. I had so much fun playing it. I didn't want it to end. The story and game play 
 was on point. I loved fighting the bosses the mostthey are some good looking chicks toolol anyway 
 I really must give Konami and there developers a round of applause they did a great jobI mean 
 four yearsthey had better done a great job! I don't want to give anyway too much but I am glad 
 that Snake didn't die. I honestly thought that they were going to kill off a lot of the characters. 
 If they have done that I wouldn't be madbut just leave at least one alive so you continue the 
 series. The main part of this game is the cutscenes/story telling. It answered all of my questions 
 accept a couple which I probably missed but I doubt it. This game is worth every pennyjust go 
 get itIt also has great reply value. I hope they keep going with the Metal Gear series BEST GAME 
 OUT!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: naz_k
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 8, 2008 9:54 am PT
Review:  one wouldn't know where to start, the amazing graphics, addictive gameplay or the incredible story!!
 
  
  alot of twists and turns and the thing i enjoyed the most was the flashbacks and connections to 
 all the previous parts which i have missed very much.
  and the little surprise gift of reliving metal gear solid (1) was just a TREAT!!
  
  the characters 
 were plain cool, dark and sad.
  this was not your average predictible let's just shoot everyone game, the puzzles and tricks were 
 fantastic (like it has always been with all previous metal gear solid parts) .
  you could feel complete power and complete weakness in this game all together!
  
  raiden was 
 the most amazing character ever by my opinion and the cinematics were just mind-blowing!
  
  the end was totally unpredictible and not having more parts of metal gear would be a total disappointment.
 
  
  i believe this has been the best game series to ever be made! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SugarWill
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 8, 2008 8:59 am PT
Review:  Now I fully understand what my earlier statement means, I understand that I am essentially knocking 
 down the FFVII fans (I am one) , the Half-Life fans, Halo fans, Warcraft fans and so on.... however, 
 the level of detail, the level of forward thinking and the level of creativity in the MGS series, 
 specifically in MGS4, is far superior to anything that has come before. It's difficult to compare 
 this series to any other series or game for that matter because it's not your typical game to begin 
 with. 20, 30, 45 minutes cut-scenes are normal. 2, 4, 8 months of reading after you beat the game 
 to try and understand the plot is normal, and trying to wrap your head around the sub-plot, and 
 the underlying themes, let alone the main plot is normal and nearly impossible. Metal Gear has 
 changed many things, a few of which are in my humble opinion, never to be matched again. Metal 
 Gear initially changed the way we PLAY video games. It's hard to find an example as clear as MGS1. 
 Metal Gear changed the way we WATCHED video games. I know it's an oxymoron to think that we watch 
 video games, but as time passes gamers are demanding much more in their games than just graphics. 
 Metal Gear changed the way we LOOK/VIEW video games. On many levels it accomplished this, none 
 greater than the leaps it always seems to take in the graphics and the details department. Finally, 
 Metal Gear changed the way we can REACT to a video game. I personally have amassed quite a large 
 library of games (click my profile to see) . I have played most if not a very large majority of 
 RPGs JRPGs, MMORPGs and everything in between. I have played amazing games, horrible games, funny 
 games, serious games and STORY driven games. Never and I mean never have I played a game/series 
 that has evoked an emotional reaction (read: sadness) in my life. FFVII came close to accomplishing 
 that when a certain character seized to exist. But never has a series made you connect so deeply 
 with a main character, only to find that you didn't mind not playing him for every game, didn't 
 mind that he was flawed and vulnerable, didn't mind that he was a chain smoking, foul-mouthed, 
 at times womanizing, compassionate, caring, killing machine. Although he ended up ultimately controlling 
 every circumstance that came his way, the process leading up to it ravaged his body, betrayed his 
 trust, made him question his existence and left him for dead. He took on an underdog kind of feel; 
 he made you think of your own life, your own existence, your own mortality. I am referring to Solid 
 Snake. The greatest character ever created, filled with so many contradictory qualities, so many 
 human qualities. Qualities you may find in someone you know, or someone you love. The Metal Gear 
 saga may have gone through some rough times in the main-stream media, some of it opinion, some 
 of it fact, most of it unfounded. A lot of reviews tend to review individual games; I mean how 
 can you not judge something by what is currently being produced. It's hard to take into account 
 MGS3 or MGS4 when MGS2 was released, that I am fully aware of. However, now that the series is 
 complete (although with Kojima you never know) we should look back at the "questionable" plots, 
 characters, choices and twists and realize that we just played perfection. Not perfection in a 
 not flawed sense, but perfection in an expectation and reflection sense. MGS has far exceeded my 
 and many people's expectations. What started on the NES system was beautifully transitioned over 
 the years to not only give us a video game evolution timeline, but more importantly it gave us 
 a maturation of story, character development, social/political awareness and expectation. Whether 
 the game was in 8-bit glory or 1080p HDTV presentation, the level of detail and immersion that 
 you felt was incredible. I don't know if I will ever truly understand everything that has transpired 
 over the last 20 years, I don't know if I will ever grasp the full impact this story possesses, 
 but I will rest assured knowing that I was a part of pure video game genius, I witnessed perfection 
 and I pray that in some way shape or form, we will get mind-f*&%ed by Kojima once again. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sosoni
Rating: 7
Date: Jul 8, 2008 7:27 am PT
Review:  This game has 75% of cut scenes (a very boring Japanese movie) - I watch them all (unfortunately) 
 and 25% of gameplay. 
  
  With simple words, you will much more time watch bad movie (with great graphic) than playing the 
 game. One example: one day I spent on MGS4 four hours - 3 hours on bad movie and 1 hour on game 
 play, yes it is true.
  
  You can finish this game for 5 hours + 10 hours of cut scenes, and that's all Falk's.
  And yes, 
 we have just five maps on-line, and if you want to play on-line you must to register on Konami 
 internet address, I need 5 hours to register my data for on-line playing. 5 hours for five maps?
 
  
  5 hours of gameplay + 5 maps on-line + 10 hours of bad movie with great graphic = MGS4. Perfect??? 
 I don't think so.
  
  My advice is to rent this game, skip cut scenes and enjoy in playing of this great but a way to 
 short game.
  I really can't understand why this game doesn't have 80% of gameplay and 20% of cut scenes, with 
 more gameplay and normal on-line with at least 15 maps this could be the first game ever made for 
 10. For now even 7 is too much.
  
  Expect short game play and just 5 maps on-line, everything in this game is great, movement of the 
 character (third person + first person = masterpiece of movements) , graphic, maps, camouflage options, 
 missions, weapons, items... I mean everything... But, I want much more of content, not movie... 
 If I want movie, I wouldn't buy PS3 game.
  And if anyone is fun of cut scenes - I am... But this is sick!!!
  
  CUT SCENES? JUST SKIP THEM 
 ALL AND ENJOY IN THIS VERY SHORT BUT PERFECT GAME!!!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: ACIDUKILL
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 7, 2008 11:22 pm PT
Review:  If game spot had a 10.5 rating I would definitely give it to this game what an excellent achievement 
 an excellent storyline is what we came to expect from the Metal gear franchise and they did not 
 disappoint form star to end you are drawn in to the incredible story and with excellent cut scenes 
 to keep you entertained you are drawn in so much that it feels like you are watching a great Hollywood 
 blockbuster. The graphics is off course outstanding and the game play and controlls is just amazing 
 with great A. I and good shooting mechanics you cant ask for more. I dont want to go into the storyline 
 to much because nothing I can say will live up to the experience of playing this game yourself. The 
 only thing I want to say is thank you to Kojima productions for given us the graet pleasure of 
 enjoying such a great achievement and congrats to Sony for finaly getting their grate benchmark 
 exclusive. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AgentA-Mi6
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 11, 2008 4:57 pm PT
Review:  Metal Gear Solid 4 is without a doubt the best game that we have seen in the saga since MGS1, By 
 far the best game for Playstation3 and certainly the best game that I've had the Honor of enjoying 
 this generation up to now. 
  In this title there are 3 factors that influence considerably in the experience the player will 
 have when he (she) plays: 
  The first one is the taste for the previous games or at very least experience with them and a fair 
 bit of knowledge about the story, to summarize if one is a fan of the series, in this case the 
 experience'll be enjoyed to the maximum however the small defects are bound to be noticed faster 
 and possibly more painfully by them ( Me for example) , since I believe that fans are the ones who 
 demand nothing less than the best with each new installment in a series. 
  The second one is fondness for cutscenes in a videogame, its a fact that a large part of mgs games 
 consist in cutscenes, 4 is no exception since kojima and his amazing storytelling skills manage 
 to keep fans and non-fans alike glued to the screen with the narrative, which needless to say is 
 far better than "just coherent". Not everyone is too fond of long cutscenes in games but even if 
 you're part of that population, I strongly recommend you to give it a try, those who do like cinematic 
 experiences in games Will find Mgs4 Delightful 8) . 
  The last main factor is affinity for the stealth action style of gameplay which if appreciated 
 will deliver enjoyment regardless the limited knowledge or full comprehension of the plot. 
  
  Gameplay: As I mentioned previously, the style is stealth action but with it has some first 
 person shooter elements implemented to dynamize ranged combats, in first view person you can aim 
 to distant enemies accurately, in short ranged combats third person view is in general the best 
 option since CQC (Close quarters combat) it is elementary to leave enemies out of commission without 
 noise nor waste of ammunition, camouflage is an important part of the game since a modern automatic 
 cammo system based on the mimicry of the octopus was included, it automatically changes patterns 
 when the player stops moving to perfectly match with near surroundings, another important aspect 
 is the purchase and customization of weapons trough instant transactions in the menu at the expense 
 of exchangeable Points obtained instantly each an already acquired weapon is picked up ( all the 
 extra weapons are traded for points) . 
  Its also important to take into account the newly added stress bar which measures the stress experienced 
 by the character during tense or dangerous situations, there are many different forms of avoiding 
 stress to increase which harms the performance in combat, for example to stay hidden and try not 
 to engage long combats with the enemy, there are consumable items useful recover health automatically 
 and to alleviate stress like military rations and instant noodles in that particular order. 
  
  Graphics: From environments to character models and details in objects, this game despite of 
 not being displayed in native HD resolution (Up-scalable to 1080p) is vastly impressive, the same 
 goes for the physics those dont fall behind either.
  
  Soundtrack : Beautifully Fitting background music for each scenario and lots nice new themes, Outstanding 
 soundtrack which pales only compared to the original for MGS1.
  An Ipod is included in the game, you can find new songs from previous mgs games and other music 
 as well scattered through the game.
  
  Story: Deep, Complex, convoluted, compelling. Best one ever told in a videogame in my humble opinion.
 
  
  -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  
  Honorary Mentions
  
  Amazing Boss Fights that resemble those of Metal Gear solid 1, some tough, none easily forgettable.
 
  
  Fan Service 
  
  Satisfying ending.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: hardabs
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 12, 2008 2:04 pm PT
Review:  this is one of the greatest games that have been made. it puts you in the world ridden by war. this 
 is your final mission so make it count. Kojima has out done themselves with this game. the game will 
 leave you breathless with the best graphics in the world. delivering 1080p resolution it makes Crysis 
 looking like an 8-bit game. im glad it is in 1080p because there is hardly any geometric shapes 
 and i hate geomaetry. it is like watching a movie while playing a game. the transaction from a cinimatic 
 to a game is so flawless. it is so darn epic.
  after a while you will see yourself a master of the stealth. there are many difficulty levels so 
 you can choose whats right for you. there are neat things in the game like having your very own 
 ipod and smoking some cigs. the boss battles are extremely cool. some will have you thinking to tour 
 toes about how to take off the psychokinesis off of you, spot a texture that does not match while 
 making use your surround sound system to hear a laughter showing you the hiding spot ,dodge missiles, 
 going to fight a legion of soldiers and a sniper at the same time... it really tells a great story 
 too. although the story is more of a heavy based story it will leave you meditating on how things 
 have come to change. the game also will have many connections with you as it does try to connect 
 to the games world to yours just like i previous games. it has some parts that bring you to the 
 world ofthis is a game .
  has xbox fans feel unappreciated. you need 5 dvds in order to play it in the 360 this is also the 
 first game that uses dual layer blu ray to deliver an epic battle. the game will also give you more 
 bang for you buck as it includes an online feature. you will enjoy this game because of its good 
 use of surround sound, hd graphics and you will enjoy it even more with the all new Wendy's spicy 
 baconator and a bud light at your side, that is the best complimaent that you can say to a game. the 
 wendy's spicy baconator and bud light make you want to crap, but this game and only this game has 
 made me hold it in for one more hour!. i am not giving this as a fan for i am a new comer but as 
 a devoted gamer. this is a must have for people and if you are going to by a game make sure it is 
 this one. once you pass the game try going for big boss rank it will leave you playing for hours
 
  
  
  this rating has been brought to you by hardabs.
  other reviews are: 
  big rigs: over the road racing game (PC) 10/10
  deal or no deal (ds) 2/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: oblivionck
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 7, 2008 7:53 pm PT
Review:  Metal Gear Solid 4 is THE best game and most intense game on the PS3 right now. Everything about 
 is awsome, from the beautiful graphics, to the highly addictive gameplay and story. Sure, the cutscenes 
 are on the long side, but they are worth it. they really tie to the story together and help the 
 player understand the game better. It also answers all the questions that were left unanswered 
 in the previous games. Although there were some times in which the player should have had controll 
 over Snake during a cutscene, the rest of this incredible game makes up for it.
  
  All the gamers who rated this game with a 10, and Gamespot, who also rated it with a 10, were all 
 correct. It deserves a 10. It is the best stealth game out there. Or, for some people, they could 
 go out and just shoot everyone un-stealthy. Its YOUR choice. Basically, this game should be in 
 every PS3 owner's hands. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bigboss_gil
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 7, 2008 6:42 pm PT
Review:  Greatest game in the series so far. You can still sneak around just like in the original metal 
 gear solid games. Or you can blast through the enemy, helping the militia out along the way. The 
 new octocamo adds more excitement to the game and more encourages more tactical thinking especially 
 when you play dead, or hold up enemies for their items. I also fell in love with the weapons system, 
 you buy weapons with points you get from acquiring other weapons you don't need. The game has long 
 cut scenes but you are now able to pause or skip them. Game play and storyline are amazing and 
 graphics are state of the art. It also come with mgo2 where you can make your own pmc troop and 
 fight up to 16 people at a time in 5 different maps with plenty of game modes. Its a great game 
 definitely worth $60. If you don't have a ps3 get one, this game is worth it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DarkStar_67
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jul 7, 2008 6:36 pm PT
Review:  This game had great gameplay but lacked in length, for me the gameplay was cut short and the story 
 kind of dragged on a bit. The story line was a bit confusing if you have never played MGS before. 
 MGS was kind of like a lenghty movie with bits and parts of gameplay scattered throughout. At times 
 the story line lacked the interesting qualities that made the game so popular in the begining. 
 The online gaming is great, versing every skill level going from novice to solid snake, versing 
 anyone from around the globe, create your own games ranging from team deathmatch or even capture 
 the flag and invite friends to come and play. All in all I suggust you should rent it first and 
 if the game entices you enough you should purchase it. This game is definately worth a play, I 
 enjoyed it and cant wait for MGS 5. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: groce_j
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 7, 2008 5:49 pm PT
Review:  Let me just start off asking you have you ever kept up with a long running movie / tv series? Did 
 you get anxious to see the next episode to see what happens? If you answered yes to those questions 
 then Metal Gear is the game for you. Game been running since 1987, back in the NES days. Kept up 
 with the same storyline and plot. Every game released after the other had a very compelling story. 
 This game is like watching and playing a movie at the same time. The actual cut scenes you see 
 in this game are the real time graphics throughout the entire game. This game is a mixture of Jack 
 Bauer, James Bond, and Jason Bourne. This game is so detailed you almost interact with anything 
 around you. This game is worth every bit of the 59.99 price tag. This is the first next gen game 
 that actually max's out the whole disc. The whole 50gb has been used to operate this game. XB360 
 owners might as well keep dreaming, MGS4 will never be able to run on the 360 (probably need 5-6 
 disc to play the game) . If you have a PS3, this is a must have. This game is the biggest part of 
 the PS3's history. If you never played Metal Gear, get it anyway. You won't regret the experience 
 you have playing this game. The control is tight and responsive, graphic are top notch, and the 
 sound is amazing. This is the best tactical game you will ever play. This game really has you using 
 your brain. It puts you really into the action to where playing this game is how you would think 
 if you were in that position. I've played every Metal Gear game. Every PS3 owner needs to pick 
 this one up, this is the 1st and probably the only game that will max out the PS3's capabilities 
 to the best of its ability. This is the bang for your buck. Go and buy it before it sells out! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RedMageNeko
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 7, 2008 3:09 pm PT
Review:  First off, I should say this. If you have a problem with cutscene heavy games, go rent Call of 
 Duty or some other shooter right now. MGS4 features a load of cutscenes to advance the story foreward. 
 But these cutscenes NEVER fail to awe. From watching Raiden take on a pack of GEKKO with nothing 
 but his sword and acrobatics to the introduction of the BB Corp, you will spend most of you time 
 with your jaw dropped.
  
  MGS4 is a departure from the rest of the series in a number of ways. Unlike MGS1 and its predeccesors, 
 where you were kept within a single base complex or a certain area of a region, MGS4 takes you 
 to five seperate locals hunting down Liquid Ocelot in order to stop a global rebellion against 
 his masters. From the dusty, war torn streets of a Middle Eastern city to the decks of a Next Generation 
 battleship, you will try and stop Ocelot as the true nature of his plan becomes known and the helplessness 
 of the rest of the world to stop him become apparent.
  
  Numerous new things have been added to the gameplay, some a rather drastic change from previous 
 games. First up, the Octo Camo. This sneaking suit allows you to blend in to anything you touch 
 or lay upon, rendering you unseen to passing eyes. Consider it a lesser version of the Stealth 
 Camo employed in the other games if you like and an evolution of the Camo system in MGS3. It is 
 far from full proof though and if the enemy gets to close, they'll sound an alert and you'll be 
 forced to evade or blast your way out of the fight.
  
  The second addition is the "Drebin Shop". This in game store you can access from the pause menu 
 at any time allows you to buy new weapons, unlock ones you pick up, and buy more ammo. You pay 
 for all this with "Drebin Points", which you in turn get from scavenging weapons from the enemy's 
 you take down or destroying robotic enemies like the GEKKO. This is a rather unusual departure 
 from the other games, but it does add some interesting features, such as the ability to carry as 
 much heavy firepower as you like and makes it possible, though difficult, to just blast your way 
 through some areas. Also included is they ability to customize weapons, such as the M4 Custom, 
 with silencer's, scopes, grips, laser sights, and on some even grenade launchers or shotguns.
 
  
  Another new features is the "Psyche Gauge". Snake is getting old and his body is failing fast on 
 him. He needs to keep himself alert and pumped to survive. The lower your psyche gauge falls, the 
 less accurate you become, the slower you get running, you may even stop and groan in pain as your 
 body begins to give out. Get into massive firefights and during some cutscenes, Snake will lose 
 some of his confidence, resulting in a drop of his psyche meter.
  
  The gameplay is infiltrate and assault, as usual, but gameplay really shines during boss battles 
 and "special battles". Boss battles have gotten a bit tougher and range from a cat and mouse hunt 
 with Laughing Octopus to a sniper duel in arctic weather conditions with Crying Wolf. None are 
 particularly easy, but you won't hammer your head against a wall in frustration after dying the 
 tenth time either. "Special Battles" are unique fights that you won't find anywhere else in the 
 game. The first example of this is in the first act of the game, where you and members of the Rat 
 Patrol have to fight your way floor by floor through an assault force of the deadly FROG soldiers 
 employed by Ocelot. But they also included a BEAUTIFUL, almost cinematic motorcycle chase through 
 a European city to a battle between a damaged Metal Gear REX and Metal Gear RAY in the infamous 
 Shadow Moses isles. Each fight feels like something you see in a movie and only adds to the stunning 
 story of the game.
  
  While you can potentially beat it in three days or so of nonstop play, MGS4 has INCREDIBLE replay 
 value thanks to both the Emblems you are awared for doing impressive feats and the fact that all 
 weapons, ammo, items, and Drebin Points carry over from your last game, meaning once you reach 
 a certain point in Act 1 your no longer starting from scratch.
  
  This game is a whole hearted buy. If you don't have a PS3, get one. This is the game you've been 
 waiting for. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: More_Dakka
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 7, 2008 12:08 pm PT
Review:  Metal Gear Solid 4 is the fourth, and potentially final, game in the long-running Metal Gear Solid 
 series. Ever since the first Metal Gear Solid game on the original Playstation, the series has 
 been famous for its convoluted storyline, long cinematic cut scenes, and intense stealth action 
 game play. While MGS 4 does not stray too far from that basic formula, it does vastly improve upon 
 it, making MGS 4 unquestionably the best game in the series, and one of the best Playstation 3 
 (PS3) exclusives to date.
  
  MGS 4's storyline takes place approximately five years after the events of Metal Gear Solid 2. 
 In the game, you play as the series' original protagonist; Solid Snake, who is now known as Old 
 Snake since he has aged extremely rapidly over the years. Snake's main goal in MGS 4 is to hunt 
 down his brother Liquid Snake, who has possessed the body of Revolver Ocelot, turning him into 
 Liquid Ocelot. Along the way, Snake discovers more about the mysterious organization known as the 
 Patriots and the war economy that they have developed.
  
  Just like previous entries in the series, MGS 4's storyline can be rather convoluted at times. 
 It is still a very satisfying tale to see through however, thanks to how the story is told to the 
 player. It is as if you were watching an action movie. The game also has a relatively large roster 
 of characters involved, using virtually every character still alive from previous entries in the 
 series. It all comes down to a very shocking and satisfying conclusion.
  
  Just like previous entries in the series, MGS 4 is primarily a stealth action game. Your objective 
 is generally is to sneak from one side of a confined area to another while trying to avoid detection 
 by the guards. Unlike previous entries in the series however, a run-and-gun style of game play 
 is actually a viable strategy at times, and is quite satisfying; thanks to the game's new shooting 
 controls which will be covered later.
  
  Fortunately, you are given plenty of tools for all of your sneaking missions. Snake can use many 
 different types of weapons, including pistols, rifles, and rocket launchers. There are also many 
 gadgets the player can use such as a steel drum that Snake can hide inside, the Metal Gear Mark 
 II which can be used as a scout, and the Solid Eye which provides radar and other modes of vision, 
 such as night vision.
  
  Snake also has a variety of abilities he can use to get through his missions. Snake can use Close-Quarters-Combat 
 (CQC) moves to knockout enemies and steal supplies from them, use the Octocamo system to blend 
 in with the environment, and much more. 
  
  Controlling Snake is for the most part fluid, making sneaking through the levels relatively easy 
 to get into. Certain aspects of control however, such as crawling, rolling, and close combat, feel 
 a bit sluggish. 
  
  One of the most major changes to MGS 4's control however is how ranged combat is handled. The player 
 can now aim using an over-the-shoulder view which makes aiming a breeze. The result of this is 
 that the gun play, while simplistic, is incredibly entertaining.
  
  Of course, what would MGS 4 be without some memorable boss battles? MGS 4 does not disappoint, 
 with several unique bosses spread throughout the single player game. All of the bosses have their 
 own unique tricks, although some of these said tricks are reused from previous entries in the series 
 and will be easily recognized by the series veterans. Despite this fact however, the bosses in 
 MGS 4 are among the many highlights of the game.
  
  The other main highlights of MGS 4 are the game's major set pieces. There is a hectic motorcycle 
 ride, a brutal clash between two huge metal gears which turns out to be one of the game's most 
 amazing boss battles, and more.
  
  Depending on difficulty, MGS 4's single player should last most players slightly less than 15 hours 
 on their first play through. This amount is much shorter if you skip the game's cut scenes. Fortunately, 
 there is still a decent amount of content here, especially since most players will probably want 
 to play through the game again at a higher difficulty level. 
  
  Unfortunately, MGS 4 is held back from perfection by a few factors. The artificial intelligence 
 (AI) in the game is solid and becomes stronger in higher difficulty levels. However, the AI can 
 be buggy at times; and very occasionally be seen doing idiotic actions such as shooting into walls 
 that are clearly in the way of their target.
  
  MGS 4's main issue however is its loading and installation times. The loading times in MGS 4 are 
 very brief, but this does not change the fact that they are very frequent. 
  
  MGS 4 also has plenty of installation times. When you first start the game, you must wait through 
 an eight minute installation. That is not a bad time at all, but it starts getting a little tiresome 
 when you consider the additional three minute installations required for changing acts within the 
 game; even if your going to an earlier act. It all adds up and hampers the pace of the game.
  
  Along with MGS 4's single player campaign, the game also comes with a multiplayer component 
 called Metal Gear Online (MGO) . MGO is a squad based shooter that allows up to 16 players to play 
 in a variety of modes. MGO has basic death matches, variants on capture the flag, a base capture 
 mode, and a mode called sneaking mission, which allows one player to play as Snake and another 
 to play as the Metal Gear Mark II.
  
  MGO ultimately provides a solid online experience, but it has problems. MGO relies upon the controls 
 and mechanics from MGS 4 to set-up its game play. This set-up is excellent in the single player 
 game, but MGO's multiplayer environment makes the sluggish aspects of MGS 4's control scheme much 
 more obvious. 
  
  MGO also completely lacks support for local play, even on a local area network. There is also no 
 support for AI bots, which makes the game's training offering horrendously pitiful at best. If 
 you manage to get a good grasp on MGS 4's controls in the single player however, then you should 
 be able to do fine in MGO.
  
  Graphically, MGS 4 is one of the best looking games on the PS3. Almost everything about the game's 
 graphics from the textures, to the animation looks excellent. The character models are all extremely 
 well done as well. MGS 4 also sounds great with outstanding voice acting and some great music.
 
  
  Put simply, if you own a PS3, you should be playing MGS 4 right now. It is not just one of the 
 PS3's best exclusives; it is one of the best games available in the entire gaming market.
  
  Pros (MGS 4) : Brilliant stealth gameplay with enjoyable run-and-gun action for those who don't 
 want to be stealthy. Outstanding graphics. Entertaining storyline with a great cast of characters. 
 Enjoyable boss battles
  
  Cons (MGS 4) : Some aspects of control are a tad sluggish. AI can be buggy on rare occasions. Installation 
 and loading times are brief, but frequent.
  
  Pros (MGO) : Mechanics and controls of MGS 4 work surprisingly well online. Decent variety of modes.
 
  
  Cons (MGO) : No local play options of any kind. Sluggish aspects of MGS 4's controls are much more 
 obvious, and annoying.
  
  Recommendable for: Anyone with a PS3 should experience MGS 4. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: masters89
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 18, 2009 3:10 pm PT
Review:  I seriously dont know where to start !
  I Panicked , I sorrowed , I Teard and Joyed this game!!! 
  
  
  ****Things that amazed me 
 in this game : - 
  
  * How the story pulls you into its atmosphre and move/break your heart!
  
  *How the dramatic 
 scences are made mixed with these Holy sad songs !!
  Even though if you didnt know what's going on in the scence you just feel like tearing or even 
 Crying!! [My drama hero would be Raiden]
  
  *How you have a variety ways to set your combos action technics , you can have Auto-aim, Fps or 
 Third-person shooter style.
  
  *How improved the Weapons have been , the feel of it , Sound , lightning, smoke .. ect . Really big 
 step forward.
  
  *How you have many many many many WAYS of doing your missions (Totally a high re-Beat value)
 
  
  **How dump is the Ai . you can number this as a bad thing. But still wont affect on the score.
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: MGSMANIAC
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 7, 2008 11:15 am PT
Review:  MGS4..... What can I say about it? It ties up all the loose ends in the series and explains The 
 Patriots in greater detail. Beofre planning on writing this review, I asked a couple friends of 
 mine who have never played the series and they say it's one of the best games they have ever played. 
 they said the cutscenes kept them interested and they loved the voice acting. The cutscenes are 
 indeed long, but they have never kept me bored and it really added to the greatness of the game. 
 If MGS4 didn't have the cutscenes it has now then the game would be an empty shell. The cutscenes 
 really add to your emotions and make you feel different emotions at different times in the game. 
 You'll feel happy, sad, hell-bent on revenge etc. I have followed the series closly and every game 
 (with the exception of some parts in the MSX games) has those cutscenes which make Metal Gear Solid..... well 
 Metal Gear Solid! 
  
  Let's talk about the gameplay. The gameplay for MGS4 is the best in the series and it really made 
 the controls easier on the player. Kojima added the third person shooting mode and kept the first 
 person mode also. insted of holding L1 and L2 to get a closer view then while holding those buttons, 
 pressing square to shoot became tedious at some parts in MGS3. In MGS4, Kojima simply made the 
 player hold L1 and tap triangle for first person and a closer look. Also the mechanics of moving 
 left and right while in first person is easier also by using the d-pad insted of R2 or L2. CQC 
 is also a lot easier although it could be tedious at times when you're trying to use a specific 
 move. There are also many more different techniques you can now use rather than the traditional 
 "throw down", "chokehold", and "throat slit", and "hostage taking". The "hostage taking" technique 
 along with shooting while in that position is 1000X easier this time around. Getting back on topic, 
 Snake can now grab while crouching, grab from the front with out a throw down (although you can 
 still do this) , roll over his foe and put him in a chokehold on the ground without noise made, 
 and throw down an enemy with his rifle equipped this time around. Overall the controls are fluent, 
 but need some time to perfect as I found it pretty hard in the beggining. The enemy AI are the 
 smartest this time around and they can be pests while in Alert mode, but that adds to the 'realistic' 
 factor of the game. The bosses are more challenging this time around and their characters are well 
 done. The best part of the gameplay is being able to side with the rebels to take on the PMCs and 
 it'll also make your sneaking easier, because the more you help the rebels, they'll see you as 
 an ally and won't attack.
  
  The soundtrack is the best of any MGS game (although MGS1 has the most classic tracks) and the 
 Ipod adds to the great soundtrack by bringing back tracks from previous games. For example "The 
 Best is Yet to Come" from MGS1 is one of the tracks you can find for the Ipod. There are hidden 
 tracks throughout every "stage" in the game the more you get, the more it will make the MGS gaming 
 experiance better. The tracks are mostly there to bring back good memories as this will be the 
 last MGS game to feature Solid Snake. It's a great addition to the game, but the tracks aren't 
 just there for listening pleasure, but in certain situations, certain songs wil have a positive 
 effect on Snake when they are played. For example when a certain song is played in a certain situation 
 Snake's Psyche meter may go up fatser than usual or his life will go up faster than usual. A perfect 
 soundtrack to any game.
  
  Last but not least is the online mode. In my opinion I think it's twenty times better than Call 
 of Duty 4's online and i have both games. The gameplay is less restricted and it's just amazing 
 with the addition of the SOP system and the Drebin Points make it an instant classic. everything 
 is fluent and I've rarly been in games where the connection hasn't been stable so that's great. 
 Also the Online will come with updates such as new maps and such, Right now it's limited but still 
 great. Any fan of online gaming should pick this game up and play it.
  
  Overall the graphics are incredible, the storyline will you leave heartfelt, shocked and adrenaline-charged. 
 It's a perfect ending to any game game series and it will be in my heart as well as many others. 
 Snake puts on a dedicated performance and will not rest once his business with Liquid has been 
 concluded. Plus since he's old due to accelerated aging he'll be feeling the side effects in battle 
 which make the player pay more attention to Snake this time around. All characters put on an outstanding 
 performance and this game will be regarded as one of the best games ever made..... period!
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: sammyk35
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 7, 2008 7:48 am PT
Review:  MGS4 is a wonderful game. It blends a great story with great gameplay. Although some of the cutscenes 
 can be quite lengthy at times, this is something that is not new to the MGS series. With out diving 
 into too much detail and giving anything away; the game brings back plenty of memories from the 
 original MGS on the PS1. The graphics are excellent. The sounds are authentic. The gameplay is 
 great. The online component is good. The story line is well done. The only reason it doesn't get 
 a ten is because I beleive the cutscenes outweighed the gameplay 60/40. It should have been the 
 other way around. Otherwise this is a great game and should be played by all more than once.
  
  For the record the original MGS was better than this one. It had more gameplay than this one 
 did. Also I wish they brought back the virtual missions! They were great! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nyc_hunter
Rating: 8
Date: Jul 7, 2008 7:43 am PT
Review:  From all the 10/10 reviews of this game, it seems that all along gamers just wanted hours of badly 
 written soap-operas in their games and less actual game play. Who would have known?
  
  I find this scary - are there now going to be "cut-scene wars"? If you thought the possibility 
 of the war-economy injecting nano-technology into our bloodstream to control our minds was keeping 
 you up at night - you ain't seen nothin' yet!
  
  If the cut scenes were a movie - the audience would walk out of the theater. Period. The reviews 
 I read make excuses because it's a video game, and tend to use words like "artistic expression" 
 a lot. Let's get a grip, shall we - and then lets disarm and throw that idea to the ground just 
 like Snake.
  
  Here is my beef - at a time when a game (HALO) outsells a blockbuster (SPIDERMAN) on its opening 
 video game no longer have an excuse. They absolutely should employ the best screenwriters in the 
 business - no - the best TEAM of screen writers for every big budget title that comes out such 
 as MGS4. 
  
  Now - THANKFULLY - you can simply hit start, and skip... start.. skip. But not me. I watched every 
 second of every cut-scene... and I want those hours of my life back. I suggest for those who are 
 going to play, as soon as you start feeling like wincing, vomiting, or just banging your head against 
 any solid surface, just hit "start... skip". Just do it, don't be fooled into thinking you will 
 miss something. There is not one cut scene in this game that is a "must see". You will not miss 
 anything. Let's be clear - the voice acting is very well done, and the actors deserve credit... 
 but the writing is grotesquely painful. 
  
  OK, can we finally get to the game play? It's deep. You probably end up with one of the most diverse 
 array of weapons outside of "Ratchet and Clank" (heh, heh) in any game. Which is a little weird 
 since mastery of this game involves stealth. But thats OK, because the stealth play is deep as 
 well. You can grab, take down, tranquilize, flip face down, shock knife, disarm, knock out, throught 
 slit, gun butt, roll... phew, even more stuff I'm not sure how to explain in words. Let's just say 
 it beats the Call of Duty 4 "instant knife kill while running"... 
  
  So you got some cool game play mechanisms. You also got your octo-camo suit, the alert system and 
 other stealth mechanics. Problem is, you don't really get a nice chance to maybe replay sections 
 to perfect your "craft" because of the whole cut-scene mentality. It feels too much like a really 
 bad movie with a few game moments interspersed. You never get the feel of developing your skills 
 through game play. It almost brings a tear to my eye thinking about it - Otacon, sniff, are you 
 crying with me on this?
  
  The boss battles are also very nice, although I hated the VAMP boss battle - it felt like an old 
 boss battle from a weak title, and I don't mean that in any nostalgic way. They were a lot like 
 a Silent Hill, Resident Evil feel, the survival horror mixed in with your ridiculous arsenal of 
 combat weapons. 
  Again - how about giving us about 3 more boss battles or even a few more mini bosses instead of 
 the cut scenes. 
  
  Finally, if you have ever played the split screen co-op levels of "James Bond - Everything or Nothing" 
 - you would know that stealth co-op rocks. Basically it comes down to a series of situations where 
 you and your partner have to do syncronized stealth take-downs, and that's just fun. ANd since 
 I invokes the "Everything or Nothing..." title, that game is a good example of well written and 
 acted cut scenes... if you could combine the refined game mechanics of MGS4 with THAT screen play, 
 THEN you got your 10-10. 
  
  So - don't be afraid to skip the cut scenes... and for you game designers, spend time on the game 
 mechanics and don't get over indulgent on your "artistic vision" - the art is in those GAMING moments. 
 MGS4 has those gaming moments... it unfortunately missed an opportunity for real LASTING greatness. 
 
  
  I can't give this game anything less than an 8/10, it has 10/10 moments, but the producers EGO 
 deserves a 3/10 and I hope the gaming community will come to its senses and demand tightly produced 
 stories and cut-scenes in the future.
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: jcajberger
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 6, 2008 4:44 pm PT
Review:  I really wish I could have given this game a perfect score. So many things were done sooo right, 
 but in the end, I am stuck with a 9 out of 10. My only reason.... I should have been able to play 
 more than I watched. If the game had been 15 - 20 hours long, instead of 9, I could understand 
 the nearly 4 hours of cut scenes. But since I spent nearly as much time watching as I did playing, 
 I have to think that it isnt the "Game of the Year". GTA: IV has set a really high bar for the 
 future of games and I dont think MGS4 has hit the mark. Besides.... WHAT IS THE POINT OF MAKING 
 THE GAME ON BLU-RAY AND STILL ONLY BE 9 HOURS LONG!!! .. hmmm... excuse me.... sorry to yell, but 
 I am a little tired of hearing from Sony Fanboys that certain games are being restricted because 
 of Microsoft still only being able of having games on regular DVD's. Just goes to show that gaming 
 shouldnt be about the system, but about the games. Just say No to Fanboyism. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jedi_Master1121
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 6, 2008 3:31 pm PT
Review:  Let me be the first to say im sadden by the retirement of the creator of Metal Gear games and congrats 
 on the wonderful 20 years of games they had us gamers buy which was well worth all the money from 
 our pockets.
  
  
  About the game goes into great detail in story mode. brought back some Metal Gear momments from 
 the first one ever made to the portal ops game. The acting and scenes are intense it got me crying 
 in one part when i thought Snake was going to die. I hope someday a good writter comes and makes 
 a movie out of this game and NOT SCREW IT UP. If you are a Metal Gear Fan you will come to tears 
 in the middle and ending of this game i promise you that much.
  
  
  The grahpics are amazing and the bosses are amazing to fight. Alot of surpises from this game from 
 story to controling Rex is bad ass. This has to be the first game in a LONG TIME to be worth every 
 penny that its worth. great closure to end one of the best games in history of gaming but this 
 game is the best game made in Gaming history PERIOD tops Halo, Gears Of War, Twisted Metal, Mario 
 i can keep going. BUY THIS game its a 10 in my eyes 
::::::

::::::
UserName: HE4D_HUNTER
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 6, 2008 12:43 pm PT
Review:  Sony is going through rough times, falling behind microsoft, things being delayed, etc. Im a sony 
 fanboy through and through but to be honest i was actualy begining to loose faith. But, and its 
 a collossal but, a magic little man brought out a so called final sequal of a superb series. 
 
  Hideo Kojima has threw a life line for Sony, and foogle me he's done it well.
  
  Story
  As well all know the MG series is one of the most fasinating (confusing) stories of all time, but 
 none have done it so amazingly well, with hollywood cinimatics, and great charaters. This is interactive 
 story telling at its all time high. Perfection.
  
  Gameplay
  Metal Gear Solids in the past have been labeled in the past as some of the most frustrating, fiddlely 
 and hair pulling games of the consol world. It is clear that Hideo Kojima has listened to the community 
 and fixed these problems, splitting up stealth with straight up gun and run action, Then you'll 
 have to put up with a hour long cutscene, but there that gorgeous you just dont care. And by the 
 way all cutscenes are rendered in the engine which is an achievement its self.
  
  Ending
  Superb final level, im nt going to say to much cause i dont wana give out any spoilers but i'll 
 give you a tip, dont give up. And use CQC lol. But massive long ending squence, closes off any 
 loose ends, huge twist and just an enjoyable experience. I could of even shed a tear but im hard 
 ya see (lol) . Its made me fall in love with the metal gear series again, and evn i could say fall 
 in love with gaming again.
  
  They say its the last in the series, i most definate hope not. Thank you Mr. Kojima, snake we're 
 all gna miss ya lol. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sigowland
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 6, 2008 12:15 pm PT
Review:  Metal Gear Solid has never been just a game. From the very installment on the PS1 we were presented 
 with what felt like a movie. With 2 more games produced over the years on the playstation 2 you 
 were always left afterwards feelin that you had taken part in an absolute classic. You also asked 
 the question as to how on earth could you top that?
  Now that Metal Gear Solid 4 has been released the only thing I can say is WOW!! Once the final 
 cut scene has finished and you see you completion time you don't think, why have I used a day of 
 my life on this? You feel that you want to go again because this is game making at the highest 
 level. Yes there are lots of cut scenes but the gameplay makes up for that and there isnt a cut 
 scene you want to skip because once you start the game. You are hooked! Fans of the series will 
 feel as though this is the best in the series and a very well desrved break for Snake is the perfect 
 send off.
  You must own this game!! That's all that can be said because if you miss this gaming perfection, 
 you shouldn't be playing computer games at all. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: HitmansBullet
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 27, 2008 2:01 pm PT
Review:  Though this is a sneaking game you have the freedom to either shoot you`re way through or test 
 your skills with The Boss Extreme Difficulty.
  It might not be as good for newcomers to the series, but a suberb ending for the Metal Gear Solid 
 series for the fans. But with that said this game is in no way trying to get more fans, It easily 
 takes a big risk at following up and ending the story of Solid Snake. 
  Not to many games do this, like Insomniac last attempt at Ratchet and Clank which had nothing to 
 do with the prequels what-so-ever. 
  But this is not a bad thing. (The Essential Collection features almost all the prequels anyway) 
 so you have not to much to complain about. 
  
  It seems like this is a rare game. A game that comes once a year which is different from the other 
 video games out there. Nowadays it seems like its to less originality out there. And then this 
 game is a great change. 
  The graphics is may I say solid, and though some scenes are a little weird or in worst case shocking 
 Kojima has done everything right here. 
  
  Metal Gear Solid 4: Guns Of The Patriots isn`t the best game out there, but the best of its kind. 
 If you have gone sick about Splinter Cell and looking for some more originality, this game is strongly 
 recommended. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NorkNUt
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 6, 2008 1:54 am PT
Review:  This game is flawless, keeping u at the end of your seat through-out the whole game. amazing graphics, 
 gameplay, and cinematics make this game one of the best games ever made. Many surprizing events 
 happen keeping u tuned into the game making u not wanting to stop playing. Boss fights are spectacular 
 and take a great deal of time making them awsome. this story plays through a solid 20 hours, even 
 though it does not seem long enough... u just wanna keep playing the story, and hoping it never 
 ends. For those people that say "its more a movie then a game" is wrong, there is a perfect mixture 
 of gaming and watching, and also in my opinion the cinematics make the game experience a whole 
 lot better. To top it off, this game has very good online play, with the basic matchs and more, 
 and guns u can find in the story. This game is a great end to an amazing seriesm and is must buy 
 for any ps3 owners out there! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mfouad
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 6, 2008 1:44 am PT
Review:  I set out to play Metal Gear 4 scared. I am very happy to say that all of my fears were unwarranted 
 and this is the game that 3 should have been. It is great to go back to basics, and play a true 
 sequel to the original.
  
  The graphics are amazing, the realism of the world is fantastic, something as subtle as bumping 
 a discarded Soda can feels realistic and subtle, you have to really watch the world more so than 
 in any previous game. The annoying MGS3 content has been removed, no more eating snakes (WTF right?) 
 and no more collecting Camo, the system does all that for you and lets you focus on enjoying sneaking 
 around.
  
  I don't want to give away the story... but... WOW. Everyone I wanted to see makes a visit and you 
 really get a sense of closure. Given how many other series' have disappointed long standing fans, 
 I was very pleased that this wasn't just another MGS3 and that we were given the game we had been 
 asking for. I look forward to the next installment in this franchise, Snake or no Snake.
  
  Very very satisfied.
  
    
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lord_Kantor
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 17, 2008 6:11 am PT
Review:  I will start by saying that I have never played an MGS game before.
  
  But, of course, this game having a Gamespot and IGN 10/10, I decided I had to try it. And I'm glad 
 I did.
  
  This game has:
  -Some of the best graphics in gaming history
  -Some of the best voice acting in gaming history
  -One of the best sounstracks in gaming history
 
  -The best stealth mechanics in gaming history
  -Pretty much the best shooting in a non-shooter in history.
  -Some of the best storytelling in 
 a video game.
  
  It is the year 2014. You play as Solid Snake, a rapidly aging legendary mercenary, hired to assassinate 
 Liquid Ocelot- a fusion of your twin and a Russian triple agent. To do this, you go through five 
 wildly different 'acts' each located in different parts of the world. Unlike many of today's games, 
 these levels are not identical copies of each other with tweaked buildings, they are different. 
 There is a desert, a jungle, a city and two other places that I'm not going to mention because 
 they are semi-spoilers.
  
  The most amazing thing about MGS4 is the attention to detail. The way Snake climbs stairs and picks 
 over bodies, the way the guards act puzzled after thinking they have seen Snake, every texture 
 of every building of every level looks like it has been done with care. Kojima took no shortcuts 
 here.
  
  It even has online (which is pretty good but overshadowed by the incredible single player) .
  
 
  There are a solid 6 hours of cutscene, but think of it like watching a movie (better than most 
 of today's films) while there are a good 8 hours of gameplay in one playthrough. You'll almost 
 certainly be coming back for seconds, if not thirds, fourths and fifths (I am personally on act 
 2 of playthrough three) .
  
  If you have liked any or all of the MGS games, you should have this already, even if it means buying 
 a console. If you have a PS3, there is no reason for you to not own this. It is, frankly, the best 
 combination of graphics, gameplay, storytelling, sound and just outright fun released in years. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: anewperfectday
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 5, 2008 9:29 pm PT
Review:  Let's start off with the fact that I only played the intro of MGS2 and haven't hung around the 
 Metal Gear Solid series. But the playing MGS4 completely overwhelmed me with it's greatness. Let's 
 face it.. eating a cup of noodles.. killing a few people while listening to an ipod.. very stealthy 
 tactics such as camouflage.. playboy even! Oh and don't forget using the camera if ya get what I 
 mean.
  
  Storyline: Superb! Nothing else needed! A very rich storyline to draw even the players who are 
 unfamiliar with MGS series. Playing as the protagonist, Solid Snake, you're once again summoned 
 for one last mission to stop the evils of the world, or at least the evils that were derived from 
 the MGS series. The cutscenes were enough to start a motion picture, good enough to not get lost, 
 and greatly designed for newcomers. The ending was pretty climatic, ending with satisfaction to 
 my standards. Even tossed in some humor to keep MGS4 points up high.
  
  There are so many features and extra stuff to explore and to have a great time with. This, in my 
 opinion, is a well thought out game that Hideo have produced as well as nearly maximizing the blueray 
 space to their advantage. This game is very powerful as it draws emotions, tension, feelings, and 
 the player into the game resulting in a nearly perfect score. I gave it a 10, of course.
  
  The graphics are unbelievable! 
  
  So much content in this blueray disc. And to top it off, 
 a free downloadable add on to learn about the entire series of Metal Gear.
  
  Do not pass up this game and don't dwell around the hype of this game. You'll only be raising your 
 standards and will be entering this game with biases and doubts. Do not pass up this game. I have 
 a sudden urge to play the entire MGS collection due to the fact, that this is the best game I've 
 ever played..
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: pandadude01
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 5, 2008 7:44 pm PT
Review:  Although Metal Gear Solid 4: Guns of the Patriots introduces a variety of new ways to kill your 
 enemies, at heart, it's still the same game it's always been. The gameplay has been tightened up 
 and vastly improved, but underneath that, all that gamers have come to expect from the Metal Gear 
 Solid series remains. Convoluted plot lines, unbelievable twists, out of this world characters 
 and nanomachines are all still present in MGS4. Despite being fundamentally the same as its predecessors, 
 MGS4 gets my vote for being the best in the series. 
  
  As pretty much everybody knows by this stage, MGS4 will be the last Metal Gear game to feature 
 Solid Snake. For most other game characters, this may not necessarily be that big a deal, but for 
 Solid Snake it is. To many gamers, even those who have never touched a Metal Gear game, he has 
 become something like a legend  a feat he has achieved independent of each Metal Gear instalments'' 
 insistence that he is a legend of the battlefield. This comes from being the lead character of 
 a highly acclaimed series which, at this stage, has spanned a good twenty years. In that context, 
 it is quite saddening that MGS4 will be the final chapter in his life within gaming. Luckily, Hideo 
 Kojima has provided Snake with a fitting end to his career which makes MGS4 close to being perfect, 
 at least for fans of the series.
  
  Unlike nearly every game out there, the strength of MGS4 is not the game per se. Instead, one gets 
 the feeling that the majority of the emphasis is placed on the story. Although, by this stage in 
 the series, that should be expected. Also as in previous Metal Gear games, the plot is as convoluted 
 as ever, with more twists in it than the wiring shoved behind your TV stand. The script, at times, 
 is poor. In fact it can get so over the top and melodramatic, that even the biggest Metal Gear 
 fan will probably wish they had employed at least one decent editor. That said, most of the time, 
 the unnecessarily dramatic script fits the unnecessarily dramatic story and cut scenes, so maybe 
 there was no editor for a reason. Nearly every character who means anything in the MGS universe 
 makes an appearance in MGS4, except those who are dead. Actually, even some of them have been thrown 
 into the mix somewhere. 
  
  If you hadn't already noticed, much of what drives the story, and the manner in which it is driven, 
 hasn't changed in MGS4 compared to any of the older games. Perhaps the biggest change is that the 
 codec conversations have been scaled back considerably. Gone are the boring codec conversations 
 that last forever, serving to tell the player of a secret society of some sort. Instead, much more 
 of the story is told via cut scenes. For a game with such high production values and a unique cinematic 
 feel, thus undoubtedly works to the games favour.
  
  As already mentioned, a number of the series' better known characters reappear in MGS4. Obviously 
 those include Solid Snake, Otacon, the Colonel and Ocelot, but there are also others who are still 
 alive and need to have their stories concluded. Characters such as Meryl, Raiden and Vamp fall 
 into this category. There are a number of others, but to say who might be to give away some of 
 the more interesting plot twists of the game. Perhaps the biggest surprise in terms of the characters 
 is that Raiden is actually a pretty cool character this time round. Gone are his feminine looks 
 and tight fitting 'sneaking suit.' Instead, he sports a distinctly 'ninja' looking outfit, complete 
 with sword and a futuristic looking helmet thing. Other characters don't feel like they fit in 
 quite as well as Raiden, unfortunately. As mentioned, pretty much all characters still alive appear 
 and this makes for some fairly odd moments where, even by Metal Gear standards, it just feels like 
 they shouldn't be there. They just don't fit in with the context of when they're introduced into 
 MGS4. Ultimately, it's hard to shake the feeling that Kojima chose to put them in just to keep 
 fans happy. I'm trying to talk around specifics here so as not to spoil the game, but once you 
 play these parts of the game, what I'm getting at should become a little bit clearer [hopefully] .
 
  
  So the story is still as prominent as ever? Yes. But if this isn't your cup of tea, don't despair 
 just yet, as the gameplay in MGS4 is easily the best in any Metal Gear game to date. One of my 
 biggest criticisms of the past games, especially Snake Eater, was the camera. Its fixed position 
 made it unnecessarily difficult to see your surroundings. Sure, Naked Snake was missing an eye 
 but I'm pretty sure that doesn't stop you from, say, looking in more than one direction. Luckily, 
 this has been remedied in MGS4. The camera, like most conventional third person shooters, can be 
 controlled with the right analogue stick. The camouflage is also much better than on previous games. 
 Yes, I'm looking at you MGS3. Whereas before, crawling from one shade of grey to another required 
 a laborious trek through multi-layered menus just to change your face paint, Kojima has thankfully 
 implemented a more adaptable camouflage system in MGS4, whereby the 'Octocamo' suit automatically 
 adapts to your surroundings.
  
  As for the actual gameplay of killing people, there is not as much tactical espionage in MGS4. 
 It's actually quite easy to run n gun your way through, although you can maintain stealth if preferred. 
 In the first two locations, different factions will be fighting each other. This adds an interesting 
 gameplay dynamic because you now must evade two sets of guards or at least ally yourself with one 
 of them. This is undoubtedly MGS4's best new feature, and if the story hasn't drawn you into the 
 series thus far, this might. Or it might not since it suddenly disappears about half way though 
 the game never to return. At this point, the game becomes very story driven. In other words, the 
 new promise that MGS4 exhibits towards the beginning, is extinguished by the time you reach the 
 half way mark.
  
  To start with, this is a shame. The first level without two factions is easily the worst in the 
 game. Firstly, you do hardly any playing in this area, and when you do play, it isn't exactly riveting 
 stuff. If you hadn't guessed, this is where non-MGS fans will lose interest and realise why they 
 don't like MGS. On the other hand, MGS fans will be happy for a return to normalcy, having enjoyed 
 the variety in the first half of the game. Despite the lack of actual playing in the second half, 
 fans will probably enjoy this part more, due largely to the locations and characters.
  
  Based on this, I think it's a fair judgement to say that MGS4 is for fans of MGS. If you're not, 
 don't bother. The gameplay is sufficiently unique to be fun for the first 8 hours of play, but 
 thereafter you may as well go watch a conspiracy theory movie, complete with UFO's and New World 
 Orders.
  This leads me to a dilemma. How do you score a game which one group of people will despise, whilst 
 another group will adore it? I'll let you come to your own conclusion on that one, but in answer 
 to my own semi-rhetorical question, my solution is to give two scores.
  
  Presentation: 10/10
  Gameplay: 9/10
  Story: 9.5/10
  Longevity: 9/10
  
  Overall (for fans) : 
 10/10
  Overall (for non-fans) : 8/10
  
  
  Oh and there's also this thing called Metal Gear Online which isn't that good. Every aspect of 
 it feels like it came from the local discount store  it gets the job done, and that's about it. 
 If MGO were to be summed up in one word, it would be 'mediocre.' Honestly, there are better online 
 games out there. I also got turned off straight away by the signing in process, which require registration 
 on Konami's website and obtaining TWO login ID's between which you'll get confused in about 120 
 seconds. That MGO is little more than a money grabbing exercise by Konami is pretty obvious too. 
 You can't have more than one account per PS3 without paying. You can't even change you one characters 
 facial features without being charged. Altogether, not very good.
  MGO: 6.5/10
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: -shmelo-
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 5, 2008 6:08 pm PT
Review:  Never played a previous Metal Gear game, I had a vague idea what was in store and that this game 
 changed some mechanics in the series. I expected some long cut scenes and emotional dialog. However 
 once the game placed me into some real game time I was pleasantly surprised as the cut scene flawlessly 
 turned into game play.
  
  Its no surprise in the story, Liquid is up to no good and Old Snake is the only soldier able to 
 stop him. Character twists and fantastic locations with allies shifting sides and deep conversations 
 that are incomprehensible. The story is not bad, after a while you begin to feel the connections 
 and emotions of each character and when it seems some are going to die, you actually do care whether 
 or not they live. The story is a huge part of this game since it mostly delivers a story more so 
 than game play. However much of this economic based "proxy" war "mumbo jumbo" is incomprehensible 
 and you'll find yourself tuning out of the long strenuous cut scenes. The graphics are fantastic 
 and the voice acting and animation and the dialog, don't get me wrong, however when getting down 
 to video game business cut scenes should set up the game play ahead giving the player a mild dose 
 of story to keep them compelled. Anything above that and the player begins to drown amongst useless 
 thoughts so by the time game time comes around its hard to imagine. Again, thats not to say cut 
 scenes are bad. However most of the cut scenes I found were absolutely unnecessary, yet a few of 
 them that were fight sequences were really cool, and I'll be watching them again in the extras.
 
  
  I don't want to divulge too many names here or any real plot items, since for many this game is 
 about story and I would not like to ruin anything for anyone. It seems though in terms of an artistic 
 point of view, Hideo went all out film maker on the cut scenes, and sort of mildly set up the game. 
 I despise artsy films, as they seem too pretentious, and many cut scenes seemed to pretentious.
 
  
  The game play on the other hand is bittersweet. On the one hand, the camo is really cool and so 
 is the gun blazing action. Actually, controls are nice (mildly confusing when going into first 
 person aiming) but very crammed in, theres lots for Snake to do and it gets clustered. This barely 
 detracts from the game, I'm only nit picking to really be brutally honest about this game, since 
 everyone else is going gaga over it. Its impressive, not perfect.
  
  The main problem with the game play is that its short and between long cut scenes; and there is 
 not much challenge, all you have to do is reach the next point that starts a cut scene, so you 
 can just run through.
  
  The boss battles are on par, more so dragged out normal enemies that flail stuff or shoot more 
 stuff then normal enemies. The only thing that prolongs game play is your own stealth discretion; 
 you can drag out the game as long as you want.
  
  Music score was good, but needed in many instances of stealthy actions, where there was no music.
 
  
  The weapon system with "dude that sells weapons" is very good; difficult to master and difficult 
 to use, but once you get the hang of it, it's nice. I found that when a boss came around, I just 
 bought like 10 missiles for the RPG then proceeded to blow them to smithereens. 
  
  After completing the single player (or to take a break) theres some nice multi-player icing on 
 top of the cake that is MGS4. It is not bad not terrible, but also to be blunt not fun. Its the 
 same mechanics as the single player but with humans, so we think faster than the game can which 
 causes a massive cluster f*** of you dying and super duper fantastic players hogging points. No 
 points for kill assists either, which sucks because theres such a small number of players in a 
 condense area that everyone is killing everyone constantly but it just does not feel fun because 
 there is supposed to be stealth and strategy. Then they place porno mags down and you stare at 
 them and die, its funny but annoying. Of course if you get stunned you have to waggle the stick 
 for half an hour. Which sucks. I think I played MGO for a few days, and decided to stick with World 
 of Warcraft and Call of Duty 4 for my online fix.
  
  I mean overall, I'm trying to say that the superb production value of this game does not over compensate 
 the issues that detract from the over all game experience. I will not dock marks for the online, 
 because thats an extra they did not even have to put in; although now they want to cash in with 
 micro transactions... fine, with micro transactions I will dock. I hate to be a negative Nancy 
 or a downer Debbie and a bit of a bitter Betty here, but someone has to spoil the parade that is 
 compliments for Metal Gear Solid 4. Buy it. I got the Limited Edition, I love the game (not the 
 online) . But it is far from being a perfect game. Many argue the perfect score, but to me a perfect 
 score represents the developers attention to every detail in a game to produce a flawless work 
 of art that fluently transcends story and game play above all else. Plus I'm starting a whole really, 
 brutal reviews thing like I did with World of Warcraft. Which thus concluding, Metal Gear Solid 
 4 receives this score for a job well done, and the apple of the Playstation 3's eye.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: GearsOfWarLover
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 5, 2008 5:54 pm PT
Review:  I have played Metal gear solid two and three and i have to say both of them combined is still not 
 what i feel about Metal gear solid 4. Right now i have to say theres a LOT of story telling from 
 beginning to the end but most cut scenes aren't boring to watch. Act 1 is my favorite because its 
 in the middle east and theres a lot of activity going on around you and you can tell Hideo Kojima 
 put the 50gb to good use. Act 2 is just as good as the first and it introduces the cool cyborg 
 ninja raiden who is now a baddass. Act three has a lot of storytelling and i have to say is the 
 weakest point of the game IMO. I hate following that guy after the third time completing the game. 
 Act 4 is fun and is the hardest when your trying to achieve the emblem of not getting alerts so 
 there a challenge there. Act 5 takes is the grand finale to the game and the epic scene of Old 
 snake and liquid is just so damn cool. So thats pretty much it I had fun with the single player 
 and i am on my fourth play trough 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jmesser_813
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 5, 2008 11:24 am PT
Review:  This game is a very good game with a great story, but it only took 3 days for me to beat. Not worth 
 the money for being so short. Cut scenes take up almost a third of the the game time it seems like. 
 But, as always the story is excellent. I am not happy that this is the last game of the series. 
 THIS IS MY FAVORITE SERIES. Hopefully another game will be able to compare to this series because 
 I really enjoy playing these.
  
  A cool thing is when you get to go back and play MGS1 and stuff. Play to the end. It is a very 
 good story.
  
  If you like the MGS games play this one. I play football, baseball, and basketball for my high 
 school, but I still beat it in only 3 days. everyone should play this game. You will enjoy this 
 game.
  
  Don't think this game is bad by reading everyones' reviews. This game is still very good and worth 
 buying. Do not me misguide you to not thinking this is a great game. I am rating it a 9.5, so it 
 is pretty good. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bartheijt
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 5, 2008 5:39 am PT
Review:  First I want to say that I'm nog really a Metal Gear Solid fan. I played MGS 3 but I have never 
 played MGS1,2 myself. 
  
  The graphics look really stunning. Everything is very crispy and the textures are sharp. The cut-scenes 
 are all ingame. They only use an extra (camera) blur. All the buildings and environments are verry 
 rich detailed. 
  
  The main thing is that if you bought this game you not only bought a game but also a complete movie. 
 The cutscenes and missionbriefings sometimes last for more than 30 minutes. The storyline is really 
 big. Sometimes I did not understand everything because I haven't played the whole MGS serie, but 
 even with that the storyline is complicated, exciting and detailed enough. I must want people that 
 if you don't like heavy storylines you probably don't like this either.
  
  The game handles quite good. The character "old Snake" does everything what you want him to do. 
 The controls just feel right. Also the works really good. all the guns feel just right. There are 
 many guns in the game. Just try which one you like best. You can play the game 2 ways (and every 
 way between that) . You can sneak through the levels and kill nobody, and nobody knows you were 
 there. Or you can shoot your way trough. I played a way between those both. You can easily anaesthetise 
 the gards, with youre gun, without killing them. This is really effective.
  
  The bossfights are sometimes tricky. Not that they are verry difficult but, you just have to know 
 what you have to do to kill them. The bossfights are all verry different and quite original. And 
 they all have a nice difficulty level. 
  Only the last bossfight I disliked. This boss was ten times harder to beat than any other boss 
 in this game. I felt like it was not quite good balanced. 
  
  The music is verry good. When there is some tension the music begins to play and gives you just 
 that feeling that you're in it. The bullets flying around and the explosions everywhere gives you 
 the feeling that the war is in your own room. I haven't got a surround set so I couldn't test that 
 out. But I think with a surround set the sound gets even better.
  
  Overall: the game feels just right. The grapics are the nicest you can get on your PS3 at the moment. 
 Sound also is good. The gameplay is ofcourse important for a game. The gameplay is verry good you 
 can learn to play the game in half an hour. The storry is the most detailed I have ver seen in 
 a game. Nowadays it is one of the best games on the PS3 money can buy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: okaystick
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 5, 2008 12:24 am PT
Review:  To say that this game is not the best and greatest release for the PS3 would be a despicable lie. 
 The game opens with some of the most impressive graphics to date on any platform with cut-scenes 
 that blend seamlessly with actual game play. It is obvious that this is one of those games that 
 any gamer who started gaming in the 70's and 80's should be proud of. It is almost a struggle to 
 even explain the grand scheme of what this game stands for. In one word, AMAZING. 
  Much of the game is spent watching engrossing cinemas which are very detailed, voice acting being 
 superb, these scenes almost make you feel as if you are watching a movie and not playing the masterpiece 
 that this work of art represents. Each story sequence represents much of what is going on in the 
 actual game play before and after it began. 
  It would be almost impossible to truly explain exactly what this game represents. So I will leave 
 it up to the reader to find out what Old Snake's final battle is. The sound in the game is amazing 
 and the controls are so tight it is almost impossible to complain when you actually lose to AI 
 controlled enemy. Each weapon on the game was tweaked with such perfection that you will want to 
 try each and everyone of them at least once. Not to mention that you can customize them with various 
 parts you find or purchase from Drebin the gun launderer. 
  With several different options for making it through the game, Hideo and Co. did a wonderful job 
 of allowing the sneaking fans to slither there way out of trouble and giving fans of running and 
 gunning the ability to do just that. Of course, if you decide to go to war it will become painfully 
 obvious that this Snake is not quite the same Solid Snake that you are used to. He will even stop 
 in the middle of battle to grab his back if you find yourself side rolling and forward leaping 
 to much. 
  In all of it's greatness the game has only a few very minor tweaks that would have made the phenomenal 
 experience even better. The number one thing would have been to place several of the most intense 
 cinemas in the hands of the gamer if only to expound upon the mesmerising effect MGS4 had at it's 
 finger tips.
  If you are'nt into wonderfully spun stories and lengthy cut scenes than MGS4 is not for you. Yet 
 if you appreciate a wonderful work of art and a experience that will leave wanting more than this 
 stunning game will fit perfectly in your collections of greatest hits. MGS4 is in my opinion the 
 best Next-Gen game across any system. It shows what games are all about, that they are no longer 
 just running and blowing things up, games have evolved into moving art and MGS4 is a prime example 
 of what a seamless blend of art and games should be.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Broly103091
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 4, 2008 9:14 pm PT
Review:  I'll put this blunt and simple, this is the one game that everyone should buy, simply because you 
 get more than your money's worth. The graphics, as always when playing a metal gear game is always 
 that you are in shock and awe of how beautiful the game is. This is the most visually appealing 
 game of the PS3, and that's saying a lot, it even looks better than GTA4. The sound is broken up 
 into 2 parts, music and sound effects, and voice acting: now the music has always been a strong 
 point with MGS, with beautiful scores from Harry Greggson Williams, and this one has the best scores 
 from any medium, t. v., film, or theater, it is just that good. The sound effects are great, as 
 always the ALERT sound that has been made famous in the series, makes a return. And you hear beautifully 
 done sounds throughout the whole game whatever it my be, nothing gets left out, its as if you are 
 right there and you see the action and hear it to make it feel like you are a part of the game. 
 Now for the voice acting. All the voice actors return to reprise their roles as the characters 
 that they have played in the past. The execution of the voice actors: lip syncing, emotion, staying 
 in character, sharing the the same state of mind like loss of breath or feeling of pain, is FLAWLESS! 
 Now i haven't heard anything sound so well since the Tenchi Muyo! OVA's in english and that is 
 saying a lot. Now the controls are very fluent, very simple, and easy to get used to so no problems 
 with that. (not that there was any control problems in any of the previous installments.) The enemies 
 AI is very well done, you don't feel like you're fighting a bunch of bumbling idiots that don't 
 know what they're doing, as always, Kojima has made sure that people actually think like people. 
 They won't fall for the same trick twice, if they fell for it in the first place. Now for the story. 
 What is there to say, everything gets tied up from the last 6 games, Metal Gears 1 and 2, Metal 
 Gear Solid 1, 2, and 3, and portable ops, by tying upplot threads and putting old stories to rest. 
 This is the most rewarding game that I have ever played in my whole life, and if you have the opportunity 
 play it. You will not be disappointed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mathew_vartuli
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 4, 2008 8:02 pm PT
Review:  Metal Gear Solid 4 is arguably one of the best games in the world. This is the reason to have a 
 PS3. MGS4 has a great storyline which ties everything together, and really it's a sad storyline. 
 The way that they have set out the game is amazing. If you like cutscenes, your in for a movie. 
 The cutscenes are up to more than 5 hours put together, but who cares, they look great. If you 
 were to skip the scenes, you wouldn't know what happened, so i suggest you watch them, all. MGS4 
 has great chapters, including boss fights. These fights are amazing and really, it's like you want 
 to play it again and again. The motorcycle chase is extraordinary. It's a great chapter. When you 
 reach the end of the game, when you are in the microwave oven, your emotions start to turn. You 
 start feeling sad for snake and the ending with liquid is not what you would have expected. Instead 
 of guns and bombs, you end ip with a good old fashion brawl. Saying this, it's still one of the 
 best boss fights in the world, bringing emotion to you. This game is amazing and if you dont have 
 it, you have to buy it. ten out of ten! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Symphonycometh
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 7, 2008 1:13 am PT
Review:  Take what you hate from the previous three MGS games and either minamize it or erase it all together. 
 This game changes so much yet keeps the core gameplay the same.
  
  For one thing, this is the only game I've played that made it easier for the casuals as well as 
 make it hard enough not to annoy the hardcore audience, which I can't say the same for Super Smash 
 Bros Brawl.
  
  The game from a graphical and technical standpoint shatters Uncharted's polish with it's own. As 
 any fan of the game can tell you, this game shatters, spits, and laughs at the bar it should've 
 set and made one so high that quite frankly finding a game to compare it graphically and technically 
 is upright impossible right now.
  
  The gameplay is a crossfade of a movie like feel as well as your enhanced stealth or run n' gun 
 route. You can choose to do either one and even choose to not kill the bosses. You'll never play 
 the same way for too long due to all the different events the game has you do. And just like the 
 other 3 games, getting caught will invoke some patience out of you.
  
  And of course, the story is the real meat of the game. Those that have played previous games will 
 find NO problems with the cutscenes and all codac talk has been cut down darastically. You will 
 often find yourself grinding your teeth as the game is just as emotionally draining to watch as 
 the third game. Act 5 is perfect proof of this. The story finally makes sense for the most part 
 and you basically had to have spaced out to be too confused in an area of the story.
  
  However, I am one to usually have a higher score than Gamespot, but this one has been pegged by 
 me .5 from perfection from one key thing:
  
  
  -The music, though good, did not have me searching for the soundtrack as quick as the last two 
 games. Where's my "Yell Dead Cell" type song and of course... The main theme song is near absent 
 for the entire game. Really now, you only hear it at the end.
  
  Overall though, those two reasons are by far no reason for fans of a good story and fans of the 
 series to miss out on. There's plenty to do and the game's sheer ambition topples everything else 
 out thus far. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chazman150
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 4, 2008 1:09 pm PT
Review:  This, in my opinion has to be one of the best games I have ever played. The story is fantastic 
 it ties up all the lose ends of the previous series. (Well most of them) This game can last even 
 after you have completed it, you can replay for the hidden items and badges or simply jump into 
 the online play. The online mode is very good aswell, I had doubts that it wouldn't be that good, 
 but I was wrong. I think everyone who owns a PS3 should buy this game, even if they don't understand 
 what's going on because the gameplay is still amazing and will last you quite a while. I'm still 
 a little upset that this is rumored to be the last Metal Gear with Snake in.
  Anyway, This game, in my opinion sets the standard for next-gen games, both storywise and gameplay 
 wise. Thankyou Kojima Productions for designing an amazing game which shall be rememberd for a 
 very long time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: frank34443
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 4, 2008 12:04 pm PT
Review:  ***SPOILER FREE REVIEW***
  
  Metal Gear Solid marked a new era in console gaming, which changed the industry forever. We were 
 introduced to the stealth action genre, and we have not gone back since. It has been almost 20 
 years since we have been following Solid Snake on his missions, following the insane plot twists, 
 growing closer to the complex characters, and realizing that Metal Gear is more than a game, it 
 is a legend in gaming. Installment after installment in the series, we came closer to figuring 
 out just what is going on. With Metal Gear Solid 4, Kojima wraps up the story of Solid Snake, answers 
 all of your questions, and allows us to control the legendary one man army for one last time, and 
 he couldn't have done a better job.
  Graphics wise, Metal Gear Solid 4 is the best looking console game to date, beating Drake's Fortune, 
 Assassins Creed, and just about every other big name out on consoles to date (after MGS4, Assassins 
 Creed looks "OK") . Just about every scene in the game is rendered in real time with a few exceptions. 
 All 3D models are perfectly rounded off, smooth, and shiny, but at the same time the game manages 
 to keep a very gritty and dark look. The cut scenes are done greatly, with great camera angles, 
 in game cut scene camera zoom control and tons of other little interactive pieces. The game manages 
 to looks like a high end HD movie. Every little detail makes the game that much better, from the 
 sweat on a character's face, to blood pouring out of a wound. In game graphics were also greatly 
 done. Explosions throw dirt at the camera, Snake touches his stiff back every now and then, and 
 everything seems to fall in place with great realism. Graphics wise, it does not get much better 
 than Metal Gear Solid 4.
  Sounds within the game are very realistic, and the work that was put into them is greatly recognizable. 
 You can hear just about everything that moves, every footstep, groan, gun shot, and reload. The 
 list just keeps going on, because there are so many different sounds that the player feels like 
 he or she is in the game, experiencing the fresh air, the muddy ground, or the explosions taking 
 place from a few feet away. The sounds completely suck you into the game, and have great realism 
 to them. Voice acting is also greatly done. Like before, it can sound like it is being over acted 
 every now and then, but everything fits in, and the characters have great chemistry. David Hayter, 
 Quinton Flynn, and all the others do a terrific job in contributing to the amazing game, and to 
 give it an identity. Sound wise, Metal Gear Solid 4 is at the top of the bar.
  Now, graphics and sounds are great, but it does not mean anything if the game is no fun. Not to 
 worry, the game is super fun. The controls have been completely updated, for better or for worse, 
 Americanized. It is much easier to fend off a bunch of enemies, hold your own in a battle, or even 
 sneak by enemies than it was before. Snake also gets tons of gadgets and a great weapon's customization 
 option to make your weapon's as personalized as possible. The game play is extremely open ended, 
 and you can go about doing your mission your own way. It never gets repetitive, and if it does 
 eventually make you bored, MGO will offer you many hours of extra playing time. The feeling of 
 battling with other MGS players is like no other because they know the tricks, they are smarter, 
 and the game in general is extremely addictive. Metal Gear's game play has improved tons, and that 
 is saying a lot because it was already great before.
  In terms of cinematics, Metal Gear Solid is the best game out there. It tells a deep story with 
 deep emphasis on a particular theme, and reveals more and more as you progress. Of course, it would 
 not be a Metal Gear game without its clever humor and plot twists. Long time fans of the series 
 will greatly enjoy these extra details and hidden secrets, but even new comers will find great 
 joy in them. Yes, the cut scenes are long, and yes the story is complicated, but it also has a 
 deep message and meaning, and has something important to tell its gamers.
  If you have played Metal Gear before but did not like it, this will not change your mind, but the 
 fun game play is still worth checking out. If you played Metal gear and became a fan, then you 
 have probably beat it by now. Metal Gear is a potential runner up for game of the year. It is an 
 amazing game in all aspects. It has substance, a deep story, characters that can be related to, 
 and great game play. I fully recommend this game to anyone looking for a nice shooter. Even if 
 you skip the long cut scenes, you will have fun withe the action in the game. The cutting edge 
 graphics, amazing sound effects, and deep story all combine together seamlessly to make a great 
 game to be enjoyed by all.
  
  GFX:10
  SOUND:10
  GAME PLAY:10
  OVERALL: 10
  
  -FRANK B 
::::::

::::::
UserName: foggy08
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 4, 2008 11:30 am PT
Review:  This game is incredible, the graphics are so breathtaking that you may have to go to hospital due 
 to lack of oxygen. The controls are a big improvement to the other games, the story mode is so 
 rewarding and fun, a game that truly harnesses the power of the best next-gen console. Yet with 
 all games come with flaws. Cut scenes vary from 10-60 mins and is a bit much for any gamer, the 
 story is so complex that even Stephen Hawkings would have problems following it, and the very weird 
 opening involving what TV would be like in the future just plain weird. But these are just a bit 
 that all equals up to the metal gear solid huge overblown personalty. Go out and play the game. 
 10 out of 10.
  
  Tips: press X and L1 during cut scene to get Drebin points
  press R2 and L2 to change channel on the TV opening 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hongkingkong
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 4, 2008 3:29 am PT
Review:  I'll make this one quick.
  
  I got this game wanting a good SP experience. Relitively new to the series but i knew the story 
 well enough. Expecting a heavy and wordy game but I am patient enough to sit through and watch 
 them.
  
  Luckily, patience wasn't needed. GS were right! There are just too many points in this game that 
 i went "Oh Snap!" and leapt from my seat. Not only do some scenes impress you for what actually 
 happens, but the way it looks is unlike any game i've seen, and i've played Crysis prefusely (the 
 so called graphical king) .
  
  Its also a great long game, and because its so good you want it to last ages. Just when you think 
 it ends it brings you back in. It ends the series in the best possible way. As far as endings go 
 this is my favourite of any game, movie or book telling a story.
  
  If you are wondering why people like the game so much then buy it, seriously I was pessimistic 
 before but the first ten minutes of the game just shut that little voice in my head right up. Amazing 
 game I'd recommend to any gamer or casual gamer if they value their hobby. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dante1234X
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 4, 2008 2:08 am PT
Review:  From the begining til' the end this game grows on you, there are probably more hours of cutscenes 
 then of gameplay but in this way you'l understand the story better !
  Some of the boss fights are the best in the series, and there are a lot of boss fights in MGS4.
 
  I wont lie to you, I cried at the ending. It's like a movie but an interactive movie.
  I finished it on easy, normal&hard, on the last two I played every second of the game on stealth 
 and on easy I played it more action type.
  Tis game is the best game I've played on a console and on any other platform!!
  If you didn't 
 have played the other Metal Gear games you probably wont understand the story but for the gameplay 
 it's a must have.
  The only bad thing about the game and for the series is probably cause the series will end. {?} 
 
  This GAME is a must have for everyone who own a PS3!!!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: big_smoke_666
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 4, 2008 12:29 am PT
Review:  MGS4: Guns of the Patriots is the final game in the long running and deep Metal Gear Solid series, 
 it is clear Kojima wanted to go out with all guns blazing. The game all up is a masterpiece of 
 epic proportions, you see this from the start. but it isn't just that the graphics are superb, 
 or that the story is incredibly deep, or that unique game play elements combine extremely well 
 together, its the sole fact that all this elements come together seamlessly to completely immerse 
 the player in absolute metal gear bliss.
  
  As is the theme for MGS games the story is amazing and takes the player on a journey. As a byproduct 
 of the fantastic story the characters (both new and old) seem to make a real world connection to 
 the player which allows us to sympathize with them (A prime example is our feelings towards Snake) .
 
  
  As far as free form game play is concerned (game play that lets you do what you want to) MGS4 is 
 packed full of it, in that you have a number of options into how you go about clearing an area 
 for example: you can choose to scout ahead and K. O. enemies with your MK II (a miniature Metal 
 Gear as Otacon calls it) , go ahead and utilize the Octo-Cammo to sneak past undedected, team up 
 with a rebel faction and take out the enemy that way (provided you have the appropriate costume) 
 or just go gung-ho and shoot anything that moves.
  
  finally if you are thinking about purchasing MGS4 first either play the other games in the series 
 as it will enhance your enjoyment of the game aswell as understand it. if buying the games arent 
 an option download the free MGS: encyclopedia from the Playstation Store to understand the story 
 better.
  
  all up this is a must buy it is definatly better than any game out on the PS3 so far. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bstarter29
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 3, 2008 10:29 pm PT
Review:  Upon my third completion of Metal Gear Solid 4, I've firmly come to a most unsatisfying realization, 
 that there will never be another video game like Solid Snake's sendoff. What I mean by that is 
 that never will another game be worthy enough to capture my attention and hold it for an extensive 
 three and a half years. Never will a game send me into an obsession where I detail every trailer 
 and theorize every minute thing that has occurred thus far in the MGS universe. And never will 
 a game be able to surpass the level achievement that Metal Gear Solid 4 has earned. 
  As I am sure you are aware, this is Solid Snake's, the legendary hero, final mission. So, I won't 
 bother boring you with plot details because you've probably heard them over nine thousand times 
 by now. I will tell you this though, everything you've heard about the level of brilliance and 
 the level of quality doesn't even begin to describe it. The greatest story ever told reserves its 
 best chapter for the last. And, I think that is very fitting. Snake is gone after MGS4 and we need 
 an epic story to remember this epic hero by. Kojima delivers on so many levels, and somehow tops 
 all his predecessors in the process. Throughout the narrative, you'll laugh, cry, jump, cheer, 
 and just about any other emotion you have in you. With this title, Hideo leaves Hollywood even 
 farther behind him.
  But, let's not forget, no matter how spectacular a story a may be, without game play, it's an empty 
 shell. There have been many complaints involving Metal Gear and its game play. Well, take your 
 criticisms and throw them in the garbage. Everything has been reworked and redone. Didn't think 
 MGS had enough stealth in it? Well, now it does. With Snake's new OctoCamo suit, he can blend literally 
 into every environment and object he touches. And to add to the suit Snake also has FaceCamo, which 
 blends automatically into the suit, the ability to slow crawl, and slide on his back. In terms 
 of stealth game play, Metal Gear Solid 4 is the new standard. 
  Hey, guess what? MGS4's game play doesn't stop there though. Unbelievably, somehow the game manages 
 to capture an action tone that manages to not only match most games in that department today, but 
 leave them far behind in the process. Snake no longer has a top-down perspective when shooting, 
 but now goes in favor of the currently-beloved over-the-shoulder view. Borrowing from such blockbuster 
 titles as Resident Evil 4, Gears of War, and Grand Theft Auto IV, Metal Gear joins the elite ranks 
 in terms of action game play. Thanks to its extensive library of guns (exceeding 100) and numerous 
 gadgets and explosives, over-the-shoulder shooting, and constant high-tense action on the battlefield, 
 Metal Gear Solid 4 is one, perhaps , the title fans and critics are going to look back on when 
 it comes to judging new action games.
  Enough of game play though, let's move on to the only thing that seems to matter to gamers nowadays, 
 the visuals. How does MGS4 stand up to other games on the market today? Well, aside from Crysis, 
 Metal Gear Solid 4 destroys the competition. Its cinematic presentation is even able to surpass 
 last year's graphics golden boy, Uncharted. MGS4 is the best looking game on consoles to date. 
 Not only does it provide unbelievable visuals in cut-scenes, but in game play as well. The graphics 
 for the cut-scenes use the in-game engine and on moving back and forth between game play and cinematic 
 provides an indistinguishable blend of the two. Yet again, Metal Gear Solid 4 will be used as the 
 benchmark to determine future console games by. This time though, it'll be the graphical department.
 
  Now that we've covered MGS4's story, game play, and graphics, I thought I'd talk about a certain 
 of the game that in most games is usually very lacking or mine as well not even be present. Of 
 course, I'm referring to the musical score of the game. We all know that Metal Gear usually is 
 leagues ahead of the competition in this department. From the beautiful The Best Is Yet To Come 
 by Rika Muranaka, to the cool, slick Snake Eater by Norihiko Hibino, sung by Cynthia Harrell, MGS 
 has always be tops when it comes to music. Its composer, who we must not forget, Harry Gregson-Williams, 
 who worked on MGS2 and MGS3, returns for the final installment, and gives his best performance 
 to date. This soundtrack is, without a doubt, the most stunning, goose-bump inducing thing your 
 ears will ever listen to, at least when it comes to video games. When you listen to slow, haunting 
 Old Snake, or Love Theme, it'll send shivers up and down your spine. When you switch over to say, 
 Gekko, you'll feel a sense of urgency and danger. And when you finally reach 20 Years of Metal 
 Gear, the tears will start to flow as it is able to capture the epic 20-year saga in just over 
 four minutes. No matter your music taste, you'll be able find something to enjoy in this unbelievable 
 play list. 
  No matter how perfect a game may seem though, not a one is without some sort of flaw or defect. 
 MGS4's miscues though are few and far between. First and foremost are the installs. Not only to 
 you have to suffer through the now normal mandatory install every PS3 game seems to suffer from, 
 but you also have to sit through little two-three minute installs in-between each act. MGS4 is 
 split up into 5 acts, so with the mandatory install, you're looking at a total of 5 installs. It 
 doesn't stop there though. You'd think that on your subsequent play-through you wouldn't have to 
 sit through the act installs again, but you do. The only install you have sit through once is the 
 big, 4.6 GB, 8 minute one. 
  The installs are MGS4's Achilles Heel, but they aren't the only problems. Though the game is a 
 graphical masterpiece, the shadows don't always appear to be in the best of shape. There seems 
 to be no anti-aliasing with them, and jaggies are very noticeable when you pay attention. Another 
 negative would be the lack of emphasis on codec conversations. A feature that was very prominent 
 in past games seems to get left to the wayside in favor of just a sleeker, techie aesthetic. Also, 
 the conversations in them have been greatly shortened which should satisfy casual fans, but irk 
 the loyal hardcore base. And one final thing that some people will probably be turned off too, 
 but long-time will love is heavy-handed, convoluted story-telling; the kind that the MGS franchise 
 is best-known for.
  Let's move away from these negatives because in retrospect, they're so small and insignificant 
 that I don't even think they even merit a mention. Honestly, when you view Metal Gear Solid 4 on 
 a large scale, the game is as close to perfection that a video game can possibly achieve. The game 
 really does seem to do everything right and nothing wrong. Thanks to a phenomenal story, stellar 
 presentation, high-octane game play, and an epic score, Metal Gear Solid 4 is without a doubt, 
 the best game so far this generation, and most definitely this year. Throw in a solid multiplayer 
 experience, and a great level of replay value due to costumes, emblems, and an assortment of other 
 Easter eggs, and you have, what could possibly be considered the greatest video game of all-time. 
 
  And I think that's what we do have here. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: saborzero
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 3, 2008 9:16 pm PT
Review:  Well, one of the most highly anticipated games of the year finally came out. It has been a long 
 running series for years and finally, the end has come. It kind of brings a tear to your eye. However 
 not only will tears be shead, but fun will be had. I'm going to start this off by explaining the 
 layout. 
  
  Graphics: Some of the best I've seen from about any game that has come out on this gens consoles. 
 The lighting, the character builds, the weapon detail, everything, was made with gentle care and 
 consideration. It would be hard for anyone to spot a glaring flaw in this game's look. Most likely, 
 the only person that would point one out is someone who is trying to give it a bad view. However 
 anybody who looks at it as it is would completely agree that the graphics are simply stunning.
 
  
  Sound: They did a great job with the sounds in this game. Not ever gun sounds the same, not every 
 footstep on any surface are similar, and the characters all have unique and unforgetable voices. 
 The voice acting is great, as you could expect from the MGS series. Sound wise the game wins as 
 well.
  
  Gameplay: The point of which you pick up the sixaxis/DS3 controller. The controlls seem weird when 
 you first read how they are in the instruction manual. Most would think to themselves, "hey, they 
 ruined the controlls for the game. AND why is X the confirmation button instead of the O button 
 we all know and love?" Well, after about 20 minutes into the game you will forget about the switch 
 in confirm buttons and the controlls will fill just as if you been playing for years. The sneaking 
 is still well into the gameplay but one thing that I don't 100% approve of is how, if you really 
 wanted to, go through some of the game completely run & gun style. However not every part is like 
 that as you will see if you pick the title up. 
  
  Not only is that an issue I found a bit "meh" but I also found little use for the triangle commands 
 against walls. Now what I mean by that is that you would think someone could climb/step over a 
 2-3 foot wall right? WRONG. Snake seems to have trouble climbing in the game which make you facepalm 
 when you are running from enemy pursuit and notice you can't hop that wall you saw down that alley 
 way. Other than those, the gameplay is perfect. 
  
  Story: They finally finished it out. The made sense of most of the questions that were created 
 throughout the series. It will make you laugh, cry, get angry, and at a point wonder why they even 
 added that fix in the story. Still the story remains stable to everything the series was about. 
 I do recommend that the older games are played before playing this one, otherwise you will be quite 
 lost to what is going on. 
  
  Online: Great experience. it's a lot of arguments about how it is played out. All I can say is 
 it plays like the MGS4 regular gameplay. Like all online things, lag occurs sometimes but the game 
 isn't broken by it. But at that point, it's just the thought of dealing with the community that 
 makes the online experience fly or fall. Only thing that Konami could have bettered is character 
 customization. I mean unless you buy (with real money) new clothing, your stuck with the outfit 
 you pick in the beginning so choose well the outfit/color. Not only that but there can only be 
 1 MGO character per PS3 console unless you buy (once again with real money) a new character slot. 
 So if it will be more that one person at home playing MGO, make sure you agree on character look, 
 voice, name, etc, because it's unchangable and you have to share if your not getting a new slot. 
 
  
  Overall: Still one of the greatest games I've ever played in my life. Most people have been calling 
 it a movie because of how long some cutscenes are but if you are a fan of the story or a person 
 with common sense, you would know why it is as long as it is. To finish a series means a lot of 
 explaining and this series had a lot of explaining to do. So I conclude with saying buy the game 
 because it is an experience you don't want to miss. And for those who don't know the story or missed 
 a game, i suggest buying or renting the others before you buy this one. A great addition to the 
 PS3 Game Library no doubt. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sophycles
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 3, 2008 7:00 pm PT
Review:  I've seen a few negative reviews of Metal Gear Solid 4, and they all complain about one thing. 
 "It's not a good shooter." In the first place, MGS4 is not a shooter to begin with, it is - as 
 the box says- a tactical espionage action game. Now to the review.
  
  Graphics: 10/10
  
  Amazing graphics. Can't really explain them in words, so look at screenshots.
  
  Sound/Music: 
 10/10
  
  Brings back old Metal Gear songs on your iPod to listen to while playing, the sound itself is done 
 very well and fits the environments and actions taking place. Only bad music is at the beginning 
 of the credits.
  
  Gameplay: 10/10
  
  You can play this game as a stealth game or run and gun. It supports both playstyles by allowing 
 you to buy new guns and ammunition with Drebin Points. Guns are semi-customizable with silencers, 
 flashlights, laser sights, etc.
  The level of detail is amazing. If you get shot, the blood splatters onto the camera. When you 
 go through a dusty area, the camera gets dusty.
  
  Online: 8.5/10
  
  Not really counting this as part of the game since Metal Gear Online is going to be released solo 
 later on. Nice variety of game modes and customization with your character, but the gameplay is 
 somewhat repetitive.
  
  Overall: 10/10
  
  It is, hands down, the greatest video game ever. I have played through it five times already, gotten 
 my Big Boss ranking, and am finishing up on my emblems. The depth and variety, as well as the replayablity 
 are what makes this game so amazing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dentui
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 3, 2008 6:54 pm PT
Review:  Over the coming weeks people say that MGS4 is in fact a movie. are you mad? if you have ever played 
 a MGS game you would know that they are a cutscene type of game and the reason it is it's because 
 the story is put into play and it is rich storyline other games seek but fail to accomplish. I 
 have been playing Metal Gear games since Metal gear 1 in 1997. have loved everygame Konami/Kojima 
 has made and plan on buying he future ones. This is a very good series to just be trampled by fanboys 
 who come in other game reviews and bash them. 
  
  The Gamplay is user friendly so any new comers can jump in and play with the basic controls. Graphics 
 are an A+ in my book. It has really set the bar higher han any other game. and The fact that people 
 call it a movie kinda makes it a compliment making the graphics look so good. Jokes on you MGS 
 haters. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vanesaceiba79
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 3, 2008 6:03 pm PT
Review:  This game is the real deal, nice story line, tricks and graphics, awesome package. I believe this 
 game is very realistic in most parts, well developed, nicely detailed and goal oriented. You have 
 room to look around and do your own deal but you are following a story line that keeps you interested. 
 The characters are complete from looks to actions. The scenery is very realistic and detailed. 
 With the great job done in the scenery and the graphics you believe you are in the real places 
 they are showing. Impressive job with all the accessories and extras on the game to make it more 
 fun and real. I'm not so sure about the ending but i still think it's a great game. You wont regret 
 owning it!! It gives you a great sense of adventure, drama, tons of action and it makes you feel 
 you really are in the middle of the action. They did an awesome job in this one, the 10.0 score 
 is very well deserved. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: WeaponX23
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 3, 2008 5:30 pm PT
Review:  I loved the story mode, but didn't care too much for the cut scenes... They were very well done, 
 but there were so many and some were very long. After Act 2 I started skipping through most of 
 them. This didn't take away anything from the game play. The best thing about MGS4 is Metal Gear 
 Online. I played through the story mode once and planned on playing through again on a higher difficulty 
 but I fell in love with the multi-player. There are many game types and its easy to join in games. 
 Sneak is like no multi-player game I've ever played. When your lucky enough to play as snake, its 
 a blast using all of his skills to take out the other teams. I don't care too much for regular 
 Death match, because I enjoy the tactics in Team Death match. MGO adds tactics never seen in other 
 multi-player games. Best multi-player game I've ever played, although I've never played COD4... 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: berkeley0
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 3, 2008 7:29 pm PT
Review:  After 20 years of Metal Gear I have finally realized what I was missing out on; Metal Gear Solid 
 4 arrives and it is as splendid and good as it looks, giving Solid Snake the rest he dearly deserved. 
 No other game exceeds in graphics, game play and story telling as MGS4 does so well. It is a pivotal 
 moment in gaming history as Hideo Kojima finishes his final masterpiece; possibly his very best 
 to date. Being an agglomeration of so many varied elements you can't, but become ebullient and 
 excited of everything it has to offer; everything you want it to be.
  
  The game is smart and immersive as it has a wide open freeness to it; the player is allowed to 
 approach the situation any way, by sneaking through missions and using CQC or by playing the game 
 like a shooter; the player chooses how they want to approach the situation. This gives the game 
 more fans with shooters because one can easily shoot their way through the game. No other game 
 provides as much freedom as MGS4 does, its way of letting you complete the mission a different 
 way every time. 
  
  And then there is those players who wish to play the game like a stealth game all the way through. 
 It plays very well sneaking through missions mostly because of the wide array of gadgets the player 
 is given. My favorite gadget, perhaps the best gadget in any game, the octocamo suit which is given 
 at the beginning of the game, takes the appearance of any surface or object that Snake touches. 
 I also liked the Solid Eye which gives you data on enemy PMC's. This is also very useful.
  
  Another handy gadget is the MK II a small robot that Snake controls with his remote and can 
 be used to shock enemy soldiers, or pick up items. It is these aspects of the game that make you 
 realize what you can use to get through a mission. The MK II robot can also turn invisible making 
 it an alternative to getting rid of PMC's rather than having to kill them yourself.
  
  The gun launderer Drebin is also helpful letting you buy and sell weapons. In order to buy weapons 
 you must get Drebin points which can be acquired by killing enemies, watching cut scenes, and various 
 other ways. There is an enormous amount of guns for the player to use and some can be customized 
 to make them even better. For when using the weapon if you add a light to it you will notice it 
 will blind a PMC for a little bit. Adding a suppressor to a gun provides many sneaky kills. If 
 you're a shooter fan this game has plenty of that to offer. 
  
  One of the most impressive aspects of Metal Gear Solid 4 is the psyche meter and how it works with 
 your stress meter. When staying in the sun, in the cold, or involved in a fierce battle with PMC's 
 your stress meter goes up making Snake's aiming goes from perfect to worse; and your health increases 
 slowly instead of fast. This means you have go in the shade or hide from danger in order for your 
 stress level to go down. There is a lot of strategy involved in this and how they came up with 
 it is truly amazing.
  
  The AI is very intelligent and will react if they here noise or go towards you and call for back 
 up; they never stay in the same area for long so you must be quick to get past them. When involved 
 in battles where the militia and PMC's are attacking each other if you shoot the PMC's the militia 
 will respect you and won't shoot at you. 
  
  Even though this is a 10 out of 10 review there are tiny things which would of made the game even 
 better. Perhaps being able to control Raiden during many cut scenes when Snake was on the verge 
 of a precipice. But, maybe I'm too greedy. The cut scenes are long, but they are done in a purely 
 cinematic way that puts many blockbusters out there in the dust. There are a couple of times when 
 the seriousness of the game indulges in levity, but it is done in a very rewarding way. The story 
 was confusing to me for a little bit, but because of the way it was presented, I felt like I had 
 been through everything Snake experienced. I do recommend a little wikipedia as that helped me 
 understand the story a lot more. Another minor annoyance is the loading after each act, but there 
 only 1-3 minutes long and soon you'll come to appreciate them as they will give you much needed 
 breaks and doesn't really interrupt the experience.
  
  The Boss battles in Metal Gear Solid 4 are one of the finest in gaming today, each very unique, 
 and guess what, models were actually used for the Beast Corps Unit, each beast contains its own 
 beauty. The final boss which should be obvious who it is, is very unique, but I myself wish they 
 would of aggrandized it a tad bit, allowing Snake to use more moves perhaps; the game still manages 
 to end with a bang and Snake handles himself with the aplomb of a true hero. 
  
  No wonder this franchise has inspired many fans out there; its simply Metal Gear Solid and no other 
 game can match its style. It provides an entertaining experience that you won't forget for a very 
 long time and it is obvious that this game pushes the system to the limit making many finally realize 
 what true HD gaming was meant to be like. It will easily become an instant classic and will set 
 the bar for the next improvement in gaming. A truly rewarding experience that must be experienced 
 by anyone who truly loves games.
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: sk8oridie44
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 3, 2008 4:59 pm PT
Review:  Sure there are good games for xBox 360, but nothing is as good as MGS4, from my opinion. The story 
 line is just great, just like you were watching a movie. And if you bought the Limited Edition 
 one, it should have come with a CD that just plays the whole entire movie! 
  
  Second of all, I bet people who gave this game a 6 and under owns an xBox and can't afford a PS3, 
 which means can't get MGS4, and thus bad reviews. This game should be 9.9 for user score. Of course 
 no game is perfect, it has it's flaws. This game is worth getting. You know how some games are 
 awesome like Assassin's Creed, but after you finished it, it stays in one corner of your room or 
 wherever you put it, not touching it ever? Well, this isn't one of those. You have cheats where 
 you finish emblems and get special items usable on the enemy, 5 difficulty levels to chose from 
 and lots of fun stuff. 
  
  The only thing about this game is the weapons. How can Old Snake fit all of those weapons in his 
 suit? There are about 7-8 heavy weapons such as an RPG. That part of the game is not realistic, 
 unlike Call of Duty 4. :) Well, I give this a 9.5.
  
  The only reason i put 20 to 40 hours of gameplay is because of the movie, otherwise it's around 
 10 hours. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bluebbo
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 3, 2008 4:29 pm PT
Review:  Many of us throw around the word "epic" in the video game world. If you were never sure what that 
 word meant, just look to MGS 4. MGS 4 in my opinion is the most polished, detailed game I have 
 ever played. Many of the $100 million movies wish and pray they could create the depth and entertainment 
 this game provides. Every moment in the game makes you feel like it's significant, and the attention 
 to detail is unmatched in any game in history, period. Ah, and the music... just perfect. 
  
  Ok, so everyone here is giving this game 10s? Does it deserve it? Does any game really deserve 
 a 10? In my opinion, the answer is no. And so I can't give this game a 10. I really wanted to, 
 but in the end there was a part of me that wouldn't allow it. For one, as amazing the story was, 
 it was just simply too drawn out. The point was that Kojima wanted to clear up and tie up the story, 
 and that's fine, but there were times when the cg was just playing the game for you. I couldn't 
 help wonder how freaakking awesome it would've been if I could fight like Raiden (btw, when this 
 character become so awesome) , or at least fight beside him. Or if I could have played a longer 
 lvl with the metal gear. I feel like there were such awesome moments that could have been played 
 instead of watched. That would have made MGS 4 head and shoulders above any game that came before 
 it.
  
  Even with all of that, the game is the BEST game on PS3. The multiplayer rocks too. I don't understand 
 people saying that multiplayer stinks. It plays just like the single player, and I didn't experience 
 too much lag. And who needs AI when you have actual people to headshot! Because everything is so 
 polished, game feels very complete. This game is absolutely epic on all lvls, and you would be 
 doing urself a disservice not to play it. See you guys online! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thegraver
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 3, 2008 2:36 pm PT
Review:  For me, FF series always had the best stories, but MGS4 totally changed my opinion. MGS4 is the 
 best MGS among all the series. This game came to the market in a way that no one can critisize 
 it. This is the list of things that a gamer want in a game with its ratings in MGS4:
  
  Story: A+
  Graphics: A+
  Gameplay: A+
  Sound: A+
  Music in the game: A+
  
  Usually 
 in every game I can find something that I can talk about which the game lack, but MGS4 is perfect 
 (As I think) . As all MGS you can play in various ways, you can be a spy, you can be a fighter or 
 you can do half from both. The game can be played be any player whether he is a pro or not. A lot 
 of weapons and you also have the chance to customize some of the weapons in a way that fits the 
 purpose you need it for. MGS4 style is a combination of all MGS series but in a smooth way. 
  
  I have played MGS1 while I was 12, and because I'm not a native english I couldn't understand 
 everything back then. Then I played MGS2 in PS2 which I thought back then that it was the worst 
 MGS will be ever released becasue of Raiden. After that MGS3 which wasn't about Snake at all. There 
 was a time were I thought that Metal Gear Solid is becoming a none understandable game which have 
 weak storyline. But MGS4 came to the market (know I'm 22) , and guess what? This game wasn't just 
 like any game, it reminded me when I was 12 playing MGS1, it came to remind and declear eveything 
 that I didn't understand in the past. 
  
  I felt the game while playing, it was playing with my feeling while playing. There is a time were 
 you will feel emotional in the game, because believe me it is not just ANY game, it was a bit of 
 my memories and anyone who played MGS. 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: ANIALATOR136
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 12, 2008 9:45 am PT
Review:  For me, this game pretty much lives up to expectations. It has a brilliant and extremely sad ending 
 to a much loved hero Solid Snake. This game is as close to a film as you can get. It lets out your 
 emotions and involves you more than ever.
  The graphical side is fantastic considering the titles available today.
  Playing in High Definition 
 was great. Deep blacks and vibrant colours.
  Cutscenes take up roughly half the games lifespan and I was rather hoping to play alot longer then 
 I did.
  But this is Snake's last moments and possibly an end to the series so everything needed to be explained.
 
  There is a vast amount of arsenal available. Far more then the past Metal Gears.
  I loved the characters, I thought they really reflected real people.
  
  Even after completing 
 the game there are many collectables just waiting to be tried out and discovered including stealth 
 camo and a variety of special face camo's.
  The online side to me is like marmite. You either l 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Suliman-Uchia
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 3, 2008 10:44 am PT
Review:  
  41 of 52 people found the following review helpful:
  5.0 out of 5 stars "War Has Changed...", June 12, 2008
  By Sean A. Rhodes (Aurora, Colorado) 
 - See all my reviews
  (TOP 500 REVIEWER) 
  Fun:5.0 out of 5 stars
  Pros:
  
  +Very satisfying story
  +Incredible voice work
  +Incredible cinematics
  +Eagle eye attention 
 to detail
  +A lot of gameplay elements
  +Memorable Music Soundtrack
  
  Cons:
  
  
  -Some load times are really annoying
  -The Camera can sometimes be a pain
  
  After three 
 and a half long years of waiting, Metal Gear Solid 4 finally drops down on the Playstation 3. With 
 a lot of questions to answer and some mighty big shoes to fill, Metal Gear Solid 4 is easily one 
 of the most anticipated video games ever made. For the Metal Gear fan, the game is absolutely fantastic. 
 Continuing an already mesmerizing story, Metal Gear Solid 4 proves to be one of this generations 
 greatest games.
  
  Metal Gear Solid 4 is the conclusion to Snake's story. The game is told through some gorgeous cutscenes. 
 There's a lot of detail to the characters faces, their actions and it has some fantastic voice 
 acting to boot. You'll want to grab some popcorn, though, because there are definitely a lot of 
 cutscenes in Metal Gear Solid 4, and some of them are really long. This is easily the biggest problem 
 with Metal Gear Solid 4 and it's one that has often plagued the series. While the cutscenes are 
 very dramatic and well written, and while they even shed some humor, some of them are just too 
 long, some of them seeming almost useless. If a cutscene is getting a little long, though, it would 
 be a grave mistake to skip it as you might miss some important parts of the story. And if there's 
 any Metal Gear Solid game one should be playing for its story, it's this one. The other big problem 
 with the cutscenes is how they come at you, even early on. There are moments where you'll play 
 for a matter of seconds only to be sit through a cutscene that's several minutes long. At the very 
 least, you can pause the game during the cutscenes. However, it's hard to get over the fact that 
 some of them really drag on. When you get to play the game, though, Metal Gear Solid 4 is amazing.
 
  
  Metal Gear Solid has always been about stealth. The same is true of Guns of the Patriots. The difference 
 being that you're also in the middle of a war and there are two sides fighting against one another, 
 the PMCs and Militia. You're able to help the militia and doing so can have its rewards, such as 
 characters being willing to give you items or being able to go through certain areas more easily. 
 Although, you can also turn the Militia against you.
  
  There have been some improvements to sneaking around, though. The camouflage system has returned 
 but it's much better. Rather than having to go into the menu constantly, Snake's camo will change 
 automatically to blend in with the environment and help him evade enemies. You can also hold up 
 enemies just like before, only this time you can perform body searches while holding them up rather 
 than having to shake them down. You can also restrain them to the ground to knock them out. If 
 you really need to get by an enemy and you're running out of options, you can always play dead. 
 This also works when you get spotted and knocked down by an enemy.
  
  There's also the implementation of the Solid Eye. This is more vital to sneaking around than anything. 
 It works very similar to the radar in Metal Gear Solid Portable Ops, showing you how much noise 
 you or your enemy is making. Also new to here is the threat ring. The threat ring surrounds Snake 
 at all times and will begin to act up depending on how close an enemy is to him. All of these seem 
 like they'll take forever to get used to, but you'll quickly adapt. Just like previous games in 
 the series, if you're spotted, you'll have to escape from the enemy and hide.
  
  There are also moments where you can take control of a Metal Gear Mk II, a very small version of 
 Metal Gear that is controlled by Snake. This little guy allows Snake to scout out the area ahead. 
 You can also use the Metal Gear Mk II to stun certain enemies.
  
  Lastly, Snake has a psyche gauge. This is very similar to the stamina gauge in Metal Gear Solid 
 3. The gauge depletes depending on how stressed or exhausted Snake is. You can refill this by eating 
 certain snacks like Rations or Noodles, but you can also refill it by resting for a while. But 
 there are plenty of factors that affect Psyche. For example, if Snake has been in the sun too long, 
 you'll have to move him into the shade. If he's been in cold water, you'll have to get him out 
 of it. As his psyche gauge gets lower it becomes harder for him to perform certain actions, such 
 as being able to aim properly. In other words, from time to time Snake will need to rest. Though 
 there are also certain points in the game where his psyche gauge is restocked automatically.
  
  You won't always be in stealth mode forever, though. There will be times when you have to fight, 
 and the shooting mechanic works much better in Metal Gear Solid 4. When you're thrust into combat, 
 the game plays very similar to a third person shooter. Allowing for more precise aiming and no 
 longer forcing you to go into first person view to land a well placed shot. There's also a weapon 
 shop where you can purchase, upgrade or customize weapons to your liking, another element that 
 works to your liking and gives Metal Gear a lot of customization.
  
  All this variation in gameplay means that Metal Gear Solid 4 has several different ways to approach 
 it. Combine it's various gameplay elements with a selection of difficulty levels to up the challenge, 
 and Metal Gear Solid 4, like the three before it, becomes a game you'll want to replay again and 
 again. Sometimes it's just fun to mess around with your enemies or just to see how else you can 
 go about a certain area.
  
  Metal Gear Solid 4 also goes online, and the online mode is pretty big and exhaustive. Much of 
 it plays like the single player experience. You can go online simply to train or you can for multiplayer 
 experience. The multiplayer is where much of the differences and excitement come into play. There 
 are enough gameplay modes to keep it interesting. There are death matches, missions where you're 
 to protect a certain target as well as sneaking missions. Much of it plays absolutely fine and 
 its fun.
  
  Visually, Metal Gear Solid 4 is incredible to look at. There's a ton of detail in the environment, 
 and the atmosphere is also a good one. You're very much immersed in the world of Metal Gear Solid 
 4. There are a couple of load times that can be annoying, especially the installation. The camera, 
 while it's great, can sometimes be a pain. It's easy to control, but sometimes you'll find yourself 
 fighting with it.
  
  Music wise, there's a memorable score to Metal Gear Solid 4. There's a lot of voice work as well. 
 Much of it is great, although at times you will get the feeling that some of the voice actors and 
 over-acting. On the whole, Metal Gear Solid 4 is a beautiful looking, (and sounding) game.
  
  Metal Gear Solid 4 is an amazing experience. If you can handle lengthy cutscenes you'll be 
 satisfied with the final results. If you can handle a couple of annoying load times, you'll be 
 satisfied. The amount of gameplay here is incredible, and the fact that there are so many ways 
 to go about each area is also a lot of fun. For Metal Gear fans, Metal Gear Solid 4 is easily the 
 reason to own a Playstation 3. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Darkdesires
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 3, 2008 8:15 am PT
Review:  Since the launch of Metal Gear Solid on the ps1 the metal gear franchise has been like an icon 
 in the videogames industry, with Metal Gear Solid 2 and 3 on PS2 showing once again why solid snake 
 its so well known. The three games were fabulous and everybody was waiting for Metal Gear Solid 
 4 to come for a long time, its impressive that the release of Metal Gear Solid 4 its such a big 
 moment! But you can think "damn why? its just another game" its not another game, its another MGS 
 and this one its the best of them all.
  
  Gameplay:
  
  All the cool elements from previous metal gear games are still in metal gear solid 4, but metal 
 gear 4 also let you use more force and have a little more action than previous metal gears. When 
 the alarm sounds there are a lot of places and items where you can hide to let the danger pass. 
 The enemies AI its really impressive and it makes any fight different everytime you play through 
 it. The boss fights are also interesting, specialy the 1st boss fight against laughing octopus. 
 You also have some gameplay in top of a bike and a "tank" like vehicle where you just keep firing 
 and getting enemies off from the top of the "tank". There are lots of features in mgs like the 
 ipod and the new octacon robot that has a lot of features, also the solid eye its a great addition. 
 Everything its solid and works awesome with lots of new things, and the mix of stealth with a bit 
 more action its nice welcome.
  10.
  
  Graphics:
  
  I have never seen something so good in what comes to graphics, honestly its gorgeous and beautiful 
 to look at metal gear solid 4, the game has a lot of cutscenes that looks like they last forever 
 but the interesting thing its that you will just sit down, relax and look at the gorgeous graphics 
 and listen to the amazing history, voice acting of the game. I am not kidding the game really looks 
 good, and the producers know that the game looks great, they let you zoom and look everywhere in 
 cutscenes, you can also change camera sometimes during cutscenes. Sometimes the monitor splits 
 into 2 images, i don't want to give you spoilers but when this happen its really cool because you're 
 playing in one of them and in the other there's a great cutscene or something like that happening.
 
  10.
  
  Lifetime:
  
  Metal Gear Solid 4 takes something like 20-25 hours finishing, its a good lifetime but when you 
 finish you'll say "damn its finished, i want more" and they actually give you more! not more story 
 or something like that but a lot of items that you can use and you can also raise the dificulty 
 level, with the items they give to you each time you end the game and depending on how you end 
 it you'll have reasons to play the game again, and there is also the metal gear online mode that 
 will keep you playing for another long period cause its really fun and cool to play.
  10.
  
  Overall:
  
  I don't have many words to describe metal gear solid 4, its hard to describe 
 such a great game, if you have a ps3 but it no mather what, if you don't have a ps3 than go and 
 purchase one along with mgs4, i'm sure no one will regret 1 sec buying mgs4, and while playing 
 mgs4 you will think "PS3 its worth having just to play this", there are many other reasons but 
 mgs4 its certainly the best reason to have a ps3. Its the best game I have ever played, a masterpiece. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: froggypimper
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 4, 2008 1:32 pm PT
Review:  I have waited and waited and waited and waited 4 answers to unanswered questions in the series. 
 What happened to Olga's daughter? Did Liquid control Ocelet's body 4 good? What happened to Naomi? 
 What happened to Raiden? Why did I see Vamp at the very end of MGS2 in Manhattan? Why was he still 
 livng? Really... who are the patriots? Where's Meryl? What about FoxDie? Was Solidus really finished 
 off 4 good... man there was just too many unanswered questions... AND Metal Gear Solid 3 just brought 
 more questions... What happened to Eva? and I thought there was no way to top 1, 2 or 3... BOY WAS 
 I WRONG... this game is AMAZING... the control issues are fixed (standing there and shooting in 1st 
 person view wasn't the best thing... but this was done b/c this is a stealth game and Hideo didn't 
 want the shooting mechanics 2 be 2 tight... but now u can choose... action or stealth) the questions 
 are answered... EVEN IF U NEVER PLAYED A MG OR MGS B4 U GOT 2 EXPERIENCE THIS MASTERPIECE!!! THIS 
 HAS 2 WIN GAME OF THE YEAR... sorry grand theft auto... not this time... although that game IS SO 
 AWESOME 2!!! BOTH ARE GOING 2 WIN GAME OF THE YEAR ON ALL ANALYSTS' LISTS!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: punkhead66
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 3, 2008 2:52 am PT
Review:  This is one hell of game and you are only going to like this game if you are a MGS fan, you like 
 story games and like Cutscenes. this is a must own game on the ps3. The graphice in this game are 
 just great they looks so real when the camera is up on close on a snake it just looks like a real 
 face and you look at the features on the face the game just looks incredible. 
  
  the cutscenes are great in this game and what make this great they mey be long but they tell the 
 story and all the things that wern't explained for the other MGS games in the series but it is 
 good how they explain it.
  
  the gameplay is great in the game if you have played previous you know what the gameplay is like 
 you can play as stealh or just just use your guns to kill every single person.
  
  just a great game, that you should at least play once it is fun and as great as the first time 
 you watched the godfather movie. the story is great and is one of the best things about this game 
 just check it out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pigonthewing
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 2, 2008 8:09 pm PT
Review:  Ok i never had a playstation so this was my first venture into the series except for the one on 
 the nes which i honestly cant remember cause i think i rented it. Anywas on with the review.
  
  Yep at first i had absolutely no clue what was going on. None. There is a lot of back story 
 here. Thankfully google exists. I did my research and started the game over to get a better grip 
 on things (i had only done act 1 by this point) .
  
  So now that i had a better understanding of the make up of the metal gear history i dove into the 
 game.
  
  At first i was a bit put off by the constant cut scenes but really they do seem to flow with the 
 gameplay and you sort of conform to them as time goes on. Mind you the first cut scenes in the 
 game happen at an alarming rate and this doesn't reflect on the rest of the game so if your a new 
 player do note the rest of the game is not like that.
  
  Now the story does become quite interesting, there are some very neat characters and a very complex 
 plot with some heavy undertones to it with todays political issues. This also leads to one of the 
 problems I had with the game. It would be extremely serious and engaging at one point then be very 
 juvenile it was a bit jarring. The fart jokes.. please give me a break, thank god those stop. But 
 then the constant crying and "oh i will never leave you" lame B movie grade stuff. Thank god there 
 was a vast majority of quality content over that drivel, its sad because all of it could have been 
 stripped out or slightly modified and not effected the plot and i would have loved the story instead 
 of just liking it. Btw i did like the references to real life stuff when they would talk about 
 the ps3, thats proper comic relief. 
  
  Now this is a game still so i shouldn't review it as if it was a movie even though its kind of 
 close.
  
  First the controls are tough at first, if your a casual gamer you may have a lot of trouble with 
 this. It takes time but the controls begin to make sense and after a while you should have a pretty 
 good handle on things. 
  
  The variety in gameplay here is quite frankly the best i've seen in a game. I knew how the other 
 metal gear games would throw in quirks to the gameplay but i was not prepared for this. Very refreshing 
 and my hats off to the developers. About every hour it was like i was playing something new. I 
 would go into detail but i dont want to spoil anything. Lets just say there are a few game genres 
 put into this game which may surprise you.
  
  The core gameplay was great. It had a lot of small things that really made it interesting. These 
 being a stress system where the more stress your under the worse you will perform. The weapon customization 
 although unrealistic on how you acquired them worked overall in making the game enjoyable. The 
 many different possibilities of progressing through levels was excellent as well. Apparently we 
 don't need a fully open world to have many many options at our disposal for advancing through a 
 game. 
  
  So overall i did really enjoy the game a lot even with some of its 12 year old boy mentally issues, 
 its a game i will playing through again just to try things out differently.
  
  I had one other beef with the game but its a spoiler so dont read below.
  
  
  *** spoilers 
 ***
  
  The 4 beasts that you fight through the game. Ok good boss fights but i have one HUGE issue with 
 the end of them. I really dont care how they came to be and the first time ok i can understand 
 why he is watching her move about trying to get up then having to shoot her. The second time he 
 lets her get up again though.. Ok fine. But the third time??? I would have filled her skull full 
 of lead while she was still struggling to get up. Or better yet, rolled a couple grenades to her 
 while she was still on the floor struggling to get up. Hearing them freak out and scream was not 
 what i call entertaining. Just down right aggravating. Then you have to shoot them while they struggle 
 towards you because they think you will free them from their pain. Sure i get it but its not fun. 
 Especially by the 4th time. Anyways thats a minor complaint. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Grisle27
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 2, 2008 7:21 pm PT
Review:  Well I'm sure you've read all the rave reviews and possibly even some that aren't that great, but 
 I wanted to give a little bit of my experience with the game.
  
  First off let's talk about the graphics. Arguably the best graphics on any console game to date. 
 This game is just beautiful. It's not as big of a shock as some of the earlier HD titles like Gears 
 of War, but this is better looking.
  
  Game play... if you've ever played a MGS game you know what you're in for, but you know not know 
 just how long you're in it for. Fans of the series know that MGS has long cut-scenes, but this 
 is pretty crazy here. It's my only negative about the game... sometimes the cutscenes just seem 
 to drag and it leaves you wanting to just get to the game, but the story is so awesome that you 
 have to sit through it. Some of the earlier scenes are the ones that dragged and then they started 
 to pick up and I didn't really mind them too much. My first go through clocked in a little under 
 20 hours and I think the game may be finished under 6... I'm checking that out now.
  
  This is a must have for fans of the series and even for fans of the stealth genre. It may not be 
 everyone's type of game, but it is epic and worth checking out just to see if it might be yours. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: patricktrich
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 2, 2008 5:08 pm PT
Review:  From start to finish Metal Gear Solid 4 is simply amazing. While playing the game, you think to 
 yourself, "Man, it can't get any better than this." Just wait my friend it gets better. The most 
 impressive part of the game is the fact that the cut scenes are rendered in real time. I've played 
 and/or owned nearly every system that has been released. A great game is a game that has the ability 
 to make you say "wow" with the given technology available at the time. For example, FFVII (PS) , 
 James Bond 007 (N64) , Mario (NES) , etc. Metal Gear Solid 4 will find itself in this same category. 
 I've read some complaints about the hefty use of cut scenes. There was only one time when I felt 
 strained from watching the cut scenes. I found the cut scenes to be extremely informative and necessary. 
 The small things make this game uniquely superb. For example, snowflakes falling on the camera, 
 water splashing on the camera, and the watchable (sometimes playable) flashbacks. Once you've beaten 
 the game, there is more to play for. Anyone who obtains the Big Boss Emblem (beating the game on 
 the highest difficulty with no kills, no alerts, no recovery items used, no speciality items, no 
 stealth suit, and under 5 hours) deserves respect from all gamers across the globe. Don't just 
 take my word for it, find out for yourself. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: G-U-R-U
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 2, 2008 3:12 pm PT
Review:  --Metal Gear Solid 4 is a game that possesses a artificial intelligence that will make you question 
 whether the game is "alive" or not. 
  
  --Graphics are superior to anything out there on the market. Frame rate is silky smooth. The details 
 of the main Bosses is quite remarkable. 
  
  --MGS4 has the best controls for Snake in the series so far. Switching weapons is very easy as 
 well as moving from different camera angles. 
  
  ---Weapon collection and customization is very enjoyable, enabling each person the ability to tackle 
 different situations in their own unique ways. 
  
  ---The story is GREAT and will not disappoint. It is truely like you are playing a feature Hollywood 
 movie. 
  
  --In addition to MGS4, players get access to Metal Gear Online. A very fun addition to the "shooter" 
 genre that focuses more on tactics than any Multiplayer game currently available. The only thing 
 which I would complain about here is the lengthy registration process to play online. 
  
  If you could buy only one game this year, Metal Gear Solid 4 should be it. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: vader2k3
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 14, 2009 7:44 pm PT
Review:  Well I just beat MGS 4 and well I was very impressed. This is the reason to own a PS3, as I was 
 playing through this game I was very intriqued wih the hard work that had gone into this. I could 
 tell that the three years that this game was talked about, and made, the time Konami took to put 
 into this and was well worth it. MGS 4 plays beautifully, more like a movie than a game. The story 
 has a much more mature theme. I personally feel that the way Hideo Kojima directed MGS 4 and the 
 time and energy he put into this was exceptional. Anyone who is a fan of the series, and who wants 
 to know how this series ends should definitely give this a try, you will not be disapointed. MGS 
 4 has the best story, dialogue and on top of that it also ties in really well with the past Metal 
 Gear games. I have loved the past Metal Gears and hate to see it end but I feel it is time to put 
 an end to a great series. This game is one for the books. Long live Solid Snake! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: English_Death
Rating: 6.5
Date: Jul 2, 2008 9:46 am PT
Review:  This game has been way over rated.
  
  Gamespot give it a 10! That means zero faults. Well, in my view they are wrong. MGS 4 is a movie 
 (bad movie) with some game play.
  
  After a 8 minute install, in which you are forced to watch a chain smoking snake puff away on 4 
 **** You start the movie, which I agree is graphically stunning. Snake gets out of a truck, crawls 
 under a truck and cut scene... You run up a street a house or two and cut scene.... You sneak through 
 a busted up building and cut scene.. This is a disgrace and ruins the flow of the game.
  
  At key points, I suppose you could describe them as level ends you get 4 cut scenes in a row. 4.....
 
  
  And watching this drivel is a real chore. OK, you can skip each one. But they still stop the flow 
 of the game. And if you are skipping cut scenes you have to ask why are they there? To tell the 
 story! What bloody story? It's true Japanese rubbish. If you like manga then you may enjoy them.
 
  
  Then there the installs. Every act installs, and this takes 2-4 minutes per act. And again your 
 subjected to the chain smoking crap. Why? Further, if you have 2 or more profiles on your PS3 (I 
 have 2) then if each profile is in a different act you have to re-install your act. It's stupid.
 
  
  OK, when you finally get to play the game, it's not bad. With loads of upgrades and looks very 
 good.
  
  But is it worth all the crap that comes with it. Well to me no. I got this game on release day 
 and I played to act 3 and haven't played it since. When my son has finished playing I may return 
 and attempt to finish the game. But to be honest at th moment I really don't care. If you want 
 a great shooter get COD 4 or Bad Company. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Atom1cPunk
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 2, 2008 4:57 am PT
Review:  Believe the hype for this game. Metal gear solid 4 guns of the patriots is just the greatest game 
 for the ps3 no questions asked. The metal gear series i known for its tactical style of gameplay 
 and very long cutscenes thats the only thing that dissapointed me about this game when i heard 
 about it but when i got to a very long cutscene i didnt even mind .the graphics and visuals make 
 this game near lifelike. This game took me a little while to get used to but thats not even a minor 
 downside to mgs4. This game is also realistic in the series also like solid snake cant be young 
 forever so they put in old snake now thats something we dont see in super mario games! Now i am 
 not that familiar to the metal gear series but does this have a great storyline i havent seen a 
 greater storyline than resident evil 4. Its nice to see a game with great story telling. All in 
 all i think metal gear solid 4 is not only the best in the series but the best for ps3 i give this 
 game a perfect 10! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: v8nnwilder
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 2, 2008 4:21 am PT
Review:  Well I've been waiting for so long for this title that by the time i actually got my hands on it 
 I have almost forgotten what the hell happened in the previous installments of Metal Gear. But 
 as i found myself playing MGS4 it just felt as if I never left andall my memories game flooding 
 back in an instant..
  
  
  Okay so where do i start? Mmmm... maybe I should start by saying that if there is anyone out there 
 that doesn't like the game or shoots it down for whatever reason is either a plain idiot or p***** 
 off because they can't play it.... because there is absolutely NOTHING wrong with MGS4. From the 
 get go you are bombarded my beautiful cut scenes and brutal action with no time to waste....
  
  As i said before I haven't played MGS for a while now and i didn't waste time going to the 
 Virtual range to get the hang of things I just went right at it... At first i had some trouble 
 controlling Snake and it took me a while to get the feel for everything... But Once I did O Boy..... 
 Did I start kicking ass!
  
  MGS4 is just a masterpiece by design... from the characters to the environments ... To the guns 
 all the way through to the AI. It just feels really complete and I can see now why it was delayed 
 so many times. but you can immediately see and feel that it took so long to complete because if 
 it lacked anything it wouldn't have had the impact it does now.
  
  Sure there might be one or two small things but compare it to any other title of it's kind and 
 you'll definitely see it stand high above it in every way... 
  
  
  There has been a lot of debating over the lengths of the cut scenes and a lot of people (Obviously 
 fanboy's) saying that it's more a movie than a game.... Well... You must be idiots if you think 
 that is a bad thing... So basically you wanna tell me playing an actual interactive movie is a 
 bad thing? I don't get it... 
  
  Firstly the cut scenes feel a lot longer than what they actually are in real time and the way the 
 game moves from cut scene to game is smooth and you can hardly notice it happening... which is 
 great. And I personally enjoy watching the cut scenes and having a smoke or sipping on my ice cold 
 beer so yeah at times you are actually watching a movie but I think people tend to forget that 
 you actually play the lead role... 
  
  And I'm sure on my second or third play through I will finish the game a lot quicker and in the 
 end the cut scenes might actually be a bit longer than the game time, BUT and that is a really 
 BIG BUT... is that the time that you are playing it is full of action and Solid gameplay all round... 
 You have various routes to take and different ways to do things... Either sneak past and do the 
 whole thing like a freakin ninja or you can go all out Rambo and blow away everything that moves.... 
 That's why this game is so great as an all rounder...
  
  There has been plenty of that has either been about smeaking and stealth and others that's run 
 & gun but not one yet that is balanced either way like MGS4.
  
  Then there is the cool weapons and gadgets you get throughout the game... Firstly and probably 
 most impressive is your suit that can mimic it's surroundings and it really works well especially 
 once you learn how to quickly and frequently adjust your appearance according to what's around 
 you... And just watching how it works is pretty cool on it's own.
  
  Then there is the MKII which is a nifty little thing to have to scout around, pick up some other 
 inaccessible stuff throughout the game... With Camo function and some good old shock therapy for 
 the unsuspecting guards when you need to sneak past with out too much effort... And then you still 
 have guns you can customize according to your liking. So there is a lot to do and a lot of reasons 
 to play it through more than once... actually a lot more than once..... I know i will.... and I'll 
 even watch all the cut scenes all the way through every time I play it's just that good (But i 
 have to admit I've seen a couple of weird min cut scenes that have nothing to do with the game 
 as such... kinda weird but still cool to watch thou)
  
  One problem i have that I picked up is that when I have a good spot and I snipe enemies from far 
 away when there is like a bunker with gunners and all you can take out as many as you want and 
 they just keep coming and coming untill you manage to sneak past them and kill them right there 
 then the just stop coming... Dunno if anyone else picked this up... BUT once again not all a bad 
 thing as you can stay their and Snipe about 50 guys sneak there and pick up all their 50 guns and 
 sell them getting some good points for you own upgrades...
  
  So basically I just gave you my opinion about MGS4, and not an in depth review but there is plenty 
 out there. Just my opinion and just for the record if this was an 360 exclusive I'd rate it the 
 same as I do now as fanboyism is something this game should be above... And if it was a 360 exclusive 
 I would've bought a 360 to play this, not for a console but because this game ROCKS.
  
  Would be interesting to see who get GOTY this time round.... But I already have mine. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dark_atlantican
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 2, 2008 4:02 am PT
Review:  Snake is back and he's out to get Liquid...
  
  Metal Gear Solid 4: Guns of the Patriots is one hell of a conclusion to the Metal Gear series. 
 It starts off directly in the heat of battle with Snake ready for a fight.
  
  The controls aren't explained straight away, making the player head for the instruction manual 
 which is a minor set-back but doesnt critisise the games gameplay. The gameplay is great; it mainly 
 consists of the player controlling snake through set missions avoiding combat were possible. The 
 octocamo suit that Snake wears automatically adjusts to the surrounding area, it shows his visibility 
 on a percentage meter attatched to the radar, this is a very useful tool for stealth missions. 
 But the game doenst only consist of stealth missions, every now-and-then there is a mission were 
 the player must fight for their life against a group of enemies or a boss, and there are also other 
 things that the player must do within the game to help Snake complete his mission but i'll leave 
 them for you to find out.
  
  The games sound is extremely well done; it really gives the player the feeling that their there 
 with Snake in the heat of the battlefield.
  The graphics are perfect; i cannot find a single problem with them at all, they really prove how 
 great the PS3's graphics can be.
  
  The game doesn't have many downsides, but some of the ones that would mostly irritate the player 
 are:
  - The games cut-scenes: This is a largely critisised part of Metal Gear Solid 4, most people have 
 refered to it as a movie instead of a game, but i assure you although the cut-scenes can vary from 
 5 to 40 minutes each they are an created perfectly, pushing the Playstation 3 to it's limits.
 
  - The online multiplayer: The online multiplayer has a problem with laging in certain games, so 
 its hard to choose the correct game. Another problem with the online feature is; a region problem, 
 meaning you can't add people that live in a different country than you.
  Overall these problems are minor.
  
  So overall i would reccommend this game to anyone who 
 owns a Playstation 3, it is a must get. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ST3-3YA
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 2, 2008 2:17 am PT
Review:  You could play this game over and over again and never get bored, no matter how many time you complete 
 the story mode you wil always find something new and interesting, because the game is so packed 
 full of pretty much everything you could ever wnat in a game you couldn't fit anything else in 
 it or it would just explode.
  It's obviously the best in the series and one the best games ever to be released since gaming began 
 in my opinion. If anyone can find a better prepared game than this then speak up because I simply 
 can't find one. It just gives you everything you could ask for in a game. It also has some variety 
 with the option of first and third person shooting when in combat. 
  The octo camo is just a great idea for a game so good, it makes everthing that bit more interactive 
 and also the cut scenes are great because you can interact with some of them and watch flash backs. 
 The only downside to this game I think is that there is none, it may have long cut scenes but they 
 are very interesting and action packed so that you won't get bored. 
  As for the online I would give it 9 out of 10 because there isn't a wide variety of maps but then 
 they may bring out some more in updates. Also there isn't an option of octo cammo but that can 
 be made up if you get the chance to be Snake in SNE game mode. I think there could be more game 
 modes and also a good idea would be to be able to do the story mode online, I think it would be 
 cool. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dutch777
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 1, 2008 10:03 pm PT
Review:  I never imagined the day I'd sit down in front of my computer and begin writing a review of Metal 
 Gear Solid 4. Over the past 11 years, the Metal Gear Solid series has become one of my favorite 
 videogame franchises of all time. The games have, without fail, pushed the envelope of each generation 
 of gaming they graced. Metal Gear Solid brought us epic storytelling, an epic presentation, amazing 
 visuals, incredible gameplay, and immersion never before seen in a videogame. Metal Gear Solid 
 2, perhaps the most controversial of all the series, did everything its predecessor did, in addition 
 to boasting proper next-generation visuals that pushed the PlayStation 2's limits. Metal Gear Solid 
 3 presented a prequel that puts you into the shoes of Big Boss, the father of Solid Snake and Liquid 
 Snake. Now, here's Metal Gear Solid 4: Guns of the Patriots; because it is the last "Solid" entry, 
 it ties up every loose strand that was left in the past games, specifically Metal Gear Solid 2. 
 
  Admittedly, the game does pick up a little slow, and not everyone will like the Middle East as 
 the opening locale of the game. But thankfully, the Middle East is just one chapter out of five, 
 so Snake and co. will travel around the globe, spanning a series of five acts. The amount of fan-service 
 in Metal Gear Solid 4 is through the roof, it is without a doubt the most satisfying finale to 
 a series I've ever played. Without spoiling anything, Metal Gear Solid fans will be treated to 
 an extremely pleasing homage, one of the best a videogame has ever seen - you'll encounter something 
 so breathtaking and amazing towards the end of the game that it'll leave you speechless.
  Moving on, Metal Gear Solid 4's visuals are fantastic. Firstly, character detail is nothing short 
 of amazing. The way that the game seamlessly transits from cut-scene to gameplay shows that everything 
 MGS4 is animating is completely real-time, you can even zoom in on Snake's face during gameplay 
 and spot the same kind of details you see during the cut-scenes. This trait in MGS4 is unlike other 
 games, where once you zoom away from a character, his high-quality textures are replaced with much 
 lower-quality ones, allowing the game to run more efficiently. It's a trick that's especially common 
 in sports games, and to a lot of us, it's glaringly obvious and cheap.
  Metal Gear Solid 4 is the reason why you bought a PlayStation 3. If you've yet to feel that your 
 PS3 purchase has been justified, here is your justification. There is no doubt about it, but this 
 is easily the best experience you'll have on the PlayStation 3 to date, simply nothing comes close 
 to MGS4's presentation, story-telling, gameplay, visuals, and sound. The amount of classic homages 
 paid to the previous games, with one in particular, will leave you breathless and, perhaps, emotional. 
 Kojima and co. have crafted a videogame that actually pokes at your intellectual thought process 
 and your heart - arguably a first for the medium - and the end result is simply the greatest closing 
 to a videogame saga ever. Simply stunning.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: hameedox2
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 1, 2008 9:43 pm PT
Review:  We watched lots of previews for MGS4 since a long time. We were waiting for the moment this game 
 will be out. Now I think most of PS3 fans have played this game and I am sure they will agree about 
 what I am going to state in this review.
  
  First of all, to enjoy your game and to have the best view and sound, it is highly recommended 
 to use HDMI cable instead of usual cables. Actually, I tried both cables and I noticed the difference.
 
  
  Secondly, you must have an LCD TV not ordinary one. The reason is that you might not see the full 
 picture if you are using a normal TV. LCD TV will display everything clearly.
  
  
  THE GAME (MGS4)
  I am one of MGS series fan. I have played all the series from 1 to 4. We all 
 agree that MGS1 was a great game, but pictures were did not have much quality. We could not even 
 see Snake's eyes or anybody's eyes. The action in MGS1 was cool. A new action game besides a spy 
 game. You are supposed to play and nobody should find you. Moreover, You have lots of weapons to 
 use. The story was amazing and somehow romantic, especially between Snake and Meryl. There were 
 lots of bosses which made it very callengable. Also, the life guage is not that big at the beginning, 
 you have defeat every boss to get your guage increased. This thing made it more difficult and skill 
 testing for hiding and saving ammos.
  There are lots of things about MGS1 everything was perfect except the character desings and pictures. 
 I rated this game 8 out of 10.
  
  MGS2
  A new young man appeared in this game. I was woundering why did Kojima introduced a new Character? 
 At least Snake is still there and you play him for a little. This game was a jump from PS1 to PS2 
 and hence it was a jump for the game to a new generation of playing and characters. Incontrast 
 with MGS1, this game has much clear pictures, but the difficulty was not that good. I think this 
 game was much easier than the former one. I rated this game 8.5 out of 10.
  
  MGS3
  Here we go back to old days. New actions and features added to the game and made it very powerfull. 
 The real Snake is back with the boss. The game has a very nice story and playing style. It was 
 between the previous two games, niether hard nor easy. This game gave a clear picture about the 
 whole story and if you missed it, I think you sould go back and play it not for knowing the story 
 only, but to enjoy the style of this game. I rated this game 9.5 out of 10.
  
  
  MGS4
  Here we are advancing to a new tech. A very nice and tactical game with lot and lots of weapons 
 coming form one throw three. If you play this game you will get the full picture about the story. 
 Also, you might be woundering what will be the next?
  New features have been added to it. All cahracters will appear in this part. You have hell of weapons 
 and rations and more. very clear and nice pictures. characters are very clear. Also, sound is amazing. 
 Everything in this game is really cool.
  It has lots of features that made it very powerful game. I rated it 10. 
  
  
  
  MGS4 is 
 the best in series.
  
  
  The question is???
  
  What will be the next part from Kojima?
  
  I think most of us asking this question.
  We will 
 wait and see.
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: potentialflip
Rating: 7
Date: Jul 1, 2008 9:38 pm PT
Review:  I will do my best to keep this as spoiler free as possible.
  
  Let me begin with saying if you are new to the series and MGS4 is your first game. Please don't 
 load the game just yet. Instead play MGS1 (Twin Snakes is available on GC) , MGS2: Subsistence and 
 MGS 3: Subsistence. Why? Because you will either be lost or be frustrated at how the game actually 
 progresses.
  
  Now on to the game.
  
  First the graphics... One of the best I've seen in-game. Those in the cut-scenes are great as well. 
 Though the frame rates at times do drop and are noticeable are the only negative view. 
  
  Sound... Just with the graphics are the great detail with the sound. If you have surround sound 
 system or a television that can emulate it. Then your in for a huge treat. This will have to be 
 the most superb aspect of the game. Include that the score is truly the best in the series.
  
  Gameplay... Despite some cool extra add-ons and I mean that. I just have to sit in awe at how 
 it actually plays out. It was never really a true challenge to get from point a to point b in the 
 boss difficulty setting. The enemy AI is as dumb as ever. I think this is the dumbest AI at of 
 all the series. Tactics has completely been thrown out the window (can be completely disregarded 
 through the easier difficulty settings) . While I enjoyed it. It sure was a disappointment in an 
 MGS standpoint. The biggest hurt was if you were strictly just going from point A to point B. You 
 would only spend a total amount of around 6 hours.
  
  Story... It lived up to it's name. It was really well told with each character popping in and explaining 
 a whole lot. The thing about it however is by throwing in pretty much all living characters since 
 the first MGS and explaining so and so. It would technically confuse the hell out of people... 
 keep in mind I'm talking about those who have played through the series. The sad thing about the 
 story is how some of the more emotional scenes never really are conveyed properly. Some feel off 
 and others feel completely forced. I love the voice acting in this series and I enjoy some of the 
 Voice Actors' works (them playing in other roles or in their previous roles in the series) . But 
 it was just a pain to watch through emotional scenes. When it's a happy scene... I feel it comes 
 out stupid. When it's a sad dramatic scene... I feel either ticked off or not feel bad as to what 
 had happened. Usually, I don't watch cinematic features with subtitles unless they speak broken 
 English. There's no broken English in MGS4 but you definitely need the subtitles. 
  
  Overall Experience... I surely will miss Solid Snake. If this series lives on it will be without 
 him. The Multiplayer is a waste of time. Reality is it's broken. I wouldn't recommend touching 
 it. This game was more of a viewing experience rather than an actual experience. Is it overhyped?! 
 no, I truly believe MGS is one of the best series around. Is it overrated?! very much so because 
 I truly believe a game should be something where the player is doing most of the stuff to progress 
 the story instead of long cut-scenes. It doesn't help with the loading times and the install acts 
 situation. One makes you think Kojima has always contemplated leaving after each one after 2. After 
 outdoing himself on 3 I thought he would produce another great epic game. He instead produced a 
 great epic tale. 
  
  It was hard for me to score this a 7.0, I never have scored an MGS title less than an 9.0 (MGS:2) . 
 But just the little existent of gameplay time and holes that are with it. To some mishaps with 
 the framerate. To the long drawn out cut-scenes that involve sad portrayals. I have to force myself 
 to give it a 7. The one true unmistaken bright spot to this game is the sound. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ChrisThaBest
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 1, 2008 6:18 pm PT
Review:  Metal Gear Solid 4 is the best game out ther for the playstation 3. It is the must have game for 
 any ps3 owner. The game itself is probably the best reason to go out and actually buy a ps3. T
 
  
  he metal gear series has always been about long cut scenes and sketchy gameplay. While MGS4 still 
 has extremely long but very entertaining cut scenes, the game play has been much improved over 
 the past MGS titles. Whether you prefer to shoot your way through enemies or sneak around and use 
 CQC, MGS4 has got you covered. The graphics are amazing to say the least. It is the most beautiful 
 game out there. 
  
  Metal Gear Solid 4 may be great, but Metal Gear Online is not. Unfortunately it is a hassle just 
 to be able to play MGO. You have to create to seperate accounts with two different passwords just 
 to be able to play the game. On top of that the game itself is really not that good. The stealth 
 action gameplay that works so well in the single player campaign is absolutely awfull online.
 
  
  All in all MGS4 is guaranteed to keep you entertained, and will provide closure to fans of the 
 series who have been dying to find out what happens. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sparda_13
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 1, 2008 1:45 pm PT
Review:  Metal Gear Solid 4. A word to describe it has not even been invented yet. I imagined mgs4 to be 
 perfect, I was right of course but after seing mgs4, perfection has a higher standard, higher than 
 the one I had in mind. 
  
  Cutscenes, better than DMCs anytime. And I LOVE DMC, trust me you'll never hear me say bad things 
 about DMC. I won't spoil anyone so I will describe a cutscene that has nothing to do with the story. 
 -------- It is the jungle late at night. Some kind of rat is hopping innocently on the dark ground 
 when suddenly a snake jumps out and swallows the rat in one bite. The snake crawls over a rock 
 and goes into the nothingness. About 5 seconds pass and the rock lets out its headfrom the dirt 
 and Solid Snake starts crawling to his next destination. The sound effects are theatrical and epic 
 aswell. Hard to believe? You'll have to see and hear with your own eyes and ears.
  
  People I have grown with, grown to love from back when I was about 5, now dieing or changing. Historic 
 events still leaving their effects to this day. Historic events brought back to life in Snake's 
 flashbacks of back in Metal Gear onwards. Historic events coming to an end. Historic people coming 
 to an end, after leaving their effect on the world and its war.
  
  Amazing, atmospheric environments. Eg. A base between icy mountains, once full of life and bosses. 
 A historic event once happened in this large bass, but the people who had stepped foot in it are 
 either dead or moved on in the present day. Even though a blizzard blew outside, the inside is 
 dead and the mechanics that once decided the faith of the world, are now scrap metal, beaten to 
 the core by Solid Snake himself 9yrs ago. Only security devices are found there now like nanomachines 
 and MetalGear Gecho. Flashbacks are painful in that place.... A 9year younger Meryl says:"Is this 
 really Solid Snake? Am I talking to the legendary Solid Snake?' *echos*
  
  Beating the game, gives you billions of reasons to playthrough again with all the new unlocked 
 weapons gadgets and emblems, and the ones yet to be unlocked. My best emblem yet is eagle, given 
 to me for doing alot of headshots, and I think it's a great emblem for my first playthrough.
  
  MGS4 is perfect, yes... it is. It doesn't get any better than that, it just doesn't. It is 
 emotional, epic and in a realistic future where war has become routine with characters you've known 
 for more than a decade. A soldier different than others steps up for his last mission, despite 
 his rapidly weakening body. He will sell his body to stop the war. If not him than no one.
  
  I love metal gear/solid and this game gave me happiness (and sad emotional scenes) that I had 
 never felt in a game for a long time. No one dare take that away from me with their annoying, critisizing 
 comments.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: SemiMaster
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 1, 2008 12:51 pm PT
Review:  ... as nothing short of Masterpiece will suffice. And I expected nothing less than that from the 
 culmination of a 20 year saga. And it's what Kojima productions delivered.
  
  Please note, while a fair and in depth review cannot be delivered without a few spoilers, nothing 
 major will be mentioned in regards to individual characters (outside of them appearing in the game) 
 and the story that the followers of the series know and love.
  
  Metal Gear Solid 4 takes place in 2014, some 5 years years after the incident at Big Shell portrayed 
 in Metal Gear Solid 2. We see a figure that looks like Altair from Assassin's Creed... who's smoking... 
 and holding a rifle. Clearly this is Solid Snake. Cut ahead one scene, Snake pops out... and is... 
 old?!? Yes, Snake has aged tremendously, although it's for the player to find out why. The wrinkles 
 on his face, and brow, the individual hairs on his grizzled moustache, the liver spots on his hand, 
 everything is rendered with stunning detail, easily rivaling or surpassing the likes of Heavenly 
 Sword or Gears of War. The level of detail for all characters is equally high, so Snake isn't the 
 only one with special treatment.
  
  Anyways, called out of retirement Snake is to terminate Liquid Ocelot, who is a powerful warlord 
 now in charge of many PMCs (Private Military Companies) . The first act takes place in the Middle 
 East where Snake must traverse a hostile terrain of bombed out buildings and military encampments 
 while avoiding the PMCs.
  
  Snake can do this by standard means of evasion, killing, and other sorts of trickery such as his 
 newly Otacon devised Octocamo. By simply pressing against the wall or ground, the suit will mimic 
 the texture Snake is touching, including that oh so tacky pink and orange checker pattern that 
 you refuse to throw out dear... Ahem. The Octocam can be set to memory or to auto depending on 
 your preference (later you will get an Octocam mask which does the same thing and makes you nearly 
 invisible) . The Octocam suit also is explained in game to make Snake physically stronger and why 
 he can regenerate if not moving.
  
  Anyways, you can also try working with the rebels (who appear in other acts as well) . They actively 
 fight enemies which allows you to sneak by easily. Sometimes if you don't help with the rebels, 
 the enemies will overrun you and certain paths will be cutoff. Also, helping out the rebels enough 
 will make them friendly and they will assist you if you are under fire. While purely there for 
 extra options, they are a welcome assistance to the previously solo sneaking mission expert. I 
 would say one thing that might help you decide to bother at all. You can fire from behind cover. 
 Think of an improvement to the game's design, no more crouching in the middle of a firefight or 
 being stuck to a wall. If you want to hide behind a wall and pop out of a corner and blast away 
 like in Gears of War (the master of cover shooting mechanics) , Metal Gear Solid 4 offers this. 
 Additionally, you can shoot from the hip by pressing fire. But if you want to go into first person 
 mode, press L1, then triangle, then you can shoot from first person mode for more accuracy. By 
 the way, certain guns come with laser scopes on them, and using the shooting from the hip mechanism 
 allows you to see where Snake is aiming in the first place. Guns with scopes, whether you use them 
 in first person or from the hip have better accuracy. Back to how this assists the rebels is if 
 you shoot from out of the enemies detection range, or even in it, as long as you aren't seen and 
 other rebels are near by, the enemy believes it was the rebels, and not you, and won't raise an 
 alarm. Something to think about.
  
  
  As you progress on you really get a sense of the war around you, from crumbling buildings with 
 dilapidated walls to constant explosions and screams in full Dolby Digital Surround Sound (TM) . 
 At one point Snake must progress through a collapsed building and prior to it, Otacon calls up 
 warning Snake the building is structurally unsound. Snake dismisses it and goes in anways, only 
 to have the player and Snake greeted with a huge explosion and dust storm with flying debris going 
 everywhere. The game is fully of immersive details like that everywhere that use both audio and 
 visual aspects of the PS3 to it's fullest. 
  
  Later you run across Octcon's invention, the Metal Gear Mark II, which is conveniently controlled 
 by a PS3 controller. This little guy can cloak and run around and grab things for Snake and stun 
 enemies. Unfortunately it has a short range and I only used it very rarely when I could tell that 
 enemies were around and I needed a fix on their location. Othewise, old fashioned sneaking with 
 the Octocam is sufficient. 
  
  Making your way through the city some more you come across a fellow named Drebin, who happens to 
 be an arms dealer. In the time of the government (more specifically, the Patriots) controlling 
 everything, gun laundering is important for those not in the system. Snake can sell old guns he 
 collects from fallen enemies (Yes! they do not fade out like prior games) and sell them to Drebin. 
 He can then sell you other goods and weapons in return for your trade ins. Basically, it's impossible 
 to run out of ammo in this game if you even remotely try to trade in weapons to Drebin. Drebin 
 is accompanied by his monkey friend Little Grey who is addicted to NARC soda... and by the end 
 of the game Snake's cigarettes. Sometimes these two provide the comic relief one expects amidst 
 the often serious tone of the Metal Gear franchise.
  
  One aspect of Drebin is that you don't get item X in scenario Y to beat boss Z or shoot out door 
 lock A. In that case, weapon progression is much less linear than before, something that might 
 appeal to new faces or those who didn't give prior installments a "shot".
  
  A little further on, Snake meets Meryl (OMG She's so hot... err... you'll get that if you saw Metal 
 Gear Awesome) who has grown up into becoming the nanomachine enhanced commander of Rat Patrol 01. 
 Under her command are Ed, Johnathan and Johnny "Akiba". After sneaking through their encampment, 
 the team and Snake are introduced to Liquid Ocelot's elite forces and you are forced to fight your 
 way out (even if you've never fired a shot prior to this part, you will now) .
  
  More sneaking results in the final cutscene of the mission where Snake meets Liquid Ocelot and 
 other familiar faces. What happens in that scene is then explained in between acts in debriefing 
 modes. Debriefing allows you to look around the Nomad where you can use the Metal Gear Mark II 
 to run into people in the ship for extra bonus items and such. Flashbacks (as happened earlier 
 in game) will be seen if you press the X button during the flashback. This serves three purposes. 
 First is fan service to Metal Gear veterans. Second is to keep the player's hands on the controller 
 instead of making them passively watch only. Third for every time you hit the flashback button 
 you get more Drebin points at the end of a chapter.
  
  Some more information comes out and you then have to proceed to South America. This time Snake 
 can free more rebels being held by PMC forces and watch them die or he can free them and they will 
 assist him for most of the level (take a guess which I suggest doing) . After a sneaking segment 
 and tactical storming of a fortress, you encounter the first boss, Laughing Octopus of the Beauty 
 and Beast brigade. This is a challenging boss as she has Octocamo as well, but can climb on the 
 ceiling and come out of windows and everything. Think of it as a game of hide and seek, with deadly 
 consequences (even though you are in a building, even sniper rifles have their uses here) . Following 
 that confrontation, you engage the woman inside of the suit in combat, where you can kill her outright 
 or stamina kill her for a reward. This goes for the other 3 BB members you fight later.
  
  Handy tip, weapons in this game can come with multiple ammunition types. For instance, a shotgun 
 has buckshot, slugs or vortex rings (think bean bag shots that police use) . Two vortex shot blasts 
 from a shotgun puts the Beauty down in short notice. Grenade launchers can shoot traditional, white 
 phosphorous, chaff, smoke, you name it. There are many different types of ammo and additions to 
 guns you can get from Drebin and pick up in the field.
  
  Following that combat, Snake must trail people and do the scouting thing. This means following 
 footprints, looking for broken sticks, leaves etc. The diversity of nature and destruction on the 
 local scale from footprints is presented in a realistic manner, again illustrating the power of 
 the in game graphics engine. Footprint depth and size comes into play here. When Snake meets up 
 with the party he's following, Drebin comes to the rescue after things go bad and one of the best 
 on rails shooting sequences since the end of Metal Gear Solid 3 comes to play where you blast your 
 way out of the compound and escape the giant Metal Gear hybrids known as Gekko. 
  
  So far we've had traditional Sneaking, combat on large scale and boss fights, tracking and an on 
 rails shooting sequence. It doesn't stop there.
  
  Next level is a doozy. You start off tailing an undercover informant through the military patrolled 
 city. You at the same time must not let Snake get discovered, but help the guy you are following 
 get past security checkpoints through any means. Took me some tries here, but this was really open 
 ended, from merely sniping soldiers in the way to putting down a Playboy (yes Playboy) to distract 
 them to throwing a spent magazine to distract them with sound.
  
  Once you get to your location, things start coming together. You may have had a lot of questions 
 before, like most specifically "Who are the Patriots?" This and more will be answered and your 
 previous thoughts of who is the real bad guy will be altered and your mission not so simple. I 
 refuse to say anything more than this is an epic revealing moment on the level of finding out Darth 
 Vader is Luke's father. 
  
  Shortly afterward another nostalgic on rails sequence takes place followed by a boss battle against 
 another BB member. 
  
  The fourth act is by far my favorite. It finds Snake back in the frozen North... literally, in 
 Shadow Moses, the site of Metal Gear Solid 1. Snake must sneak into the base yet again (via a retro 
 MGS 1 interlude) while avoiding giant Gekko walkers. When hunkering down in the freezing snow that 
 is raging in a blizzard, Snake gets built up with dynamic snowfall, and upon standing up, the snow 
 blows off. 
  
  While this feature was present since the start of the game, I should mention it now. Remember the 
 stamina gauge from MGS 3? It's back in the form of a Psyche Meter (which is monitored by Rosemary 
 from MGS2... no I'm not telling you anything) . By being in the extreme heat (like in Act 1) or 
 cold (like Act 4) , your stress rises and the psyche goes down. Having no psyche can result in Snake 
 collapsing to not being able to shoot well. Resting when not in combat or in a place where temperatures 
 are more moderate are required to refill this gauge. Shadow Moses teaches you survival in regards 
 to the psych meter.
  
  After sneaking around in some of the truly most sneaky parts of the game by avoiding rolling sentries 
 that similtaneously deploy green shimmering laser beams that even Catherine Zeta Jones couldn't 
 wiggle her shapely behind through, you come across the third boss, Crying Wolf who leads her pack 
 of elites in a sniping battle with Snake. Upon defeating her, Snake sneaks into the hangar where 
 Metal Gear Rex is found. There, you combat the perennial favorite villain, Vamp. After a few cutscenes 
 and more revealing information and a very poignant moment, you get no time to relax, more Gekko's 
 storm in with guns blazing. Did I mention that Otacon was actually firing up Metal Gear Rex? Yes, 
 you finally, for the first time in the series history get to pilot a Metal Gear. Gundam fans eat 
 your heart out. You have to escape Shadow Moses prior to it going up like a tinderbox. You have 
 a laser, machine cannon and missiles to destroy waves of Gekko on your way to freedom.
  But it doesn't stop there. I'm not going to say anything, but the next showdown is epic (I know 
 I use that word a lot, but nothing else describes it) . Suffice it to say fans of the series will 
 go bananas. Even the non fans will love the precise controls of controlling Metal Gear Rex (heck 
 this "minigame" is better than a lot of full mech games, I'm looking at you, Mechwarrior) .
  
  In the interlude and beginning of Act 5, the final act, you will see that the situation has 
 turned grim and you really start to feel for the cast of characters. An opening cutscene of Pearl 
 Harbor type proportions is your treat to enjoy before Snake's final mission. In this mission a 
 small amount of sneaking followed by boss fights and more sneaking followed by another cutscene 
 to the culminating battle with Liquid Ocelot on top of the Outer Haven battleship. I will say at 
 first the control scheme of this fight is annoying because there is only the control pad, X, R1 
 and Square. Square attacks, X dodges and rushes and R1 uses CQC (by the way, Snake knew CQC all 
 along, but refused to use it until he recently found out Big Boss wasn't actually a traitor) . Done 
 in an incredibly stylish matrix type slow down and zoom in manner with full on facial deformations 
 and spraying blood and sweat, the final fight with Ocelot is a fitting end to the gameplay. 
  
  Sit back and enjoy the fantastic ending. It is an hour long, and it is a satisfying conclusion 
 to say the least. I'm not going to say what happens, as I completely did not expect what happened 
 to happen. Questions are answered even more than you'd anticipate. I will say one thing... do not 
 turn off the machine or reset it prior to completion and you getting your results. You should read 
 all of the names of the amazing voice actors who have consistently put forth phenomenal voice work 
 since Metal Gear Solid 1. You should also appreciate all of the graphics and modeling engineers 
 and the programmers and sound technicians. You should realize this game took many people many years 
 to complete.
  
  In the end, Snake gets his much deserved rest, this I promise you.
  A "Solid" 10 out of 10
  
  Recap
  
  Gameplay : Think of Metal Gear before hand with the 
 same equipment and weaponry and items. But think of many more options on how to get around. Imagine 
 a whole list of different play modes as I described. Imagine a tweaking of the control scheme for 
 maximum efficiency and least aggravation. The developers took prior gripes, including camera (which 
 is totally controllable) and integrated them in properly. A seamless action adventure game is what 
 you get. 
  10 out of 10
  
  Graphics : From ambient dust clouds from explosions, to disturbed leaves and sticks, to dynamic 
 snow build up to the umpteen varieties of textures of metal, concrete, fabric etc for you to see 
 and Snake to mimic, this game has an amazing graphical repertoire. The character modeling in all 
 aspects from textures to animation is nothing short of superb. Near CGI quality from a completely 
 in game engine. Little touches like watching a screen from up close allowing you to see individual 
 pixel lines on the screen to the little serial number and capacity storage size on the back of 
 your in game iPod. Every minor detail, as always, is included by Kojima Productions.
  
  10 out of 10
  
  Sound : The game likes to recap that the sound is done in Dolby Digital, and 
 for someone with 5.1 surround or above, this game is a sonic masterpiece with ambient directional 
 sound, an amazing score by Harry Gregson-Williams and a flawless voice cast headed by David "Solid 
 Snake" Hayter. To not have a 5.1 system with this game would be a shame.
  
  10 out of 10
  
  Value : One run through of this game (not including some deaths or resets) took me approximately 
 21 hours. I know I'm playing it again shortly. For 3 dollars an hour of entertainment. This is 
 well worth it. Playing it in the future is like watching the Star Wars saga again, you know you 
 will. Built in, but not mentioned in my review is Metal Gear Online, which features team based 
 death matches using the same in game engine. This just adds to value and replayability.
  
  10 out of 10
  
  Tilt : What can I say. Writing this review as hard, as it was very difficult 
 to skip on the improvements while at the same time making it informative and exciting yet not give 
 away any of the major spoilers. I hope I did just that. Had you read my Mass Effect review I'd 
 have said something similar. This game is depressing... Depressing in that having completed it 
 I feel hollow and lacking in good games to play. Everything pales in comparison. The epic storytelling, 
 the vastly improved and widely varied gameplay, nothing I have compares to that. It's like an old 
 friend you said goodbye too and parted in a joyful way, but know you'll never see again unless 
 you watch home movies.
  
  The characters develop in such a way done in such an artful and skilled manner that I have to use 
 the cliched "This isn't gaming, this is art" statement. One hint I will give. After beating the 
 4th BB member, watch the cutscene with Meryl in it. Mr. and Mrs. Smith has nothing on that seamless 
 choreography.
  
  I guarantee fans of the series will be satisfied with the conclusion and hopefully some non fans 
 will discover a new treasure.
  
  10 out of 10. 
  
  Good :
  + Graphics are top rate
  + See same for sound and voice quality
  + A wide variety of highly polished gameplay modes
 
  + Fitting end to a 20 year saga.
  
  Bad :
  - It ends... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sonicmj1
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 1, 2008 12:42 pm PT
Review:  Metal Gear Solid 4, the latest, and perhaps final, chapter in director Hideo Kojima's storied series, 
 has been saddled with impossible expectations, tasked with closing out every aspect the labyrinthine 
 mythology of its predecessors. The franchise has become known for two distinct things; a complex 
 story, grounded in contemporary politics and current themes, and open-ended stealth gameplay. Metal 
 Gear Solid 4 pushes each of these to the limit, and despite the lengthy, meandering cutscenes, 
 solo infiltrations as series protagonist Solid Snake have never been as open-ended or as engaging. 
 
  
  The Metal Gear Solid series is unique in its focus on cinematic sequences, and Metal Gear Solid 
 4 is no exception. About half of my run through the game was spent watching meticulously staged 
 cinematics, with excellent facial animation and voice acting. Those who have traditionally adored 
 the way previous games present story will be right at home with Metal Gear Solid 4. But those who 
 have been put off in the past by the series' penchant for melodramatic dialouge and lengthy, non-interactive 
 exposition will find themselves as bored or annoyed as ever. Metal Gear Solid 4 surpasses even 
 MGS2 in the density of its cutscenes, which only become lengthier and more frequent as the game 
 progresses, culminating in a final movie that runs a full seventy minutes. 
  
  The game, similar to its predecessors, tackles weighty, current themes, returning to Metal Gear 
 Solid 2's overarching theme of control. Behind complex acronyms and buzzwords like 'SOP', 'War 
 economy', and 'nanomachines', lies a single question; how much freedom should we relinquish for 
 the sake of order and efficiency? The choices made in the world of the game, and the consequences 
 that are faced as a result of those decisions, define the conflict of the story. 
  
  The plot is interesting, and unlike many other games on the market today, it actually has a message. 
 But it is obscured behind hours of cutscenes explaining subtle, unessential intricacies of the 
 world's terminology, or delving deep into series lore in an effort to tie up every single loose 
 end left by earlier games, an effort that is filled with explanations that feel thrown together 
 at the last minute. I couldn't help but feel that the game cried out for an editor who could strip 
 the non-essential elements out of the script and staging, someone who could allow the underlying 
 concepts and thoughts to shine through without being obscured by sermonizing, melodrama, and monologues. 
 This won't be a problem for Kojima devotees, but it was an issue for me. Luckily for those who 
 are uninterested in story, all cutscenes are skippable, if you choose. One certainly couldn't be 
 faulted for wanting to get to the gameplay.
  
  For it is when the game shifts to your control that things get interesting. As the game begins, 
 Metal Gear Solid 4 leaves the confined spaces and quiet solitude of the earlier games behind, thrusting 
 the player early on into a raging battlefield, as PMC soldiers fight local rebels. The options 
 for guiding Solid Snake through the conflict are numerous, and, unlike earlier games that heavily 
 discouraged the use of weaponry, all options are viable. Running and gunning using the new over-the-shoulder 
 camera to aim is nearly as entertaining as sneaking around, staying hidden with help from the new 
 Solid-Eye radar, a very non-obtrusive threat ring, and 'octo-camo', which preserves the best aspects 
 of MGS3's camo system with none of the frequent trips to the pause screen. Every aspect feels easier 
 and smoother than ever, thanks to a control scheme that, while still plenty complex, is much more 
 accessible and streamlined. 
  
  The environments are more open than ever, leaving the player free to choose between plenty of different 
 paths and approaches. There are all sorts of viable options, and while the player is free to pick 
 one method and stick with it if you wish, experimenting with different weapons, gadgets, and techniques 
 (hold-ups, a technique introduced in MGS2 that had always felt clunky, is easier and more fun than 
 ever) is much of the fun. 
  
  There are tons of different sub-systems that I don't need to delve into, such as weapons vendor 
 Drebin's shop that affords you a constant supply of weapons and ammo, but those are secondary to 
 the constant stream of new scenarios and surprises that keep being thrown your way. Just when you 
 think you know how the game is going to play out, a new wrinkle is thrown your way. With the exception 
 of one sequence about half-way through the game that overstays its welcome by about 15 minutes, 
 every section will keep you interested all the way through until the game ends. 
  
  I have plenty of misgivings about the story presentation. But those barely matter when compared 
 to the richness of Kojima's vision. I raced through it in 18 hours, and when I was done, I couldn't 
 wait to start it again. And that's what's really important. If you have a PS3, you should get this 
 game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: snakeeater3
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 1, 2008 10:07 am PT
Review:  Apart from the biases I may have as a METAL GEAR fan and the fact thay my codename is Snakeeater3. 
 METAL GEAR SOLID 4 delivers everything a fan of the franchise would want. To be honest, there are 
 times you feel dissappoint with either the storyline or perhaps some game mechanic you would have 
 liked to have included but wasn't. Chances are you will most likely get over that in the next 5 
 minutes with the immersive "tying up all ends"storyline and the deep battlefield-like gameplay 
 of a real warzone with our legendary hero caught in the middle.
  The main things you will notice about MGS4 are the subtle things, you will most likely come across 
 them and go: "Ah, nice" or "Clever!" because the game is simply orchestrated so well. Things like 
 droplets of water on the screen, dust rising in the area because of an explosion off screen or 
 in the what-seems-to-be Skybox area, Snake patting his back etc. All these clever little notions 
 more than adds up for their delays in getting this game on the shelves.
  I am one of the few fortunate enough to get my hands on the Limited Edition of MGS4 and have watched 
 their exlusive Blu-Ray video. To be honest with those critivs who despised Kojima with the delays, 
 watching that videos is like playing MGS4 to find the answer to the story. The video details the 
 pain staking processes of debugging, re-coding and re-designing of the game at the last minute, 
 pushing the release date further and further back.
  The cinematics I agree can be very very lengthy, the first intro being clocked in as 20 or so minutes 
 before proper gameplay begins. However, this is METAL GEAR, and veterans to the series will appreciate 
 this and simply treat this as second nature. It's a trait of METAL GEAR that complete the METAL 
 GEAR experience, the series has always had life-stories explained, puns and metaphors taking hours 
 to explain etc. It is simply Kojima and really, the long cinematics being the main fault of the 
 game isn't really worthy to shy the game of a perfect 10. 
  Personally, the game plays like an interactive movie, which I think is beautiful as an art that 
 Kojima has perfected over his 20 years of METAL GEAR experience. Kojima has made the link between 
 Hollywood and "Gameswood" under the title of SONY's best game for the Playstation 3 Console. Ladies 
 and Gents, I give you: METAL GEAR SOLID 4: GUNS OF THE PATRIOTS. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: danny_dm_moore
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 1, 2008 3:39 am PT
Review:  How do you rate a game such as MGS4? lets face it, its a tough one. The smiple fact of the matter 
 is that the metal gear games are a law unto themselves, unique among the gaming fraternity. So 
 how do you rate them?
  
  Classing MGS4 as a 'stealth action' game is to do it a major dis-service, this is an experience 
 and like all experiences, it will effect different people in different ways. Alot of reviews rate 
 this game '10' or slightly below, and a select few think it is one of the worst games ever made. 
 These people have all had the MGS4 experience, and it has effected each in a different way. 
  
  This game will polarise a fair few people, and there is one universal truth that sums this 
 up. People who hate it and completed it in just a few hours did something the others didnt, they 
 skipped the cutscenes. This is the fundamental thing at the heart of any MGS experience, if you 
 are skipping the cutscenes, you are NOT playing this game right. Everyone is entitled to thier 
 opinion, but guns of the patriots looses so much if you simply class it as an 'Stealth action' 
 game and dont pay attention to the story. 
  
  This is a big budget, intensely deep action movie in videogame form. Hideo Kojima is a master of 
 his craft, and the intricate story, told through wonderfully acted and excellently designed cutscenes, 
 will get your heart pumping, tug at its heart strings and make you think, and that is something 
 few games can ever hope to achieve.
  
  The actual gameplay hasnt changed much from MGS3, but rather has been refined to make it an intensely 
 playable game, filled with large setpiece battles, thrilling on-rails vehicle sections and excellent 
 boss fights, featuring some of the best bosses to ever grace a sci-fi product, game or otherwise. 
 MGS4's greatest gameplay achievement, however is simple: choice. You can choose to hid in the shadows, 
 only knocking out enemies, hugging walls, creeping slowly throught the undergrowth as the ingenious 
 octo-camo suit mimicks your surroundings and generally being everybit the 'from the shadows' spy. 
 On the flip side, you can run and gun, only hiding when outnumbered or outmatched, using a variety 
 of weapons from standard assault and sniper rifles the more sci-fi rail gun. Either one is a valid 
 way of playing the game. 
  
  Whichever style you choose, as you play through the game, other innovations appear, such as the 
 metal gear mk. II, a small remote robot with octo-camo that follows snake around and can be controlled 
 by him, letting you scout out areas, stun enemies and generally have the coolest toy ever. The 
 ability to roll onto your back to shoot guys running up behind you is also useful as is the ability 
 to buy guns and ammo from new character Drebin. 
  
  The bosses and characters you meet throughout your adventure are some the best designed, messed 
 up and cool individuals ever created, from the twisted women of the Beauty and the Beast unit, 
 to the soda chugging and monkey friendly Drebin. There are plenty of returning characters too, 
 for fans of the series, and MGS4's certainly ties the whole series together in a pretty little 
 bow. 
  
  The one creavat to Guns of the Patriots, however, is that the cutscenes can be nearly an hour long 
 at thier longest, which is you have the patience/attention span of a pea, wont put the game in 
 good stead. However, to miss them, and only treat it as a game, is miss the whole point and one 
 of the most well craft video games, and stories, ever created. It may limp a little at the end 
 while it tries to tie things up, but it is an experience like no other, and rightly deserves the 
 highest honours. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tyg_skye
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 1, 2008 1:11 am PT
Review:  Story - 9.5/10 "Confusing"
  You play as Solid Snake, or should I say Old Snake to stop Liquid Ocelot on his plot of owning 
 the Guns Of The Patriots, The Guns Of The Patriots is a system in which controls all of the guns, 
 tech, and transportation, Once Liquid gets his hand on it, it is the end, The Guns of the Patriots 
 is nothing but a mere program, which controls all the nanos, but almost all the world has nanos 
 on them, which Liquid might be able to control everything, These so called long cutscenes are slow 
 but it helps in telling you whats going on, Fox-Hound, Otacon, Mk. II & Mk. III, Jack A. K. A Raiden, 
 Has joined Snake in stopping Liquid, But don't be sad that its the last of the series ( Or is it 
 :D) , But enjoy it, You may need to play the rest from the series to understand this story, but 
 don't let it stop you!.
  
  Gameplay - 9.5/10 "Never gets tiring"
  Same old, Same old, Third Person shooter, The best about the gameplay is, Sneaking in the Battlefield, 
 you see, If you are caught, found, detected, it is hard to aim, which is why you kill first before 
 you get killed, You make sure they don't know you are there, And how is that possible in the battlefield?, 
 Well thanks to Otacon, You now wield the power of Disguise!, The Octo Camo system!, which camouflages 
 you by looking exactly like the thing you are leaning on, Same texture, color, pattern, just don't 
 rely on it that much, Of course, Ai is now a lot smarter since, well of course its the future!, 
 Well Thats about it!.
  
  Visuals - 10/10 "Its like the real deal"
  Of course, Hideo wouldn't not take advantage of the PlayStation 3's Abilities, new hardware and 
 stuff, But of course, Stunning, just Simply Stunning, the cutscenes are really amazing, One of 
 the best you could see, Amazing fighting scenes between Raiden and Vamp are one of the most amazing 
 things i've ever laid eyes on.
  
  Miscellaneous - 9.0/10
  Press the (X) button for flashbacks, DP (Drebin Points) for weapons ammos and playboy!?, Well you 
 get the face Octo Camo which could change how you look like, which mostly unlocked for watching, 
 Tip Always watch the CUTSCENES!, It gives out bonus stuff.
  
  Overview :
  Amazing, recommended and absolutely stunning! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gamemaster_650
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 1, 2008 12:51 am PT
Review:  MGS4 is a fantastic game. One of the best games to date.
  
  It has superb animation, immersive game play, a wide selection of weapons and so much more.
  
 
  There are about 9 hours worth of cutscenes ( so get your popcorn ready!) and about 20 hours worth 
 of gameplay. 
  
  The story is fantastic and there are plenty of things that remind you of previous games. It has 
 a compelling storyline and a week could go by without you noticing.
  Metal Gear Online is fantastic and has great potential for expansion. There are a few minor problems 
 with online though.
  There are quite a lot of things that i would of liked to see in the game that would of made it 
 that much better
  
  Online, there are few levels to choose from, but more are coming soon and i would like to see a 
 create-your-own-level that can be used for online play and training.
  
  I enjoyed this game heaps and i play it pretty much every day 
::::::

::::::
UserName: noahr31
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 30, 2008 11:35 pm PT
Review:  This game is absolutely awesome. The graphics are amazing. I can honestly say that the grapics 
 and looks of this game have no flaws. They are totally perfect. Also the gameplay is couldn't be 
 any better. In a war zone in this game, there is so much you can do to get the job done and becuase 
 of that, this game is so much fun to play. It never gets boring at all. If you followed the entire 
 series like I have, this game is an excellent ending to the metal gear series saga. All the questions 
 are answered and then some. Overall, this is a perfect game. I don't see one thing wrong with it. 
 If you buy this game, you will not be disappointed. You have my word on that. Also, the multiplayer 
 in this game is actually pretty cool. You can have up to 16 players during online play. That is 
 a huge step up from not having that in the last game. I have said it once and I will say it again, 
 this game is simply perfect. I never been more impressed with a game in my life. I have no doubt 
 in my mind that this game will have the same effect on you as it did me. You have to love it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SilentAssassin
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 30, 2008 9:12 pm PT
Review:  The metal gear series always had great graphics, good music, and excellent gameplay intertwined 
 with each other to make a stunning video game experience. Hideo Kojima is the genius behind the 
 series. Although he never intended to take the series this far he did a good job connecting the 
 storlines. Metal Gear Solid 4 tries to rap everything up an it does a decent job at that. On the 
 other hand I dont think it was neccasary to include every single character from past games in this 
 one. Ide have to say my favorite game of the series would have to be part 1 because it was my first 
 time to experience something like that an i liked the little jokes in the story an the innovative 
 bosses. My fav. was pyscho mantis because you had to take your controller out an use slot 2 to 
 defeat him an he read my memory card once and told mei liked castlevania"!!!! He makes an experience 
 in metal gear solid 4 which i thought was awsome. Only this time you didnt have to really do anything 
 to crazy to defeat him. I found that MGS4 is super addictive, right when ide shut off my ps3 ide 
 want to play it again. Mostly just to get further in the storyline that sucks you in. The story 
 line revolved around "the patriots" the 12 men that started all the nano technology and wanted 
 to monitor society. However they have all passed away, so liquid ocelot tries to use the technology 
 to conrol his army an basically take over the world an start a new world order. Good thing Snake 
 is around to put a stop to him once and for all!!!! Great game an highly recommended. Check it 
 out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AKayy_47
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 29, 2008 1:26 am PT
Review:  Genre: Action/Third Person Shooter
  
  The entire Metal Gear Solid series is fantastic, dating all the way back to the first game for 
 the PS. MGS4 is no exception, and it sends Old Snake out with a brilliant blend of great gameplay 
 and awesome storyline. 
  
  Of course you play as Snake, but he's much older now and is on his way to dying while fighting 
 through war-infested battlefields. The PMC are fighting proxy wars for Liquid as he tries to take 
 control of SOP, the nanomachine system inside a soldier's bloodstream. The theme behind the game 
 depicts a future in which business is war, and combat has taken over the world. It's a pretty realistic 
 view of the future in the real world. Go figure. I've said enough already, you will want to experience 
 this incredible story for yourself. It does answer alot of questions for fans, but it is very complex, 
 and some might not understand it.
  
  The action and sneaking around is better than ever. There is an unbelievable amount of gameplay 
 options, such as positions, camouflage, and items. Things like Solid Eye and the Mk. II really 
 help you out while sneaking around. There is a huge variety of weapons, and the over-the-shoulder 
 shooting is really tight. You can even switch to first-person if you want, which is another example 
 of the many ways you can play the game. MGS4 is extremely interactive. For example, Snake can climb 
 into a dumpster to hide or disguise himself as a drum can, sitting next to a couple others against 
 a wall. Combat is superb, and infiltrating an enemy base has never been this much fun. CQC (close-quarters 
 combat) is good, but doesn't work exactly as you want it to sometimes. If you don't want to sneak, 
 you can get out and shoot up all of the soldiers in your way, but this can get really difficult.
 
  
  There is a great new weapon system with the character Drebin, a gun launderer. He'll buy extra 
 weapons off of you with DP, which you can use to buy other weapons and ammo. It works really well, 
 so you definitely want to spend time picking up dropped guns on the battlefield. You also get to 
 keep the ammo. 
  
  The levels vary from manning the guns on a motorcycle or a huge mechanical Metal Gear to crawling 
 under a truck and sniping out PMC. Boss fights are fun and varied, with different ways to defeat 
 your enemy each time. The voice acting is superb, and the sound and music really hits you. You 
 can keep on playing this game because of 5 difficulty levels and tons of unlockables. The main 
 things to get are emblems and new powerful weapons. You can do these things by completing the game 
 in under 5 hours, getting no kills, no alerts, no health items, no continues, or finding items. 
 
  
  The graphics are the greatest of any game to date, with astoundingly detailed visuals that really 
 max out the PS3's power. You're really missing out if you don't take a look at these stunning visuals. 
 The whole game is filled with great-looking environments, such as Middle Eastern war grounds or 
 South American enemy camps. 
  
  Metal Gear Online is tons of fun. You create your own character and fight through intense in games 
 like team deathmatch, capture the flag, etc. It's not for the unexperienced, though. 
  
  There are very few issues in this game. The only thing one could really complain about are the 
 very long cutscenes, which take up nearly half of the game. MGS4: Guns of the Patriots is one of 
 the most fantastic titles to grace any system in the history of gaming, and I'd recommend it to 
 anyone and everyone. 
  
  Pros:
  -Amazing and dramatic storytelling with deep roots and themes
  -Story will keep you on the edge 
 if you're a series fan with great characters and enemies
  -Great combat system with tight third-person shooting and movements/positions, as well as great 
 controls
  -Tons of gameplay options like switching to FPS, great camouflage and hiding in cardboard boxes/drum 
 cans/dumpsters (a series classic)
  -Sneaking around is better than ever 
  -Fun levels
  -Great weapon selection and DP system
  -The best graphics and visuals of any game to date, with 
 beautiful environments, characters and cutscenes
  -Entertaining battles and boss fights
  -Adventure has a good length to it
  -Fast paced tactical online play (Metal Gear Online)
  -Lots 
 of unlockables
  -Fantastic voice work and musical scores
  
  Cons:
  -Cutscenes are very long and take up nearly half the game
  -You might find the game hard to follow 
 if you haven't played the others
  -Boss fights are a bit on the easy side
  -Getting out and running and gunning can get pretty difficult
  -Gekko are surprisingly hard to 
 kill (con?)
  -Some overblown and crude moments, but remain humorous all the same
  -Its the last game in the series, say goodbye to Snake
  
  Gameplay: 9.7
  Graphics: 10
  
 Sound: 10
  Replay Value: 9.5
  Concept: 10
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ranteal
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 30, 2008 3:58 pm PT
Review:  MGS4 is more of a movie, than it is a game. What game there is to actually play is very fun, and 
 the graphics are the best ever seen on any system. The storyline itself works as a close to the 
 Solid Snake drama, but looked at from afar, is rather self important, and overall very complicated 
 and silly in some parts. The controls are spot on and work great in the game. The characters are 
 pretty cool, if not a little over the top dramatic. You will find yourself in wonder in just how 
 realistic the graphics look. This game just goes to show that when a company puts the effort forward, they 
 can get fantastic results from the PS3 hardware. It really was too bad that there wasent more gameplay 
 to this game, but it still wont hinder you from enjoying the game to the fullest.
  (Also, on a side note, you should have at least some idea of what went down in the first 3. Downloading 
 the MGS4 database from the PS-Network will probably get you up to speed.) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hojo80
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 30, 2008 3:32 pm PT
Review:  This game is without a doubt of the the best looking games if not the best, has one of the best 
 stories, and combines story and gameplay seamlessly like any other game does. Hideo Kojima is a 
 visionary that much is not debatable, and if you think it is debatable i'll take the christian 
 approach and say "shut up you're wrong." (or the republican approach) anyway you slice it this 
 game is memorable and most people will have to play thru numerous times, and not just because you 
 didn't get the story-line. This is in everyway a sequal and can't REALLY be appreciated without 
 previous experience with other metal gear and metal gear solid games. but as a stand-alone game 
 it's very satisfying all the same. with gameplay that looks and plays beautifully you almost get 
 annoyed by the lengthy movie sequences (a lot of people will regardless) cause sneaking AND firefights 
 are both so satisfying that watching the movie takes precious time you could be sneaking up and 
 CQCing someones face! but the movies are SO well done and equally as beautiful i couldn't not set 
 my controller down and watch intrigued but what could happen (and numerous movies are as long if 
 not longer than some movies) . this is the end of the solid snake saga so Metal Gear Solid is at 
 an end, which leaves me wondering where Kojima will do next, MGS is his legacy to date and it's 
 almost sad to know it's at an end (a badass, poignant end albeit) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dzero75
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 30, 2008 2:15 pm PT
Review:  Graphics are awesome and the gameplay is nice. The new overlook mechanics when using any weapon 
 works out great may be quirky for new comers but that can be easily be adapted to. The story is 
 very well told. Poor snake, all those years sneaking in a card board box. At times depending on 
 your surround sound you may feel you are in a battle.
  
  As always the bosses are freaks.
  
  Very comical through out the story and some scenes you 
 may bust a gut laughing.
  
  Very fun replay value for the goodies.
  
  The online is fun but can be hecktic against pros.
  
  Hideo certainly likes putting those easter 
 eggs into his games.
  
  Extreme difficulty is a challenge and can be tedious if your not good at sneaking but a blast once 
 you get the groove down.
  
  Purchasing weapons at times seems kind of cheap but hey you got a little helper with you to do 
 the trick or treating for you
  
  All in all it is a masterpiece and hope fellow gamers enjoy this review. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TechtRonin07
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 30, 2008 11:54 am PT
Review:  It was ten years ago that Hideo Kojima released Metal gear solid on the psone and forever changed 
 gaming. It forced everyone the globe across to take a step back and reevaluate what it is a game 
 can be, something beyond a simple game that can provide an experience as timeless and wondrous as 
 any movie or book. This was just a hint of things to come. Now ten years and two systems later 
 we have the triumphant end to the series, Metal Gear Solid 4. A game that utterly and quite mercilessly 
 obliterates the line between game and cinema. A game with such finely polished mechanics that playing 
 it feels subconscious and seamless. The unbelievable graphics only heighten the sense that you're 
 playing a movie. Everything that ever could have bothered someone about the old games has been 
 fixed yet retaining the classic Metal Gear feeling we have all come to expect. This is without 
 a doubt the definitive game in the series and a game of such revolutionary magnitude that it will 
 no doubt be emulated endlessly for years to come. 
  I could go on for weeks about how amazing this game is but I don't want to give anything away, 
 but I'll leave you with this. If you don't play this game you might as well hang up your controller. 
 This is the best game ever made.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: zitomerds
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 30, 2008 10:38 am PT
Review:  MGS4 is definitely the Game of the Year for 2008! It is much better than GTA IV! It has many cutscenes, 
 I want to get that out of the way, and if you're the impatient type, this game isn't for you. It 
 also does have installs between acts, but it is only 2-3 minutes long. That's a good time to think 
 of what just happened in the act or read up on the next act. Now to the gameplay. The gameplay, 
 except for Act 3, is excellent, varied, and interesting. One Act has you in the Middle East to 
 meet an old friend from the last games, while another has you chasing a Resistance soldier. Speaking 
 of Old friends, MGS4 answers every last question and brings back almost every character that isn't 
 dead. Though, the answer to most of the questions is the same. One character I'll mention though 
 is Raiden. He is back and better than ever. After playing this game, many people like him much 
 more now. Finally, I'll talk about the graphics. They are amazing! The land is very detailed, the 
 effects are amazing, and the characters look more realistic than ever. This is the best graphics 
 in videogames period. I only have one minor complaint. The game has to reinstall the acts if you 
 start over. It overwrites the previous act each time. Also, the B&B Corps aren't as beautiful or 
 deadly as they were thought to be. There is many secrets to the game. Try to beat The Boss Extreme!
 
  PS: Act 4 is the best for those who have played all the the games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: goosey7683
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 30, 2008 8:02 am PT
Review:  Ok, this is a very good game don't get me wrong the gameplay is outstanding. When you acually play. 
 I bought this game hoping for a great memorable game which I did in a way, the gameplay and story 
 was unique and it has lots of twist with makes the game exciting. The down part of this game is 
 that it's pretty much a movie... the cutscences seem like forever I watched a cutscean that was 
 45 minutes long! Now if the isn't ridiculas then I don't know what is!
  The graphics are the best graphics I have ever seen! They look so unbelevably good that at parts 
 it seems like you are acually there. Very well done. 
  The sound is good to, the guns sound very real and you can hear the people clearly when they talk 
 so I guess theres nothing wrong with the sound lol. 
  This game is ONE of the best games I have ever played, but NOT the best game I have ever played.
 
  
  
  p. s.-If you have never played a metal gear solid game before then you will not understand anything 
 that is happening in the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: halloweenfan
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 29, 2008 7:20 pm PT
Review:  "War Has Changed"
  
  May 4th 2007 was the first time I was truly disappointed with an "event". I had been rabidly anticipating 
 Spider-Man 3 for three years and while I enjoyed the movie, the disappointment I walked away with 
 crushed me, to say the least. This was the movie that I had been looking forward to for around 
 1095 days was mediocre at best. I told myself that from that moment on, I would not get as hyped 
 up for anything like that ever again. I lied.
  
  This brings me to Metal Gear Solid 4: Guns of The Patriots (from here on out referred to as MGS4) 
 for the Playstation 3 (PS3) . I have been anticipating this game since 2004 and bought a PS3 solely 
 for this game. In case you don't know where I'm coming from, here's a little information. The Metal 
 Gear Solid series is my number one favorite thing in the world of entertainment. I am completely 
 obsessed with it, am engrossed in each game's storyline and love each and every one of the characters. 
 So you can imagine the hype that I had for this game. Metal Gear Solid 2 (MGS2) was the reason 
 I bought a Playstation 2 (PS2) back in 2001 and I played that game again and again. I went out 
 and bought the original Metal Gear Solid beforehand and fell in love with it, so I HAD to get MGS2. 
 That game is notorious for having an extremely convoluted plot and you really do have to play it 
 at least two times to really grasp the basics of it. It's a brilliant game, but just a tad too 
 complicated for its own good. Three years later Metal Gear Solid 3 (MGS3) came out and it blew 
 me away in ways that I didn't think videogames could. I was three years older and was better able 
 to understand and get more out of the story than I could back with MGS2 (at that time) . This game 
 touched me on an emotional level numerous times, to the point where I was sobbing at the end. Yes, 
 this game makes grown men cry. And not only cry, but bawl their eyes out. It's that good.
  
  So now, here we are with MGS4. The game that has tons of hype behind it, follows my personal 
 favorite game of all time, a personal level of anticipation that is truly unrealistic and the fact 
 that I've spent about $700 for it when all is said and done. The PS3 does no have too many games 
 for it so since I purchased the system back in December of 2006, it has been somewhat hard for 
 me to justify the purchase. Most game are a pathetic port of games that run better on the Xbox 
 360 and the games that are exclusive to the PS3 disappoint. So along comes MGS4, the game that 
 is supposed to save the PS3. Can it possibly justify the price tag and expectations piled on Sony's 
 console?
  
  There are some things that are so good that no matter how much anticipation and hype you throw 
 at it, they still manage to blow you away and you can securely file MGS4 as such. That's right, 
 after everything, this game took all expectations I had placed upon it and ripped them to shreds. 
 Metal Gear Solid 4 is quite simply the greatest game I have ever played. The level of sheer polish 
 and effort poured into this game is mind-boggling. But, I'll get into all the details throughout 
 (yeah, this review is going to be long) .
  
  I am not going to get into the details of the storyline of this game because it is pointless. This 
 is something that simply needs to be experienced. This is a game that is truly for the fans though. 
 Nearly every question you've ever had while playing this series is answered, every loose end is 
 tied up, there are tons of nods and in-jokes for the fans that refer to previous games and it all 
 comes together brilliantly. The level of polish is that of which we haven't seen before in the 
 world of videogames. The level of detail is astounding and there will be instances where you will 
 more than once simply stop and look at the area. You can practically feel the dust of the Middle 
 East getting in your eyes or feel the humidity of the South American jungles making you sweat. 
 There is a ton of story to this game too, and this is the part of the game/series that loses people.
 
  
  You see, MGS4 has a lot of cutscenes (non-interactive sequences where you watch the action unfold 
 instead of playing) and I mean A LOT. Some are quite long too (the final cutscene is well over 
 an hour long) . Many people do not like this because they feel that they should be playing instead 
 of watching. And many times I will agree because most videogames do not spend much time on their 
 stories and the cutscenes are quite generic and are frankly boring. But not here. Hideo Kojima 
 (the game's director) directs the scenes with breathtaking visual flair and they're a joy to watch. 
 You'll have just as much fun watching them as you will playing the actual game and you'll look 
 forward to the next cutscene just as much as you will the next gameplay section. It's through these 
 cutscenes though that the story is laid out for us and what a story it is. There are twists and 
 turns everywhere and moments that will make you gasp and not believe what you just saw. It all 
 culminates to one of the most satisfyingly emotional endings I have ever seen. It was hard for 
 me to read any of the end credits through all the tears. Everything is wrapped up nicely and while 
 this may not be the last Metal Gear game, it is undoubtedly the final chapter of the Solid Snake 
 story. There were numerous times throughout that I almost cried, but did not. It wasn't until the 
 very end, when a character utters one specific sentence that I completely lost it, broke down and 
 started sobbing. Now, you may read this and think, "OK, this is a videogameand you CRIED?!" And 
 I say yes. I did cry. I also cried during the ending of MGS3. See, what non-gamers don't realize 
 is that it IS possible for games to have immersive and powerful storylines. I DARE you to find 
 anything in any other medium that comes close to Metal Gear. You truly have no idea until you play 
 this game or watch someone play it and experience the story.
  
  Metal Gear Solid 4 has full cast voiceovers (voice actors provided the voices for each character) 
 and per usual, this area is extremely strong. Every single actor gives a terrific performance and 
 David Hayter should be given an award for his emotional and powerful portrayal of protagonist Old 
 Snake. The actors all give award-worthy performances and really elevate the game to an even higher 
 level.
  
  As most people know, music is an extremely important part of any movie. What they also do not realize 
 is how important it is to videogames as well. Composer Harry- Gregson-Williams (Narnia, The Rock, 
 Armageddon) has composed the music to this series since MGS2 and he does a spectacular job here. 
 I purchased the Limited Edition of the game and with that came the soundtrack. I listen to certain 
 pieces and I still get emotional because they bring back so many memories from the game and the 
 music is just so perfect in every scene and instant that you can't help but smile. The sound effects 
 go hand in hand with the music too, as they are so crisp and clear that you would swear that the 
 explosion is going on right next to you.
  
  You can't talk about a videogame and not mention the graphics. MGS4 is the most technically stunning 
 videogame ever made. The sheer level of detail put into every single thing in the game is, as I 
 said before, mind-boggling. Everything looks as if it will jump right off the screen at you and 
 that really helps in the story. The original MGS for the PS1 had blocky graphics and they just 
 aren't that good (though they were amazing back in 1998) and I personally did not get invested 
 in that story because I simply didn't care about the blocky characters. MGS2-4 though have reeled 
 me in straight from the get-go because the characters look realistic and it is easier for me to 
 care about them.
  
  There is something about this game that differentiates itself from every other one though, and 
 that is the choices that Kojima has made. It was a very brave move in making our legendary hero, 
 Solid Snake, into an old man. It was met with lots of ridicule and mockery, but after playing through 
 the game, the younger Snake looks foreign to me. Another subversion is what we all expect to happen. 
 We know that this is Solid Snake's last mission and the final chapter in his story. We are told 
 that he does not have much time to live and instead of as it is in other games where you are heading 
 towards a goal throughout the whole thing, you are working toward the end in this game. Everyone 
 already has an idea engrained in their minds as to how they think this game will end (trust me, 
 you have NO idea) and most are expecting a sad ending. And THAT is what we are working towards. 
 Not rescuing anyone, not saving the world (though that IS part of the mission) or accomplishing 
 self-gain for the main character. This game, to the players, is a march down the green mile. The 
 ultimate goal is finality and THAT is a brilliant design choice.
  
  After four years of feverish anticipation and ridiculous levels of hype, Metal Gear Solid 4 has 
 finally come and gone. It was an experience that I will never forget and one that I hope gamers, 
 and non-gamers, will all get to experience at one point or another. You can't really ask for much 
 more from a videogame than what MGS4 delivers. I am happy to say that this is the first time I've 
 truly said, yes, THIS is why I bought a PS3. It is the perfect videogame and it is highly doubtful 
 that you'll find a better game released this, or any other year. In the end, everyone's a winner. 
 The PS3 finally gets its "savior," Kojima gets his masterpiece, and gamers get one of the best 
 games of all time. And they all lived happily ever after.
  
  "War Has Changed"
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: microwavedapple
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 29, 2008 2:42 pm PT
Review:  Metal Gear Solid has always been praised (and sometimes bashed) by it's long cutscenes, movie-style 
 cinematography and mind bending plot twists. Metal Gear Solid 4 continues this trend by not only 
 reaching this goal, but by blasting it into hyper-space. But what hasn't been done well in a Metal 
 Gear Solid game is a perfect control system, an in-depth and varied gameplay and intense action, 
 to which Metal Gear Solid 4 not only improves upon these elements, but perfects them.
  
  Snake's final chapter begins in the Middle East, and he is tasked with the extermination of Liquid. 
 With nanomachines controlling and surpressing soldiers emotions, and Snake's curiously rapid aging, 
 you know things are going to go horribly wrong from the beginning, which leads to Snake jetting 
 off to South America, Europe and some other exotic and not-so-exotic locales. All loose ends get 
 tied up in MGS4, such as the FoxDie virus, the mysterious Patriots and the fates of characters 
 like Raiden, Rose, EVA, Vamp and Meryl Sliverburgh being some examples.
  
  If you couldn't make sense of the above paragraph, then MGS4 is certainly not the game for you, 
 as it has a convulted story that doesn't require you to have played previous games, but it sure 
 helps a hell of a lot. Even with the fantastic gameplay, if you didn't like Metal Gear because 
 of it's story before, then Metal Gear Solid 4 isn't going to change your mind.
  
  But if you are one of the many that enjoys Metal Gear Solid for it's story, then the fantastic 
 gameplay is no longer an optional extra. The gameplay is now an integral, exciting and, most importantly; 
 fun part of the game. With new additions such as the Octocamo, a suit that changes it's colour 
 and texture based on the surface Snake is pressed up against, and the Metal Gear Mk. II, sneaking 
 around the environment has never been more fun.
  
  But if you're the type of person to go in gun-ho, then you're not punished by it, and in some cases, 
 rewarded for it. Not only does it offer a nice change of pace to sneaking, it can net you some 
 Drebin Points (a form of currency used to buy and upgrade weapons) and you can ally yourself with 
 the local militia, who are intent on taking down Liquid's private army.
  
  All of this looks and sounds fantastic. War-torn buildings and gritty textures populate the Middle 
 Eastern setting, lush jungle environments with towering trees and beautiful rivers reside in other 
 countries. With the sound of bullets whizzing past Snake's head, pummeling explosions and heart-stopping 
 gunshots, you'll need to remind yourself that you're not playing a movie.
  
  MGS4 is one for the fans, but newcomers will find something they like. Although it has little replay 
 value, and some may find Kojima's trademark humour a little tasteless, Metal Gear Solid 4 is an 
 epic, action-packed, heart-pounding experience. Though there are some parts of the game that you 
 are guaranteed to dislike, the clever boss battles, and some intense on-rails sequences will surely 
 win you over. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NC_Hitman
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 29, 2008 1:38 pm PT
Review:  Ill tell you right now that this is a one sided review. I love the entire MGS saga and the last 
 one is an experience that i enjoyed the whole way through. The games presentation keeps you on 
 your toes and excited. The flashback scenes and the countless revelations of why things happened, 
 character relationships, and the history of the series is mindblowing. I cant put into words how 
 much i loved this game. Even the small things in this game bring a smile to your face. The safety 
 messages at the loading screens of each act can get hilarious after a six hour sitting into 4 in 
 the morning. The gameplay is fluid and fun, the octocamo is beautiful to look at, and the realtime 
 graphics are amazing. The only drawback to this game is too the new comers to MGS there is no way 
 you will know what is going on. Other that that if you have enjoyed the past missions with snake 
 and big boss this game is made for you. Hideo Kojima... thank you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: snakeseve
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 29, 2008 6:43 am PT
Review:  I've been waiting for MGS4 for 3 years. I'm not dissapointted at all!
  Game is wonderful, gameplay is the best in series. Game looks indescribable graphic in the best 
 of all games. I dont think any game will be close to MGS4 because its Masterpiece.
  Cut Scenes are like movie, because MGS games are more move than game thats why you have to feel 
 MGS not just play. This is what makes MGS different than any games. Music composed by Harry Gregson 
 Williams makes that game has specyfic atmosfere. Metal Gear Solid is something more than only a 
 game... Only when you will play and feel it you can understand that. 
  Cut Scenes are long but MGS4 was made because there where so many things to explain with story, 
 and MGS4 its last MGS game so, this game is now more movie than game ;) Watch, play, feel , cry 
 & ADMIRE ! ;) This is MGS4 ! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sam280992
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 29, 2008 6:23 am PT
Review:  Warning: This review may contain tiny spoilers.
  
  This has to be the best game I have ever played, it throws twist after twist at you, leaving you 
 more and more surprised by the game, The story as you should expect from a Metal Gear game is top 
 notch and Mr Hideo Kojima should pat himself on the back for such an outstanding achievment.
  
  The Controls are a vast improvement over the past Metal Gear Solid games, shooting especially 
 (L1 to aim, R1 to shoot) you have have a variety of choices on how to shoot, whether straight out 
 Auto Aim or Over-the-shoulder (Uncharted) or First Person (CoD4) . An important addition to the 
 game is the Octocamo, it is an improved and refined version of Snake Eater's camo system, you no 
 longer have to the pause menu and choose what camo is best suited to the environment, here it automatically 
 chooses which camo is best, just press up against the texture for a few seconds and you will be 
 invisible to most eyes.
  
  Graphics are outstanding, screens do not do this game any justice and do not judge this game by 
 the Middle East, This game has everything, it is the console graphics king. Besting Gears of War 
 and Uncharted, the scope of the earlier Acts make you feel like you are in a real war zone, but 
 later on you will do some good old fashioned sneaking, whether to follow a Resistance member or 
 going back to the one and only Shadow Moses. But what really takes the cake is the grand epic fist 
 fight at the end of the game, this is the highlight of the game and it makes for the perfect ending 
 a game could ask for.
  
  The replayability is amazing I have already completed the game four times and I am not about to 
 stop, this game has so many extra goodies and easter eggs it is impossible to get them all in even 
 on your tenth time going through the game.
  
  Closing Comments:
  
  This game is the best game of 2008 so far and in my opinion ever, it really makes you a part of 
 Snake's world, every character that dies, you may cry. I was certainly close to it. Its a rare 
 thing for a game to do that for you and if any of you are on the fence to get a PS3 just for this 
 game, it is absolutely worth it, and if any of you who do own a PS3 you have to get it. It is the 
 best game on PS3 and it shall go down in history; joining the ranks of Goldeneye, The Ocarina of 
 Time and Final Fantasy 7. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jackrocks123
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 11, 2008 8:31 am PT
Review:  when i first got this game i couldn't wait to play this, but after the 8minute install time, i 
 was ready,
  
  the first cutscene wasn't at all that long, so you basically get straight into the game, your team 
 gets pin downed by gekkos, which is quite good, but don't try to fight them just run you can shoot 
 thier legs till they fall down but they do get back up though, you need a rocket lanucher to kill 
 them thats the best way!
  
  i finished the first act of the game and it was about 4-5 hours long, but if you look around more 
 it will probably take you longer, thier wasn't alot of cutscenes in this act, so its just mainly 
 the sad xbox fanboys that say this game is boring, but they know nothing, they arn't even a real 
 gamer
  
  Also i think the beauty and beast unit is quite cool and different, but they look so fun to fight, 
 my best bit of act 1 was the frog shootout with meryl which was really fun the best ways to kill 
 these is to shoot these in the head, Meryl doesn't really die, but she willl die if you leave her 
 and she keeps getting shot alot, and johnny is real stupid but also makes you laugh.
  
  i also have met up with Drebin and saw his cute little monkey i liked the idea of the drebin points, 
 whereever you are you can buy ammo and wepons but the only thing he doesn't sell is the rations 
 or any other type of item that heals stress, stamina and health. so this item you will have to 
 look for and savior.
  
  game time from this act is 9-10 for Act 2, in this act you are in the South America if i can remember 
 rightly, and you are trying to find dr Nioami, you finally fight a boss the laughing octopuss, 
 she can be a tough fight, if you haven't got enough rations, you basiclly keep shooting her to 
 she drops dead. you can also stamina kill her to get her mask, also if you kill her no matter what 
 way, you get a different mask which comes in handy. The best part of this boss was that she has 
 octocamo so she can hide as anything, she has got some good hiding places, but some are easy to 
 find, i don't really want to tell you any so i don't ruin it for you. After you kill it you find 
 out about her backstory. Once that is done you do a tracking mission, where you use NV goggles 
 to follow footsteps to hunt someone down at the end you escape on a truck thing and you use its 
 machiene gun to shoot down a load of people and gekkos before they get to you.
  
  game time from act 3 is13-15 hours and this act you are suituated in eastern europe, in this act 
 you are in a town and you are trying to hunt down someone, and to do that you have to follow someone 
 from its resistence group, its quite lengthly to follow him, but once you have done that, you find 
 who you are trying to track down, there base gets attacked by Raging Raven and you escape on a 
 motorbike, you shoot from the back of it with a sub-machiene gun. After you fight Raging Raven, 
 and like the first boss once you kill her in anyway you get a gun, a very nice gun :) , i didn't 
 stealth kill this boss as i couldn't : ( 
  
  i have just got to act 4, and you are on a island. it will look familier to people, so i won't 
 give it away to spoil it for anyone. you sneak through the island, i can't really say too much 
 here without giving too much away but, you fight crying wolf here, and she is hard especialy with 
 the blizard going on so you can't see anything, just the blizzard, so best way is to put NV on, 
 there is frog troops around and they never stop coming so while you kill the both they will shoot 
 you. i found this act quite good as it goes back to old memories and stuff. 
  
  i'm on act 5 and you are now on liquids ship called outer haven, i found the first part of it quite 
 hard, but once you get use to when the enemies come you can then do it, also you fight the last 
 b&b here called phsycho mantis, it can be hard, but thats only if you don't have a play with all 
 the different weapons as only one can kill her, once you find out what it is when you can do it. 
 at the end you have a traditional hand to hand fight, which is quite hard but once you get the 
 hang of it, you can do it straight away, the last 2 cut scenes are good and sad, it tells you about 
 radien and it finishes the game in a nice way.
  
  after i finished it, this game still gets a 10, it is absolutly amazing, i'm now playing metal 
 gear online hich is very good as well. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: combatsoldier
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 29, 2008 2:43 am PT
Review:  Let me start off by saying that it is a priveledge to review this game for you. I am just as shocked 
 as you are. yes yes i know. stop clapping, just read the review already.. geez. 
  
  Now normally when you hear about a game getting a perfect ten a part of you wants it so bad however 
 another part of you says. Man its not going to live up to the hype. Games never live up to that. 
 Its all flash no substance, blah blah blah. Not the case here ladies and gentleman. This game is 
 absolutely perfect in every way. It offers solid story, online, and the graphics are the best on 
 any game ever made. You can tell konami took there time with this one and made it into a masterpiece. 
 
  
  If you were waiting to find a good reason to buy a ps3, well my children the time has come. Go 
 and get one. I dont know how to describe it without ruining the story. All I can say is that it 
 answers all questions to all the other ones, and even if you dont know whats going on and this 
 is your first metal gear, you will love it just as much.
  
  This offers special downloads with extra content that has everything infromation wise from all 
 the others on the psn network for free. How cool is that. So if you dont know who a character is 
 it will easily tell you. Also the game has long cutscenes that engulf you into the story and make 
 you feel emotionally attacthed to the characters in the game, especially as you progress. The game 
 offers 1080p resolution and takes full advantage of anything that any and all can offer. 
  
  I litterally sat there looking for things wrong with this game and heres what I found wrong............... cant 
 think of anything. I have never played a game so solid and pure. Normally you second guess if a 
 game deserves a 10 and with this there is no second thought. It completely lives up to all the 
 hype and then some. Dont listen to me or anyone else. Just go buy it and enjoy. Dont be cheap and 
 rent it because this is a must own for any gamer. Enjoy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Guljigit92
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 29, 2008 12:35 am PT
Review:  Metal Gear Solid revoluntionary, Metal Gear Solid 2 pretty good, Metal Gear Solid 3 solid, Metal 
 Gear Solid 4 tha best in the series. Out of all games that have said to be the true next gen game 
 fail in comparsion to this. It set goal to have photo realistic graphics, perfect sound qualtie, 
 gameplay to bring in shooter fanboys, and to combine movies with games. And boy it did it with 
 extra (making 360 fanboys cry for it) . First cutsences are awesome that seem to be from a big summer 
 blockbuster movie except that some are a bit too long for my taste but reasonable since it is Metal 
 Gear. The graphics are the best hands down that seem to reflect the real thing without any frame 
 rate problems. The sound is also increable with the blu-ray disc helping it out (there is even 
 an ipod in the game people) . Then ther is the game play which was changed to suit the western gamer 
 (Thank you Ryan from Konima) . For instance the new third person shooting view that is far better 
 than the older shooting mechs. In addition some improvements were the octocamo and easier CQC controllers 
 for people like me. Overall it is a must by for any PlayStation 3 and the right choice for any 
 gamer that wants a true next gen game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gangsta_Pimp200
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 7, 2008 9:58 am PT
Review:  Imagine a near-future world controlled entirely by synthetic intellects, a sequestered computer 
 cabal purveying war as a series of proxy battles sustaining a deterministic algorithm that removes 
 choice from the volatile human equation. Humans colonized by nano-machines are monitored and keyed 
 to the objects they interact with, while weapons are wieldable only as a function of autocratic 
 biometric authorization. Whoever controls the nano-machines controls access to any weapon and therefore 
 every battlefield, mitigating ideological complications by outsourcing "boots on the ground" to 
 credo-less private military contractors, or PMCs. The battlefield dictates the world economy, the 
 world economy becomes a war economy, and war becomes pitilessly routine. Echoing public unease 
 with recent governmental use of PMCs in war zones, that's the unabashedly political premise series 
 creator and Metal Gear Solid 4 director Hideo Kojima's been building to for more than half a dozen 
 games since the original Metal Gear landed on the Nintendo Entertainment System in 1987. It's a 
 complex, ponderous, often bombastic tale whose principal thread concerns Solid Snake, a Kurt Russell 
 knockoff inspired by the character Snake Plissken from John Carpenter's Escape From New York. Snake's 
 a genetically enhanced super-soldier and clone of a despot whose abiding code name "Big Boss," 
 still used here, signals Kojima's willingness to fold the silliness of this series into a story 
 wrap-up so sophisticated by comparison that it's like stepping off this planet and landing on another 
 one.
  
  Here we encounter Snake as a prematurely grizzled senior, the victim of a mysterious biological 
 condition that's accelerated his aging process and rendered him frail but for the use of a muscle-suit 
 that allows him to channel his combat skills without the limitations imposed by senescence. His 
 primary mission-never less than saving the world-also entails securing answers to numerous lingering 
 questions teased but unresolved in previous installments. What happened to Snake's half-brother 
 Liquid Ocelot and the robotic mech Metal Gear RAY? What about FoxDie, a virus engineered to kill 
 people harboring specific genetic markers? What of its creator, Naomi Campbell? How does the dystopian 
 shadow organization calling itself the Patriots factor? Who is Solid Snake, really? To get those 
 answers and dozens more, players assume control of Snake (no longer "Solid," but "Old") using third-person 
 and over-the-shoulder views to run, crouch, climb and crawl through bullet-clawed battlefields 
 ranging from the Middle East to a jungle village in South America and the mazelike streets of a 
 city in Eastern Europe.
  
  Still functionally a sneaker punctuated by shooting sequences, MGS4 intros the OctoCamo stealth 
 suit, which lets players blend chameleon-like with any flat surface. Pressing against walls and 
 floors to assume their texture, players monitor a percentile-based camouflage rating that relates 
 back to nearby enemies based on variables like stance, motion, line of sight and lighting. Gadgets 
 like the Solid Eye (it brackets objects in the environment with extra info) and a remote-controllable 
 robotic scout called the Metal Gear Mk. II complement traditional moves like grabbing or holding 
 up enemies and dragging them around or using them as shields. The most radical departure from past 
 games involves a weapons launderer named Drebin whom players can access anytime to instantly purchase 
 or unlock firearms and ammunition (even in the midst of battle) with points accrued from auto-selling 
 guns gathered in the field.
  
  Is it a movie or a game? Answering that question and one other-do you need to be familiar with 
 prior installments to "get" this one?-is central to whether you'll fully appreciate Metal Gear 
 Solid 4. The good news is that both the interactive and filmic aspects of the game dovetail brilliantly. 
 The bad may be that some players looking for more game, less movie, won't take kindly to the hybridization.
 
  
  Fair warning: There's no sidestepping the fact that Kojima's final thundering opus assumes you 
 know a lot about its characters and their byzantine backgrounds. More importantly, it assumes you 
 care a lot about them as well. For all the game's sermonizing about self-determination, MGS4 is 
 a largely predetermined study in the harrowing physical and psychological dissolution of a badly 
 misused human pawn. You're allowed the freedom to sneak and gunfight as you like between cutscene 
 triggers in modestly branching areas; otherwise this story was never really ours to tell. It's 
 the final movement of a faintly postmodern polemic suffused with convoluted themes ranging from 
 fratricide and patricide to social fractiousness, existentialism, eugenics and the validity of 
 notions like free will. A remarkable third of MGS4 is spent not playing at all, but simply watching 
 those themes resolved.
  
  When you are playing, though, the sneak mechanics represent the best possible compromise between 
 nostalgia and innovation. Aiming and shooting are finally modern enough to get the job done and 
 bettered by all the psychological ways in which Snake's mental state can impact his accuracy. Close-quarter 
 combat still feels a little dicey, though the only place you actually have to use it is late in 
 the game as a finishing move to overpower a major villain. The most controversial element-the way 
 you can buy nearly anything at any time and watch it magically teleport into your arsenal-turns 
 out to be immaterial. It's Kojima's way of giving you what you need to keep the story flowing, 
 but also of challenging you to sneak and not shoot your way through what is in a very meaningful 
 sense an anti-gun, anti-war, anti-violence game.
  
  About that second question: You can enjoy the game on its own terms, but it's a bit like jumping 
 into Lost or Battlestar Galactica for the first time in their respective fourth seasons. If you're 
 new to this series, consider picking up the first three MGS games and playing through them first. 
 They're available right now as a cheap "essentials" collection. You'll need a PS2-compatible PS3 
 (or an actual PS2) , but as long as that's not an obstacle and you can look past the first game's 
 primitive visuals, you're in for a treat.
  
  When you finally get to MGS4, don't let the way it looks distract you, though it comes close to 
 pulling off in real time what Square Enix only realized a few years ago through advanced prerendering 
 in its CGI film Final Fantasy: Advent Children. Don't get caught up in the way Snake's combat abilities 
 have been streamlined to include a modifiable over-the-shoulder shooting view that's as empowering 
 and liberating here as it was when Shinji Mikami added it to Resident Evil 4. And don't lose yourself 
 in the metric ton of Bond-like tech or the large militia's worth of projectile and incendiary weaponry 
 Snake somehow carts around like a two-legged TARDIS.
  
  Instead, pay attention to the way Kojima manufactures a kind of queasy anxiety throughout, as when 
 the camera prowls desiccated desert vistas like a paranoid animal during the intro, picking at 
 the corpses with the crows as trucks filled with PMC reinforcements motor onto the battlefield. 
 Think about indices like the psyche and stress meters that adjoin Snake's health, compromising 
 his aim when they drop and dropping when he's under all sorts of duress-including standing near 
 dead bodies. And consider the way Kojima shrewdly answers aphorisms like Tim Cain's "War never 
 changes" (famously uttered by Ron Perlman during the intro to 1997's Fallout) with "War has changed," 
 followed by a Homeric series denouement that's every bit as sophisticated as last year's BioShock. 
 Like that game, this one raises the bar forever, looking back on occasion only to show us how far 
 it's come.
  
  Snake...
  I salute you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Airidis
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jun 28, 2008 7:33 pm PT
Review:  this game is really good dont get me wrong its just........ i cant even explain it lol
  
  Story: its MGS4 wht did u expect of course the story is superb
  
  Gameplay: very addicting 
 and fun but major MAJOR problem..... out of eh the 30 or so hours of gameplay you actually PLAY 
 about 5 hours.... i bought the game to play the game not watch a dam movie
  
  Graphics: very very nice and good characters :)
  
  Sound: no complaints good :)
  
  Overall: 
 MGS4 is really good and has a unique story+gameplay. But it lets you down because you dont actually 
 get to play that much to begin with. i personally felt like i was watching a 30+ hour movie and 
 that made me sad i loved the other MGS games for their riveting story and amazing action. But i 
 guess with the final installment in the series i only got one the amazing story : (. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jliebel
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 28, 2008 1:46 pm PT
Review:  Being thrown into a war torn Middle Eastern town, snake is tasked to hunt down his pseudo brother 
 Liquid Snake. This epically story driven game offers a lot of storytelling, I wouldn't be surprised 
 if I was spending the same amount of time watching cut scenes as I did playing the game, which 
 in total the game lasted around 15 hours, which felt just right.
  
  The graphics are stellar, cut scenes are rendered in game, and so transitions from one scene into 
 combat is well played, and well done. You actually feel as if you're in a battlefield, and I was 
 amazed to find myself nearly invisible when huddled next to a wall or laying prone on the ground.
 
  The game itself allows you to play in many different ways, all feel very fluid and just right, 
 from being sneaky or Rambo style game play you aren't limited to just one focus of game play with 
 the other being clunky as with previous installments of this game.
  
  Boss fights are fun, and require strategy, though once you figured out the boss they weren't all 
 that difficult. Each boss brings its own personality to the table and you just won't let go of 
 it. Raging Raven is one I fell in love with, though the others are very well scripted, the whole 
 "Show me your rage" thing is just awesome.
  
  The game has very few faults, and having to pick out any that really made me mad, I would break 
 the story with one of them so I will omit it, but all in all the faults are so small, and don't 
 matter at all when you step back and look at the game as they do not ruin or degrade what this 
 game is.
  
  All in all I highly recommend this game to anyone who is looking for a great game, though you will 
 have to play at least the first two installments of this game if you wish to understand the story, 
 or at the very least read the storyline that is on PSN, doing so will only allow you to further 
 enjoy this game.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: amozarte
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 28, 2008 9:33 am PT
Review:  Since MGS4 is the culmination of a 21 year long series, a review of several paragraphs seems inadequate. 
 My first impression of the game, on the other hand, spanned only three letters: Wow! Booting the 
 game on my HDTV, I was greeted by a stunning rendering of Solid Snake, casually puffing a smoke 
 as the game performed its initial install.
  
  I have to pause here to mention that since so many PS3 games have hard drive installs, I consider 
 it a characteristic of the platform. Therefore any praise or criticism should be paid to the system, 
 not the individual games.
  
  This game begins, as one would expect, with a cutscene. The cutscenes use the game's engine so 
 I almost didn't notice when actual play began. I say almost because unlike MGS3: Snake Eater, which 
 deposited you in an area devoid of enemies, Snake starts this chapter feet first into a war zone.
 
  
  This point is subtle, but important- especially to the criticism the series has endured from people 
 who simply aren't fans of the sneaking genre. While this game's heart still beats in tune with 
 the stealth genre it spawned, there is plenty of action. The game's new over-the-shoulder mechanic 
 makes this possible. Gunplay is smooth and very intuitive. Not once did I experience the frustrating, 
 wonky alert phases of previous titles. If there is still any room for improvement, I sure don't 
 know where it is.
  
  The implementation of the new shooting mechanic, in turn, paved the way for other gameplay options 
 that helped add some spice to the MGS recipe and effectively prevented monotony from rearing its 
 ugly head. Entire sections of action, with several enemies charging a room at once felt natural 
 and fluid. Even vehicle chases, with Snake manning the weaponry, functioned so smoothly that the 
 player was able to be immersed in the tension of the moment.
  
  And speaking of tension, there is no shortage here. One of my favourite levels challenged Snake 
 to follow an NPC to his hideout, which sounds simple. Of course you must avoid being seen by the 
 guards, but to add a layer of complexity, the NPC can't be detected either! You also can't let 
 the NPC see you or he will be spooked and run off- possibly into the waiting arms of the enemy. 
 So you must move through the area, incapacitating (or killing) enemy soldiers and clearing a path 
 for the NPC, all the while staying out of his way until he eventually makes it to his hideout.
 
  
  In most games, levels like the one I just described could easily drag on and on, but not in MGS4. 
 Here, each area lasts long enough to allow you to get comfortable, but not to the point of boredom. 
 Just when I started to feel like I was finished with an area, I was finished with that area. To 
 have such perfect pacing was truly a refreshing feeling.
  
  All of the game's play elements are flawless, from graphics to sound, even the new Octocamo, which 
 automatically matches your camo to your surroundings like a chameleon. But the glue that holds 
 it all together is the storytelling. With this game, Hideo Kojima has outdone himself. Sure, there 
 were beautiful, moving (and long!) cutscenes but the icing on the cake was how he managed to tie 
 the entire series together in such creative fashion. I was personally tickled by the ipod that 
 allows you to play music from previous games instead of the normal background music. Beyond that 
 there were flashbacks in the cutscenes, visits from familiar but forgotten characters, trips to 
 previous locales, and even a few very satisfying surprises like... no, I won't ruin them for you.
 
  
  During the 25 hours it took me to reach the end, I was so captivated that I had little desire to 
 play anything else. The ending itself was moving and bittersweet. I found myself hoping that this 
 was not the final chapter for Solid Snake, but it is true that all good things must come to an 
 end- and what an end! If you have any love at all for the stealth genre or the Metal Gear series, 
 this is an absolute must-play game. In every way, it is a perfect end to a truly outstanding series.
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: OcelotSnake
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 28, 2008 5:57 am PT
Review:  It's only a matter of time... game developers will make a game with better graphics than Metal 
 Gear Solid 4, voice acting is going to get better and more professional, gameplay, such as firing 
 a gun, will become more realistic... all these will improve as game design improves and as time 
 goes by. That much I know, that much is obvious.
  But Metal Gear Solid will never age... it will remain the single greatest game series ever made. 
 It will remain as such for one single reason... the story.
  The story in Guns Of The Patriots is the best in the series, and is quite simply awe-inspiring. 
 Never before has a game ever emotionally effected me the way MGS4 has... it made me angry sometimes, 
 it made me sad sometimes, it made me happy sometimes, and it caught me off guard and shocked the 
 hell out of me sometimes.
  From start to finish, MGS4's story never lets up... revealing new things to you one minute, and 
 answering the question's you've always wanted the answers for the next.
  Not to mention the fact that the ending is so unbelievably great that it's hard to even describe 
 the emotion's I felt watching it... but of course, this is a spoiler free review! Put simply... 
 play this game, witness the story unfold before your eyes... as a gamer, it'll be the single best 
 experience of your gaming life.
  That is why MGS will never be topped
  
  Gameplay wise, MGS4 has bettered all its predecessors... you can aim a weapon and move at the same 
 time, you can use enemy ID'd weapons (with the help of Drebin... your gun launderer) and the weapons 
 are just of much better quality and number... anything from automatic sniper rifles to rail guns, 
 from tranquilizer guns to stun knives, from assault rifles to petrol bombs... you name it, it's 
 in MGS!
  The Beauty and the Beast boss battles are of high quality too (although The Cobra Unit still remains 
 the greatest... and the End still holding the best boss battle title) and are all unique. Like 
 most MGS bosses, you must use your mind, common sense and thought as well as bullets and brawn 
 to defeat them.
  One thing that must be said about the gameplay in MGS4 is that it doesn't feel very MGS at first, 
 but when you get used to it, you'll really enjoy it
  
  Graphically, games don't get much better than this... faces, body movement, weapons and facial 
 expressions look stunning. The various locations you visit look terrific and are realised in great 
 detail
  The music is typically beautiful and very epic, the music scores ring through your ears with power, 
 emotion and purpose, while the voice acting is flawless!
  While MGS is not the longest game (clocking in for me at around 20 hours on normal difficulty) , 
 it's still a pretty long game and has great replay due to all the unlockables, and also due to 
 the fact that it's an amazing experience you'll want to play again
  
  Metal Gear Solid 4 is the greatest game ever made, and fully deserving of a perfect 10... buy it, 
 experience it, and grow to love it 
::::::

::::::
UserName: williambrodie
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 28, 2008 3:48 am PT
Review:  For me it is quite rare for me to actually say I disliked a game I have played as I usually spend 
 hours in quiet deliberation picking which game to spend my hard earned money on before visiting 
 the local video game shop.
  
  After completing MGS4 I felt annoyed, frustrated and depressed - what a terrible game - "for shame!". 
 For a long time now PlayStation 3 owners have been talking about a gap, a deficit - often mentioning 
 that the PS3 has a much more powerful but un-tapped potential for graphical capabilities and many 
 reviewers have commented that 'it is only a matter of time before this gap is filled' - 'when the 
 Cell Broadband Procesor is finally properly utilised' - and only then will the PS3 stride ahead 
 of the XBOX360, but it never came, and with games like Killzone 2 being postponed untill 2009, 
 it seemed that the wait wasnt worth it - and I always agreed with them. When it comes down to it 
 - playing a game like MGS4 on your PS3 just makes you feel bad - disheartened.
  
  You feel guilty - because you know your best friend down the street, with his brand new XBOX360 
 Elite, will never experience anything nearly amazing as the cascade of beautiful 1080p graphics, 
 hair raising crystal clear surround sound and world-consuming sharply told story-line that hits 
 you like a ton of bricks before you evan get to a chance to 'volume down' button on your remote.
 
  
  True PS3 Performance is now here - and hopefully is here to stay.
  
  When I bought the original XBOX, i resented it at first, being a huge PS2 fan, but as with many, 
 Halo won me over, not Halo 2, Halo. MGS4 is the PlayStation 3's Halo!
  
  I dislike MGS4 because the wise-men at Konami have created a masterpeace so good that every time 
 I pay money for a PS3 game in the future I'm going to feel like I didn't get my money's worth- 
 and Killzone 2 which I have been looking forward to more than any other game for a few years now 
 is just not going to blow my mind in they way I have been waiting for, because, in all honesty, 
 although I think those guys at Gorilla are wizards with graphics, there is just not much to improve 
 on.
  
  Feel sorry for all the game developers out there that have to live with this game - that have this 
 game in mind when going to work every day and looking sadd at the quality of graphics in the game 
 that they are developing, as they know they dont have the programming skill of technical prowess 
 that Konami had when making this game.
  
  MGS4 annoys me as I know there will be some people out there in the world with a PS3 that will 
 never own their own copy, wasting the full potential of a console they have just payed so much 
 money for.
  
  MGS4 is terrible as I know my final grade for this year at University is not going to be as high 
 as it would of been if I had never taken that fateful stroll down to the video ame store.
  
  I feel depressed knowing there are some people out there who will not appreciate this game 
 to it full, there are some people who will never realise how much fun they can actually have on 
 a video games console.
  
  Finally, MGS4 is frustrating - I sat down at 11AM one day, 11AM the next day I realised I was in 
 the same spot, I HAD WASTED AN ENTIRE DAY AND NOT EVAN FINISHED THE GAME I HADE STARTED PLAYING 
 24Hrs BEFORE!
  
  MGS4 as a game is probably the most 'complete' game I have played in a long time, complete meaning 
 - all the weapons just feel so well balanced and thought out, for instance a Scout-Knife a newer 
 version of the AK-74 and a Javelin Anti-Take missile all all as effective and all equally as fun 
 in taking out a single enemy unit - not many games can boast that, or the fact that the game is 
 so powerful, letting you wipe out an entire Chalk of the Elite 'Frogs' with no sweat, or the fact 
 later on you just wade through a forrest of miniature bi-pedal tanks called Gekko's that earlier 
 on in the game you see as invincable. Many game developers talk candidly about embowering the gamer, 
 many talk about it, Konami just do it!
  
  Many people in my opinion underestimate how inportant sound i in a game, and I myself thought 'whats 
 the big deal' when a Dolby Digital logo popped up in the opening titles, believe me, it didnt take 
 long before I knew what difference that made, I have to play this game with headphones in fear 
 of giving my grandad a heart attack from flashbacks of World War II, thats how good this games 
 sounds - it sounds like you need to 'duck and cover'
  
  Don't buy this game - if you value your social developement as a person and want to keep your Girlfriend 
 - Don't Buy This Game - 
  
  It's Terrible,
  
  It's Just Wrong. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jedi_Gon
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 28, 2008 3:45 am PT
Review:  Ok, so, I played all the previous Metal Gear games.
  And I wanted to play this one. But no PS3. Bummer.
  
  SO, I went out and bought a PS3, JUST 
 FOR THIS.
  
  But enough of that. Onto the review.
  
  The story is INCREDIBLE, and FULL of plot twist. In short, just like all Metal Gear games.
  
 
  The graphics are SUPERB! The game even allows you to zoom in on anything you want in the cutscenes! 
 IT KNOWS IT HAS GREAT GRAPHICS.
  
  The gameplay has been immensly improved since the last game.
  Combat has been simplyfied, It's 
 now a full-blown alternative to sneaking.
  
  The soundtrack is AWESOME. 'Nuff said.
  
  THIS GAME IS THE BEST EVER!
  If you have a PS3, buy it.
  If you don't have a PS3, BUY THE MGS4 
 BUNDLE!
  
  THIS GAME DESERVES ALL THE CREDIT IT'S RECIEVED.
  BUT, if you haven't played any of the other Metal Gear games,
  GameTrailers have a GREAT retroperspective 
 on the series.
  Watch it, or just play the other games :P
  
  AWESOMENESS. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dante9916
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 28, 2008 2:43 am PT
Review:  What can I say?
  
  Metal Gear Solid made me play with consoles. I was pure Pc player and thought that all console 
 games are like Mario and Gran Turismo.
  No offence, but not for me.
  Well then my friend gave me ps1+few games. First i played Mgs 1.
  Well, thats all what I played.
 
  
  When it comes to Mgs 4, its G-Great. Gameplays is litle hard at beginning, but you will get used 
 to it. I didint use CQC pretty much at first playtrought, i just shot/sneak my way to exit.
  Graphics are great, gameplays, story hits you like hammer.
  But I didint like bosses, first 1 was 
 cool, others were very stupid..
  And there wasnt pretty much talk with codec. I actually got numbers of Otacon and Rosemary ONLY!
 
  Dunno, have to look for it at sometime.
  
  But, there is reason why so meny gamers love it.
  And thats because its so GREAT!
  But not 
 perfect, nothing is.. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mugupo
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 28, 2008 12:40 am PT
Review:  Thank You Konami, finally did it! yes it was a long wait especially for those who brought ps3 a 
 long time, there's many game comes in go in ps3, but nothing match with the content that MSG4 offer, 
 is trutly master piece, just look the CG, is the most i ever see for a game, is very well done, 
 yes you won't expect to had too much gameplay, but there's online for it. The movie is so well 
 done, i think they deserve a oscar for it. The weapond and tech is pretty advacement and fun to 
 use. For those who never play MSG before, might had issue understand the plot at first, but the 
 game will explain you all about the history.
  
  What I really like in MSG4 is fact they really put alot of effor in graphic visual, eventhought 
 is design as 729P but is support 1080p tv set, the visual blow off water off all ps3 game I had 
 see so far, the game look better than the trailer, is much sharper details. Not only they visual 
 is next generation, the gameplay as well, they remake and add much unique gameplay as possible, 
 let you custom and buy gun, armor from the shop, offer first person in view of gun, they did amazing 
 job capture the good use of DUAL SHOCK 3, it rumble even in movie, it does rumble very often. The 
 voice is excellent, i was glad they put effor in the enviroment as well, fact you can to play in 
 several different environment included the classic from MSG.
  
  Lets speak something that I think is a area might need improve and wasn't fit for me, first of 
 all the boss is way too easy, yes i only play normal. Nearly all the boss you can knock them down 
 with out worry much of drying, fact i hate the boss is wasted time keep hiding, instead of try 
 to attack you, they wanted to find them. Kinda like hide and seek, but fact the MSG4 can't do instant 
 save only stage save which make this experience not so fun, I do wish they added more gameplay 
 time, they really lack on it, yes lots of movie, but often had me fall sleep because is way too 
 long. I wish they can added a menu outside, let you watch all the CG
  
  Overall, this game is no brainer for any ps3 owner, a must one for sure, just look what you getting, 
 an epic best ps3 so far on the market, there's good reason why konami hold back the release, they 
 wanted make the product as perfect as possible, a great thanks to Kojima and his team for making 
 this game possible for ps3 exclusive. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Urlacher54
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 27, 2008 11:46 pm PT
Review:  As a new Metal Gear Solid game, the expectations for Guns of the Patriots is exceptionally high. 
 As the conclusion to the Metal Gear / Metal Gear Solid storyline, the expectations were even higher. 
 But I am happy to say that as an overall experience, Guns of the Patriots is an exceptionally well-done 
 and fitting conclusion to Solid Snake's legacy. However, as a GAME, it is somewhat lacking. And 
 it is lacking most noticeably, in the "actual amount of game" category. I seriously think that 
 the time spent in cutscenes actually outweighs the time spent actually playing the game by a factor 
 of AT LEAST 2 to 1. This wouldn't be quite so bad, if not for 2 things: First and foremost, a lot 
 of these scenes would have been awesome playable sequences (such as Raiden's sword battle with 
 the mobile Metal Gears and Vamp that was in a lot of trailers) especially considering the recent 
 popularity of the God-of-War-style context-sensitive cut-scene mini-game thingies; and two, a lot 
 of the codec conversations are actually done in-game while you are playing (which means that even 
 with the lengthy codec conversations drastically cut down in length, the game is STILL two-thirds 
 cutscenes!) . There are honestly segments of this game in which the player is prompted to save the 
 game TWICE during cutscenes without having any gameplay in the meantime. It kind of makes me wonder 
 why Konami didn't just make a 15-hour CG movie. Heck, that's probably why the game took so long. 
 Considering that it takes Pixar 3+ years to make their 2-hour long movies, its almost surprising 
 that this game only took about 4 years of development LoL.
  
  But, in all honesty, that doesn't come as much of a surprise, and if you can't stand all the cutscenes, 
 you probably shouldn't be playing MGS anyway. Does it hurt the game? A little bit. But not so much 
 that fans are going to hate it. What will surprise fans, however, is just how DIFFERENT this game 
 is compared to the previous PlayStation and PS2 titles. A common complaint about MGS-MGS3 was their 
 unwillingness to change their formula and controls to take advantage of advances in shooter game 
 design, with the justification that the games are not about shooting, they are about sneaking. 
 But even the sneaking controls were kind of akward and took a lot of getting used to. Well, Guns 
 of the Patriots control scheme has been completely reworked to make both sneaking and combat feel 
 a lot more intuitive and simple. For example, being able to crouch-run (instead of being forced 
 to crawl) makes it much easier to quickly move through an area while still keeping a low profile. 
 Yes, combat controls are still kind of obfuscated, with a sequence of three button commands being 
 needed just to shoot a gun sometimes. But controls feel much more smooth and the over-the-shoulder 
 combat camera makes action sequences (of which there are plenty) much easier and more comfortable. 
 The change to a completely free 3-D camera is also a welcome change, but is slightly problematic. 
 Controls are very customizeable, but exactly how you wanted the controls to be configured was very 
 case-sensitive. For example, in fast-paced shoot-outs, I often wanted the gun to automatically 
 aim towards the current camera direction when I drew my weapon. which you can set the camera to 
 do. But during sneaking segments, i often wanted the camera to automatically point in the direction 
 that the character was facing when i drew the weopon so that I could line up the character first, 
 keep an eye on the enemy and then wait for him to get to a specific place that I had already set 
 up the shot for, then drawing the gun and shooting. But when you configure the controls, you have 
 to pick one or the other, you can't have both, so if you optimize the camera controls for combat, 
 then you might run into the problem of your character suddenly facing the wrong direction when 
 you want to attack somebody while sneaking. And if you optimize the controls to make it more comfortable 
 to sneak, then you might have trouble quickly turning and moving your character during gunfights. 
 its not a huge problem, and you probably won't get a lot of cheap deaths because of it, but it 
 is kind of irritating, and it probably will lead to you getting more alert phases than you might 
 like to have.
  
  The early game also seems a bit too easy. Correction, make that WAY too easy, since Snake is in 
 the middle of a war-zone, all you really have to do, is stick to the sides of the buildings and 
 walk right by the other soldiers while they fight amongst each other (occasionally stopping to 
 hide in the box or barrel) . Being an experienced Metal Gear Solid player (and having played the 
 Metal Gear Online beta, I made it through almost the whole first two chapters without having to 
 get into any unwanted (or unscripted) confrontations with enemies, except in the couple of instances 
 where I pushed the wrong button and accidentally got myself discovered. However, around halfway 
 through the game, the difficulty level suddenly ramps up and I found myself in almost constant 
 shoot-outs with the enemy troops.
  
  Boss battles are also mostly on the easy side, and are kind of a mixed affair. They are all pretty 
 cool, but tended to drag on longer than I would have liked (partly because I tried to defeat them 
 all with the tranquilizer gun to gain extra items from them) , and most of the bosses had very predictable 
 patterns. That being said, there are two boss battles in this game that I consider to be among 
 the most BAD-ASS boss battles of any video game EVER (with the exception of Shadow of the Colossus 
 confrontations) . I'm not going to spoil them for you, but I think you'll know them when you get 
 there. And there is a third event involving a boss that is also very enjoyable and exciting mostly 
 just because of the way that it is presented (and when you play that part, you'll probably understand 
 one of my early points regarding the excessive cut-scenes being unecessary) .
  
  And finally, as for the story, it is all very well done, and does a good job of tying all the Metal 
 Gear and Metal Gear Solid games together. It tended to be a little overly-melo-dramatic at times, 
 and didn't do as good a job of providing emotional impact as the writers had probably wanted, and 
 is definitely not as emotionally charged as Snake Eater. My biggest complaint with the story is 
 the lack of optional codec back-story. In the previous games, you had a handful of characters (usually 
 about 5 at any given time) who you could call and each one would provide you with sometimes interesting 
 information that would be related to whatever was currently happening in the context of the game. 
 Everything from info and advice on weapons and equipment, to bios and backstories for enemies and 
 bosses, to technical, scientific, or historical information regarding the current situation that 
 Snake was in, not to mention the frequent humorous dialog between characters. But in this game, 
 there are only two characters who's frequencies the game even bothers to save so that you can call 
 them. Other characters will call you from time to time on their frequencies, but even if you remember 
 their frequencies and try to call them later to get more information, all you'll ever get is a 
 "no response." It was kind of dissapointing.
  
  Guns of the Patriots has some minor flaws (like all games in this series) , but in terms of gameplay 
 is probably the most accessible and enjoyable of all the MGS games, and is a worthy game to close 
 out the Metal Gear Solid saga. I personally think that Snake Eater is still the best Metal Gear 
 Solid game by far (especially the re-released "Subsistence" version with the very nice user-controlled 
 freely 3-D camera) , but the two aforementioned awesome boss battles alone are worth playing this 
 game in my opinion. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pmipamakcazi2
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 27, 2008 11:38 pm PT
Review:  Metal Gear Solid 4. The game we have been patiently waiting for what seems like a decade, is finally 
 here. With each entry in the series setting the bar higher, number 4 had some very big shoes to 
 fill. After all the trailers, the hype, MGS4 lives up to it. 
  
  Now after blowing all that smoke up Kojima's ***, here is the review. Cracking open the case and 
 my nostrils filling with that new video game smell, i knew we had a winner. Popping in the disc 
 i found the gameplay to definitely be a Metal Gear Solid, but with a tune-up. Crouching is now 
 available, a much more precise over-the-shoulder aiming system is in place. For all the hater's 
 out there, number 4's gameplay is absolute. The shooting seemed more intense, and you actually 
 stood a chance at outgunning the enemies. If you want to take our an entire battalian, you could. 
 Old snake is definitly a one man army. The boss fights seemed rather easy in comparison, but all 
 the intense fighting and often occurring bosses, i dare not call the game easy. 
  
  The graphics are superb. The character model's, everything, it all look's stunning. No framerate 
 issues or bland background whatsoever. And seeing Meryl in high-def is not a bad thing. 
  
  The Sound: The Frogs dying are kind of annoying, every other sound is great.
  
  The story: 
 Amazing. Need i say more?
  
  The Online: It's metal gear online, it plays pretty good, but does have some issues. Lot's of game 
 modes, good stat tracking, weird leveling up system. There is a bit of a learning curve, and the 
 games are'nt always too balance. Spawn killing and camping seems to be a problem in MGO more than 
 in other games. The new maps will hopefully come out soon, but either way any metal gear fan will 
 like it.
  
  This is easily the best metal gear game to date, and an instant classic in its genre, rather in 
 videogaming period. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: itwiz90
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 27, 2008 7:24 pm PT
Review:  MSg4 is one the best games I have ever played. The story is a sweet saga. I found it intriging 
 and challenging. Each mission prepares you for the final outcome. The bosses are beautiful, very 
 beautiful especially Screaming Wolf.
  I fould that stealth is your best method 90% of the time. You can mis it up and fight with the 
 rebels in the early stages, but then you can back off and sneak way way through.
  
  My suggestions: help the rebels in the earlier acts, they are quite helpful and are dedicated fighters 
 dying for the cause.
  
  If the underground guy spots you in London put him asleep and wait in a rusty drum, then follow 
 him again.
  
  All in all the graphics and the game play are state of the art, even tough snake would lay down 
 on you sometimes when you needed to roll.
  You be hooked from start to finish and will do it again with you newly aquired items. It is in 
 my permanent library. BUY this you will not be disappointed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: decoyoctupus
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jun 27, 2008 4:32 pm PT
Review:  OK. First of all, NOT A 10! Not a perfect game.
  I love the series and MGS is the only game i will play offline. MGS has an amazing story to it and 
 to truley be a fan u must play all the MGS series!........ I have beaten them all numerous times. I 
 have beaten MGS4, twice and i am now playing a 3rd time on EXTREME. Great game for MGS players because 
 of the conclusion and ending of the series, not to mention the online. With all of that said, im a 
 realist and cant give this game a 10 cause it AINT!
  HERE's WHY:
  
  1) GRAPHICS:9.5
  This game has great visuals but framerate slows down plenty during gameplay so its not perfect. The 
 only time frame rate DOES NOT slow down, is during CUT SCENES. Surprised?
  
  2) SOUND:9.5
  Nothin to complain about except of otacon's crying. Just shut up already!! lol
  3) GAMEPLAY:8.8
 
  This game offers great action BUT,....... NOT ENOUGH!!!!!..... online could use more maps and ALL 
 of the weopns. Last battle w/ screaming MANTIS could have been alot better and longer. If there was 
 as much gameplay as in the original MGS for PS1, it would have been the best MGS!
  4) STORY:9:5
  Like i said, u have to play ALL MGS games to truley appreciate this game. The only 
 thing i did not like about the story was when otacon cries when naomi kills herself. I mean, if it 
 was meryl dieing w/ snake crying just like in the first MGS game, (bad ending) , would have been better 
 than getting married to AKUBA. Give me a break. Snake loves meryl and he always will.
  5) Value:8:0
  If u like MGS, The story and cut scenes are enough. Online is pretty fun but can feel 
 repetitive because of lack of maps. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nellyg619
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 27, 2008 1:10 pm PT
Review:  Simply put this game is a masterpiece. A game that now has set the standard of gaming to a new 
 high to reach, one that seems impossible to reach nevermind to surpass. The reason this game is 
 just so amazing is simply because this game contains everything you want., but most importantly 
 the game immerses the player into the experience that no other game has before, and seems to provoke 
 all different emotions in the player.
  However it is important to note that newbees to the series should play all previous versions of 
 the MGS series or at the very least rread up on the stories in all the games, as the story is part 
 of what makes MGS4 so special; a cinematic presentation of a beautiful story which intregrates 
 with the gameplay at ease, giving a truly unique experience to the player. Both the graphics and 
 the sound are brillant, pushing the PS3 to its limits to give this great experience. Each environment 
 is special and feels different thanks to the graphics and sound, which help create a different 
 atmosphere in each setting, something which I feel is a first and have never felt before.
  Then we come onto the gameplay, something which can be so satisfying due to the limitless ways 
 of achieveing a goal. For example during intense battle fights between the rebels and the PMCs, 
 the player has a choice to fight them all or use stealth to sneak past them, either way is perfectly 
 viable and the game does not force you with a certain method of playing, creating totally a free 
 and fresh gameplay to the series.
  I have nothing but praise for this game and just can't find a fault. Once you finish the immense 
 story you may feel you want to get all the enblems and various other unlockables which will keep 
 you hooked on this game for a while. If thatisnt enough then there is always Metal Gear Online 
 which is great fun as you create a character and level him up. Whatever you do you will not be 
 disappointed but totally amazed and stunned from start to finish... and even more.. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: generalsnake
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 27, 2008 11:54 am PT
Review:  I have been waiting for this game even since I'm done from Metal Gear Solid 3: Snake eater.. The 
 game in general is more like a movie .. but a great movie.
  Personally I don't know why many people criticized that while those movies reflect the powerful 
 ability of the PS3 and what is capable of and also it reflects the great engine of the MGS4.
  Game play is simply a great experience. Music as usual rocks .
  The details in the game are just 
 magnificent, before MGS4 the best water i have ever seen was in Crysis but while playing MGS4 I 
 was stunned from the water and from the whole environment. 
  The game is loaded with surprises and the story goes into one end that there isn't anyone anymore 
 called Solid Snake . And if there will be any new game it would be without Old Snake .. : ( I think 
 Hideo Kojima took the best thing in each MGS and reassemble them in one perfect master-piece called 
 Metal Gear Solid 4 and it was worth the very long wait.. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ZedFragg
Rating: 7
Date: Jun 27, 2008 10:52 am PT
Review:  This game is a flawed master-peice...
  If you are new to the series I'd suggest getting the previous games first so you don't miss out 
 Metal Gear Solid (1) is available on the Gamecube as a remake (aka MGS: Twin Snakes) so you won't 
 have to dig out the PSone.
  
  This game had a perfect score in my eyes until I had cleared the game then I started noticing all 
 the flaws, one being the stupidly long cut-scenes.
  One of which leaves you without game-play for 1 hour and 46 minutes.
  Also the game has another 
 problem of constant installs...
  at the start of each act you must install the act and each time you replay an act you must reinstall 
 that act.
  That's on top of the initial 15 minute install and each act takes 3-6 minutes to install depending 
 on version of the PS3 (Different HDD models do effect as does usage)
  
  The good parts of the game include good controls once you get your head around them and a storyline 
 that ties up all the loose ends of the MGS world.
  Engrossing story (if you don't fall asleep) and some truly remarkable moments you'll remember until 
 the next cut-scene when your brain actually starts to die...
  This is really more of a movie, I have cleared this game in 6 hours taking my time to enjoy the 
 game and collect all items and skipping all cut-scenes... with the cut-scenes it took 16-20 for 
 me.
  
  The online element of this game is... Really quite terrible...
  I'm a big online gamer and all I see if a flawed attempt at providing an exciting battle experience.
 
  Also Konami have once again tried to rip of the customer, you can create one (1) online character 
 but if you wish to make three (3) characters it'll cost you 3.99 and each map/voice pack will 
 cost you as well.
  The character creation is also flawed... If you pick green camo and a specific top/trousers/boots 
 etc you can only use those tops/trousers/boots etc, although I have heard that you "Unlock" the 
 other selections as you gain levels (lvl up) although I can't confirm this as I stopped playing 
 after around 6 hours overall game-play.
  The levels are of rather bland design in multiplayer and feel empty compared to the single player 
 game levels.
  I found it feeling weak and limp and wasn't worth putting on the disc, I'd of been happier with 
 less installs or maybe some extras.
  
  The extras I'm talking about were integrale parts of previous MGS titles (MGS2/3/2s/3s) such as 
 boss survival mode, the movie theater etc.
  None of them are present here (Due to having to install each act meaning if you wanted to watch 
 an individual cut-scene you'd have to install that act to watch it)
  
  One thing I will mention is that this game has by far the best surround sound in any game or movie 
 ever and is worth purchasing just to test out your speakers.
  
  However this title will only get a 3 Star rating due to online being a waste of disc space and 
 some serious game-play let downs (such as the lack of interactivity, long installs and loading 
 screens)
  I also feel this title also shows how flawed the Blu-Ray storage disc really is (Hideo Kojima did 
 warn us that the blu-ray system was rather confining)
  
  Also to clear up any confusion.
  THIS is NOT the final Metal Gear Solid game in fact MGS5 as a prequel has been announced which 
 I disagree with as I personally want something original to play not reused goods.
  
  Also one other thing to avoid people flaming, I am no fanboy.
  I am a huge Metal Gear Solid fan 
 but I'm also a critic, I know what I want from games and I believe I know what makes a truly fantastic 
 game and this simply did not deliver for me.
  If I wanted a movie I'd go to blockbuster or buy one.
  And I know MGS is known for long cut-scenes 
 but that is NO excuse.
  And I have no doubt this review will pee people off but I honestly don't care the truth is the 
 truth no matter how you bend the light around it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Blood_Bampyre
Rating: 8
Date: Jun 27, 2008 4:12 pm PT
Review:  While I have patiently waited for MGS4 to come out ever since I bought the PS3 system, I have to 
 say the game is somewhat of a let down. Generally speaking it is a good game. But in no way would 
 I rate this game anywhere above a 8 overall. It definitely wouldn't make my top 10. Infact I would 
 have to say that this is the second best title of the series. The Pro's: The gameplay itself is 
 good and in many of the zones having the war going on around you gives the game a unique new feel. 
 It also presents you with several opportunites to either speed your way through by helping the 
 militias kill the PMC's, or make it a blood bath by killing anyone and everyone who gets in your 
 way. The third alternative (and the least travelled by me in every MG game I play) is to sneak 
 your way through. Ironically this is probably a much bigger challenge now due to the constant and 
 sometimes random movement of the Militia and PMCs, with random gunfire and explosions going off 
 literally everywhere. It also becomes more of a challenge later on in the game when you have to 
 deal with flying frog women. While some of the controls are different to give it a new feel, overall 
 the controller function isn't all that different from previous games in the series. Which in my 
 opinion is a huge plus. The unbelievable cut scenes are something fans of the series have come 
 to expect. However in MGS4 the production staff really outdid themselves. The scenes are dramatic, 
 absolutely stunning visually and seamless in transition. The music score for the game itself is 
 the best in the series to date and the way they incorporated some of the older games music and 
 graphics really gives you a sense of where the game has come from. The storyline is by far the 
 best in the series. Fans of the series (who followed the storylines) will be ecstatic to see all 
 the character relationships come together and to really find out those details that have been intentionally 
 left out of previous chapters in the story. The end of this chapter of the story will surprise 
 just about everyone, but in no way is this the end of the series (contrary to what you may have 
 read elsewhere) . They did a great job leaving enough at the end of Snake's story to develop the 
 next chapter in the series and some foreshadowing in the game itself leads you to believe there's 
 more to come. The online gameplay is a new unique experience and is very realistic. It could be 
 a stand-alone game if there were more maps to play the various games in. And after reading all 
 that you're probably asking yourself "where's the downside?" Well, there's a lot to be desired 
 in the latest installment of MGS. The Con's There are some minor bugs with it when "quick equipping" 
 and un-equipping both weapons and items. At first I thought it was the controller so I switched 
 it out but on multiple controllers I had this same isse: I found from time to time I had to hit 
 R2 and L2 multiple times to remove/re-quip my weapon and item. Not so bad when it comes to items, 
 but when going from CQC to enemies at a distance or vice versa it got kind of annoying. The overall 
 gameplay becomes ridiculously easy if you make even a weak effort to help the militias. In many 
 of the zones you basically have to either just get to a certain area or kill specific groups of 
 PMCs (sometimes both) before the militias gain control of the area. Once that happens if you helped 
 the militia you basically get to search the entire zone for as long as you want without running 
 into any interference. So in essence you can run straight to a certain spot kill a handful of PMCs 
 and let the Militia do the rest, killing everyone and everything in the zone for you. Not exactly 
 high marks for difficulty in the areas where there are militia. As if that wasnt enough your reputation 
 with the militias stays the same even when you're on a different continent. The cut scenes. Never 
 before have I said those words with more dread. They are brilliantly done, and way WAY overdone. 
 The production staff seems to have intended that half the game be a movie. And while I know and 
 have loved the cut scenes in previous installments, these are ridiculous. There are parts of the 
 game that you go almost 20 minutes without actually moving Snake. And just when you think one cut 
 scene is done it chains into another cut scene. They overkilled this to the point of it being brutal. 
 I found myself intentionally going for more kills and alert phases when I was actually playing 
 just to put some more time inbetween the scenes. And if it were just the cut scenes alone I would 
 have a love/hate relationship with it. But during the cut scenes there are points when you have 
 to mash on X to get the flashbacks to get yourself some extra Drebin points between acts (or in 
 my case because I'm a completionist) . It got to the point for me where I was just hitting X randomly 
 through every cut scene because of how many there were and how many times you have to hit X during 
 them. At first glance I really liked them but after completing the game once I have to say it would 
 have been better if those flashbacks were just added to the cut scenes in real time and more Drebin 
 points were awarded for something else since watching the flashbacks has absolutely no bearing 
 on your final rank. And speaking of final rank I am glad they put that in the game. But there is 
 a drawback. Not having all your stats at your fingertips when you finally get to it is a big let 
 down. With no way to track it you really dont get a feel for how well you wound up doing. Inbetween 
 acts it does a good job of listing what you have accomplished. I was disappointed to see that it 
 was left off. Also speaking of Drebin I think that putting the ability into the game to literally 
 have infinite ammo and every important weapon in the game handed to you for free is a huge drawback 
 in this installment. A lot of previous games your strategies in areas were dictated by the ammo 
 you had, the weapons you had found and what ammo you could get off the enemies in the area. Now 
 its a simple matter of "kill more guys get more stuff for free". There isn't a lot of strategy 
 involved when you can have a silenced fully automatic sniper rifle with infinite ammo at your fingertips 
 very early in the game. And for anyone who's ever played a Metal Gear before the sniper rifle with 
 a silencer is by far the deadliest weapon when you need to get somewhere quickly and quietly. The 
 last beef I have with MGS4 is by far the biggest: The boss fights. To say that they are ridiculously 
 easy would be grossly understating the obvious. There is only one of the B&B gang that poses any 
 real challenge at all and the only reason she is a challenge is because of the blizzard going on 
 while you're fighting her. Even with the blizzard on a scale of 1 to 10, (10 being the most difficult) 
 she's at most a 3. She can only hurt you if you're on the ground or hit by one of her grenades 
 and since I was perched atop one of the towers all I had to do was crack out one of my missle launchers 
 and follow her trail with night vision when she ran by. Not even close to difficult. The only real 
 "challenge" if you can call it that is the Solidus phase of the final boss battle which probably 
 will take you 2 or 3 tries to figure out his moves and then he's toast. Overall I'd have to give 
 the game itself a 6.5 out of a possible 10. The game is far too easy with long drawn out cutscenes 
 inbetween limited amounts of action. Every weapon that matters is available for purchase with every 
 upgrade imaginable and all the ammo you'll ever need very early on. There aren't very many places 
 to get caught up because of difficulty spikes or bosses that are overly challenging. And the general 
 feel of the game is less about playing and more about watching the story unfold. Unfortunately 
 it is a let down for the series and for the fans. Though I do feel many people will buy/rent the 
 game and have an initial positive reaction to it, I think in the long run this could be a back 
 breaker for the series. Ironically the only saving grace may be the online feature. Replay value: 
 2/10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GM-Lucra
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 27, 2008 9:19 am PT
Review:  This has got to be one of the greatest games I have ever played. It had me hooked from the begining 
 all the way to the very end. Everything about this game is amazing from the graphics and story 
 all the way to the actual gameplay. Everthing that had been wrong with the old MGS games were completely 
 fixed in this newest installment. The controls have been redone making everything a lot easier 
 to do and allowing a lot more versatility in the actual gameplay. Allowing the player to do such 
 things as playing dead or posing like a statue to blend in to the environment. The graphics have 
 also been revamped making everything look amazing from the explosions on the battlefield to the 
 boss battles with the BB unit. Sound is another thing that this game does amazingly. Right from 
 the very begining of the game when Snake is in the middle east and as your moving around you hear 
 the sounds of gunfire, explosions, and the screams of people near by making you feel like you are 
 truly there and that whats happening around you is all real. Every aspect of this game great and 
 yes there are cutscenes that can last up to 30 minutes or longer but every second of it is amazing 
 and extremely cinamatic and at times it feels like you are watching one of the greatest movies 
 ever made. One thing that has truly helped the game is the addition of the Drebin point system 
 that lets you get weapons, ammo , and upgrades at anytime during the game nomatter where you are. 
 You will always have the weapons you need to defeat any enemy or boss. This game truly is amazing 
 from start to finish with surprises around every corner and will not once let you down.
  
  "Metal Gear Solid 4 for game of the year." 
::::::

::::::
UserName: marco245
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 27, 2008 9:17 am PT
Review:  Thursday, June 12th, approximately 1200. I just finished my Science exam before venturing to my 
 local Game store to pick up a copy of the highly anticipated Metal Gear Solid 4: Guns of the Patriots... 
 It was worth the wait (2 delays and 3 years to be specific) .
  Once the gargantuan dual-layered, 50GB BluRay Disc entered the PS3, the quality rolled off this 
 long awaited title. Kojima obviously put these delays to good use, as the small details were superb. 
 When the game is installing, you are not just watching a bar proceed to 100%, you are watching 
 Old Snake smoking a cigarette, while watching humorous Health & Safety messages, such as "Please 
 use an ashtray for all cigarette butts". After about a 10 minute wait, the game begins, and the 
 rollercoaster of adventure, action and amazement proceeds. The presentation is the best of any 
 title so far, with the cutscenes seamlessly transitioning to gameplay using the power of the ps3 
 to create realtime cutscenes and photo-realistic details. From the face to the clothing, the characters 
 look superb as the light reacts to the textures as if you are watching a HD Video. The world is 
 just as deatiled, although some textures in some locations (such as the Middle East in Act I) have 
 fuzzy textures here and there, but they won't be noticed in the ntural course of the game. We could 
 talk about the level of detail for days, but to confine it to one little blurb, I'll just say it's 
 not as spectaular as games such as Crysis, but the quantity of great looking textures and models 
 surpass that of the linear, single environment Crysis. I mean, you can see the serial codes on 
 guns and the threads in enemies gloves!
  On the gameplay front, even more variety is offered. If you are looking for the easy, quick way 
 around, you can use Auto-Aim, you want a more modern, common gameplay mechanic, you can use Over-the-shoulder 
 3rd person view, or if you're looking for a little challenge, try using First-person through the 
 whole game. It will take getting used to the gameplay as it is clear in some parts that although 
 they targeted the American market with the more traditional gameplay, some parts will be a bit 
 japanese, similar to the previous MGS games. While I can't name these from the top of my head, 
 you will notice bits and pieces from previous games in there. The gameplay succeeds in giving the 
 best of both worlds, and variety is obvios in the gameplay front. Different fire-modes, not a usual 
 feature of 3rd person sneaking games, Weapon customisation, quite deep, from scopes to grenade 
 launchers to the trusty suppressor, and then there's the amount of weapons!! By the time you complete 
 the game, Snake's back will be broken with the amount he is carrying... Gameplay gets a definite 
 pass.
  Finally, the Story. It's comlicated, and answers questions with questions to which you get the 
 answer to at the end of the game. Complicated I know. But you will unlock goodies at the end of 
 your first playthrough, to encourage you to play again to better understand the story (also to 
 unlock more stuff and Altair's cloak from Assassin's creed! An MGS4 database was recently released 
 on the Playstation Store, so any things you're not sure about, check it out. It's free. It is a 
 fitting 30+ hour end to one of the greatest stories ever told. Snake's story is over, but Kojima 
 has indicated that the Metal Gear Solid series will continue, but not with Solid Snake... So to 
 play this game, and shed a tear at the end, the end of a saga, end of an era is a great compliment 
 to an amazing story. It just shows how much effort was put into creating the series' finale, and 
 reading other reviews and finding that nearly all of them say that he/she shed a taer at the end, 
 this is not surprising once you complete it. I don't care what that confusing, pain-in-the-ass 
 at times Zero Punctuation says, the game's story is not complicated if you carefully follow it.
 
  To round off this epic, astounding game, I will say it's an instant classic, and no PS3 owner 
 should turn it down, it's a must buy. PS3 sales have rocketed with MGS4 sales, showing how great 
 the game is for people to but a $399 gaming console. It is the best value game for years. for 59.99 
 i got 32 hours of awe-inspiring, epic Single-player and (as of writing this) 10 hours of online 
 play. Yes, that's right, Metal Gear Online is a free addition to the MGS4 title. I must ask myself 
 one question regarding the hardware in this game. How do they fit a 30 hour game featuring 6 environments 
 and an online supplement with amazing detail and models paired with a brilliant story onto one 
 Dual-layered 50GB disc? Apparently they used up the whole thing... And I hope we can see another 
 Dual-Layered BluRay disc bearing the Metal Gear Solid name very soon...
  
  Mark 
::::::

::::::
UserName: arthas242000
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 8, 2008 12:14 pm PT
Review:  ~Intro~
  *Warning: Tons of ass kissery will commence in this review for Hideo Kojima and his crew. You have 
 been warned* All I can say is that 2008 is shaping up to be one of the greatest years in gaming. 
 So many amazing titles are being released. I'd like to go on record before I begin this review 
 that I'm more than qualified to review any MGS game since I not only live and breath every word 
 that comes from Kojima's mouth but I also give as much money as possible to Konami; I mean they 
 could take a box; carefully insert dog feces into it slap a MGS sticker on it and I'm buying. Why 
 do I have such a die hard mentality towards MGS? Well it's simple, it all started when.. Just joking 
 I'm not going to spill every waking moment that lead up to my love for MGS; the short answer being: 
 Metal Gear Solid for the PS1!!
  
  ~Story~ 8.0
  This is by far the worst part of reviewing a game that is extremely story driven. How much is too 
 much? I want to explain the story but now days anything said is considered a spoiler. I can say 
 that if you're a fan of the series all your questions will be answered in extreme detail. If you 
 aren't a fan of the series you may want to go look up the stores on Wikipedia before embarking 
 on this journey since 90% of the story is rapping up the past 20 years. I guess that's MGS4 greatest 
 weakness story wise; it isn't very open to newcomers. I've played every single MGS multiple times; 
 but someone that isn't woven into the mythology of MGS probably won't understand the random references 
 and characters. *SPOILER* For example: the first act is based around Naomi's siding with liquid 
 even though she was considered neutral at the end of MGS1. Someone whom hasn't played the original 
 ps1 game won't really understand stand the whole relationship between Snake and Naomi and it isn't 
 touched upon during the game. Unfortunately for casual fans the most impactful moments of the game 
 wont really seem that cool or shocking the climax of these long stories are foreign. Though the 
 events are entertaining a bit of MGS knowledge is required to garner the full enjoyment of the 
 story.
  
  
  ~Gameplay~ 10.0
  Let me start by speaking to my fellow MGS fans that were a bit skeptical about MGS 4 gameplay: 
 specifically that it would be more action based; this ideal of appealing to the main stream audience. 
 We can all take a collective sigh of relief; MGS does have more set pieces that involve action 
 but the core idea of Stealth gameplay is not only intact but greatly improved over its predecessors. 
 Veterans of the series will quickly realize that the initial half of MGS 4 is similar in style 
 to MGS 3 Snake Eater. The environments aren't super similar but the mind set is the same; outdoors 
 with the pending environment as your cover. 
  
  Lets start with the first and most obvious change to the core gameplay mechanics the Octocam system. 
 Essentially, the Octocam system is an extension of the previous used camouflage suits used in MGS 
 3 just that improvements were made in integration. Instead of having to clumsily pause the game, 
 go into your camouflage menu, select a suit, check the stealth rating and repeat; this has been 
 completely discarded for an intuitively sleek system that's both quick and reliable. Instead of 
 having to manually change suit the Octocam system can both manually or automatically detect different 
 textures on the ground and wall, kind of like octopus skin which coincidently blends in with its 
 surroundings. This time around snake doesn't run up to walls; instead when he is near an object 
 a content sensitive icon will appeal; by pressing this button snake will move up to the wall, activating 
 the suit. This wonderfully designed suit can be set to automatically activate or manual. Not only 
 does this mechanic provide a sleek and intuitive system to quickly maneuver around combat; it also 
 provides snake with the much needed "badass" gadget the series is know to give everyone but snake!!
 
  
  Snake has also acquired some physical maneuvers that greatly improve an already impressive arsenal. 
 First, in the stealth department we have a hump-type move that allows snake to crawl on the ground 
 without exposing his position. This move may seem useless but proves useful in situations were 
 slowly creep up to your opponent without losing stealthy demeanor is vital. Speaking of moving 
 around, snake can also row on his back now. From here he can shoot his weapon, throw grenades and 
 even play dead. Playing dead is quite hilarious and fun; this can be done on both his stomach and 
 back and works perfectly when near fallen combatants. Another added physical move is a crotched 
 position; though this does increase the level of stress on your old body it's a good way to maneuver 
 quickly around the battle field without completely exposing yourself.
  
  The next major gameplay tweaks come in how snake fires his weapon. Now I knew that Resident Evil 
 4 was going to impact the industry in a positive way, yet I couldn't have dreamt of better scenarios: 
 Gears of War, GTA IV and now MGS 4 have all implement that over-the-shoulder style mechanic that 
 we have all grown to love from RE4. 
  MGS 4 implementation of the system is just a flawless as its presentation. The other addition is 
 the ability to play through the game entirely in first person. I know this sounds quite weird but 
 the controls work perfectly so any native to FPS games will most likely be pleasantly surprised.
 
  
  The last major improvements are the addition of new gadgets and weapons; obviously snake has new 
 gadgets like a barrel, new drugs to help stimulate his psyche and body. The coolest upgrade is 
 the expansion of Snake's arsenal. No long will snake sneak around with just a pistol in hand. This 
 time around snake starts out with all types of assault rifles, pistols, submachine guns, sniper 
 rifles and shotguns. Snake not only has access to all these awesome weapons but he can now disarm 
 enemies and take there weapons as well. Now if this wasn't enough, there is also the ability to 
 buy new weapons from Drebin the gun launderer. Finally there is the ability to customize weapons 
 by adding laser points, grenade launchers and suppressors. 
  
  Now what do all these improvements mean to the series; basically it creates the best gameplay out 
 of all of the MGS games period. Since there is a war going on if you choose to sneak by everyone 
 in the conflict, great it's totally. The improvement comes in the combat were shooting your way 
 out of a situation now is as fun but in most situations better than most action games on the market; 
 allowing for the best of both worlds for any type of gamer. Get caught in a situation that requires 
 some Rambo-esque moments go right ahead; don't feel like fighting anyone just sneak by everyone, 
 one ground hump at a time. No other stealth or action game has rivaled what MGS 4 was able to accomplish; 
 the perfect blend of action and stealth. No other game has such a plethora of mechanics to fully 
 create the experience the user wants. 
  
  
  ~Sound~ 10.0
  The soundtrack is an ovation to every Metal Gear; a fans wet dream. No sound effect is left behind 
 any sound left untouched. Thanks to apple product placement, snake gets an IPod early which allows 
 him to listen to previous music as he runs through the middle East. The overall soundtrack is just 
 as amazing as previous editions and sound effects are just as perfect.
  
  
  ~Graphics~ 10.0
  I'm probably not going to surprise anyone by saying that MGS4 has probably the 
 best artistic prowess since Super Mario galaxy. The difference being that MGS4 also has the technical 
 horse power to back it up. When you are in "war zones" there are literally dozens of enemies fighting, 
 explosions and mayhem happening with minor hits to the framerate. Textures and environments are 
 extremely detailed and unique. I've never had a problem with any MGS graphical palette and that 
 sure hasn't changed now.
  
  
  ~Features~ 9.9
  This game has a lot to offer on every front; first and foremost you have the stellar single player 
 campaign that will last a good 20 hours or so. There is also online play which is similar to with 
 tons of improvements. Honestly, I haven't even played the online portions since I've been so addicted 
 to the single player!! Of course there are also tons of unlockables and hide secrets scattered 
 throughout the world of MGS. I'd say the replay value is pretty even with the virtual shooting 
 gallery, and extras. 
  
  
  ~Conclusion~
  In the end, the biggest flaw with this game doesn't lie with the game itself but with the end user. 
 If you haven't played and loved the previous games you aren't going to really understand the story. 
 This game really wasn't made as a stand alone game; story wise; the previous iterations really 
 needed to be experienced to truly understand what's happened. Every other aspect of the game is 
 flawless; it somehow finds a way to appeal to just about every type of gamer out there regardless 
 of the tactical action label. Obviously, I would recommend this game to anyone that loves the series 
 as it's easily the best one. Action fans would probably get a thrill or two with MGS, Now, unless 
 you're a super hardcore fan I don't suggest buying a ps3 just for this game. The amount of value 
 for the buck will only be worth to a hardcore fan; just wait until the inevitable 360 version ;) . 
 
  
  Story - 8.0
  Gameplay - 10.0
  Sound - 10.0
  Graphics - 10.0
  Features - 9.9
  ~ Overall - 9.58 ~ 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 056045
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 27, 2008 5:06 am PT
Review:  The game is fun and exciting. The second time through is the best because you can skip through 
 all the boring clips without a sense of not knowing about the plot or theme. I believe the game 
 shouldn't be rated down too much because of the clips but I would rate this game a 10/10 if the 
 clips were done a bit better. The people who rate this game 3/10 or 4/10 all because of the clips 
 are plain fools as the clips you can just skip. I have no experiance with the other MGO games so 
 the story was really confusing but I got some of the plot themes. What is so great is that you 
 know exactly what you are doing at any moment because it is explained so well. In conclusion this 
 game is something that no one with a ps3 should miss and trust me once you have seen all the clips 
 that go on forever to get the plot you can have an uncontrollable blast of excitement and fun. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: acidfacekiller
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 27, 2008 3:26 am PT
Review:  Mgs4 is a great ps3 title and here is why it has a great story, it has great gameplay and outstanding 
 graphics that show us the power of the PS3. It is one of the only few games to get a gamspot perfect 
 ten score I believe it should be game of the year 2008. The game has great easter eggs like the 
 modeling boses and the hidden face cammos a real masterpiece and well worth the delayed wait a 
 great end for snake and one of the best games of all time. Good Job Hideo And dont retire and keep 
 bringing us these great Ps3 hits. I will miss snake though. He is truly a legendary character. 
 I believe he is up there in top with Cloud FF7 Auron FF10 and now snake Mgs. Let me wrap up my 
 review with buy this game if you dont have it already trust me you wont be disapointed it will 
 keep you entertained for a long time you'll find yourself going to play it over and over again. 
 Thank you for reading my review. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hughobrien
Rating: 2
Date: Jun 27, 2008 2:10 am PT
Review:  Thought I'd give a review for those who aren't fans of MGS or who haven't played it before. I was 
 never a major fan of the series. It had it's moments, had some great ideas, but it just didn't 
 do it for me. But I saw a preview clip of one of the boss battles and thought it looked fantastic 
 and was really clever. So I picked up the game, deciding I was going to put my assumptions to the 
 side and sit back and enjoy what was to be an amazing game.
  
  I was severely mistaken.
  
  The game looks amazing and that's about the only good thing I can say about it. The story in 
 convoluted and almost tries it's hardest to be inaccessible to those who aren't fans of the series. 
 It doesn't make a lot of sense and there's too many plot twists that seem to happen just for the 
 sake of happening
  
  The characters are horrific. Maybe it's just that the dialogue was badly translated, but there's 
 not one likable character in the game. The dialogue itself is ridiculous and totally unbelievable. 
 It just doesn't flow. It's like watching a load of actors trying to out do each other by being 
 more dramatic and the viewer suffers as a result.
  
  The cut scenes of which make up the majority of the game (not sure how much, but I'd say it's easily 
 70% and feels like a hell of a lot more) , are soul destroying. They go on and on, and any information 
 you glean from them is likely forgotten by the time it ends. And there's so many of them!!! You 
 watch 20 minutes and then it fades out. You pick up the controller, hoping for a little bit of 
 a game to play and then it starts the next scene. You can skip them, but then you're left in the 
 next level without a clue as to why you're there and what you've to do. Then again, if you watch 
 the entire cut scene, it's a safe bet you'll still have no clue as to why you're there and what 
 you've to do.
  
  And then the fun begins when you finally do get to play. Well, no, it doesn't really. The game 
 it's self pretty much sucks. You can be stealthy as you like in the game, but it usually serves 
 no purpose. Maybe I was hoping for something a bit more Splinter Cell-like, so when you try your 
 hand at stealth in MGS, you're just disappointed. I found that it was easier and much more satisfying 
 to shoot everyone as this made the levels much more interesting.
  
  I think it was because I was mislead into believing the AI was incredible and that they all reacted 
 so realistically. But that's not true at all. The AI has two modes: spot you where ever you are, 
 no matter what, and not see you even if you're in front of them.
  
  One of the things that my MGS loving friends had told me about the series is the attention to detail 
 and all the little things you can do that make it so cool to play. To be honest, I didn't really 
 notice much in this game that hadn't been done better in other games. And there were some things 
 that could of been really cool, but just worked out stupidly.
  
  My main gripe was with the camouflage clothes you were. If you walk up to a wall, or lie on the 
 ground, your clothes change colour to match the wall/ground. It looks pretty cool, but it doesn't 
 seem to stop the enemies from seeing you. They just walk up to you and then seem to get a shock 
 when the man shaped rock turns out to really be a man, and not a rock.
  
  Combat is another sore point (well, everything is a sore point in this) . It's not that much fun 
 at all. Enemies are simple to kill and the only real challenge arises from the countless respawning. 
 And it's not like you're ever going to run out of ammo, because you just go into the menu and can 
 call an arms dealer who'll sell you anything you want. And if an enemy gets up close to you, before 
 you can shoot him, he'll wallop you and knock you to the ground. If you've got a few guys around 
 you, you can expect to have them all just wait for you to stand up and then knock you down again. 
 It's annoying and it'd even be more satisfying if they'd just kick you to death while you're down.
 
  
  The inventory is pants. You can carry an entire arsenal of weapons, but the game only allows you 
 to have a small amount of them at hand. You press the right button and scroll through the 6 or 
 so weapons to switch. If you want to use any of the others, then you've to go into the start menu, 
 then the weapons menu and then select the new weapon you want and swap it with one of the original 
 6. What's the point? I mean you can easily get to all you weapons, so why can't you have access 
 to all of them in the game, instead of having to go the the start menu? There's no reason for it. 
 The same goes for the items menu too.
  
  To be honest, I could go on and on about how much I hate this game. If you're a fan, you'll love 
 it no matter what. If you hate the series you'll hate this anymore. If you're indifferent and just 
 want to see what it's like, you'll most likely hate it. There's very little here for people who 
 aren't fans. Instead, get yourself a copy of Splinter Cell, for a well done stealth game, Ghost 
 Recon 2, for a well done action/war game and then get yourself a TV series box set to replace the 
 16 hours+ cut scenes. You'll be much happier.
  
  2/10... Worst game ever! I gave 1 point for the graphics and another point if Hideo Kojimo promises 
 never to make another game, ever! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Azkotek
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jun 26, 2008 11:58 pm PT
Review:  MGS4 is one of those games you either hate or love. Well... I kinda love it and hate it at the 
 same time. 
  
  I love it for its gorgeous graphics, for all of the gadgets and weapons you get to use and/or modify, 
 for how you get to choose if you want to dispatch enemies or just sneak by them. I love it for 
 the variety of the missions. 
  
  Why would I hate it? Not much. But I hate the 10 to 20 minutes cinematics that pops-up out of nowhere 
 or mostly at the start or end of a level. That's my biggest complain toward the game.
  
  Also, some of the things in the game just sound goofy. I mean... I know it does not have to be 
 realistic but why the hell would Snake have a cardboard box or a oil can in his inventory???!! 
 
  
  Sometimes I found the AI controlled soldiers to act like idiots, like watching me reload my gun 
 after I emptied it in one of his fellow soldier. 
  
  This game is real fun and shouldn't be missed by anyone... unless you're not patient or you don't 
 give a chute about story telling. 
  
  But... I think people are not objective enough when reviewing and I'm quite displeased at the way 
 GS reviews its games. Looking at all those reviews, I thought MGS4 would be the game I'd die for. 
 Such as it is, I just like to play it. A big difference.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: BPoole96
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 26, 2008 11:34 pm PT
Review:  Being new to the series made me kinda of nervous of buying the 4th and final MGS. However, after 
 experiencing the unique gameplay, stunning visuals, and gripping story, I can't think of a reason 
 why I hadn't played this great series in the past. The game combines many elements that make it 
 great and makes the replay value high. The online mode of this game also is unique and fun to play.
 
  
  Snake uses a new type of camo in MGS4 called "OctoCamo". This camo changes into whatever type of 
 surface you are pressing up against to make it easier to hide from enemies. Depending on your camo 
 index, it will determine whether or not enemies will see you. A FaceCamo is unlocked during the 
 game that allows Snake's face to be covered by the same camo on his body. This camo can be also 
 be used to change your face into various people including Young Snake and Snake from MGS1.
  
  The graphics in the game are superior to any other game I have seen so far. There are times 
 in the game's cutscenes where the graphics look nearly real. The character's voice acting and movements 
 are virtually flawless. The sound during the game puts you right in the middle of the battle and 
 keeps you intrigued.
  
  The gameplay of the game was also interesting and easy to use. Players are requied and crawl on 
 the ground, sneak around corners while crouching, hang from ledges, and various other actions. 
 These actions can be simply done and do not require much effort. These simple controls come in 
 handle at many points during the game when you have to manuver around quickly and quietly.
  
  There is a wide array of weapons in the game as well the ability to customize them. For instance, 
 you recieve an M4 Custom and can add laser sights, long distance scopes, a grenade launcher, a 
 shotgun attachmen, etc. These customization help you from having to switch between weapons in order 
 to accomplish your mission. For example, if you need to snipe someone, you can just use your M4 
 to get the job done. There are weapons for every style of player; tranqulizers and silenced weapons 
 for the stealth player, and then there are LMGs, RPGs, and assualt rifles for the players who like 
 alot of action.
  
  At the end of every game completetion you have award with emblems. Each emblem represents a certain 
 accomplishment that you did during the game. Some can be as simple as killing 250+ enemies or as 
 hard as going through the game without being seen and not killing anybody. Certain emblems unlock 
 new guns, costumes etc. One costume is even Altair from Assassin's Creed. The emblem make the replay 
 value high for this game because they always give the player something to shoot for and work towards.
 
  
  Now for the online, called Metal Gear Online (MGO) . The online has proven to be very fun and unique. 
 You can do automatching that is similar to Cod4 or you can find/start your own server similar to 
 Warhawk. Each game can have different rules depending on what the hosts chooses to allow or disallow 
 sauch as game modes and particular guns. Everytime you spawn you pick a primary weapon, a side 
 arm, and a type of grenade. These guns have to be acquired buy using points accumulated from completing 
 objectives and killing the other team. The more points you have, the better gun you can purchase. 
 The game modes include your standard team deathmatch and free for all but then has a few games 
 that are unique. One game is similar to Domination from CoD4 but rather than getting point for 
 holding flags, it's whoever captures all the flags first wins the game. Another mode called Sneaking 
 puts 1 player as Snake and must survive while the other teams try to find and kill him. The teams 
 that gets the most kills wins the game.
  
  The skill system on MGO is basically like perks from Cod4 ( And no there is no juggarnaut or martyrdom; 
 thank God) . You can choose to have increased assault rifle accuracy and reloading as well with 
 Sniper Rifle Pistols and SMGs. You can also have advanced CQC (close quarters conbat) abilities 
 like putting your enemy in a sleeper hold, slamming them on the ground, and slitting their throat. 
 The skills make each player able to use whatever style they would like in order to play. Up to 
 4 skills can be used at once. Players can also customize their online player to their likings.
 
  
  So this is my in depth review of MGS4. I strongly recommend this to anyone who wants to play a 
 great shooter and be highly entertained. I personally think this game will take GOTY. Check the 
 game out and see for yourself. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Couth_
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 26, 2008 10:57 pm PT
Review:  Let me start off by saying I had very high expectations for MGS4, and even so, it exceeded my very 
 high expectations. The entire way through I was in amazement and in awe, not only with the story, 
 which is what MGS is known for, but also with the game play. You hardly ever repeat an objective 
 twice in a game, there is so much variety. Theres parts you must sneak, theres parts you must gun 
 through, theres parts you must do both, theres vehicles sequences, theres times you handle big 
 artillery, theres times you handle hand guns. Each boss must be handled completely differently. 
 There is a HUGE variety of customizable weapons. The controls, shooting mechanics especially, have 
 been perfected. There is tons of new features, a remote controlled robot you have at your disposal, 
 the Drebin weapons system, in which you use points to cash in on weapons and ammo, as well as other 
 features. All of these things, added up with some of the best visuals ever seen on a console make 
 MGS4 a true masterpiece. 
  
  Also, I am torn, because while MGS4 feels so much like an MGS game, it feels so different at the 
 same time. Kojima Pro did a wonderful job of translating the series into this generation. They 
 did not just slap better graphics on a game with old game play. Every element of the MGS4 is evolved 
 or completely revamped, and in a beneficial way.
  
  Someone who has beaten the game could literally sit with you as you play your first time through 
 and say "If you thought that was cool, wait until you see what's next". It keeps getting better 
 and better as it goes on. MGS4 does not cease to amaze, as it outdoes itself time after time. The 
 online component added to MGS4 is just icing on the cake for the game. It contains great game play 
 and a deep system which could offer limitless amounts of replay value. The one drawback for some 
 people is the lengthy cut scenes. There is plenty of them, and they could get kind of long, but 
 they only add to the experience IMO. I loved every minute of MGS4, and every gamer owes it to themselves 
 to at least try this game out, because it is a true masterpiece in a generation filled with a lot 
 of rehashes and mediocrity, at least in comparison with MGS4. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tehcouches
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 26, 2008 10:22 pm PT
Review:  I honestly was never a fan of the MGS series. I borrowed MGS 3 for PS2 once and never enjoyed it. 
 I was into the Splinter Cell series back then. However I think most the reason I dislike the MGS 
 2 was because I skipped the CUTSCENES :O ! So whatever . I then was eager to buy MGS4 as I heard 
 it had a fantastic storyline and great graphics. AND and exclusive to the PS3. Now PS3 never had 
 the greatest exclusives other than like.. hot shots golf ( which pwns btw) . I was slightly afraid 
 this would fail but there was still some hope. Anyway, I bought the game and what can I say. GREAT. 
 FANTASTIC story, graphics and smart gameplay. AND I never skipped the cutscenes :) This game I 
 now hold dear to my heart. Ok ok.. its not perfect. The gameplay could be better such as alot of 
 the moves are very defaulted. And Character sound effects ( like when your getting shot ) You make 
 a repeaing emph emph emph sound. Also I found the story to be slightly convulted and long, which 
 cuts the gameplay down a bit. Online is great especially with the CLAN system.. but honestly is 
 not overly fun. I got bored easily. All and all... BUY THE GAME! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: creed1706
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 26, 2008 8:27 pm PT
Review:  Hideo Kojima outdid himself with this one. 
  Gameplay: The gameplay is easy to learn. It took me about two minutes to figure out all the controls. 
 Despite the quick learning curve for the controls, the game is challenging if you play it on the 
 Big Boss level. If you've never played the metal gear games before then you will probably want 
 to start with one of the easier settings. The ability to customize weapons brought a new aspect 
 to metal gear. It became really handy to be able to add specific parts to some of my favorite weapons. 
 The camouflage sneaking ability was VERY handy. If you find yourself in a mess where you're low 
 on health, surrounded by enemies, have no rations, and don't have anything to hide behind then 
 the camouflage comes in handy. Half the time it seemed like if I used the barrel or box to hide 
 in the guards would be suspicious and end up kicking the box or barrel over. The boss fights weren't 
 too difficult once I figured out what weapon and vision I needed to use. 
  
  Cutscenes: You'll spend most of the game watching cutscenes but these are some of the most beautiful 
 cutscenes ever. The transition between cutscenes/cinematics to actual gameplay is flawless. 
  
  Story: What can I say, this is the best storyline for any video game I have ever played. I 
 have never played anything that was so intriguing. This also is the only video game that has ever 
 made me cry.... especially towards the end of the game. I'm so pleased that Kojima tied up all the 
 loose ends that were left throughout the series. Finally, everything in this series makes complete 
 sense. I also really like how they made Raiden's character such a strong character in this one. 
 
  
  Graphics: Words cannot describe how outstanding the graphics are with a 1080p tv. I suppose stunning 
 would be a somewhat good word for the graphics on this game. Because, really this game will stun 
 you with how beautiful it is. 
  
  I give this game 10/10. This is what I have been waiting for in a game. I hate to see the MGS series 
 come to an end but Snake went out with a bang. 
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: rexdriver
Rating: 6
Date: Jun 26, 2008 6:20 pm PT
Review:  The positives are that MGS4 is indeed the most cinematic and technically polished game the gaming 
 industry has possibly ever seen.
  
  There are however a whole load of negatives:-
  1. Terrible, terrible, terrible scripting with some of the most contrived dialogues ever.
  2. 
 Loading and install times are horrible. Makes the argument that this game can't be done on the 
 360 complete BS because it is faster to switch discs than to install each Act.
  3. Strip the cinematics and what you're left with is a rather boring sneak game that simply requires 
 you to get from point A to point B (to be rewarded by yet another cinematic sequence before proceeding 
 from point B to point C) and it simply pales in comparison to Splinter Cell. 
  4. Some of the alternative action gameplay sequences like shooting the turret on Drebin's tank 
 (with multiple load times) and tracking footprints are bland, unexciting and pointless.
  5. The greatest and coolest action sequences in the game are all cinematics, which only serve to 
 sharply contrast with the aged and stiff motions of Snake ingame.
  6. Things like cardbox cover, Drebin points, stars/ exclamation marks over the enemies' heads really 
 make the game feel cheap.
  
  A decent game, but clearly THE most overhyped game yet. Uncharted is still king of PS3 exclusives 
 imo. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: supernintendo
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 26, 2008 6:19 pm PT
Review:  Alright first off, I will say I am a huge fanboy of Sony and The Metal Gear Franchise. I have beaten 
 every metal gear game that has ever come out.
  
  Alright, let the reviewing begin. 
  
  Graphics: As I stated before these are the best graphics I have ever seen in a videogame, hands 
 down. There is so much detail on everything in the whole game. Just watching the game install was 
 breathtaking. The detail on his arms, his gnarly stache, and of course the hair. Im pretty sure 
 if you look hard enough you will find maybe one or two textures that look weird, and i mean LOOK 
 EXTREMELY HARD! 10/10
  
  Gameplay: Ok its the same as the other metal gear games. Theres the main bad guy, Liquid Ocelot, 
 and you have to kill him. Moving through the stages unseen can be very easy thanks to the octocamo, 
 or you can just run through the stages blowing people away with your M14 w/ Shotgun underbarrel 
 attached. The games controls have been overhauled, which will take some getting used to if you 
 have been hooked on MGS3 or any other Metal Gear for that matter. 10/10
  
  Sound: Is Amazing, nuff said. 10/10
  
  Replay Value: Very High if you are a Huge MGS fan, even 
 if your not you will find yourslf going back through it a couple of times. MGO is really fun also, 
 although just a started pack, it is realy fun. 10/10
  
  
  I am not giving it a perfect 10 because i am a fanboy but because this game deserves it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kenaue
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 26, 2008 6:06 pm PT
Review:  The wait is finally over. The end of the Metal Gear solid series is at an end. What does this action-packed, 
 final installment bring to the table? Find out in our review
  
  On June 12th of 2008, millions of gamers across the globe cheered as the action packed, final installment 
 of the Metal Gear Solid saga hit store shelves. The first trailer was shown in 2005, and the game 
 has received a phenomenal amount of hype since then. Over the course of the series, many questions 
 were raised, but most went unansweredUntil today. But, only one question still remains: Does this 
 game live up to the hype? The simple answer is yes, it does. Four years of development on a next-generation 
 console have done wonders for the series. Let me just tell you this: the mystery of the La-Le-Lu-Li-Lo 
 has been solved, and boy, was it a shocker.
  
  The following is taken from the back of the box:
  
  In His Final Battle,
  A Hero must Stand 
 Alone.
  
  Lead legendary hero Solid Snake in this final chapter of the Metal Gear Solid saga and infiltrate 
 all new battlefields with all new gear. Experience a stunning cinematic adventure that will keep 
 you hooked until the very end. Customizable new weapons and technologically advanced gadgets assist 
 you in your missions.
  
  Put it simply, the back of the box does not do this game justice at all. Just how good is this 
 game? What could possible mar this eagerly anticipated masterpiece? Well, it's time you found out.
 
  
  
  Graphics:
  
  Metal Gear Solid 4 is one of the most stunning games in terms of graphics. Environments are fully 
 detailed, right down to individual blades of grass. Weapon and character models are truly exquisite. 
 At one point in the game, I swiveled the camera around to see Snake from his front, and I could 
 point out individual hairs on his mustache, that is the level of detail we are talking about here. 
 Bullets leave realistic holes in walls, and the blood is not just a red cloud anymore.
  
  Despite all the positives of the graphics in this game, it DOES have its low points. Every now 
 and then, you'll come across a muggy or low rez texture that is out of place. For instance, in 
 the opening act, one of the walls looked very realistic with actual craggy surfaces and rugged 
 deformities, except for one spot that did not blend well at all. And sometimes, the game won't 
 register a certain texture at all. I found myself being launched by an enemy grenade right through 
 a standing wall as if it wasn't even there. But, overall, the graphics are extremely well done 
 and represent what a game should look like in this new generation of gaming.
  
  Section Score: 9.7 out of 10.
  
  
  Gameplay:
  
  What makes Metal Gear Solid 4 such an 
 excellent game is that it was given the push the series needed. The once clunky control scheme 
 is now much more stream-lined and intuitive. In Metal Gear Solid 3, the square button was used 
 for both aiming and shooting, which rendered moving while aiming nearly impossible. In Metal Gear 
 Solid 4, however, the L1 button brings up your weapon into aim mode, and the R1 button shoots. 
 R2 brings up your weapons sub-menu, where you change and equip weapons. L2 brings up your items 
 sub-menu, where you can use things like rations to improve your health, a card-board box to elude 
 your enemies, and yes, even an iPod to listen to your own music in game. Not once over the LONG 
 course of this game have I encountered control issues.
  
  The best thing that can be said about Metal Gear Solid 4 is that it cannot be described by one 
 genre. What I mean is that it doesn't feel like a shooter with crappy stealth elements tacked on, 
 and it doesn't feel like a stealth game with lame action sequences tacked on. This game let's your 
 choose how you want to play the game, whether you want to be Mr. Super-Spy and kill no one, or 
 you want to kill everyone, it's totally up to you. For the first time in a long while, I actually 
 felt like I was in control of the flow of the game itself.
  
  Every game has to have a boss fight or two. Right? Most games will usually have the bosses tacked 
 on just to complete the game. Metal Gear Solid 4 goes above and beyond in this respect by creating 
 some of the most memorable boss sequences ever. The very first boss in the game has you fight a 
 master of stealth. He can make himself look like things in the room, he can jump like an acrobat, 
 but, at the same time, he is flawed, just like every boss. Every boss has their weakness, but it 
 isn't always a specific spot on their bodies. For example, one bosses weakness was being too powerful, 
 in that he ultimately hurt himself. The bosses in Metal Gear have mostly been this way, with the 
 most memorable fight being a sniper battle from Metal Gear Solid 3 where you were in the woods. 
 If you hid and tried to avoid him, he would eventually die of starvation and old age, or you could 
 hunt for him and steal his stuff. At no point, in either game, did the bosses feel like a chore 
 to beat.
  
  Section Score: 10 out of 10
  
  
  Other:
  
  Now, you may ask why I am not including a section about the story of the game in his review. The 
 reason is because it is very difficult to NOT spoil things seeing as the story is a core part of 
 the gaming experience known as Metal Gear Solid. With that said, the story is excellent. Let's 
 move on.
  
  The sound work in this game is truly well done. The voices are generally spot on, and a lot of 
 scenes feature little extras, like flash backs to earlier games in the series, or alternate viewpoints. 
 I have only three gripes with this game as a whole:
  1) The cut-scenes, while entertaining, are usually long enough to take a shower and eat during.
 
  2) Some minor slow down during both cut-scenes and gameplay.
  3) This game requires a whooping 5 gigabytes of Hard Drive space to run. Coupled with the initial 
 install, the game also installs between each act, totaling 6 installs at 23 minutes total.
  
  Section Score: 9.8 out of 10.
  
  
  Score: 10/10 
  
  
  Recommended: Highly
  
 
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: futur3
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 26, 2008 7:20 pm PT
Review:  I just laugh each time I see someone giving low score or saying they don't like the game cause 
 of the Cut scenes.. The MGS series has mainly been known for his Cut scenes. As far as i can remember 
 the gameplay in MGS 1-2-3 wasn't half has good as mgs4 gameplay.. main reason is that the ability 
 to walk crouched now available and good 1st and 3rd person views were added. This game may be short, 
 however the movies are amazing, sounds is amazing, music matches perfectly the differents situations, 
 Artificial intelligence is also very good, AI is probably 100000000000 times better than ASSassins 
 Creed. Talking of AC that got a 9/10 on gamespot that game if we can call it that way, or should 
 i say (rooftop running/jumping simulator) had No AI whatsoever, No fun gameplay ,Boring Story, pretty 
 much Nothing worth keep playing it more than 2hours. Sorry about that i just hate myself for having 
 bought that game and i still can't believe how bad it is. , (DO NOT BUY ASSASSIN CREED) . Now back 
 to MGS4, even if you really dislike the cutscenes just skip them all and the game is still better 
 than any other action/stealth games .. ex. Splinter Cell (that's a boring game) . 
  
  To conclude i just want to say that MGS4 to my eyes is the BEST Game EVER MADE and it will probably 
 be until Kojima finish whatever project hes working on. 
  
  MGS5 : Raiden vs the La Li Lu Le Lo Savant Monkeys ?!?!? 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: onebadgs400
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 26, 2008 1:58 pm PT
Review:  THIS WAS THE the most amazing game ever. Nothing else to say. The game was like doing it with 8 
 women!!!!!!! 8 women that looked like Halle Berry. All of them at the same time just rip all your 
 clothes off but they all slowly strip for you. It was like you could satisfy them all and it went 
 on for days. Yea thats MGS4 Doing it to 8 Halle Berry's. The new gadgets are superb, the weapons 
 are expertly realized and much easier to get hold of, and there are always plenty of options, even 
 if stealth is still usually the best of them. Hand-to-hand combat feels more natural. The environments 
 are more complex, but nothing like as large or open as you might expect, and this is still a linear 
 game. In Guns of the Patriots' incredible, cathartic, climactic scenes, the lines are blurred so 
 much that you can barely tell whether you're playing a video game or watching a film. To some that 
 might sound like an insult, but to Kojima and his fans, it's nirvana, something for which the series 
 has been striving for ten years, and it could not be a more appropriate note to end on. Still its 
 like Doing it to 8 Halle Berry's 
::::::

::::::
UserName: doom15490
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 26, 2008 10:10 am PT
Review:  Well, being a MGS fan from the beginning let me start by saying well done!! a very, very good game, 
 However having said that, let me say this, Way too much movie time!! (I guess they had to use up 
 all that blue ray disc space) all jokes aside the AI is great, challenging and well programmed, 
 the graphics are superb!!! let me say it again, superb!!! I love the weapons selection and of course 
 my favorite character would be drebin cool Idea however somewhat a spin off of the arms dealer 
 in Resident Evil 4, collecting credits/cash buying and upgrading weapons, (does anyone know was 
 he the first??)
  the story line is very detailed almost too detailed, they could have accomplished the same thing 
 with half the movie time. And the game could have been mush longer.
  I am not overly impressed with the Boss fights, they are ok, Vamp was too easy, the puppeteer also, 
 crying wolf was the most entertaining!! and the after defeat the death hugs were a nice touch. 
 And the love from the wolfs after was sooo cool.
  the ultimate battle with liquid was a nice touch as cqc is my favorite.
  however the endless 
 triangle buttons wore me out to get down the microwave corridor.
  I will break some hearts with this but I think MGS SUBSISTENCE was a better game. 
  It was as 
 I feared, how do top that! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 01keegan
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 26, 2008 9:16 am PT
Review:  to begin with i want to say that i am not going to spoil any of the story for you. I just want 
 to give you my opinion of this great game. 
  the game mostly follows snake on a mission to stop his brother liquid, from completing his plans. 
 
  good things; the graphics are beyond belief. they are really good. the enviroments are large, larger 
 then in the other games. also allowing the player to make his/her way around the enviroment easier. 
 the cut scenes are amazing. as usual one of the best things about the Metal Gear series is the 
 cut scenes. You will be hanging on every word waiting to see what will happen next while you hang 
 off the edge of your seat. also a large variety of weapons, the most i have seen from any metal 
 gear game. you got snipers, explosives, anything you could possibly want and you can customize 
 most weapons to fit your needs. the controls are good also, they actually did a few tweaks to make 
 it a little more like a shooter. and it helps a lot because there are tons of action in the game. 
 the enemie AI is also pretty good, the acting in the game is really good. Better than I have seen 
 in some actual movies. Makes good use of the duel shock 3 vibration. there are lots of gadgets 
 that are really cool that you have this time, like his camo suit, way cool. The sounds are very 
 life like, the guns and wepons and envioment are emersive. the game has very in depth characters. 
 you really get drawn into it easily. Plus, there is even online play, which is a good way to enjoy 
 the game with your friends. 
  bad things; if you havent played the other games it may be hard for you to follow this one,
  
 Over all ; if you are a big fan of meal gear, like myself, you will most likely be very pleased 
 with this game. and if you have a ps3 i highly recommend you give it a try. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jaziel
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 26, 2008 8:08 am PT
Review:  This game is far and above what I expected. I"m a fan of the series and that's the main reason 
 why I bought it, but what I got was way more than what I expected. everything from the sound to 
 graphics to story and game play is all top notch. The people that try to bash this game for the 
 long cut scenes have obviously not played it. You barely even notice how long it's been playing 
 and it is so necessary to push the story froward. The transition between cut-scenes and game play 
 is simply amazing. It's hard to believe that they managed to make the game look this amazing. The 
 camera angles, voice acting the and the lip sync is all perfect. There's a part where you ride 
 in the back of a motorcycle that plays in cinematic mode whenever you're not pressing the aim button 
 on your weapon and it's simply amazing. I know I keep using the word amazing a lot but it's that 
 good I finished it and am playing it again in a harder difficulty setting. I am hooked. I am kinda 
 broke right now so I don't have internet connection at home so I can't really comment on the online 
 multi player but I can't wait to try it out. I kept it nice and short but I think I got my point 
 across. IT'S AMAZING !!!!!!!!!! lol lol 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dvgeoster
Rating: 1.5
Date: Jun 30, 2008 3:30 pm PT
Review:  If i want a gamr i buy a game if i want a film i buy a film, or rent them. This game is waaaaaaaayyyyyyyy 
 to close to a film, ok it is pretty nice but gameplay is appaling, it takes forever to get going 
 and the contunual distraction is just annoying.
  
  This cutscenes are mini films and i feel my role is to get snake from one cutscene to another. 
 Im not going to give this one just for trying to ruin hours of gameplay. I don't want a film and 
 if MGS5 comes out im going to scream if it is anything like this. 
  
  Anyway this just goes to show that GAMEspot is a stupid bunch of idoits as far as i can see. If 
 the framerate drops and the low res textures and the voice acting can be dull and with the multiplayer 
 i hate, and there is no replay factor.
  
  Cnet needs to get a film section and this could fit in there.
  
  Anyway im not going to talk 
 anyone out of buying it your going to look at gamespot, cough filmspot, and buy it then come here 
 and realise it isn't the promised game. It looks good but isn't up to scratch in my books.
  
  [EDIT] I have got in lots of trouble for this review and accept that however i do not like 
 games that try to emulate films, this did it so no points for gamplay.
  1 point for graphics, it is pretty but i hate the control system.
  .5 for all the things that 
 weren't awefull about this game, graphics.
  
  If you are a fan you will have already bought the game and only send me hate mail (which i don't 
 care about i will defend this view) if not i don't think this has the story i like, the control 
 system i want, notice I I don't like the game I don't think it was what i wanted and if you are 
 a fanboy please ignore the comments if you are a gamer who bought a PS3 for the Blue ray this may 
 be one to get to make you feel it was worth it but otherwise i would avoid this game in the future.
 
  
  BTW i have actualy played this game contary to fanboy belive
  [/EDIT]
  
  
  Overal if your a fan you will buy it if not you will be able to see the faults.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: LittleBigGamer1
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 26, 2008 3:29 am PT
Review:  Hmmm, How do I start.?
  
  OK, This Game Metal Gear Solid 4: Guns of the Patriots came out on the 12th of June and Gamespot 
 Gave it a 10!
  
  Here is Why....
  
  Story Mode: Simply stunning visuals with excellent environments to play in... Face Structure is 
 Brilliant but could be better with the Lip-Sync.
  
  Excellent story and the story is easier to understand if you have play the previous games.
  
 
  A nice mixture of Cutscenes and Gameplay... You'd wish it went on forever!
  
  A lot of Characters from previous Metal Gear Solid Games. (Very Exciting!)
  
  The sound effects 
 are brilliant and also the soundtrack .. You can also find a iPOD in the game and Download or Find 
 more songs to go on it... The Songs include songs from MGS1. MGS2 , MGS3 and MGS4 songs.. There 
 is also podcasts about MGS4..
  
  If you are thinking of getting this game GO 4 IT! it's a absolute MUST-HAVE!
  
  
  The first 
 Exclusive ps3 game with a rating of 10!
  
  And wait there's more...
  
  METAL GEAR ONLINE! (MGO)
  
  up to 16 players.
  SO FUN
  Good Something to do after you've 
 finished the story mode... 
  
  
  .........................
  
  
  Once you've finished Difficulty EASY you can do NORMAL, HARD and EXPERT to keep you occupied.
 
  
  Anyway I hop i have helped you BYE! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nthang989
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 26, 2008 12:32 am PT
Review:  Action, Comedy, Drama Story, Creativity, Sound, etc. This game has everything. I agree with the 
 GameSpot reviewer that this is just like a movie where you get to be the main action hero.
  
  This is the first game ever that I actually give a 10. The graphics in this game is awesome. 
 I rarely see a game that has the same graphics as the cut-scene. The sound effects and music are 
 perfect. This is best when played using surround sound. The Action, well... the game includes enough 
 of it to make the game well worth the entertainment value. The story is very well thought out. 
 Who would have thought that the game creator would put so much effort into the story telling and 
 dialogue. I mean, this is like being a part of a really long yet entertaining movie. I like that 
 there are humor mixed in with the drama and action of the game.
  
  $60 for this game is too cheap. I would have paid more judging on the content of this game. So, 
 the verdict is that this game is a must buy and keep forever. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Brannor
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 25, 2008 9:17 pm PT
Review:  Hideo Kojima has given us his greatest masterpiece that is worthy of Game Of The Year. When I first 
 saw the trailers for this game in 2005 I said to myself "there is no way that is game play." Well 
 I was very wrong. The graphics are top notch, great shadowing and textures, great lighting, it 
 is nearly imposable to beat. The game play has been greatly improved from the previous titles, 
 incorporating all the additions from MGS2 and 3, minus the cure menu : (. Aside from the 3rd person 
 camera (that was introduced in MGS3 Subsistence) they added the Resident Evil 4 over the shoulder 
 gun camera; you can switch shoulders to look around corners and you can enter first person for 
 better accuracy. You have a new method of camouflage called OctoCamo which takes the texture of 
 what ever your leaning against or lying on and displayed it on the camo suit, enabling you to hide 
 in plain sight. Now there are a few things that are a little bothersome. The cut scenes run over 
 an hour at a time more then once, but this is not a problem, they explain the story very well and 
 are (for the most part) action packed, and they can be skipped. There are a few moments where you 
 have to install a portion of the game onto the hard drive, This is not a problem either, after 
 the primary install when you first put the game in the "Act" installs are at most 3 minutes, and 
 while these are installing it displays hints and health warnings to entertain you for that time. 
 Metal Gear Online is also vastly improved from Subsistence. You create an character, choosing from 
 a variety of clothing and accessories. They have even included some download content that is updated 
 from time to time. If you have a Playsation 3 you owe it to yourself to purchase this game, if 
 your not a fan of the MGS series then at the very least you should rent it, it could very well 
 change your opinion on the series. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mspmario
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 25, 2008 6:46 pm PT
Review:  Its been 10 years since Metal Gear Solid first entered our gaming hearts and won us over with its 
 story and stealth gameplay, not to mention great boss battles.
  Now Metal Gear Solid 4 ties up all the loose ends of the previous games, and trust me, its quite 
 a ride.
  
  
  
  GRAPHICS: Since the first trailer unveiled at E3 06 we knew MGS4 was going to break the fold of 
 current generation graphics. And two years later, it looks better then ever. With incredible cutscenes 
 and perfect transitions from movie to gameplay, MGS4 truly looks like a interactive movie.
  
  GAMEPLAY: A new and improved camera system and over the shoulder view make sneaking and shooting 
 much easier then past games.
  
  STORY: Newcomers to the game might find it hard to grasp the story of Metal Gear so it might be 
 good to catch up on a few things.
  
  OVERALL: An incredible game and a must buy for anybody who owns a PS3. Now if you excuse me, I've 
 got to play MGS4 again
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: chad_giac
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 25, 2008 6:40 pm PT
Review:  alright, first of all let me just say that this game is great and borderline flawless. However 
 a few very minor issues keep it from bieng "perfect".
  
  1. Extremely long cutscenes: Dont get me wrong these cutscenes are amazing, some of the best ive 
 ever seen. its understandable to have long cutscenes seeing as it is snakes last "adventure" but 
 a 1 and a half hour ending..... That said it really ties thangs up.
  
  2. Short gameplay sections: alright i feel like i have to mention how short the gamepla sections 
 are, maybe 5 mins of actual gameplay for every 30 mins of cutscenes. the game is a solid (no pun 
 intended) 18 hours. however maybe about 5 of those hours are actually playing and controlling snake.
 
  
  3. MGO: Three or four maps/ nobody online/ running and gunning with the sniper = WTF
  
  4. a Great game marred by these few issues. please if you own a ps3 this is a must buy, at 
 least worth renting if ur the kind of person that only plays through a game once.
  
  Hope I helped ya
  
  PSN: chadt33 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TenP
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 8, 2008 10:36 pm PT
Review:  Metal Gear Solid 4 is a game that really transcends what we would expect from a single game. It 
 offers us all sorts of things from a great heart-wrenching story (Although if you've never played 
 the previous games and you're interested in MGS4, I'd recommend to so you'd have a clue what's 
 going on) to fun multiplayer. 
  
  But it shouldn't be considered just a game, it's a milestone for gaming. This is what a game is 
 supposed to be and I hope other companies (Like Bioware and Epic Games) will look to this and strive 
 for new goals. 
  
  But I digress, MGS4 isn't for anyone. Patience is key when playing the Metal Gear games, if you've 
 got ADD and you don't care about storyline then I wouldn't recommend playing this game. But then 
 again, there is Metal Gear Online which is pretty fun. The nanomachine link system in MGO is a 
 fantastic innovation to the multiplayer shooter genre.
  
  This game only has one flaw, it's the end of the series. Although the story wrapped up nicely, 
 I wished it wouldn't. I wished that there would be an opening to a new game, but the chances of 
 that happening are zilch. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sherbie1989
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 25, 2008 6:09 pm PT
Review:  Metal Gear Solid 4 is a great game. First the story is amazing and very detailed. You will notice 
 in previews/reviews that snake is old. Im not gonna say why but you will find out. Majority of 
 Characters if not all return to give one last hoorah. Next The Graphics are also amazing probly 
 the best we have seen on ps3 . From detailed camo to dirt rising off the ground to the frost coming 
 out the mouth this game does one of the best jobs on graphics ive seen in a while. Now lets goto 
 sound its great if you have surround sound i dont even think you would have to look at the threat 
 indicater. Now lets get away from singleplayer before i ruin some of the story. Multiplayer is 
 to me kinda like socom with also close quaters combat.
  You can customize your character but there isint very many outfits right now.
  Theres 5 maps 
 so to me it got boring quick. you get dissconnected alot but im sure that will be fixed. You got 
 your Deathmatch Teamdeathmatch Sneaking mission where one team played snake and mk2 and try to 
 collect dogtags while the other team trys to kill them. Theres also a capture a flag type mode and 
 i believe one more mode but honestly i forgot. So overall this game is good i feel the story was 
 very detailed i dident mind the long cutscenes but i wish there was more gameplay honestly if you 
 dident watch the videos you can beat every mission within an hour easily and thats being generous 
 i could beat every mission probly within 30-45 min. For that i suggest renting unless your gonna 
 play it 5 times and try to unlock everything. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: C-Himura
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 25, 2008 5:58 pm PT
Review:  Pros
  + An excellent story that successfully raps up one of the best game series of all time
  + Outstanding 
 gameplay mechanics
  + Well implemented store system
  + Big sized worlds, giving the player plenty of freedom as to how they want to traverse them
 
  + Unrivaled visuals and incredible direction
  + Outstanding sound design
  + Good sized campaign and well realized multiplayer component
  
  Cons
  - While excellent, 
 the story can be preachy and redundant at times
  - Sadly, the game ends
  
  Twenty long years. For Hideo Kojima, it has taken him twenty years to tell the story of Solid Snake, 
 a gruff, war hardened stealth operative, and for many gamers out there, a true video game hero. 
 For twenty years, players have been entering the battlefield alongside Snake, living some of the 
 best adventures to ever grace the video game medium. Always ahead of their time, Snake's war chronicles 
 started as a simple, yet different take on the action genre and as time went on, evolved into epic 
 storylines filled with psychological, ethical and philosophical themes, tackling from current world 
 affairs, to more personal dilemmas. Twenty years. After such a long time, Snake's tale finally 
 comes to an end. And what an end it is, for Metal Gear Solid 4: Guns of the Patriots is the best 
 entry in the long running tactical espionage series and possibly the greatest game ever made. 
 
  
  Suffering of an unexplained accelerated aging disorder, the now grayed hair and wrinkled Snake 
 must once again don the sneaking suit and embark himself on a globe trotting quest in search of 
 his brother Liquid Snake, who now inhabits the body of former antagonist Revolver Ocelot, with 
 the sole mission of killing him. Along the way, Snake will be aided by old time friend and partner 
 Hal "Otacon" Emmerich, as well as some new and returning allies alike. However, this will be unlike 
 any mission Snake has ever faced, facing the most powerful foes he has ever encountered, as well 
 as being hindered by a man's worst and unavoidable enemy, age.
  
  That's as far as I will get into the story, for I would be doing a disservice to gamers if I say 
 anything more. It really is outstanding and every player should experience it for themselves. What 
 I can say is, that Kojima has made what is possibly the best representation of storytelling using 
 the video game medium. Metal Gear Solid 4 plays very much like a theatrical tragedy, one that grips 
 you with its twist and turns, and by the end of the game, most players will fill fulfilled. What's 
 even more impressive is that all of the question raised by its predecessors (even the most farfetched 
 ones) get answered. And the entire story is full of nostalgia, evoking memories of old, memories 
 that more than likely will bring a smile to fans faces, maybe even a tear or two. That said, the 
 story in Metal Gear Solid 4 is not perfect. As hooked as I was (and still am) the story can fell 
 preachy on its moral themes and more than often redundant, due to all the wordiness and explanations 
 coming from all the different character, sometimes on the dealing with same concepts that were 
 touched upon by another character an hour ago. This is also a story for the fans, and while it 
 is a self-contained chapter in the saga, only those who have been keeping up with Snake since the 
 beginning will understand all of the intricate sub-plots going on and the story almost starts to 
 walk into fan-fiction territory towards the end of the game. These flaws however, are diminutive 
 when measured against all the good (and superb) qualities from Snake's latest melodrama.
  
  Along with the story, Metal Gear's gameplay has also evolved, raising the bar for all stealth-action 
 games to come. Snake has always been up to the task when it comes to infiltrating heavily guarded 
 compounds, but now, he must infiltrate full-blown battlefields, where rebels fight Private Military 
 Companies in order to regain control of their lands. Facing this new backdrop, Snake will have 
 to rely on his entire stealth prowess in order to survive. Or, if the player so desires, he can 
 also go commando on them, blowing everything in sight. The beauty about Metal Gear Solid 4 is that 
 you can tackle the huge areas you are presented in any way you want. If you are a classic Metal 
 Gear player, Snake has got all of his old maneuvers, as well as some great new ones such a crouch 
 walking, side rolling and laying on his back to play death, amongst other. In order to enhance 
 his infiltration tactics, Snake has got three indispensable gadgets, his OctoCamo suit, the Solid-Eye 
 and the Mk. II. Developed by Otacon, the OctoCamo is an all-purpose sneaking suit that enhances 
 Snake's abilities, as well as providing an impressive blending system. By flatting against a surface 
 or lying on the ground, the OctoCamo will automatically blend, matching the pattern of the surface 
 and rendering him completely invisible to enemy eyes. Players can also manually select the camouflage 
 patterns, as well as selecting different costumes. Players need to be aware of Snake's surroundings 
 in order to make the best use of the OctoCamo. Light, the position Snake is in, movement, all of 
 these affect the camouflage percentage and only by creating a balance between the three will the 
 OctoCamo be used to its maximum capacity. Coupled with the Solid-Eye, and all-purpose goggle in 
 the form of an eye patch, Snake has more support for sneaking than ever before.
  
  The other tool in Snake's sneaking arsenal is the Mk. II. The Mk. II is an invaluable recognizance 
 tool that will allow Snake to scout the areas ahead, and even knock out enemies if the need arises. 
 The Mk. II can also pick up weapons and items scattered on the battlefield, saving Snake the trip 
 of going himself, and possibly getting discovered by the enemy. With these tools, Snake is more 
 than ready to face the odds, suffice players make good use of them. Snake also has a bevy of support 
 items as well, such as his trusty and legendary cardboard box, a drum-can, an iPod and many more. 
 If nothing works, players can still rely on Snake's CQC and electric knife for silent takedowns.
 
  
  If things get hairy however, Snake is more of a one-man-army than ever before. Carrying more than 
 60 weapons, ranging from pistols to rocket launchers, players can play the game as a shooter if 
 they so desire. The shooting mechanics have been redesigned, ditching the old, clunky system and 
 adopting an over the shoulder, aiming perspective, allowing Snake to make precise shots. From this 
 view, players can transition into a first-person view and played the game that way as well. Most 
 weapons are customizable and CQC compatible as well, making Snake more deadly in combat than ever 
 before. In order to use all of these weapons however, Snake must first get rid of their ID's. That's 
 where Drebin comes in. A self-proclaimed gun launderer, Drebin (along with pet monkey Little Grey) 
 are there to back Snake up in all of his battles. Every weapon Snake picks up on the battlefield 
 will automatically be turned into Drebin points, which in turn will allow Snake to purchase any 
 weapon, munitions and support items that Drebin may have in stock. The system is very well implemented 
 and a welcome addition to the Metal Gear world. Drebin's store also works in real-time, giving 
 20% discounts on Sundays and Wednesday's, as well as dropping in prices if battles begin to die 
 down in the game. Snake can also make friends with the militia members, gaining even more support 
 and opportunities to increase your arsenal. Of course, players can choose to be anti-social and 
 avoid them altogether or even antagonize both sides if they so desire. For a linear game, Metal 
 Gear Solid 4 offers incredible freedom. The game also features some incredible chase sequences 
 that rival those seen in movies. They are both, awesome looking and a blast to play. And of course, 
 Kojima follows his tradition of pitting Snake against powerful bosses, each offering a unique encounter. 
 They are fun to play and incredible in their conception.
  
  Along with the impressive campaign, the game comes packed with Metal Gear Online. Taking the combat 
 part of the game, the mode allows you to play on different areas from the game and duke it out 
 against other players. The game is more akin to something like SOCOM rather than Call of Duty 4 
 when passing its concerned. What makes it different than other shooters out there is that Metal 
 Gear conventions still apply. You can knock out enemies, put them to sleep, entertain them with 
 porn magazines and more. It also comes pack with a variety of modes, the most interesting being 
 Sneaking, where one player takes control of Snake and another of the Mk. II and together must obtain 
 dog-tags in order to win the game. Konami has said that this is only the starter pack, so downloadable 
 content will more than likely come to fruition at some point. 
  
  Visually speaking, no console game can measure against Metal Gear Solid 4. The characters are superbly 
 designed, displaying a wide range of animations, ranging from body to facial, all rendered with 
 incredible fluidity. The backdrops are also incredibly detailed and players will be forced to go 
 out of their way in order to spot blurry textures and clipping issues. What's more impressive is 
 that the frame rate barely drops at all, and we are talking about huge battlefields filled with 
 explosions, battles and crumbling structures. The OctoCamo also changes in real-time in front of 
 players' eyes, which is a pretty cool effect.
  
  The sound design goes above the visuals, bringing a score and sound effects above anything else 
 heard in a video game. The soundtrack perfectly captures the tragic, war-ridden reality of the 
 game and each scene, from drama to action is perfectly accompanied and enhanced by the soundtrack. 
 Explosions, guns, flying bullets, the distinctive sounds made by Mk. II and OctoCamo, all sound 
 effects are top-notch and immerse players into the game. The game also features the best voice 
 acting ever made in a video game, their performances always matching any given scene.
  
  Is hard to find any significant flaw within Metal Gear Solid 4: Guns of the Patriots. Kojima strived 
 for perfection and he pretty much achieved it with this final chapter of his long lasting saga. 
 The game is possibly the greatest game ever made and it certainly is a fitting conclusion to the 
 story of one of the most endearing video game characters to ever grace the medium. Perhaps more 
 Metal Gears will come in the future, but as far as Solid Snake, no video game character could ask 
 for a more powerful send-off than this. I say this again, Metal Gear Solid 4: Guns of the Patriots 
 is possibly the best game ever made. 
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: DragoXM
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 25, 2008 3:38 pm PT
Review:  Metal Gear Solid 4 offers one of the best gaming experience to date. With its great storyline, 
 voice acting, gameplay and graphics, it really shows what the PS3 can do. Here are the GOOD and 
 the BAD points.
  
  THE GOOD
  -The Story is absolutly fantastic
  -Sound is very strong especially the Alert siren which will scar you for life
  -A huge variety 
 of wepons and addons
  -Great voice work which fits into the story perfectly
  -Game is easy to master within a few minutes 
  -Has a great opening story sequence
  -The game 
 has lots of replay value with more to unlock each round
  -Graphics are outstanding 
  -Strong online multiplayer games with lots of custom options 
  -Out smarting your enemies is 
 a laugh
  -Music from the apple ipod is great in heavy firefights 
  -Assassin's Creed presence! Altiar is an unlockable charater
  -The game has great difficulty 
 levels which will challenge you
  -Great follow up from Metal Gear Solid 3
  
  THE BAD
  -As gamespot said, the story finishes
  -The story is a little bit to complex
  
  Graphics 
 - 10
  Sound - 10
  Gameplay - 10
  Value - 10
  Legend Status - 10
  
  HIGHLY RECOMEND THIS GAME FOR ANYONE!! ON: PLAYSTATION 3! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: finalcross
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 25, 2008 3:12 pm PT
Review:  When I bought a PlayStation back in 1999, the first title I purchased was Metal Gear Solid. It 
 was the only reason why I decided for a PlayStation instead of buying a Nintendo64. I remember 
 sitting down that weekend and showing off to my younger sister and friends just how incredible 
 the game was. Every moment was memorable: the opening, Mantis, the wolves in the caves, the torture 
 chamber that the climax. Still to this day, I remember the first time I beat the game, followed 
 by the three additional times I played through it to see every cut-scene and to find every single 
 item.
  Since then, I have played every single Metal Gear title released in North America, that includes 
 the incredible Game Boy Color edition and the Acid series on the PSP. I haven't had a problem with 
 the series and when I finally completed Metal Gear Solid 4, I felt like I've really accomplished 
 something and now I am sad to see it go. Thankfully, there is so much depth in MGS4, I still have 
 chances to experience the game over and over again.
  
  Metal Gear Solid 4 is Kojima's way of thanking everyone for 20 years of loyalty to the series. 
 From start to finish the game is exactly what you'd expect with his previous games and once you've 
 completed the seen the credits roll, you'll feel like you've grown with the characters in the game. 
 I have no intention to spoil anything in regards to the storyline. There is just so much that occurs 
 in the game that knowing anything would be unfair to those willing to take the 15-18 hours to complete 
 the game. 
  
  MGS4 is incredible. It is everything you could wish for in a 21st century title. Incredible graphics 
 and jaw-dropping sounds with an effective score and immerse effects. Every character looks stunning 
 from the PMCs, the Beauty and the Beast Bosses and everything in between. Also, everything is running 
 with the in-game engine so there is no CG used in the game, which really shows off the strength 
 of the PlayStation 3. The voice-acting is what you'd expect and doesn't fail in any regard except 
 for the fact that it would have been nice in certain levels to have Non-playable characters to 
 sound like the region they are from (eg. Characters in S. America and the Middle-East with US accents) . 
 
  
  The game follows the same mechanics of previous Solid games. The game relies heavily on stealth 
 but thanks to the new scenario of PMCs (Private Military Corporations) and you're interaction with 
 Rebel fighters, you can at times enter areas and be spotted without repercussion. If the Rebels 
 see you and if you aid them, then they will talk to you, and at times help you sneak past certain 
 areas. Also, like previous titles, you can if you'd like, go at full force and shoot your way through. 
 Thanks to the a new 'point' system, every time you take out an opposing force, either by lethal 
 or non-lethal ways, when you collect their weapon (s) , you get points. You can take these points 
 and use them to 'buy' weapons, accessories, bullets and other stuff to help you through the game. 
 While this does make the game a bit easier since you can essentially buy the most expensive and 
 effect weapons early on, the game's AI can counter this by swarming you with enemies that will 
 still eventually get you.
  Enemies are much more intelligent than in past versions. Make too much sound, they'll hear you 
 or if you fail to properly use your OctoCamo (camouflage that adapts to the environment) , they'll 
 see you. Even with the classic Cardboard Box and Tin Drum, if you place it on awkward spots, they 
 will question it and reveal your 'poor' hiding decisions. (In one situation on a street location, 
 I tried to hide in a Tin Drum, the solider questioned allowed 'Tin Drum?' and he knew something 
 wasn't right) .
  
  The game also implemented a great psyche meter for Snake. If you run too much or are being attacked/shoot 
 at, Snake's psyche will drop making him less accurate. Also, if you use certain weapons for an 
 extended period of time (like a machine gun) , he'll enter a Combat High. His attacks are greater, 
 but once you stop, he hits a low and doesn't attack very well. It's very realistic and at times; 
 they even poke fun of it in certain cut-scenes.
  Continuing with the gameplay, it still follows the previous titles. There will be times when you'll 
 have to use your smarts to complete a task (boss battles) . You will be required to strategize your 
 attacks and at times, just like in the past, sometimes you'll need to do something else, instead 
 of a direct attack, to defeat your enemy.
  
  The game isn't without it's flaws. While it's a picture-perfect conclusion to the series, unless 
 you've played the previous three titles you may be a bit confused at times. I strongly suggest 
 that if you haven't played the previous Solid games, you should go out and spend the 30 dollars 
 to buy the MGS Essential Collection or download the Metal Gear Solid Database available free on 
 the PSN. If you don't have the background of the characters, you may wonder at times just what 
 they are talking about. Kojima did offer flashbacks, but they are single shots and do not really 
 divulge too much information of the previous games. 
  While not a complaint per-se, there are times in the game where you will get absolutely frustrated. 
 These occur near the end of the game, but it is expected that the difficulty will ramp up near 
 the end. 
  Some people have shown some dislike towards the 'point' system mentioned earlier. I did not since 
 the game still allows you to play the game the way you want to. You are not forced to kill enemies 
 so you can still enjoy the game as a stealth title. There will be times where you have no choice 
 but to run and gun, but for the most part, you can go through most environments without taking 
 a single life.
  A problem with previous titles was the long-winded Codec conversations that forced you to listen 
 to the characters talk to one another for a long period of time. While not removed, they occur 
 much less and look a lot better than before. Also, between the game's acts, there are some really 
 impressive Mission Briefings that cut the game into three screens. During these cut-scenes, you 
 have the option of controlling the MK-II (portable unit that aids you in the game) . If you choose 
 this as your focus, you can essential create your own video, deciding which angle to look at the 
 characters. If the conversation is boring, just take the Mk-II and drive it around the area and 
 you may find some bonus items. 
  
  If you haven't figured it out, this game is absolutely Incredible. I loved it from start to finish 
 and it's a game I plan on playing again and again. While there are flaws, they are so minor that 
 you can looks past them. 2008 has already been a great year for games on the PS3 with solid titles 
 such as Burnout Paradise, Grand Theft Auto IV but it will be Metal Gear Solid that takes the cake 
 (so far) . This will sell systems and at this moment, there is no game that comes close to the experience 
 you will get playing this. Enjoy every moment of this game.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: JapaniJason
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 25, 2008 2:01 pm PT
Review:  First and foremost, this is an amazing game with a deep and compelling story. It is a fantastic 
 ending to, in my opinion, the best video game saga ever created. It keeps all of the best qualities 
 of the previous games and ties a lot of the series favorites back into the story very well. Just 
 know coming into the game that you are getting 50% game and 50% movie, so there will be quite a 
 bit of watching the story instead of playing it. That said, it is a great story to get to watch, 
 and there were few scenes, if any, that could have been played instead of watched. So, although 
 there are a lot of movies, they all add to the plot and you are never left feeling like you wish 
 you could have done that yourself. It is great for fans of the series, but definitely don't try 
 to start on this one (Hence, the 4 in the title) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nightshade869
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 25, 2008 12:47 pm PT
Review:  MGS4 is a game for series fans and for those who want to play the best game ever made. MGS4 bypasses 
 all expectations of what a game should be. From controls to storyline this game does it all. It 
 is a thrill ride for the ages with hours of replay value.
  
  The graphics are amazing with full 1080p cut scenes.
  The sound is amazing surround sound theater 
 quality.
  The controls are top notch and feel very natural.
  The storyline is one of the best period.
  
  If I could give this game a 11 out of 10 I would, 
 it is that good. MGS4 is the first "next gen" game to actually deserve a 10 due to its pure brilliance. 
 It ties together all storylines from the previous games and leaves the player very satisfied. With 
 about 30 hours of game play (cut scenes included) you can't go wrong with this game. Each cut scene 
 is full of information and plot twists. You will find yourself wanting to play just to get to the 
 next cut scene.
  
  This is a game for all console fan boys, PS3 and Xbox 360 alike. It is THE game to get for the 
 PS3 and serves as only a foretaste of the brilliant games on the PS3 to come. You will not be disappointed 
 with this game.
  
  I do recommend however, that you play through the other games before you take on MGS4. You will 
 appreciate the game and all its glory 10 times over if you do this.
  
  Buy this game and never put it down, you will love it!!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: OK07
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 25, 2008 12:43 pm PT
Review:  Well..... what should i say first about this critical installment to the MGS series. This game 
 is simply amazing, every astonishing detail just sucks you in as snake undertakes this grueling 
 adventure to save humanity. The detail put in this game is just breathtaking, Kojima really went 
 all out in this MGS. The control system is just perfect, you will find that in this game it is 
 much easier to handle all your weapons and gadgets than in the other games. This game is one of 
 the best games I have ever played, at first I was having difficulty with all the stealth type of 
 playing since I never really played games like that. After a while, you get use to it and you have 
 a blast battling and sneaking your way through various challenging areas. Bosses in this game are 
 just plain fun to fight, they might get you really pist-off at times but not to worry because snake 
 can never lose. Snake might be old now but that doesn't mean a thing because he kicks as much ass 
 as any other heroic figure in the gaming world. My final words as I conclude this review is to 
 go at and BUY THIS GAME, you are missing out on a one in a life-time experince. You Xbox 360 and 
 Wii owners have to get your hands on that game, go to one of your freinds house or do whatever 
 means neccesary to play this game.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Squeakyfiend
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 25, 2008 12:37 pm PT
Review:  What can I say about this game? Well, as a first time Metal Gear Solid player (I have no idea why 
 I never played the ps1 and ps2 games) I can safely say that it is an excellent game and obviously 
 a lot of work has gone into not just this, but all of the "Metal Gear" game's storyline. By this 
 I mean that it was obvious a player who has played the series before can pick up the controler 
 and play straight away with no learning. Strangely enough, as me and my brother found out, you 
 can also pick up and play this game if you have never played it before only just having to take 
 some time to familiarise yourself with the controls.
  
  This game is well thought out and obviously worth the  title. 
 It is graphically superb, easy to play and sometimes quite humorous in places, often giving the 
 player a light sense of relief from a stressful mission. A welcome feature is also that you can 
 really challenge yourself with an unlockable difficulty level that is VERY hard for all those nutcases 
 of you who enjoy it.
  
  If you are over your countries age rating for MGS4, and you own a PS3, you NEED this game. I promise 
 you wont regret it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kirby-fu-
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 25, 2008 11:46 am PT
Review:  Metal Gear Solid 4 is an amazing game that you'll probably play through more than once and still 
 be excited.
  
  Graphics-
  The best graphics I've seen since Call of Duty 4 and Super Smash Bros. Brawl. Very much better. 
 Rarely any blurry textures and even Snakes Octo-Camo suit which would seem hard to do looks amazing 
 with any texture on it. The gaphics definitely show how powerful the PS3 is and how a next gen 
 game should look.
  
  Gameplay-
  The fun and easy to learn controls just add to the already amazing experience. The over the shoulder 
 view is great and the addition of the iron sights is just tremendous. The best of bost worlds when 
 it comes to shooters. Sneaking is a great change of pace from all the wild shoot'em up games that 
 have been released lately, but even if you are a die-hard shooter fan and not into sneaking you 
 can charge through the levels like a maniac shooting everyone. 
  The online is awesome and feels like a seperate game all together. Making an ID is confusing until 
 you learn that one password is all numbers and one is numbers, and letters. It really doesn't take 
 that long if you already know what to do. Sneaking or shooting like crazy both work in this online 
 game. I love sneaking online and I still average 7-15 kills a game and a lot less deaths.
  
  Overall this is one of the best games I've ever played and I love every second of it and I'll 
 definitely play if over and over with a little online in between. Any PS3 owner should definitely 
 look into this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Cesiao
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 25, 2008 11:11 am PT
Review:  The Metal Gear series has been running since the 80's, and it was revolutionary at the time. Every 
 new title has managed to prove itself just as capable. Then it's time for the game that wraps it 
 all up, Metal Gear Solid 4: Guns of the patriots. A heavy burden lies on its shoulders.
  
  The game continues a while after Sons of Liberty. Liquid has been found in the middle-east, and 
 its time for Snake to foil his plans once and for all. The game seems to me one huge thematic experience. 
 There are a lot of themes implemented in this game. Also the game feels a lot freer than the other 
 Metal Gear games. Because you travel to different locations throughout the world, and the idea 
 behind the gameplay changes. To get through certain parts of the games you'll have to track footprints 
 for instance, or stalk people. Finally it makes a great job of setting the storyline of MGS3 into 
 perspective, like it was some strange riddle that now makes a lot more sense. The same also goes 
 for MGS2. Personally I felt this was a great end to the saga, and brilliantly executed.
  
  The graphics are great, you'll be lucky to see any framedrops, and some scenes are hard to separate 
 from reality. The game has added a lot of extra depth just by the shear amount of brilliant graphic 
 displayed over a wide area. There is huge depth of detail, you can even see motes of dust driving 
 through the air.
  
  The gameplay is a lot like the former Metal Gear games. It's about sneaking around, and avoiding 
 detection. Because if you're detected you'll set of an alarm and reinforcements will come to hunt 
 you down.
  
  Snake (the main character) has a lot of gear to help him stay hidden though. For instance his octocamo. 
 A suit that blends in with the environment, giving him excellent camouflage. 
  
  You don't have to sneak around though. You could go ballistic and start killing people, instead 
 of sneaking around them or taking them out stealthily. But it's a bit harder. Snake has CQC-skills, 
 which makes him able to dispatch enemy units with ease, use them as shields against other enemies 
 and so on.
  
  The online features are also a lot of fun. There are a lot of modes, and although it might become 
 a bit boring after a while it's a welcome extra feature. And anyone who loves teamwork will love 
 it. 
  
  Basically this game ties up the loose strings, and gives a clear overview of the Metal Gear universe 
 from beginning to end. This game has a sort of epic feel that'll urge you on. But it's not the 
 same without having played the other games. This game is a result of the former Metal Gear games, 
 and it's really rewarding to play this game after having played the other Metal Gear games. A game 
 definitely worth buying! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Phatjking12
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 25, 2008 11:10 am PT
Review:  Review: WoW! this game really amazed me when i first played it. the gameplay is nice and simple, 
 has funny scenes in it, and storyline is brilliant. this game is a hell a lot then Splinter Cell. 
 I have spend about 7-10 hours playing this game and even though it kinda short, Getting this game 
 is worth the money and wait and i hope u believe so to. MGS4 is one of the best games on the PS3, 
 one of my favorite games, and one the best games ever. this game i believe is 5x better than GTA4 
 and maybe some of you guys dont agree but is believe it is. and i hope u guys pick it as game of 
 the year. Again MGS4 is the best game to come out and probably if the best game this year. Also 
 GTA4 sucked alot it was really disapointing so thats why i believe this is better than GTA4.
  
  Online: online is great. there a lot of fun matches u can pick and there all fun. and these 
 games are better than Halo 3's matchmaking games ( even though i still like Halo ) and Gta's games.
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: gamergamer7
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 25, 2008 9:46 am PT
Review:  Metal Gear Solid 4: Guns of the Patriots is a stealth action video game. Directed by Hideo Kojima 
 Guns of the Patriots was developed by Kojima Productions exclusively for the PlayStation 3 video 
 game console. It is the seventh title in the Metal Gear series and the first in its fourth generation 
 it is the last Metal Gear game developed by Hideo Kojima, and the last game in the series starring 
 the protagonist Solid Snake. The game was released worldwide on June 12, 2008, 10 years after the 
 release of Metal Gear Solid and 20 years after the US release of the first Metal Gear. now the 
 gameplay in this game is awesome and whats also great is that you don't just start crawling right 
 away you can kneel over if you press the X button once they shooting also got better in this game 
 you can aim better and you can shoot while on your back which makes it easier if you get hit and 
 fall over. one of the best things I think is that you can pause the game and go to drebin's shop 
 and buy weapons and ammo. if you aren't sure about getting this game rent it if you rent it your 
 going to want to buy it trust me great game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: EXxile
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 25, 2008 9:11 am PT
Review:  PROS: Gorgeous graphics, compelling storyline, cutscenes make this look like the actual Metal Gear 
 movie, awesome voice acting with all the original voices, great weapons and gadgets, Octo-Camo, 
 amazing boss fights
  
  CONS: Some cutscenes may go on for a little longer than expected, no "true" cover button
  
 
  
  -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  
  I have always loved Metal Gear, and got fully immersed into the series with the debut of Metal 
 Gear Solid for the PS1. So, of course I have been awaiting this title since its announce and have 
 got to say, Hideo Kojima may have possibly created the best game in the series as well as one of 
 the best games of all time.
  
  THE STORY is the best in all of the Metal Gears. It brings everything together and makes sense 
 of everything that didn't before. It displays amazing cinematics that I have yet to see in any 
 other game. This is a true interactive movie if you may so. Don't take this as an insult however, 
 because in my eyes this is one of the game's greatest strengths. But in a game this well done, 
 there is hardly any flaws. 
  
  THE SOUND is flawless. Everything sounds perfect, and all the original voices return. This is just 
 another piece that makes this game so much more immersive. 
  
  THE GRAPHICS are mindblowing. This game is the true use of Blu-Ray technology. Everything looks 
 extremely real and all the character models have never looked better. From the wrinkles in Snake's 
 face, to all the landscapes, this is possibly the best looking game ever made.
  
  THE GAMEPLAY has been completely revolutionized. Hideo made a smart move and completely re-worked 
 the gameplay mechanics. You now full control over the camera (thank God) , and now the game doesn't 
 require to be strictly stealth. As in the previous iterations, you had to constantly be aware of 
 your surroundings and in truth, it was quite difficult to progress without doing so. However, this 
 time you can actually take a more "run 'n gun" approach, and uses the well worked "over the shoulder" 
 formula. Alot of the time I loved running into the battle with my rebel comrades. Which brings 
 me to my next point. Snake is actually not alone this time. On the battlefield you will see Rebel's 
 fighting back against the PMCs, and you can decide to join in on the fight. You also have The Rat 
 Pack behind you, who is led by none other than your former love interest Meryl. The majority, if 
 not, all of the original characters have returned. Of course, this wouldn't be Metal Gear without 
 some awesome stealth mechanics. You have a much better arsenal at your disposal for camoflauging, 
 such as the Octo-Camo. This here is a hundered times better than the camo we saw in MGS3. Instead 
 of having to constantly enter the menu screen to change your camo to your current environment, 
 Octo-Camo is a suit created by Otacon that will automatically change to your environment. Its extremely 
 helpful, and later you acquire a mask that uses the same technology, which makes you even more 
 invisible. You have an amazing stock of weapons, and could actually purchase more weapons and ammo 
 via your main screen at Drebin's Shop. You will meet Drebin near the beginning of the game and 
 I will just say this, he makes things alot easier and convienent for you. The only true gripe I 
 have with the gameplay is that there is no actual cover button. Sure, you can lean against a wall 
 and peak around corners, typical Metal Gear style, however, when you are in the middle of a gun 
 fight you have to kneel behind a wall, stand up and shoot, and kneel back down. It still works 
 fine, but it would've been nice to have an actual cover button. Not a big deal though. I did also 
 love the "Beauty and the Beast" following. It situates around 4 beautiful women who covered themselves 
 with armor and became war machines due to their past and to survive on the battlefield. Their backstories 
 are pretty twisted, but fighting them is simply amazing. All the boss fights in this game are epic, 
 and each use different ways of taking on the situation. 
  
  
  OVERALL Metal Gear Solid 4 is a Masterpiece. This is the one game in the series that makes the 
 best use of the word "Metal Gear" and the one game in the story that makes the most sense by filling 
 in all those questions you had fogging up your head. From the gorgeous graphics and cinematics, 
 to the compelling storyline and amazing gameplay; this is by far the best iteration in the Metal 
 Gear franchise. I hate to see this series end, but I will say that it ended with one helluva bang. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gen_Warbuff
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 25, 2008 8:47 am PT
Review:  As I sit and bask in the glorious aftermath of completing MGS4, my mind is running amuck with thoughts 
 of exactly why this game is as good as it is. I played the first MGS game, and the second, for 
 some reason I skipped the third, now I wonder why, but I digress. 
  
  Upon opening the game package, and inserting the disc into the shiny black monolith that is the 
 PS3, I was greeted by none other then Snake himself, albeit a tad bit older snake. Expecting an 
 extremely long install time, I was pleasantly surprised with only a 7 minute experience (there 
 are 4 install points throughout the game) . Then, I was subjected to one of the oddest experiences 
 I have ever had in a game, the intro scene. I have no clue what this was all about, but the only 
 thing I can say is that there are 4 or 5 of these little intros and they are all extremely weird 
 in their own way, and all completely different. The one I got was a real life video of a totally 
 bizarre interview between a talk show host, and the voice actor that does Snakes voice, David Hayter 
 but enough of this, on with the game.
  
  
  I am just going to come right out and say it right now, Hideo Kojima might have just made the most 
 spectacular game I have EVER played. You might remember, about a week ago when I first talked about 
 MSG4, I mentioned that I could not understand how the game got a 10 from GameSpot, well, I take 
 that back, and now I wonder how it only got a 10 and not a 15! 
  
  Now please don't let such a high score confuse you with a PERFECT score, we all know that in gaming, 
 there might not be such a thing as perfect. My opinion is just based on the entire presentation 
 of the game, from story line, to graphics, to voice acting, to the seamless way that cut scenes 
 morph into game play, MGS 4 is nearly flawless.
  
  
  Graphics: 10
  
  Nothing else needs to be said except that they are the best out there. The detail on EVERYTHING 
 in not only the cut scenes, but also in game play is amazing. Throughout the entire game I found 
 myself just getting lost in the sheer enormity of it all. 
  
  Controls: 8
  
  This might be the only area where the game might have fallen just a tad shy of perfect. Yes, the 
 game has been updated with a new camera system that allows you to rotate your field of view, but 
 I found the button layout a little confusing, and almost cumbersome in some cases, but some of 
 that might be the simple fact that I am not totally use to playing with the PS3 controller yet. 
 
  
  The thing I found very exasperating was during gun fights when the camera is behind Snake. What 
 would happen is, if I was aiming at someone, and they were on lets say the left side of my view, 
 if I tried to rotate the camera to line them up while firing, if they then ended up on my right 
 side, the camera would jump to follow them and the gun would stop firing. So if I was going from 
 left to right a lot, there would be interruptions of my gun which is not a good thing. Not sure 
 if that makes sense, but I don't know how else to describe it! Also, during the final boss fight, 
 during which I died A LOT I felt like the button layout was once again difficult to use properly. 
 
  
  
  Audio: 10
  
  Beautiful. You are able to hear every breath, grunt, footstep and ping of empty bullet casings 
 hitting the floor. And MGS4 being a stealth game (or at least that is how it's supposed to be played) 
 being able to hear all the little things is very important.
  
  
  Story line: 15! (Possible spoiler here) 
  
  This, in my opinion, is where this game really 
 brings home the gold. I will not go into the plot, because my simple little mind is not nearly 
 intelligent enough to be able to put it all into words. How ever, Kojima does and absolutely brilliant 
 job of tying everything up and closing all loose ends. He also somehow manages to invoke a wide 
 range of emotions in you. With a combination of story (audio) and flashbacks (video) , he takes 
 you all the way back to the beginning of the MGS series. Maybe one of my favorite parts in the 
 entire game is when you go back to where the first game took place, to the hanger were you fought 
 Rex, otherwise known as MGS. It brought the good ole days of playing on the PS1 screaming back. 
 
  
  As in past MGS games, there are TONS of cut scenes in MGS4. Some might take points away for this 
 reason, but I think in order to tell the entire story of MGS it had to be done.
  
  
  Cut scenes: 10
  
  As mentioned, the voice acting is by far the best I have ever seen. Along 
 with that comes beautiful character modeling. Many times during the games cut scenes, I forgot 
 that I was actually playing/watching a game and not a movie. The over all movie feeling is delivered 
 in a pure cinematic way, which is helped by being able to press the L1 button at times in order 
 to show the same scene from a different angle, very similar to the way it was done in As$as$ians 
 Creed. 
  
  Also, at the beginning of each act, you are treated to a Mission Briefing. These mission briefings 
 are more specifically interactive cut scenes, you can move in and around the entire scene with 
 the Mark II , view it from what ever point of view you want. You can even leave the area all together, 
 and it will still play even without you there to follow the story.
  
  
  
  Difficulty: 10
  
  I am torn on how to judge the difficulty of this game, I guess it can be 
 as hard as you make it? MGS4 is supposed to be a stealth game, sneak through most levels without 
 being detected. However, that is only one way to play the game! I pretty much gave up on the whole 
 sneak thing about 13 minutes into the first level, I guess I just like to use guns to much :) Where 
 I did find great difficulty was during the last two boss fight. A few times it was not so much 
 that it was hard to beat the boss, but it was tricky to figure out exactly how to fight them. The 
 final fight, pretty much led me to the brink of beating my cat, and throwing the PS3 out the window. 
 After I finished the game, I went on line to look up some walk throughs. What I fond blew my mind, 
 I might be the only person that had a difficult time with that final boss! 
  
  
  Over all, again, this is a SPECTACULAR game that might deserve its own category, or at lest its 
 own place in gaming history. There are some "cheesy" moments during the games story, but they are 
 few and far between and easy to look past. If you are like me, you will find yourself getting drawn 
 into the game, and wanting it to never end. 
  
  
  Goodbye Snake, it's been a great journey : ( 
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheHazardousOne
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 25, 2008 8:43 am PT
Review:  If you have not played metal gear solid 4. you really need too. this game was 100% perfect. unlike 
 grand theft auto 4. i don't know why they would rate that perfect. metal gear solid 4 is perfect. 
 it took be about 15 hours to beat. the boss battles are very fun. the story is amazing. the game 
 looks perfect. shooting is very easy. you never have to worry about running out of ammo. this game 
 shows that the playstation3 is the best thing there is thats out. this game was just amazing. Metal 
 gear solid 4 is easy the game of the year. you need to play this game. it's one of the best games 
 that ive ever played. it was easy a 10. and the people who rated this low. they don't have a playstation3. 
 and they need to grow up. but yeah, the final boss fight is just down right fun. you can even get 
 cool old mask. like from metal gear solid 1. you even play metal gear solid 1 for a few. very fun. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Benjifull2
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 25, 2008 7:45 am PT
Review:  Ok so Metal Gear Solid 4, the "" last "" MGS game by Hideo Kojima. I played the 1st one when i 
 was 12 and loved it, i waited for the 2nd, bought it when i was 15 and loved it even more, played 
 it for at least 200hours, i had completed in every dificulty even european extreme which took me 
 about 3months. When i played the 3, it was intersting but honestly i thought it was crap, and didnt 
 deserve the hype and good reviews it got, for me it wasnt a traditionel MGS.
  I just completed MGS 4 and all i can say is that my mouth didnt close for the entire game, everything 
 from the new camo suit to the drebbin store and multiplayer are the best features of any MGS. After 
 i completed the 3rd MGS i didnt waste to much time on looking forward to the 4th in the series 
 but seriously its one of the best games ive ever played. Stunning graphics, perfect story line, 
 it ties up all the lose ends from all the other MGS's. Some parts i even found myself thinking 
 i wish it doesnt end soon because i just want more!
  
  There is only 1 downside, its a little downside but its still a downside, there is one point in 
 the game where i didnt controle snake for about 1 hour, its like a interactive movie at some points, 
 but the game is worth it when you get to the end and discover all the secrets. Altho i just finished 
 it yesterday i am going to start it again today just to test all the new secret weapons i got first 
 time round and i want to complete it in extreme!!!
  
  This is 1 game i am going to keep in my collection for a long time, if your like me and didnt think 
 mgs 3 wasnt that brilliant and you are not sure about this game honestly buy it, its the best you 
 will ever see!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: joe_boy83
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 28, 2009 9:56 am PT
Review:  Metal Gear Solid 4 is one of those most hyped games, if not even more so.
  The question is, does it live up to those high expectations?
  
  Reviewing a game thats franchise 
 has just celebrated its 20th aniversary is a tricky one to say the least.
  Without reinventing the wheel, metal gear soid 4 is essentialy the same formula with an extension 
 of updates each game of the series has gone through. 
  With greater processing power on the next format, the graphics are the most obvious step to update 
 this next and last game in the series.
  
  That said the graphics are very acomplished yet without pushing the ps3 to its full graphical capabilities.
 
  Capacity is however an achievement in itself enabaling the octocamo to automatically mimic any 
 texture snake presses up against in real time rather than having to pause the game and select the 
 camolflauge as with mgs3 snake eater. A perfect example of a perfect update for this last outing. 
 
  Graphics are sophisticated shap and clean with the usual bang for bucks effects, minor resolution 
 issues aside this is technically an impressive achievement with the familiar ingame cutscenes making 
 for a seamless gameplay experience.
  
  Gameplay is more main steam this time round giving you the option to gun ho or stealth your way 
 through the battle field. The levels are rather linear but leaves an open ended approach to play 
 the game how you see fit.
  While the fighting mechanics are as limited as ever as with only a handful of stealth moves, this 
 is where the shooting comes into play adding so much more deph than any other mgs game. With so 
 many weapons at your disposal and being able to customise nearly all in more ways than one leaves 
 your left spoilt for choice, not to mention the many items that are familar to mgs. 
  The controls at your command make you feel more in control being able to take down enemies in a 
 variety of ways either 1st and 3rd person or with an automatic lockon that works extremely well 
 being able to target the nearest threat first or toggle the enemy lock on yourself.
  
  The sound is the first game ever to be uncompressed and as a result every thing is crisp and clear 
 and realistic, touching all the right notes with superb voice acting and epic scores written by 
 harry gregson williams and such other talents. David Hayter puts on a very convincing aging older 
 version of snake and pulls it off.
  
  The Graphics and sound go hand in hand with the story to deliver every previously unanswered question 
 to the games story and wraps it up very nicely to a fitting end. There are moments in the game 
 that are tearful, comical and just about every other human emotion possible that manages to touch 
 you like you care whats happening to the characters in the twisted plot the series is well known 
 for. As ever, what makes this game last as long as it needs to is because of the overly long cutscenes 
 and if any game in the series where this should really count, this is it. You actually care whats 
 happening to snake and feel his pain and continue playing the game knowing that his final mission 
 is coming to a close.
  
  
  Its no doubt that 4 years in the making has done this game all its favours and mgs fans alike deserve 
 it and new comers to apreciate the quality on offer. And no game is without Its flaws, not evenMetal 
 Gear Solid 4 and its the flaws stop this game from being a perfect one. 
  An alert system that is based around stealth has always been part of the games series but as mgs4 
 is more stream lined focusing on a stealth approach or the guns blazing approach, even adapting 
 the two but then this is where the Alert system seems out of place as you can engage full combat 
 but only from a distance without being alerted but get too close and your covers blown so it appears 
 as if the game wants you to approach the stealthier option regardless of all the weapons & items 
 on offer. Even in a desguise your cover is blown.
  
  The Drebin points work very well keeping you something to play for after your first run through, 
 any additional weapons or ammo you already contain if maxed out already will be sold in favour 
 of DP (Drebin Points) these can be spent on further weapons, ammo or customising what you already 
 have.
  Skip all the cutscenes (not advised on your first play through) and the game can be completed shortly 
 in less than 5 hours. But then for a game last in the series, many cutscenes were to be expected 
 and you do as much watching as you do playing.
  
  Another Essential MGS game to the series & the last, sadly, but the right deccision to do so.
 
  
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mankind_Legend
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 25, 2008 6:32 am PT
Review:  When I first heard Hideo Kojima say in an interview on the Metal Gear Saga vol.2 DVD that MGS4 
 will conclude the story of MGS and explain everything that the fans ever wanted to know about the 
 series, I was a little sceptical. If you've been a fan of the series since the PS1 or even MSX 
 games, you know that there are so many loose ends in the story that it would seem near impossible 
 to tie them all up in MGS4 and still have a coherent and enjoyable storyline. After playing the 
 game, I can attest that Mr. Kojima meant what he said in that interview. The story of MGS4 provides 
 one of the most satisfying conclusions you'll ever experience whether it be in a game, a book or 
 a movie. The fact that the story has taken place over the course of 7 games, 5 consoles and 20 
 years, is an incredible feat in itself. No game in the history of gaming was even close to accomplishing 
 something like that. This series is a truly one of a kind experience that every gamer should go 
 through at least once.
  
  The reason I bought this game was to see the conclusion of the story. I was hoping that the gameplay 
 will be enjoyable but that wasn't my main concern. If the story was good, mediocre gameplay wouldn't 
 have bothered me much. Thankfully, not only the game had one of the greatest stories of all time, 
 the gameplay is absolutely stunning as well. Words can't accurately describe the rush you'll feel 
 when you experience the game's intense action. No game has ever made me feel so immersed in the 
 action like this one. It was like truly being there, fighting alongside snake in the battlefield.
 
  
  All other elements such as the visuals, sound, .. etc; are masterfully done. This is simply one 
 of the best looking, best sounding games ever, if not the best. The themes that the story touches 
 on, the great feeling of nostalgia that the developer kept kindling in you through some segments 
 in the game. This all made this game the best in the series. It has become my favorite game of 
 all time and, if you play it, I'm sure it will be your favorite game, too. Kojima-san I salute 
 you. Thank you for making this game as perfect as a game can be. You've made a truly unforgettable 
 experience and, thus, you deserve your place as one of the greatest game developers and storytellers 
 alive today. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mr_dangles
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 25, 2008 6:24 am PT
Review:  I absolutely enjoyed my 25 odd hours with mgs4 and was at times blown away by the quality of the 
 action in the gameplay and cutscenes (how much fun was the active camo!) .
  I was even moved a little in the final pregameplay cutscene when snake "dies" nearly. However my 
 25 hours was all i needed because the multiplayer was average for a shooter, let down in part by 
 the average online features of the ps3 (nobody uses voice and the friends list is useless) . in 
 contrast while not as engaging as far as the single campaign was concerned call of duty 4 (xbox360) 
 held me to its milky online shooter teet on the for nearly 6 months. far better value for money. 
 but im still glad i played mgs4 because there were moments when i genuinely immersed and entertained. 
 Metal gear solid 4 must be played by all serious gamers, it is a land mark game. But one that is 
 perhaps less innovative in its delivery than one would first think, like i said massively engaging 
 for the first playthru.. nothing to really get you back 
::::::

::::::
UserName: micc98
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jun 25, 2008 5:27 am PT
Review:  As a newcomer to the Metal Gear Solid series, I have to give MGS4 this: it is a heckuva production. 
 The graphics are a tour de force and gameplay is all around solid. However, after sitting through 
 yet another 25-minute plus cut-sequence, I cannot help but wonder at why so many people are so 
 forgiving of this game gross over-indulgence in extended story-telling. Doesn't anyone want to 
 actually PLAY the game. I love some of the sequences so far, but jeez-louise... gimme a break with 
 these near-epic pauses in the game...
  
  Just make a MGS movie and be done with it. Don't masquerade your movie with interspersed moments 
 of gameplay, that feel all too short once another hellaciously long cut-scene begins. I am in ACT 
 3, and I literally stopped playing this game before 8:50pm.... It is now 9:18, and I haven't TOUCHED 
 MY CONTROLLER... I've just watched this huge, long sequence of Liquid Snake on the River....
  
  Maybe its just me... but I am actually BORED.... All of the awesomeness that is MGS4 when you 
 actually get to play it: the rock-solid combat, the choices of whether to sneak or fight, the ability 
 to customize your guns how you like them, get totally over-shadowed by the games 
  
  OH GREAT... I just finished the 30 minutes cut-scene ending to Scene 3, and now the game has install 
 Act 4... for cripes sake! LET ME PLAY THIS GAME ALREADY. My controller's charge has literally run 
 out while watching this mega-long exposition....
  
  I am duly in awe of Hideo Kojima's attention to detail and ability to create a masterful game, 
 however, color me wholly unimpressed by Kojima's grossly over-used and way-too lengthy story-telling. 
 What is the point in creating such a fun and engaging game to play IF YOU DON'T LET PEOPLE ACTUALLY 
 PLAY??? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Seth619
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 24, 2008 10:51 pm PT
Review:  Snake is on his final mission to stop Liquid Ocelot's insurrection. It seems nearly impossible 
 for any normal human being to pull off what this old dog of war has done, especially with old age 
 & the disease Foxdie.
  
  Storyline: 10/10
  
  Hideo Kojima definitely knows how to put together an amazing story that includes so many twists 
 and turns that you might need a database to keep track of it. Luckily, there is the Metal Gear 
 Solid Database on the PSN Store for free. Although the story tends to steal the gameplay's thunder, 
 it does include flashbacks (triggered by tapping X) and first person view of the area through Snake's 
 eyes (triggered by holding L1) . You will see many familiar characters who end up doing things that 
 you have never expected, and you will see someone raise from the dead.
  
  Gameplay: 10/10
  
  As old as Old Snake is, he can pull off more moves than ever. Utilizing 
 CQC, guns, & stealth, he must get to Liquid Ocelot and kill him. Also, the attack button, which 
 used to be square, is now R1 (just a heads up) .
  Once you have the enemy in a chokehold, a number of things can be done. You'll have to figure that 
 our for yourself, though.
  The guns look a lot better a slicker than before. You can go to Drebin, a gun launderer to buy 
 guns and other things. You can add a lot of new things to certain guns, like laser sight, flash 
 light, scopes, & supppresors.
  Stealth is taken to a new level in this game. Instead of repeatedly pausing the game to change 
 camo, you now have the OctoCamo. Just press up to a wall or stay prone for a second or two and 
 the OctoCamo will change to the exact same texture and color as the surface your on.
  
  Graphics: 10/10
  
  This is kinda expected since it is on a next-gen console. It looks nice 
 an smooth.
  
  Easter Eggs & Secrets: 10/10
  
  As MGS veterans may know, there are many easter eggs and stuff in the background. This game still 
 has them, although it is a little tougher to find some.
  
  Conclusion
  
  Basically, if you don't play this game, you probably live in a cave & have no idea what is going 
 on outside the rocky walls. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Solidesnake2004
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 24, 2008 10:30 pm PT
Review:  This is Snakes "Final Mission" as Kojima said in many interviews in the past 3 years or so about 
 this game.
  
  Lets get started: You the player is and will play Solid "Old" Snake through the whole game! no 
 if's and's or but's, only snake! I will not spoil it for people who havent played the game yet. 
 so this will not be too long of a review on my part. Lets just say If you want a Magnificent storyline 
 and Astounding gameplay..... you just had a idea going towards Metal Gear Solid 4, This is the kind 
 of game that makes a player feel like they accomplished something in their lives that they didn't 
 know what they had. (guys/gals know what i mean?) 
  
  This is the kind of game that will make a player Laugh, Mad, and maybe Cry (depending how into 
 the story you are) . the story is something you will have to find out on your own...... I can't 
 say more.
  
  Multiplayer... almost same mechanics you have during the story.. except Octocamo, and Ninjas, you 
 have the CQC, GUNS.. LOTS OF GUNS!!... and not to mention custom characters... though a small fee 
 to make another character... though thats not a bad thing. soo yeah.
  
  If this helped out anyone.... you are very welcome i beat the game earlier at 10pm im proud.
  
 
  if this didn't help... sorry if i didn't go into detail about the game like i said..... i won't spoil 
 it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: csqwared
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 19, 2008 7:38 pm PT
Review:  I myself just jumped into the Metal Gear Solid series a few short months ago. I was immediately 
 pulled in, and enjoyed every minute of the series.
  
  I had extremely high expectations for this game, and let me tell you; it definitely delivered! 
 If you are a fan of the series this game will give you an extremely satisfying end to the awesome 
 tale of Solid Snake.
  
  The graphics are great, textures look awesome, character models look amazing, and the environments 
 look damn close to beautiful.
  
  Game play has been somewhat revamped, as far as guns, and shooting goes it has almost been completely 
 turned into a 3rd Person Shooter, which is great for all you fans of it out there. But it can also 
 be mixed into an FPS, though I really wouldn't recommend that route. The whole feel of the game 
 play is great, and CQC is still there as well which is great fun to use.
  
  The story has a great plot, and even if you have been eyeballing every single trailer you will 
 get a lot of twists in it that you didn't see coming. 
  
  Replay value is great on it as well, you actually feel the will to replay through it at least a 
 few more times. Unlocking all the extra stuff is really fun to try for, and this game is about 
 a 17-25 hour endeavor (including videos, and codecs) so it can keep you quite occupied.
  
  The online play is really fun, if your a fan of the SOCOM series then this is a pretty close match. 
 Really that is the only game I can think of to compare MGO to. It has awesome customization for 
 weapons, and characters. Great tactical action, and great teamwork based games.
  
  Something said on another site really hit me about this game: most games are about the hero living 
 happily ever after, however MGS4 is all about how a hero must go in knowing he will die in the 
 end, and you as the gamer know that as well. The age old tragedy in a game, usually they don't 
 turn out as well as you would hope, but MGS4 truly doesn't disappoint. 
  
  Overall Metal Gear Solid 4 is my all time favorite game, I honestly can't think of a game that 
 I have enjoyed more. It is fun from beginning to end, and even beyond that. The online can keep 
 you sucked in for hours on end, and the story will leave you happy. 
  
  This is a must have for all PS3 owners! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gamergeek545
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 24, 2008 8:21 pm PT
Review:  From the cooky intro video to the ending this is an amazing game. I never thought I would be able 
 to classify a game as a real "masterpiece", but that game has come. I'm really happy to find a game 
 that I can give a 10 and acually mean it and it have deserved the 10. This game has had loads of 
 hype and it is all worth it. Well the game is five acts which would probably make you think it's 
 short but my first run through took me 18 hours with watching all the cut scenes, my next took me 
 15 hours without watching any of the cut scenes fully. After the odd intro video the real action 
 starts well the first real cut scene starts. The voice talent is great"Old Snake"has such a hard 
 gritty voice and David Hayter pulls it off flawlessly as does all the other actors. And if you are 
 wondering yes Raiden is a badass in this game. Well back to the opening cut scene it puts you into 
 the war and tells you that"war has changed."Well the first thing you will notice that's new is 
 the new octo-camo suit which is very easy to use just lay down or get on a wall and you blend in, which 
 really helps when trying to escape from enemies that notice you. And there is still nothing like 
 stopping a guy with your Pistol and grabbing his crotch just to get some items. The weapons are 
 still well and there is still a lot of them, but now with Drebin being introduced it is now a lot 
 funner and the weapons are customizable, from dot sights to laser sights it's all there. This is 
 to the people who say that the cut scenes are to long yes there long but you can skip them and 
 you can pause them so really you need to press start and select skip then insert a nice sock into 
 your mouth. But your like"but I'll miss most of the story"well you should know by now the story 
 is very complex which is no problem but I would recommend playing the others before this to understand 
 the story a little bit better but I didn't and I understood it pretty well. The first person thing 
 is something that is very useful when your using a sniper or trying to get a pin point shot. The 
 boss fights are another amazing battle after another none are boring and all pretty tough. The graphics 
 are a stunning beauty at every glance you will see some beautiful enviroments. Very little times 
 does the frame rate drop unless your in a huge war which will happen as you just try and sneak 
 by it or you can help the rebels fighting off the PMC's .The controls are tough but after the starting 
 part you'll remember all the controls and have one hell of a experiance with the story mode
  
  
  
  Multiplayer: Well there is no offline multiplayer but the online is just amazing. Some 
 people wasn't to impressed but it's something I can just stay playing with for hours and hours 
 at a time. Some matches you can use Drebin points to purchase weapons but you also have it to where 
 they are free weapons but less of them. The game types are all pretty impressive. I agree with the 
 great Kevin-V that the Snake mode is the best especially when you got a nice bit of people in a 
 match. Which is something else I want to talk about it's very easy to get a lot of people in a match 
 and again have one amazing time. There is a small amount of maps but Konami has promised to be realesing 
 more maps and extras. The matchmaking is really well done and there is no lag that I've seen so 
 far. Again you will have one hell of an experiance with this multiplayer that IMO rivals COD 4 and 
 Halo's MP.
  
  
  
  Re play value: There is tons of re play value for this game you'll want to play through the story 
 mode all over again to beat your old time and to just see those beautiful enviroments. The multiplayer 
 is another amazing addition to this already amazing game.
  
  
  
  End It: This is just a amazingly perfect game that IMO can't be beat and IMO it's the best game 
 invented period. You will love this game no matter what unless your dumb then it's just maybe a 
 9.0 or a 9.5. Well the end is satisfying and you'll be amazed. Solid Snake you will never be forgotten. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hornymushroom
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 1, 2008 12:48 pm PT
Review:  Metal Gear Solid 4 is one of the best games this generation. If mixes a brilliant story with killer 
 action and epic music. From the first cutscene { that was worked on for a year } You will realize 
 that you are about to embark on an unforgettable adventure with Otocon and many other unique charectors.
 
  
  Plot: The plot in mgs4 is very deep and interesting. Keep in mind i have never played any other 
 mgs game except for the first part of mgs 3 so im coming into the story clueless but as i started 
 playing i began to quickly realize the significance of the charectors and how snake must know them. 
 The plot can be taken at a deep level or you can just watch it play out. Hideo clearly shows snakes 
 pain throught the adventure and you always left wondering whats going to happen next and how this 
 old man could withstand such harsh conditions . Either way you will not be dissapointed by the 
 story but maybe the ending won't be what youll expect?
  
  Gameplay: Gameplay is stellar. Action scenes are well done and so are the stealth. The game usually 
 gives you the option for stealth or rambo style gameplay but some scenes there is only gun blazing 
 and the game can be done whitout stealth exept for one scene. Enemies get smarter and higher difficulties 
 but i would recommend you start it on normal for a good challenge. No gun is too overpowering unless 
 you beat the game and unlock some of the secret guns which arent easy to unlock and drebins shop 
 makes the game a little easy at some situations but thankfully you cant buy rations { health packs 
 } from him or the game would be too easy.
  I would have liked the feature to sell ammo and guns to him other than the game choosing what i 
 sell and keep.
  
  Sound: The sound in the game is amazing the voice acting of snake is worth and oscar and the other 
 charectors just show how realistic the plot is. Guns sound realistic but i thought gta iv had better 
 ones. The music just kicks in at the right momment and in my opinion is better than halos and just 
 made the game very epic.
  
  Replay value: The replay value is very high in this game with 6 difficulties many customs, masks, 
 guns, bullets and secrets. Also i beat the game at around 30 hours.
  
  MGO: I ve only played this for 3 hours but i think its really fun but headshots are very easy to 
 get, some guns are overpowered and lag can be annoying but overall it isn't bad and just adds more 
 to this complete pakage. Do yourself a favor and buy one of the greatest games of all time. You 
 won't regret it. 
  I would give this game a 9.7 but since i can't it gets a well deserved 10.
  I salute you snake 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sostra
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 24, 2008 5:41 pm PT
Review:  The word "opus" is used a lot these days, but nowhere is it more appropriate or apparent then in 
 Kojima productions latest masterpiece. I, of course am speaking of Metal Gear Solid 4, the best 
 way to describe this game is: pure, unadulterated awesomeness!! As a long time fan of the series 
 I have been waiting anxiously for the release of this game and I am glad to report that it exceeds 
 all expectations and sets the bar to a whole new level in gaming.
  
  
  THE GOOD
  
  Sight and sound are brought to a whole new level of greatness; this is the best looking game of 
 this generation so far.
  
  Great story, wraps up pretty much all loose ends of the MGS series.
  
  Awesome and inventive 
 boss battles and scenarios. MG has always been know for crazy and sometimes complex boss fights 
 and believe me there all that much better in this game.
  
  Love the B&B corp. 
  
  Great weapons and control scheme.
  
  THE BAD
  
  Wish the game would have been longer. 
 It's not that I was dissatisfied by the length of around 20 hours or so. I just loved the story 
 and action so much that I didn't want it to end!
  
  Wish there would have been a few more cool things done with the six axis controls, perhaps there 
 wasn't enough time or space to implement some wacky waggle segments?
  
  Not for the casual gamer. Don't make this your first MGS game to play, you will have pretty much 
 no idea what's going on in the story. I've played all three previous games and still had a bit 
 of a hard time understanding exactly what was going on sometimes.
  
  THE UGLY
  
  I'm sorry but the ending of the game is just a wee bit too long for me. I didn't really care for 
 the whole weeding scene or the hospital scene with Raiden. Well, it's not that I didn't care they 
 were just way too long, I want Snake give me Snake. Which I guess they did eventually. 
  
  Though I did enter my usual 'THE BAD/THE UGLY" segments in my review, they really are minor when 
 it comes to the entire greatness of this game. Once again I take my hat off to Mr. Hideo Kojima 
 and his crew. MGS4 is more than just a game it's an experience, and anyone who believes themselves 
 to be a true "gamer" must pick this one up. Bravo Snake, bravo.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: smithbubbajones
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 25, 2008 11:41 am PT
Review:  
  
  Metal Gear Solid 4: Guns of the Patriots is lots of things. It's the best looking console game 
 I've ever laid my eyes on, it has the best digital sound quality of any game before, it has the 
 deepest yet confusing story of any game before, it's the best stealth action title, and it's the 
 best game on the Playstation 3 arguably.
  
  It's 2014, and the world has become consumed by digital media and war. The world's weaponry are 
 all run and controlled by digital AI, or "The Patriots" , and whoever has control over that, thus 
 has control over the world's weaponry. All of it. Liquid Ocelot is looking to take control of the 
 world's wars, and create his own army to match that of any. Snake's final mission is to eliminate 
 Liquid. There are plenty of references to past MGS games, like Shadow Moses, and a lot of the information 
 about the AI is difficult to follow. However, if you can get a hold of any aspect of the game's 
 story, even if it's only the main one about Snake vs. Liquid, it's a gripping adventure that brings 
 closure to the Metal Gear Solid franchise. Characters from the past make big returns, like Meryl 
 and Jack. Ultimately, you've never quite witnessed a story this epic, heart wrenching, emotional, 
 twisting, gripping, interesting, or confusing as Guns of the Patriots. It's an excellent tale that 
 will keep you hooked until the very end.
  
  
  The story plays a heavy part of MGS4. Cutscenes are stylized beyond belief. The script is well 
 written with excellent voice acting from the always talented cast. Every cutscene shows great choreography 
 and character animations. Some of the cutscenes actually overtake gameplay plenty of times, especially 
 near the end of the game, when you'll get about an hour cutscenery and then maybe half an hour 
 of gameplay. It definitely helps that the story is worth watching unfold, or else this would be 
 a big design flaw. But it isn't. 
  
  Metal Gear Solid 4 is the best looking game to ever grace the console universe. Every little detail 
 is so incredibly sharp and vibrant, and you feel like you're playing a CG cutscene. The first act, 
 which takes place in the middle east looks absolutely amazing, and the whole desert feel really 
 gets across perfectly. As dust sweeps across the ground, the camera actually starts to get a little 
 dirtier everytime. As Snake crawls along the ground, you see every little pebble on the ground 
 react to his existence in as realistic a way as possible. Character models all look excellent, 
 with the best facial animations of any game. Every character in every cutscene moves realistically, 
 and lip syncing is never off. There is zero pop in or framerate drops, no screen tearing, no glitches, 
 and every aspect is as detailed as the last, and if you've ever needed proof that we're in the 
 next generation of consoles, look further than Metal Gear Solid 4: Guns of the Patriots. It's one 
 of the most photorealistic games, with the art to match.
  
  Metal Gear Solid 4 also has the best digital sound quality of any game on the Ps3. Sound effects 
 are crisp, guns sound as good as you'd expect them to from the latest blockbuster first person 
 shooter, voice acting is excellent, and the orchestral score and soundtrack although aren't outstanding, 
 they are great, and are something special. What I mean by digital sound quality, is the cleanliness 
 of the sound. I don't mean a clean script, this game is rated M for mature, but everything sound 
 like it's happening right there. There's no odd speaker issues or crackling, everything is just 
 amplified to no extent. I don't know how the developers did it, but it's outstanding. If you have 
 a surround sound system, you will be blown away.
  
  In terms of gameplay, you really can't compare MGS4 to anything, because it's so unique. If one 
 were to classify it, they could say stealth, action, shooter, graphic novel (not so much) . They'd 
 be right saying either of those. The freedom to the player is immense. There are just so many ways 
 to play Metal Gear Solid 4, that it's actually mind blowing. Mainly, the game is meant to be played 
 as a stealth action title, so I'll start off with stealth.
  
  Octocamo is basically the 1up to the camouflage system from MGS3: Snake Eater. Your suit will take 
 the texture and colour (colour with a U, I'm Canadian. Pronounced culler, not co loor) . It's rather 
 simple in it's concept, but it becomes very tactical in it's execution. You're going to need to 
 find the right time and place to use Octocamo, because if you use it in the wrong place, your intelligent 
 enemies will spot you, and try to take you down. You need to stay out of their sight anyway possible. 
 You can use Octocamo to help you, but you're going to need to find dark areas, or hop into your 
 trusty barrel, or the "No room for Hideo" box. Again, if you use these in odd places, your enemies 
 will spot you, so you need to be smart.
  
  You need to leave no trace of your presence, which means you need to not take lives if you don't 
 need to. CQC is a very important tactic that can be very helpful. There are a ton of different 
 moves you can perform such as knocking foes out by slamming them down, or choking them, or grabbing 
 their nuts (no joke) . If you do fell the need to kill, try slitting their throats, or using a silenced 
 pistol. You can drag their bodies to secure places. Stealth games just don't get better than MGS. 
 There's no way.
  
  
  However, the stealth and action pieces are just one way. If you like playing games like Rambo, 
 you are now able to. Kojima has implemented an over the shoulder view for shooting, much like in 
 Uncharted or Grand Theft Auto IV. You're able to shift the camera for aiming. Enemy AI is good, 
 but nothing amazing. At least they aren't retarded. You have loads of weapons at your disposal. 
 You can thank Drebin for this. Drebin is a weapons wholesaler, and he has over 80 guns in stock. 
 You can purchase weapon customizations like silencers or scopes, as well as ammo. Some people are 
 going to question this as part of an MGS game, but if you don't like it, you still have the ability 
 to play it the way it's supposed to be played. It's freedom to the player, and I love it.
  
  The game is about 17 hours, give or take, with about 5 difficulties, and tons of unlockable 
 items. There's the return of Metal Gear Online, which is still solid, especially with the new shooting 
 tactics. It feels a bit like SOCOM. I'd say 60 bucks is a great price for what you get here. The 
 production values alone are worth more than 60 bucks a copy.
  
  Guns of the Patriots is an excellent conclusion to a great franchise. If you own a Playstation 
 3, you owe it to yourself to get MGS4. If you don't have a Ps3, get one and get MGS4. It's just 
 that good. It's too good. Snake, you've earned your rest.
  
  My score for Metal Gear Solid 4 is a 9.9. I would have loved nothing more than to give it a 10, 
 but I feel like the cutscenes are a little too lengthy. The game itself is just as good as GTA 
 IV, and it's certainly better in plenty of aspects. I don't see much of a diff between 9.9 and 
 10. Metal Gear Solid 4 is a work of art, and is one of the best games of the last 10 years. It's 
 going to be a difficult choice for Game of the Year.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Distortion_Lane
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 24, 2008 2:33 pm PT
Review:  I have been waiting for this game ever since it was announced, or in fact ever since i saw the 
 ending to MGS2 all those years ago (only i didn't know I would have to wait till the ps3 to learn 
 the answers) . I must admit the final entry to the series doesn't quite duplicate the magic of the 
 very first Metal Gear Solid, but then again I don't think it ever could. What it does try to achieve 
 however, is the best ending the series could possibly have, and it does so with style. Metal Gear 
 4 is not a perfect game by any means, but at this point, there really is no meaningful way to improve 
 the game whatsoever. Fans will eat this **** up, and newcomers, while maybe scratching their heads 
 a little, will enjoy the wonderful gameplay, graphics, and sound this cinematic game has to offer. 
 
  
  Gameplay (10/10) :
  
  +The controls are great (that's right, you got an issue? get a tissue...)
  +The AI is as good 
 as you would expect
  +Lots of weapons to use
  +Great camera system and Octocamo makes sneaking a breeze
  +Great shooting makes combat a breeze
 
  -So the game is too easy?....+play on hard, then extreme and it wont be
  +Awesome boss fights
  +About a thousand amazing moments that I just don't wanna spoil
  +Customizable 
 weaponry
  +Noodles :)
  +Different gameplay types incorporated into the main game
  +Play the game the way you want
  +Nonlinnear yet linear gameplay (so you will never get lost, 
 yet you have freedom to play as you wish)
  +You have a mini metal gear at your disposal (mkII)
  +The game does an excellent job of letting 
 the player get used to the controls in a short amount of time
  +The story is really well told and every loose end in the series is tied up in a very stylish and 
 professional manner (although some of the humor is absolutely ridiculous) 
  +Very short loading times
  +Excellent level design
  +Decent multiplayer
  
  Presentation 
 and Graphics (10/10) :
  
  +Absolutely top of the line
  +Art design is superb
  +Gorgeous player models
  +Crispy textures
  +Fluid animation
  +Amazing lighting
  +Top of 
 the line cut-scenes
  +Steady framerate
  
  Sound (10/10) :
  
  +Stunning soundtrack
  +Reintroduction of old themes through the in-game Ipod
  +Weapons sound like they should
  +Excellent 
 voice acting
  
  Value (10/10) :
  
  +15-20 hours 
  +Very replayable
  +Multiplayer
  
  Metal Gear Solid 4 is in a league of its own in my opinion. The stunning amount of work put 
 into it is something players around the world need to see. The game is loaded with features and 
 is not one to be missed by any stealth action fan. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: claykenobi
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 24, 2008 1:54 pm PT
Review:  I'll admit, I didn't know what to expect out of MGS4. I thought It could possibly be a "been there, 
 done that" game. As it turns out, It is everything but that! Endless gadgets (The MKII droid is 
 really fun) , Weapons, upgrades, CQC animations and characters suck you in further and further that 
 by the time you turn the game off your talking out loud to yourself about what a mind blowing experience 
 you're having! The sound and graphics are steps ahead of anything you have heard/seen. Finally 
 a game that feels like your a true, legendary soldier rather than executing everything clumsily 
 and beating objectives by mistake (sorry GTA fans) . The level designs are a masterpiece and well 
 mixed and the difficulty progresses perfectly with your learning curve. In a genre where consoles/games 
 have been disappointing, this is the kind of game that makes every penny you spent on your console 
 finally feel worth it. MGS4 is an instant classic that many game developers will bite off of for 
 many years. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: IIHitandRunII
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 24, 2008 1:45 pm PT
Review:  Metal Gear Solid 4: Guns of the Patriot, has a very big chance of getting game of the year. It 
 is really something to look at. Although this game is NOT for people who just skip through the 
 cinematics, seriously will get boring if u just skip through the cinematics since more than half 
 the story is cinematics. 
  
  Graphics: Graphics are really something, since the gameplay graphics are like the cutscenes. I 
 really wish every game had graphics as good as this game. Environments work as good and the reaction 
 of the character is really cool.
  
  Story: If u only played 1 or 2 games of the Metal Gear Series, u will be a bit confused at first, 
 although u will get the hang of it after playing a bit. It isn't complicated, its just that there 
 are many groups which fight vs eachother. Although the story really sinks u in, and is really fun 
 to watch. You always want to know what happens next. 
  
  Gameplay: Gameplay is easy once you get the hang of it. Simple and easy to control, u scroll through 
 the weapons with the R2 and other items with the L2. Other controls like crouching and crawling 
 are used by just pressing the X button. Shooting is pretty simple, L1 to aim (if u want) R1 to 
 shoot. those are the basics.
  
  Boss Battles: There are several boss battles which are pretty cool, they're not just shoot and 
 kill, they do take time and concentration of finding the boss and hunting him down or doing something 
 to weaken him then killing him. Although otherwise the boss battles are nice, and they have many 
 interesting things which happen.
  
  Overall this game is a must-have for PS3 owners ALTHOUGH not for people who don't like watching 
 cinematics, it really ruines the story. Whoever like sneaking games this is a game for u. Others 
 who like to just attack and shoot, u will like this game. This is one of the games which will always 
 be remembered for a very very long period of time.
  
  BTW The Directer Hideo Kojima IS thinking of Metal Gear Solid 5. It has been written all over the 
 news in Japanese Magazines. Hideo Kojima said that he wants to continue the story, although there 
 are many years to come. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Hellboyx
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 24, 2008 1:23 pm PT
Review:  Being a devoted playstation gamer for many years i know this will probably come across as biased, 
 but to be perfectly honest i have waited a long time to give a game a 10 score (even GTA4 is only 
 an 8 to me) and i did have an xbox 360 for a month just to play Halo 3 and found that to be some 
 what missing.
  
  To describe this game in 1 sentence is almost impossible; it is a sure joy to play, visually stunning 
 and by far the best graphics i have ever seen, plus the cinematic cut scenes are a sheer joy to 
 watch to the point that i almost forgot i was playing a video game i was in the zone sooo much 
 with this!
  
  If you have a PS3 and you have been as patient as the majority of us who bought one on launch day, 
 your purchase has now been fully justified, ladies and gentlemen... with metal gear solid 4 the 
 PS3's glory has become evident! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: briantw
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 24, 2008 11:36 am PT
Review:  Metal Gear Solid 4: Guns of the Patriots is an amazing, epic title. Its scope far surpasses anything 
 that the series has seen before, and the gameplay is the perfect culmination of everything Kojima 
 has learned in his years in the industry. Quite simply, while Metal Gear Solid 4 is by no means 
 the perfect game, it comes pretty damn close.
  
  If you were never a fan of the Metal Gear series, 4 probably won't do much to sway your opinion. 
 While the gameplay certainly caters to a more action-oriented gamer (although stealth is still 
 very much an option, and is recommended on harder difficulty levels) , the series is as verbose 
 as ever. While the codec sequences have largely (and thankfully) been stripped away, they have 
 simply been replaced by more cut-scenes. Granted, the cut-scenes are as entertaining as ever, but 
 the fact remains that you'll spend roughly as much time watching the game as playing it.
  
  Fortunately, that happens to be why so many of us love the Metal Gear series. And while I personally 
 didn't find the narrative in MGS4 to be quite as engaging as the one in the third game (which is 
 my personal favorite) , it is still miles above those found in most other games, and it is as intelligent 
 and pondering as ever, even if far too much of the story seems to weigh on nanomachines. Thankfully, 
 after four games, we finally get the answers we want and deserve, and while they may not always 
 be the answers you wanted, the sense of closure at the end of the game is undeniably awesome. I'll 
 avoid going any deeper into the story than that, though, as it really is something you'll want 
 to experience for yourself.
  
  As mentioned above, the gameplay in Metal Gear Solid 4 has seen a substantial improvement over 
 previous installments in the series. It is most comparable, naturally, to the latest revolution 
 in the series, Metal Gear Solid 3, Subsistence. The over-the-shoulder view point and on-screen 
 aiming reticule essentially allow gamers to turn Metal Gear Solid 4 into an action game if they 
 see fit, but at the same time it's rarely required of you to do so, so purists need not worry about 
 the action over-taking the stealth (save for a few select sequences) .
  
  Unlike previous games in the series, though, gamers who want to take a more action-oriented approach 
 are no longer punished. In fact, they are tremendously rewarded if they choose to do so thanks 
 to the sheer volume of weapons in the game, and also the awesome customization system that allows 
 you to upgrade and enhance your guns however you see fit. You can even purchase multiple types 
 of ammo for some weapons. 
  
  What's more is that all of this can be done at any time by going into the menu and accessing Drebin's 
 shop (which is unlocked relatively early in the game) . From there, you're free to purchase weapons 
 and ammunition whenever you want, provided that you have enough points to do so. Points are accrued 
 from collecting the ID-locked weapons of fallen soldiers, and are also added for certain actions 
 such as killing synthetic enemies. The whole system is brilliant, and it's nice to never have to 
 worry about ammo. Sure, some might argue that this makes the game too easy, but at the end of the 
 day, it's completely optional, so anyone who wants to make things tougher on themselves only needs 
 to never visit Drebin's shop.
  
  Once again, the game has a variety of difficulties, ranging from the incredibly easy to the ridiculously 
 tough. Regardless of player skill, you'll find something here that works for you. If you just want 
 to do a quick story play through, you can set the game to easy and burn through action sequences 
 and boss fights. If you want to punish yourself, you can set things to the hardest difficulty level 
 and try to survive.
  
  And then there are the visuals. It's hard to describe just how good this game looks in motion. 
 It puts some other major titles from this generation (especially Halo 3) to complete and utter 
 shame, and it honestly makes me mad that games are able to look this good at this point in time, 
 yet almost none of them do. While there are some blurry textures, the overall attention to detail 
 and beauty of this game makes it easy to forget about the occasional flaw.
  
  Finally, there's the game's sound. Quite simply, this is the most incredible game I have ever heard. 
 It literally will shake your room. Every sound in the game is amazing, from helicopters to explosions 
 to bullets that feel like they are truly whizzing by your head. You will be hard-pressed to find 
 a game that sounds better anywhere else, and my hat goes off to Kojima for being one of the few 
 developers that realizes how much fantastic sound can truly add to the game.
  
  Further, all of the actors seem to have brought their A-game. The awkward moments in past games 
 are almost non-existent now (although the actor who plays Otacon still can't cry believably) , which 
 probably has as much to do with the writing as the acting. Still, I found myself much more absorbed 
 in each character this time around, unlike in Snake Eater where I was frequently pulled out of 
 the game due to bad acting/writing.
  
  Overall, this game is a must-own for anyone who loves action games. There are so many incredible 
 set-pieces at work here that it would be impossible to describe them all, and each and every location 
 in the game is expertly crafted. While it probably won't convince the hater, most gamers should 
 be able to find something to love in Metal Gear Solid 4. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nonstop-Madness
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 24, 2008 11:21 am PT
Review:  Storyline - 10/10
  Graphics - 10/10
  Gameplay - 10/10 (offline) 8.5/10 (Online)
  
  The story of Metal Gear Solid 4 is nothing less than epic. Fantastic voice acting and a plot line 
 that is better than most movies. There are 5 Acts in total : Middle East, South America, Europe, 
 Alaska and Outer Haven. There are short installs after every Act but its a good thing. They range 
 from 1 minute to minutes, you can go get a drink or stretch etc. The simple version of the storyline 
 is that Solid Snake travels all around the world to stop Liquid from controlling the Patriots System.
 
  
  MGS4 is the best looking game that I have played. Character Models are just amazing. The environments 
 are flawless. The dialog is truly Hollywood quality. A few parts in MGS4 will make you go holy 
 $h^!. One part that I really remember is when you make an escape with BIg Mama on her motorcycle 
 and right before you get on , you hold L1 so you go into a first person view of the bike and ......... 
 holy $h^! does that look amazing. Also the slow motion parts in the 3rd Act are pretty cool.
  
  Gameplay in this Metal Gear Solid game is much better than the previous. You can just shoot 
 everyone or sneak past everyone. There's like around 70 weapons in the whole game and about 75% 
 are customizable. The Drebin System is a very good addition to the game. The Octo camo system is 
 much better than the camo system in MGS3. You can shoot in a third person view or first person 
 view. The Bosses are the best bosses in a MGS game since part 1. The Physce and Stress Systems 
 are hard to master in the beginning of the game but it ends up being pretty easy to understand. 
 
  
  Online is really fun when you play it but the style of play is a little hard to get into at first. 
 Many things from the Single Player is used in the Multiplayer but a few mechanics arent really 
 well done like when you get into a choke hold, you have to move the left analog stick very fast 
 and usually its impossible to get out. The registration process is a pain because you have to make 
 a Konami ID instead of using your own PSN ID but overall its a solid multiplayer when you get into 
 it.
  
  Overall - 10 out of 10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: b_wilcox
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 24, 2008 10:19 am PT
Review:  No name in gaming evokes impassioned thoughts and commentary quite like Hideo Kojima (I'm taking 
 Jack Thompson out of the equation altogether) . There are critics who would assert that he's nothing 
 more than the Michael Bay of video games, a style-beyond-substance guy who doesn't really know 
 the first thing about telling a story or creating a functional game mechanic. And there are others 
 who regard him as an unrivaled genius.
  
  My feelings were somewhere in between, but Metal Gear Solid 4: Guns of the Patriots is the sort 
 of transcendent achievement that makes you realize just how much Kojima needed current-gen technology 
 to perfect his craft. As hard as he might have tried, the previous games just lacked the cinematic 
 punch that you could tell he was always aiming for, and accordingly, a lot of his product came 
 off as cheesy or undercooked.
  
  Make no mistake, this game has its somewhat glib moments, and it's unapologetic and overwrought. 
 But my God, is it a feast for the senses. Those long cutscenes are just plain engrossing, and the 
 dramatically improved gameplay allows you to progress without as much frustration. Fittingly, Kojima 
 has created a game that caters to many types of players, from the run-and-gunning guys to the subtle 
 and stealthy. You'll be pleased with the variety and the intensity of the missions, and the boss 
 battles will overwhelm you.
  
  This is gaming gold, pure and simple. MGS4 is not for everyone, but frankly, it should be, because 
 it is the first game of this generation -- and arguably the first, period -- to truly carry significant 
 dramatic weight while delivering scintillating action. Kojima's legacy is cemented. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: OmegaOrtega
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 24, 2008 10:11 am PT
Review:  Graphics 
  
  Not as good as everyone has been saying but still great. These graphics can be done on that other 
 system; yeah I said it, that other system (meaning I've seen better on PS3) . My issue is that the 
 game looks about as good as COD4 if not slightly better, but lags more than Uncharted... the best 
 looking console game to date (debate that if you want I don't care) . I would be fine with the great 
 (not amazing) visuals if the frame rate didn't chug as much.
  
  Audio
  
  You WILL I repeat you WILL not find better voice acting. The sound track is also really good. But 
 what is lacking is how engaging the battle audio is. Ya know the reloading, the gun shots, and 
 explosions. Yeah they are good... But go play Battlefield Bad Company; this is what combat audio 
 should sound like. So again audio is great but not as good as everyone has been saying aside from 
 the amazing voice acting. It's getting a 9 due to the combat audio being a huge part of the game. 
 
  
  Gameplay
  
  This is certainly what matters the most. MGS4 really evolves in terms of controls and aiming. I 
 haven't played a game more accurate while using analog sticks to date, period. Nailing headshots 
 left and right, shooting anything is smooth, I don't feel held back by a forced auto aim or aiming 
 that's too twitchy. Though the controls are complex and may turn some people off, the options the 
 controls give you are phenomenal. Leaning, going from over the shoulder to first person, zooming, 
 seamlessly going from prone, crouch, standing vice-versa mix it up w/e, being able to roll on the 
 ground, using the triangle button to quickly switch from your belly to your back, the inch worm 
 maneuver, THE LIST GOES ON!! Oh and that 3rd person camera everyone cried about with MGS3, its 
 light years better than MGS3S's (Subsistence) . 
  
  Now enough about controls. What about the levels, boss fights and enemies? Personally as a MG fan... 
 I wish MGS4 had more patrolling infantry to sneak around. I also wish the boss fights were better... 
 They are good but the final few just weren't as fun as fighting 25 Metal Gear Ray's, Solidus Snake, 
 or Shagohod. And Mr. Kojima you should have left the melee boss fight a cut scene or even let the 
 guys from GTA design this boss fight lol, their hand to hand combat system is less clunky. Now 
 CQC is awesome and all but this particular boss fight is nearly as clunky as the one on PS1. 
 
  
  As for the environments each are enjoyable, the middle east is one hell of an intro, though the 
 setting right after is a bit underwhelming. A certain setting from a previous MGS game comes up 
 and it too is a blast. 
  
  Lasting Appeal/Replay Value
  
  The campaign is incredibly long, especially for Metal Gear. While watching cut scenes a non-speed 
 run play through will last you 25-30 hrs. Though there will be a select few freaks to complete 
 the game in less than 10 hrs, and a few elite to beat it in 5 (believe it or not) . But the rest 
 of us normal people will be beating it at around 15-20 hrs on 2nd or 3rd etc play through. That's 
 fine by me as long as I complete the game on max difficulty like with any other MGS game I've played. 
 
  
  The gameplay is so engaging this time around that as soon as I finished the game I found myself 
 already replaying on hard mode capping baddies like I just bought the game. In other words this 
 game isn't getting old for me anytime soon. 
  
  Now let's talk about MGO. MGO is good, especially for Japanese multiplayer for a shooter! Almost 
 sounds like an oxymoron huh? Well MGO has just about everything I can look for in an online shooter. 
 You can choose from automated which works like the overused but popular matchmaking, or you can 
 choose your games manually (thank god) . There is also clan support. None of that create a tag 
 and boom you're in the clan like COD4. 
  
  But there are some issues that hurt MGO. One is minor and weird... Konami ID. Hello I already have 
 a PSN ID that should be good enough right? Wrong, with MGO you need 3 ID's (yes 3 passwords too) . 
 First you're PSN ID, second a Konami ID, third your Gamer ID for your Konami ID. Thankfully this 
 info gets saved but meeting up with existing PSN buddies isn't seamless and is somewhat of a pain. 
 Also if you want more than one character profile, you have to pay for it. Yeah that's right $$$ 
 or  or  , pesos or w/e just for another character profile. 
  
  But the biggest issue. That tops the other somewhat minor issues (atleast for me) . L-A-G. Remember 
 how I mentioned that MGS4 could run smoother. Well hell, I wish MGO ran at least as smooth as MGS4's 
 campaign. No matter how good your connection, lag is a constant problem with MGO. Especially with 
 Groznyj Grad. The other 4 maps run good enough, but I wish they ran smoother with 12+ people. But 
 lag on Groznyj Grad can get seriously ridiculous. Groznyj Grad even lags a tiny bit in training 
 mode with just you, 1 player on the map. 
  
  Conclusion
  
  MGS4 is an amazing experience with its biggest strengths being the ease of control that makes the 
 gameplay phenomenal. Due to the controls aiming, shooting, sneaking, snaking, cardboard-boxing 
 or inch-worming is an absolutely blast. The cut scenes are of course phenomenal and voice acting 
 has no parallel to date. The MGS games show that voice acting from Japanese games need not be silly 
 and underwhelming like Resident Evil (yes even 4) , or bland and boring like the previous Final 
 Fantasies (particularly XII) . 
  
  The story telling is thick, thorough and will put off millions of people who aren't up to par with 
 at least MGS1 and 2's story. MGS3 helps also. But for MGS fans, the story is fantastic; a lot of 
 loop holes are tied up. All except for one or two involving our friend Snake. 
  
  As for weaknesses. The combat audio (gunshots explosions etc) could be better, Konami ID+Gamer 
 ID are rated R for re. You know where I'm going with that. But for the most part lag. It's a minor 
 issue in the single player but a major issue with the almost excellent multiplayer. MGO would be 
 excellent if not held back by its frame rate and Konami ID. 
  
  Will not change the mind of haters (unless controls were their only issue)
  
  Simplified Conclusion
 
  
  +Story & story telling
  +Controls & Camera
  +Voice acting
  +Pristine Gameplay 
  +Will please fans
  
  -Story & story telling 
  -Combat audio
  -Konami ID 
  -Lag 
  -Haters 
 will continue to hate. 
  
  I feel that some sites like IGN and Gamespot overrated MGS4, while some sites underrated it. I 
 agree with the score on Metacritic, 94 of 100. 
  
  P. S- What's with the commercials? I believe Akiba was goofing off watching TV (or atleast I believe 
 so) , but why must they show up when you let the game idle on the title screen lol. I just thought 
 these were kinda weird, I like them though. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sgthalka
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 27, 2008 5:12 am PT
Review:  As someone who was extremely disappointed with MGS2 and MGS: Portable Ops, I went into MGS4 with 
 some trepidation. I've seen the good reviews before. I've seen the rabid fan adulation before. 
 And I've seen the basic MGS game mechanics before, which were always creative and interesting but 
 ultimately a little clunky, especially compared to pure action games.
  
  As a pre-cursor to playing MGS4, I finally got around to playing MGS3: Subsistence a few weeks 
 ago. I wasn't expecting much this time around either, but wanted to at least experience the plot 
 points so I wasn't totally lost in MGS4. That said, Snake Eater completely blew away my expectations. 
 The characters finally had room to breathe, felt three-dimensional and gave you reason to become 
 attached to them. The storyline started slow, but gradually built up with a real-world resonance 
 that eventually climaxed with one of the most dramatic, thrilling and emotional finales I've ever 
 seen in a video game. And the action and boss battles were absolutely a joy to play. MGS3 is one 
 of the most memorable PS2 games I'd ever played and raised my expectations tenfold for MGS4.
  
  After playing through MGS4, it's safe to say it not only met those expectations and met all 
 the hype carried with its release, but exceeds that hype and those expectations many times over. 
 This is an epic story-driven stealth-action masterpiece with so many memorable moments I'm still 
 thinking of, days after finishing the game.
  
  That's not to say the game is perfect. There is some cringeworthy dialogue, some awkward side-plots 
 and melodramatic sequences that will cue a gag reflex. Story exposition is fully drawn out, leaving 
 you sometimes wishing Kojima would allow himself an editor at times. But the vast majority of the 
 game reaches such dizzying heights, these minor complaints are insignificant in the big picture.
 
  
  I don't want to get into spoilers, or my favorite moments of the game or re-tread on what all the 
 other reviews have covered. I just want to give props to Kojima and his team for crafting the most 
 epic series and storyline in my 20+ years of gaming. Absolutely mind-blowing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SePhIrOtH66
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 24, 2008 12:18 am PT
Review:  Metal Gear Solid 4: Guns of the Patriots really is spy-action at its best -- in fact, I'd even go 
 as far as to say MGS4 is overall gaming at its best. Snake would kick James Bond's ass any day, 
 and Sam Fisher would void his bowels at the mere mention of the name Solid Snake. Having never 
 played a Metal Gear game before this, I would like to consider this review pretty unbiased. If 
 you're in the same boat as me in that regard, this may be the review for you.
  
  Technical Aspects:
  
  This. Game. Looks. AMAZING. Ninety percent of the visuals are easily 
 on par with those of Crysis, this game falling short only in explosions and foliage. That's not 
 to say those particular aspects do not look amazing -- they really do. Unfortunately, the lip movements 
 and facial expressions do leave a bit to be desired. If anyone has played Heavenly Sword, you know 
 the kinds of things that are possible, but I just have not yet come across a game that has done 
 it better than Heavenly Sword.
  
  Also, MGS4 is the first game I've seen that supports full 1080p resolution, and I gotta tell you, 
 it is simply breathtaking. It looks fine on standard 480i resolution, but everything seems a bit 
 blurry. You really have to play it on maximum HD to realize just how impressive this game's graphics 
 are.
  
  There are also very small graphical details that a lot of games overlook, and when they are present 
 we tend to take them for granted. For example, in any given local in the game, there are things 
 fluttering around in the breeze. In the Middle East, sand blows around and random pieces of rubbish 
 float through the air, and in South America leaves flutter about, and in Antarctica there is a 
 constant snow storm that varies in strength as time passes (and snowflakes stick to the camera) . 
 Not only that, but also the weapons have an insane amount of detail on them. When Snake chambers 
 a new round, either during a cutscene or while playing, the old cartridge will fly away and you 
 can actually see the new round being loaded into the chamber from the magazine.
  
  As for sound, it really doesn't get much better. Although a bit over dramatic at times, the voice 
 acting is terrific, and all the actors play their parts extraordinarily well. Ignoring the relatively 
 poor lipsyncing, it is so easy to believe these characters are real. The sound effects, such as 
 explosions, nature sounds, water sounds, vehicle sounds, weapon sounds, etc., are all equally incredible. 
 The powerful weapons really sound powerful, and the wimpy weapons sound wimpy -- it all sounds just 
 right.
  
  The last technical aspect is the control scheme. It doesn't get much better than this. After reading 
 the manual once to get the general button layout (although it is customizable) and spending no 
 more than two minutes in the Virtual Range to test the controls out, I was ready to go. The controls 
 are extremely accessible to virtually anyone, unless you have, like, three fingers or something. 
 On a few rare occasions, they will seem clunky, especially when you're in the midst of a life-threatening 
 fire-fight and are anxious to remove yourself from the situation. However, the game's control scheme 
 supports both espionage AND shooting. You could easily play through the entire game either way, 
 but honestly it is best to use a mix of the two, being sneaky when appropriate and shooting your 
 way through tough situations when necessary.
  
  On to the gameplay, which is what you're really here for, right?
  
  The controls make the gameplay 
 very smooth and easily accessible, especially to those not used to action games or to shooters. 
 As I said, it really is a mixture of the two. You move through missions on generally linear patterns, 
 although more often than not you will have to find sneaky or clever routes to reach your destination -- especially 
 if you want to get there undetected, and the game does reward you for doing this. Your main enemies 
 are the PMCs, or private military companies, but you may also make enemies of the various rebel 
 factions you encounter, depending on your actions. By the same token, you can befriend these rebels, 
 which can be highly beneficial. Honestly, I haven't tried befriending the PMCs, but I don't think 
 it's possible. You also collect items, including the ever-popular Rations, which now instantly restore 
 your life should you die while they are equipped.
  
  As for weapons, there is an INSANE number of them. I have never seen so many different weapons 
 in a single game before. It is actually impossible to use them all on your first playthrough, because 
 one of the weapons, an ancient Japanese musket, costs literally one million "Drebin Points". All 
 the weapons really feel different, too, not like copies of the same weapon with different shells. 
 What's more, you can actually customize most of them too, with sights, lights, underbarrel shotguns 
 or grenade launchers (both with multiple types of ammo which you can actively switch between at 
 any time) , or even silencers. Despite the incredible selection, if you play the game more stealthily 
 than shootily, you'll find yourself relying on the classic Operator or similar silenced pistols 
 more than any other weapon.
  
  Speaking of Drebin Points, they are the game's currency system. Early on, you'll meet a character 
 named Drebin. I won't spoil anything, but he basically buys weapons off you, and you can buy weapons 
 off him, or use his services to unlock the ID-Locked weapons you pick up. Basically, after you 
 meet him, whenever you pick up a weapon which you already own, the weapon is instantly traded in 
 for a number of Drebin Points which you can use to buy Drebin's various goodies and services. You 
 still keep any ammo from the gun, of course. It's a well-designed system that implements remarkably 
 well into the game. It even explains that the Metal Gear Mk. II, your little buddy throughout the 
 game, transports the stuff back and forth, which is why you don't need to worry about it. It may 
 make little sense, but it's better than "magic teleportation", right?
  
  At various points in the game, you'll find yourself in need of some critical thinking and cunning 
 ideas or plans, which I find quite refreshing amidst a sea of games that rely soley on skill, combination 
 memory, and reflexes. Although, it is possible to get through these parts without any thinking 
 whatsoever by opening up your Codec and talking to your buddies. They will even call you, but if 
 you'd prefer not to be helped, you can skip the scenes.
  
  Furthermore, the boss-fights, especially the very first one, are very well done. You have to have 
 a degree of ingenuity for most of them. I wish I could tell you about the fights, but I don't want 
 to spoil anything. One of the particular fights is, I'd wager, one nearly every Metal Gear fan 
 has dreamed of but has never seen before.
  
  Oh yeah: gone are the timed button-presses that seem to PLAGUE action games these days. But, there 
 is still reason for you to keep at least one hand on the controller. Every now and then, during 
 cutscenes, one of two buttons will pop up: an L1 in the upper left corner, or an X in the upper 
 right corner. Pressing L1 at the appropriate time will give you a view through Snake's own eyes 
 for a few seconds, which makes the cutscenes a little more dynamic, but nothing more. The X, on 
 the other hand, means you should start pressing X over and over to display flashback sequences 
 of previous Metal Gear games. If you're new to the series, this will do nothing more than net you 
 a few thousand extra Drebin Points at the end of each act, but if you're a fan of the series, then 
 you'll most likely get a bit more enjoyment out of them. Alternatively, you can set down the controller 
 and watch the 20-minute+ scenes while relaxing, and your game will suffer no impact.
  
  That brings me to the one downfall of this game, and if I could choose a score of 9.9, this would 
 be the 0.1 point deduction: the cutscenes. I know this sounds weird, even blasphemous, but bear 
 with me for a moment.
  
  The regular cutscenes are simply amazing -- if a little drawn out, but every so often they will break 
 to a different kind of cutscene that seems to emulate a computer screen or something. It's animated 
 with static images that float around -- nothing 3D -- and is done in drab, uninteresting colors. These 
 particular scenes also tend to be quite long, and without visual action to go along with the background 
 voices, they can get quite boring, no matter how engrossed in the story you are. Still, don't skip 
 them on your first playthrough, especially, and I cannot emphasize that word enough, if you are 
 new to the series.
  
  There is one other cool thing with the cutscenes. During the Mission Briefings at the beginning 
 of each act, you can actually switch from the default camera angles to a first-person view from 
 the perspective of the Metal Gear Mk. II and you can wander around Otacon's plane, the Nomad. You 
 can still hear the briefing, of course, but this adds a never-before-seen (in my experience) interactivity 
 to the briefings.
  
  As for the difficulty, it is accessible to absolutely anyone, even if you've never played a spy 
 game or action game... even if you've never played a game at all, I think. The Easy setting is 
 remarkably easy, and if you've never played Metal Gear before, it might be best to try this mode 
 for a while, even beat the game in it first. Then there are two normal settings, the second one 
 akin to standard Hard modes of most games. Then there are two hard modes, one of which is locked 
 until you complete the game on any difficulty. I haven't attempted them yet, but Solid Normal (the 
 second, more difficult normal) is about as tough as I can take right now. On my first playthrough, 
 I played on Liquid Easy, having never played Metal Gear games before, and I found it a little too 
 easy, so use it at the risk of diminished enjoyment. You will most likely never come close to dying, 
 even during boss fights, if you are not reckless, and you can carry infinite Rations, making you 
 nearly invincible.
  
  So, that's that. I hope this was informative, and that's why it's so long. MGS4 is by far the best 
 game I've played in a very long time, better even than GTA4 for me. So check it out already! I 
 don't care what you're into, this game rocks! 9.9 out of 10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Eggs-Benedict
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 23, 2008 10:50 pm PT
Review:  Graphics:
  The graphics are absolutely phenomenal, they are the best graphics I have seen for any video game 
 I have ever played. The facial features of all the characters are stunning. The expressions they 
 show are realistic and very believable. Every single aspect about the graphics of metal gear solid 
 4 are fantastic and will blow you away.
  
  Audio:
  The audio is also fantastic, the voice acting is extremely well acted and will really make you 
 care about the complex and deep story. The sound that the weapons in MGS4 emit are amazing, when 
 your shooting an M4 Custom, it really sounds like it. The sound quality really shines when you 
 hear people talking inside a building since their voices are muffled through the walls but are 
 still audible. It's great stuff.
  
  Game play:
  The gameplay is the best I have seen in any stealth action game yet. The controls have been tightened 
 and the camera is behind Snake like in MGS3, but now when Snake aims his gun, it goes into an over 
 the shoulder third person shooting mode which feels really good and natural, and for more precise 
 shots Snake can look down the sights and snipe out far off enemies. The shooting action is awesome, 
 almost as good as the stealth action. The stealth action in MGS4 is fantastic, and what makes it 
 so fantastic is the Octocamo suit, which immediately blends into it's surroundings. So if Snake 
 is pressed up against a wall with a pink and azure checkered design, then his suit will turn into 
 exactly that. It works beautifully. Another great thing about the stealth action is when Snake 
 is sneaking right in between a heated battle between the PMC's and the militia. It's an absolute 
 rush when your sneaking right in the middle of a battle with bullets going every which way and 
 mortar fire destroying the ground your sneaking on. It's crazy stuff. The mix of third and first 
 person shooting action and sneaking action is so amazing since it's so fun to do either, and the 
 game rarely forces you to choose between the two. There are instances where you must put up a fight, 
 and that is the boss battles, which are also extremely fun. The boss battles are intense and will 
 make your jaw drop, mostly because the bosses your fighting aren't just huge flaming skull demons 
 from hell, their real people, (most of them hot disturbed girls) with messed up pasts. After every 
 disturbed lady you fight you get the story of their past. All of the stories are disgusting, but 
 for that reason really hit you hard and make you feel for the characters you just fought. The story 
 is rich, deep complex and will satisfy you if you love a good story in a game. If you've followed 
 the metal gear solid story through the years then you will fully understand the story in MGS4 but 
 if you haven't then it'll be very difficult for you to fully understand what's going on. All the 
 characters are deep and have their own views and opinions on everything. The relationships between 
 the characters are compelling and you really care about how they feel about what's happening in 
 their world. The replay value is pretty good, when you beat the game once you unlock an extreme 
 difficulty level which is quite difficult. Or you can play the multi player which is fun for about 
 an hour, but then you realize that you've done it before. The real fun is in the single player. 
 
  
  Overall:
  The game is beautiful with incredible sound quality and crazy awesome game play. This is the game 
 that the PS3 was was waiting for and if you own one than it's necessary that you get this game.
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: acsam12304
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 23, 2008 10:41 pm PT
Review:  Solid Snake, Metal Gear, Liquid Snake .. When you hear these names you think of the best gaming 
 series ever made in history. Well with Metal Gear Solid 4 that expectation is taken to the next 
 level of gaming.
  
  This is a game that will win Game of the year and a Oscar. Now with that said now lets get to the 
 game play. Game play is the best yet to be programed into the Metal Gear Solid games, on how you 
 hold down L1 and look over Snake's shoulder to give you a better aim and a real feel of battle 
 then the previous games did. You still have your fist person view but now with out holding down 
 a button well you do hold down a button to but it is easier to do this time around. You hold down 
 the L1 button and tap the triangle button and fire with R1. 
  
  The graphics of the game is the best thanks to next-gen technology. the people looks almost real 
 with the face impressions and details on the body and face and when you see people talk up close 
 you see the winkles form like are real person around the lips and cheeks . the places on the maps 
 looks real good I mean looks real grate. Feels like a real battle field when you explosions ever 
 where around you when the action takes place.
  
  The sound is grate gun sounds real and the explosions do too. When your in a battle where both 
 side are fighting you can hear both sides yelling giving orders etc.. it just feels like a real 
 battle.
  
  The story is grate the best story ever made and a good story line to finish up the Metal Gear saga. 
 Yes they have long cut scenes but it is well worth to watch and any Metal Gear fan will enjoy to 
 watch. In my opinion the whole game should of been just a CGI movie instead of a game thats how 
 good the cut scenes are and at the end will have you at the edge of your seat, and making you eyes 
 tear up. The game has almost have about 20 hours of game time out of the 20 hours, 8 hours in total 
 are in cut scenes the rest are game play. 
  
  Metal Gear Solid 4 and all the Metal Gear games are the best games ever made in gaming history 
 and it is a well worth paying $50 or $85 for the limited edition. Any one looking for a good playable 
 movie Metal Gear Solid 4 is the one for you and all Metal Gear fans can all agree. 
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: FFF4N4T1C
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 23, 2008 10:37 pm PT
Review:  I was actually knew to the Metal Gear Solid series coming into this game, despite playing many 
 of the other classic Playstation series'. Despite missing out, I was keen to catch up when I saw 
 the trailers for this game.
  
  Unfortunately, I didn't have time to go back and replay the older versions, so just caught up on 
 a little bit of the history of the series beforehand. Let me tell you, whether you are new to the 
 series or a die-hard fan, Metal Gear Solid 4 is one of the greatest games ever created. Though 
 I may be hesitant to immortalize it with the "greatest game ever" title so quickly after its release, 
 let me make something clear: every facet of the game has been honed and perfected to a degree previously 
 unseen in gaming. If you own a PS3, you NEED to buy this game; it is not only the best game this 
 generation, but whether you love or hate these types of games, you can't deny that this is perhaps 
 the most solidly put-together game ever.
  
  I simply can't help but recommend Metal Gear Solid 4 on every plausible ground.
  
  STORY === 
 10/10
  
  As I've said previously, I was a newcomer to the Metal Gear Solid series with this game. Kojima 
 stated before the release of this game that it was designed to appease both die-hard fans and newcomers. 
 He wasn't lying.
  
  You play Solid Snake in perhaps his last great mission. Though the story is potentially overwhelming 
 for newcomers, especially at first, it really isn't difficult to grasp the main conflicts, events, 
 solutions and twists that occur throughout the game. There are plenty of mentions of previous events 
 in the series that I'm sure satisfy the series, but I'm happy to say that the story, as epic as 
 it may be, can be absorbed and loved by even the most oblivious newcomer.
  
  Throughout a single playthrough, I felt the connection with the characters that few games build. 
 By the end, I understood the vast majority of what had been happening the entire game and series, 
 despite knowing nothing at first. It's no secret that MGS4 is the definitive "story-telling" game. 
 Countless "Perfect 10" reviews will explain that to you. Story-telling in the game is done constantly 
 and with excellent ability. From voice-acting to the design of scenes and the manner in which information 
 is relayed to you, MGS4 represents a story that can be called nothing other than a masterpiece.
 
  
  You may read some reviews that penalize MGS4 because the story is too complicated or epic; take 
 it from someone new to the series, the complexity and ultimately the simplicity is what makes the 
 story one of the greatest you can experience. The way in which the story is told to you is simply 
 masterful.
  
  GAMEPLAY === 10/10
  
  I'm definately new to the "stealth gameplay tactics" as well. I was happy to find that the game 
 was well-rounded and encouraged this type of gameplay, but also allowed you to resort to shooter 
 tactics if needed.
  
  On my first playthrough, I just didn't understand the concept of stealth to begin. Luckily, about 
 halfway through the first Act, the game had already acquainted me quite well with its tactics. 
 At first, things might seem overwhelming, but the game doesn't an excellent job of teaching you 
 a huge amount of information in a small amount of time.
  
  The greatest part of this game is the variety of ways in which it can be played. You can opt for 
 the hardcore, completely stealth approach, or you can be stealthy most of the time and when frustrated, 
 blast down a few foes with your favorite FPS weaponry. The variety is just amazing. There is a 
 plentiful arsenal of weaponry which you can find and unlock throughout the game, as well as many 
 collectables and other items that just make the game all that more enjoyable. There are 5 difficulty 
 levels and 40 end-game emblems you can earn.
  
  The game simply has so many sides to it. Perhaps most notable of which are the boss fights, several 
 of which require you to figure out the trick to beating them. This is great because it doesn't 
 allow you to just blast the bosses away like any other foe, but encourages a creative mind. 
  
  Though hard to put in words, the greatest part of MGS4 is the sheer fact that it can become 
 whatever you want it to be. Your character determines how you play the game, and any way is acceptable 
 in its own right. All of the controls are incredibly well-done. Every weapon looks, feels, sounds 
 and reloads like its supposed to. The entire system of play is so solid and refined that it's impossible 
 to ignore.
  
  PRESENTATION === 10/10
  
  Best. Looking. Game. Ever. 
  
  On your first playthrough, expect to sit through LOTS of cutscenes. You may not be used to such 
 a story-telling method, but be assured these cutscenes are SO WELL DONE, it's impossible to not 
 enjoy them. They will feature action, plot twists, love, the whole lot. They are all carried out 
 with flawless programming and most incredibly of all, are rendered in real-time, rather than pre-rendered. 
 Most remarkable, all of this is done with few drops in frame rate -- it holds a great constant 
 throughout the vast majority of the game. They will blend seamlessly with your normal play. Cutscenes 
 will often end by thrusting you right into the action without any breaks, loading or graphical 
 changes.
  
  The environments are unbelievably well-done. You will travel a good many places in the game, and 
 each of them are very different from one another and each one brings exciting new features to the 
 board. 
  
  Perhaps most amazing is the attention to detail in the game. Enemies, rebels, and all kinds of 
 other nuisances will constantly be running around with their own AI. Buildings are packed with 
 hidden items and designed great. Just by seeing the world around you, you can soak in the detail 
 that was put into it. The voice-acting is superb, the character designs great, and as I've said 
 before, all the weapons and items look, sound and feel exactly how they should.
  
  Never before in gaming has presentation been so tightly woven with story and gameplay and so perfectly 
 executed. Perhaps above all else, the presentation of the game remains a landmark achievement.
 
  
  REPLAY VALUE === 10/10
  
  I can tell you - I don't replay console games often. In fact, very rarely do I ever do so. 
  
 
  I can also tell you - the second I finished my first playthrough of Metal Gear Solid 4, I ate a 
 sandwich. Five minutes later, I was busy blasting my way through my second playthrough. MGS4 simply 
 has countless replay value. 
  
  On one side, you may want to further understand the story, or just witness its magnificence again. 
 On another, you might want to try a different approach to gameplay, such as the all-stealth or 
 shoot-em-up approach. The game ENCOURAGES this diversity; there are 40 emblems and tons of unlockables 
 for subsequent playthroughs. After finishing the game on any difficulty, you can save your end-game 
 status and start right up a new game on the same save file under any difficulty setting you choose.
 
  
  On TOP of this, there is Metal Gear Online, which contains most of the typical FPS game-modes, 
 along with some stealthy originals that just add to this already near-flawless game. I haven't 
 gotten to invest much time into it so far, but it's fun and well-designed and a welcome addition.
 
  
  It's just one of those games you will find yourself wanting to replay -- it's one of those experiences 
 you remember for years to come.
  
  TILT === 10/10
  
  I don't have much more to say -- BUY THIS GAME. In a single game, Kojima has a Metal Gear fan for 
 life.
  
  STORY === 10/10 (20%)
  GAMEPLAY === 10/10 (30%)
  PRESENTATION === 10/10 (30%)
  REPLAY VALUE === 10/10 (10%)
  TILT === 10/10 (10%)
  
  BOTTOM 
 LINE === 10/10 -- Nearly Flawless in every aspect
  
  Grand Theft Auto IV was a great game -- perhaps AAA. MGS4 is on a new level of its own -- it has 
 defined a new level of gaming for this generation. Every tiny aspect of this game has truly been 
 refined and represents a bar so near to perfection that the distance between is irrelevant. 
  
  Not in years has a game been so well-made and exciting of an adventure. The greatness of this 
 game emanates from every facet and should be enjoyed by everyone.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: DarkZephyr999
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 23, 2008 9:17 pm PT
Review:  Since it is impossible to fully put into words the sheer magnificence of MGS4: Guns of the Patriots, 
 I'll try and make this as quick, and yet as useful, as possible...
  
  Metal Gear Solid 4 is absolutely, unbelievably, gobsmackingly tremendous. As a dedicated fan of 
 the series, I expected it to be amazing, but nothing could have prepared me for the final result. 
 Keep every other game ever created if you like, MGS4 is the best videogame in videogame history, 
 as I'm sure many will agree!
  
  First, let me dispel some of the more prevailing rumours...
  
  1) The 90 minute cutscenes... 
 honestly, whoever came up with this one needs to get a life and stop trying to pick holes where 
 they don't exist. Yes, MGS4 has some lengthy cutscenes, but even the ending isn't 1.5 hours long! 
 
  
  2) There IS a codec, and you DO make calls on it - there was a rumour circulating that you could 
 only receive calls on the codec. This is yet more rubbish spread by idiots with nothing better 
 to do than flame a great game. You CAN use the codec to make calls, though the number of people 
 you can call is reduced to two (from the 6+ in previous games) , so it's slightly twofold
  
  
  Ok... to make this as brief but telling as possible, without getting technical...
  
  GRAPHICALLY, 
 Metal Gear Solid 4 is breathtaking. It is truly the pinnacle of videogame graphics capabilities 
 experienced to date. Ignore any fanboy or flamer who tells you 'Game X' or 'Game Y' has better 
 graphics - no currently available game has better graphics than MGS4 - case (very much!) closed...
 
  
  AURALLY, the game is outstanding. The musical score is even better than previous endeavours, and 
 manages to bring the creme-de-la-creme of Hollywood composition to the world of videogames. The 
 score adds tension and drama expertly where necessary, further enhancing an already tremendous 
 and exhilarating experience. Sound effects are spot on, and the voice acting is notably outstanding 
 as well.
  
  STORYWISE, MGS4 is unparalleled. I swore no game could be as heart-rendingly well told as Final 
 Fantasy VII, and I was wrong. MGS4 takes the prize. It is emotional, captivating, and brilliant, 
 and at some points, will have fans of the series having to forcibly keep their mouths from falling 
 wide with shock and surprise. Forgive me, but the next bit shall be entirely in uppercase to demonstrate 
 a very important fact...
  
  MANY PEOPLE HAVE CRITICISED MGS4 FOR LONG CUTSCENES AND AN OVERBEARING AMOUNT OF STORY. THESE PEOPLE 
 ARE MORONIC FOOLS WHO DO NOT APPRECIATE THE MASTERFUL STORYTELLING THAT MAKES A GOOD GAME TRULY 
 EXCEPTIONAL!!!
  
  What makes games like FFVII classics? Is it not the timeless stories that remain with you years 
 later, when the graphics and gameplay have become outdated?
  If, like me, you believe only a game with a solid, compelling story deserves to enter the highest 
 echelon of videogame classics, then MGS4's sometimes lengthy cutscenes are really no problem at 
 all. The production value is immense, the plot itself is constantly rewarding and captivating, 
 and a long cutscene leaves you, if anything, begging for more! Unfortunately, critics and gamers 
 alike seem to be happy with the thousands of soulless drone games being produced, in which a soulless 
 character with uninspiring weaponry and no personality is sent on a soulless quest with a nonexistent 
 or frankly tedious plot... These individuals cannot handle the intricacy of good storytelling, 
 and desire only to blow things up with no idea why they are doing so...
  
  IF YOU WANT 30+ HOURS OF MASTER STORYTELLING AND TREMENDOUS GAMEPLAY, DEFINITELY GET MGS4!!! IF 
 YOU WANT A SOULLESS COPY OF EVERY OTHER GAME OUT THERE, DON'T - IT'S FAR TOO REVOLUTIONARY AND 
 UNIQUE FOR THAT!!!
  
  Sorry, but I really do get sick of the idiots out there moaning like spoilt little brats because 
 talented storytellers have placed some truly captivating storytelling (and breathtaking cutscenes) 
 in the game to add depth and plot - something so few games actually bother to achieve! 
  
  
  Anyway... back to the matter at hand! ... 
  In terms of GAMEPLAY, MGS4 does not disappoint 
 - at all. This is yet another respect in which it betters tenfold anything previously done in the 
 series. If the gameplay in MGS2 and 3 were Solid and Liquid, then MGS4 is truly the Big Boss (an 
 apt description for such a game!)
  Stealth veterans who have honed their skills in previous MGS titles will relish in the huge variety 
 of options afforded by the latest title, with its multiple-route, non-linear focus, and stunning/ 
 much publicized 'Octo-Camo' and 'Metal Gear Mk II' features. Using the tranquiliser gun is every 
 bit as entertaining as in previous games, if not more so. Weapon customisation and availability, 
 courtesy of new character Drebin, is a nice touch too, and offers an element of strategy to purchasing 
 and customising, instead of just offering players a pretty feature with no real consequence. 
 
  
  The fact that the game is split between different locations is excellent too, as one flaw with 
 previous MGS titles was the repetitive nature of having only one central location to explore. One 
 location in particular is a fantastic addition, and will have MGS fans practically crying tears 
 of joy as they take an exhilirating trip down memory lane... but no more on that here - wouldn't 
 want to spoil one of the game's most ingenious features! 
  
  Overall, MGS4 is truly a level above anything else produced to date. The term 'masterpiece' seems 
 too modest to describe this game. It's truly in a league of its own. Words cannot do such a marvel 
 justice - any self-respecting gamer should definitely purchase this game, without a moment's hesitation. 
 It is perhaps the one true classic that belongs first-place in any collection, and is a true benchmark 
 of current-generation gaming that every future title should be inspired - and intimidated! -by. 
 It takes our current expectation of games and shatters it into pieces. Kojima-san has made every 
 little detail and feature work perfectly in MGS4 to create a compelling whole, delivering a captivating 
 story with tremendously satisfying gameplay to boot.
  
  In short... It will take a game of unimaginable and seemingly impossible standards to take the crown 
 from Metal Gear Solid 4's perfectly polished head. This is not just the game of the year, or of 
 the decade.
  
  This is, quite simply, and with no small measure of justification, the best game of all time... 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lanasrj
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 23, 2008 8:55 pm PT
Review:  The only disappointing things about this game are that it isn't 100 hours longer and that it's 
 the last of the series. Sure, there'll be other Metal Gear games, but not under Kojima's direction. 
 And if the character has truly been retired (as he seems to be at the end of this) then we can 
 expect the series to change completely. Even if that change is all for the better, it'll be difficult 
 not to get a little nostalgic for Solid Snake and friends after watching his story wrap up.
  
  The only way I can describe MGS4 is to say that it is everything that I wished videogames were 
 back when I was playing the Nintendo Entertainment System. Back then, the technical limitations 
 of the system left players of great 8-bit games like the original Metal Gear to fill in the gaps 
 with their imaginations. Now, 20 years later, technology has caught up and this game has "Kojima's 
 pet project" written all over it. One can see that he really has been trying to make the same game 
 all along, perfecting it little by little until he has finally gotten it perfect this time around.
 
  
  Astounding graphics, great music and sound, incomparable gameplay (not only for its originality 
 but also for its variety and provocativeness) and that unquantifiable ability of this series to 
 really put you in the shoes of Solid Snake as you play.
  
  Truly a not-to-be-missed game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Winters1MGSfan
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 23, 2008 6:11 pm PT
Review:  Note: I am an MGS fanboy. I cosplay as Snake. However, for the sake of an honest review, I will 
 leave behind the bias. And yes, the game still got a 10. 
  
  Gameplay: MGS4 takes a departure from the previous games and allows the player to have more freedom 
 in gameplay. The game is still a stealth game, but the controls and gameplay mechanics have been 
 revised to also allow for a more combat-oriented shooter. The amount of weaponry available to the 
 player is immense with around 60 weapons. The individual weapons each have their own unique feel 
 and are easily distinguishable from each other. The actual pace of the gameplay itself is something 
 to behold. The game is constantly moving and hardly ever leaves the player with time to think, 
 but at the same time it allows the player to plan their next move. The boss battles in the game 
 are excellent, as expected from the series. While none of them are quite as revolutionary as Psycho 
 Mantis or The End, they are exhilarating and very enjoyable. The difficulty of the game, as previous 
 installments have done, really does change from one difficulty setting to another. As of now, I 
 myself have beaten the game 5 times and have played on Liquid Easy, Solid Normal, and Big Boss 
 Hard, and each one has a very unique feel to it. On easier difficulties, things like enemy AI can 
 be seen as bad, while on Big Boss Hard, they are extraordinary. In the end, the gameplay is excellent, 
 allowing players to play the game in whatever way they wish while still providing a challenge.
 
  
  Graphics: The graphics are quite frankly the best I've ever seen in a game in real-time. The detail 
 in every object in the game is just awesome. The textures are beautiful and as if that wasn't enough, 
 the game runs in 1080p! The graphics are the best, period.
  
  Sound: The sound design is excellent. Every sound is distinct and crisp. The voice-acting is excellent, 
 with David Hayter and the likes coming to reprise their roles in the story. The music, as always, 
 is top-notch. Whats interesting, though, is that Kojima uses the music for so much more than to 
 let the player know that they've been spotted. He uses it to invoke emotions and may I say it works. 
 At one point in the game, you come across the front of the Shadow Moses research facility and, 
 now rendered in PS3 graphics, looks beautiful, even though it's deteriorating and and there's a 
 blizzard happening, and when you take that first step the song "The Best is Yet to Come" begins 
 to play. As this is one of the most memorable songs from MGS1, the memories of Snake's first mission 
 there begin to come back. And as if that were not enough, walking into certain areas and doing 
 certain actions will bring about audio flashbacks. The combination of these two makes the nostalgia 
 flow and really makes Snake's last mission feel like it's the end of a journey.
  
  Story: As not to spoil anything, all I will say is that the story is excellent and, as all Metal 
 Gear games are, a little hard to follow. However, by the end of the game, and I mean the very end, 
 like after the credits, the story will make complete sense. 
  
  Final thoughts: This is truly a fitting end for one of the most revolutionary game series ever. 
 This game is truly a work of art. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Correyov31
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 23, 2008 5:23 pm PT
Review:  Metal Gear Solid has always been associated with top notch qaulity. Stunning graphics that push 
 the platform to it's limits. Story telling that at times is complicated but always epic. Boss battles 
 that remain remeberable years after the experience. Cinematics that rival Hollywood movies. When 
 you think of MGS all these things come to mind. Well the verdict is in and I'm here to tell you 
 that Kojima has outdone himself.
  
  Let's start with the setting of the story. This is quite a change from the rest of the series. 
 MGS4 changes the setting with each of the five acts. This is an interesting change from the base 
 infiltration and the forest settings that controlled the other games. These are some of the best 
 enviorments I've seen in some time.
  
  Graphics in this game are amazing. Especially the octocamo that Snake uses. The power of the PS3 
 allows the Octocamo to change to what ever surface Snake is pressed against. This is an improvement 
 from the camo index that was used in MGS3. The graphics are so good that cutscenes are able to 
 blend into gameplay without the player noticing much difference. This game by far is the best looking 
 game on the PS3.
  
  Gameplay is the most innovative of any game in the series. The gameplay has been completly revamped 
 for this game. Sure the cutscenes are still there but this game has a whole new feel. You don't 
 have to hide from the enemy in quite the same way as other games because there is a constant battle 
 going on between the PMC's and the militia. That doesn't mean stealth has completly gone out the 
 window though. If you are spotted back up will be called and unlike other games the PMC's will 
 try to surround you and cut off escape. Sometimes the PMC's will ignore you because they can't 
 afford to search for you while they are at war. Another nice addition is the ability to use Drebin 
 points to buy new weapons. You can fight with a large supply of new weapons. The auto lock on system 
 has been done away with for a over the shoulder aiming view. It takes a while to get used to but 
 beats having to switch to first person view in order to get a head shot.
  
  The sound in this game is simply amazing. Even though I am not a huge fan of Dolby Digital (DTS 
 for me) , it seems to work in this game. If you have surround sound turn it up especially during 
 the first act. The sounds of war seem almost life like. Voice acting is awesome as expected from 
 any MGS title.
  
  MGS4 excels at every level. Many people will ask "Does it live up to the hype?" I can only say 
 yes and it surpasses the hype. I must take a bow to Mr. Kojima. Your masterpiece is one to behold. 
 Even though I am leaving a great deal of the elements out it has to be experienced and can't be 
 told. GO GET THIS GAME!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: SollidSnake_
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 20, 2008 4:21 pm PT
Review:  You'll never see a game like this one. The story is unmatched, beating the story of many, BUT MANY, 
 movies. The gameplay is something EXTREME.. Something that will make you go Insane.. The graphics? 
 Unreal... I've never seen anything like that before.. This is a game that conquers the first place 
 in graphics, in story, in everything! A must buy, and obviously a game worth much more than you 
 give for it (which is rare in ps3) . The playable part sucks you.. The cut scenes do it even more 
 efficiently.. And the main character.. Solid Snake.. The Old Snake.. He'll play the part of an 
 old and tired soldier that heads on to it's last mission.. And still old he can overcome everyone 
 and everything, for he is The Legend.. His character will make your eyes glitter.. A game that 
 affects and impresses you through senses and also emotionally. Don't miss the greatest game I've 
 ever seen. Enjoy it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mrcwood
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 23, 2008 3:55 pm PT
Review:  Oh yeah Awesome! best yet! by a mile! or maybe best full stop! cos theirs not much of a change 
 of a mgs5 but u never know? 
  
  Solid Snake is back! or Now called Old Snake with is annoying reali cos Solid sounds better but 
 doen't matter reali. The Game play is much improved! even when it was gr8 b4! its kinda mix mgs2 
 and 3 together! and with new feature like the octocamo and the gun shop from this guy called drebin 
 which is handy! 
  
  Weapons! theirs loads! u can customize them too! use different bullets or add-on to make it slient 
 or easier to use! i couldn't even name some of them theirs that menny!
  
  The game play is mental! ur in warzone soilders fight each other! bombs go off! air strikes! snipers! 
 awesome! rebels can help u if u help them! Every soilder has emotions like fear, rage or joy.
 
  
  The story is a master piease! Alittle confusing tho lol but defo one not too miss! Never ending 
 plot twist and surprises! Metal gear battle! rex vs ray! well good!
  
  You re-vist old an location! Shadow moses! Awesome or wot! U have flash backs and a little snip 
 of game play from mgs1 too! watch out 4 that!
  
  I could go on for ever just go and buy it!!!!!!!!!
  
  Mrcwood (cwood249)
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: DJWheezer
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 23, 2008 3:53 pm PT
Review:  First let me start by saying I never write game reviews. I've always thought that my number-scale 
 rating was enough of an opinion for anyone that wanted my two cents on a title. However, this game 
 is such an amazing piece of work that I felt I needed to give it the credit that it deserves. This 
 game is worth every bit of hype that has been given to it, and is easily one of the best games 
 ever created.
  
  For those that don't know, the Metal Gear Solid series is based in the near future around the character 
 Solid Snake. Without getting to deep into the story, Snake is a soldier who is continuously called 
 upon to thwart the attempts of his brother Liquid Snake to control walking mechs with various iterations 
 of the code name "Metal Gear" so that he may hold the world hostage. So far Snake has always ended 
 up coming out on top, but at the same time the story stays wide open with many loose ends at the 
 end of each game. Even if you haven't played any of the games in the series before, this game does 
 a pretty good job of recapping all of the previous events so that you may follow the story.
  
  The story of Metal Gear Solid 4 is nothing less than epic. Well written with fantastic voice 
 acting and a rich plot line, this game has a better story than most movies that I have seen. The 
 story sucks you in and won't let you go, but it is nice enough to remind you between acts that 
 you need to take a break. (It also points out the time to you between acts if you have been playing 
 into the wee hours of the morning.) The story flows seamlessly from one act to another, and Hideo 
 Kojima's direction of the plot is masterful. Even if you aren't a fan of the series this game is 
 so good that it is worth a look from everyone.
  
  The gameplay itself is the best of the series. Gone are the days of top down fixed camera angle 
 gameplay of old. It has been replaced by a third person angle. While the view point may be new 
 to the series, it really makes the game play much better. Because MGS games are made for stealth, 
 the new free camera angle makes it a lot easier to gauge where everyone is in relation to your 
 character. There are some people that are going to be mad about the new view, but for me it added 
 a lot of depth to the game.
  
  Along with the new camera view, you are wearing a new "Octocamo" suit that allows you to blend 
 in to your surroundings. When you go prone or press against an object for a few seconds the suit 
 matches the pattern of the ground or object so that you may go nearly unseen while enemies are 
 walking by. This proves to be an integral part of the game, as most of the time you are hoping 
 to go unnoticed. In the event that you are seen, there are typically a couple dozen enemies that 
 come out of the woodwork if an alert is sounded.
  
  The sound on the game is absolutely incredible. During the sneaking portions of the game you could 
 hear a fly fart, while during fire fights you are able to tell exactly where enemies are coming 
 from. (And in most cases what type of weapon they are firing) . In one part in particular you have 
 to tail a target. If you happen to lose sight of him while you are dodging guards you can run around 
 the last area you saw him and listen for footsteps and whistling. The voice acting is top notch 
 as well, with performances turned in that would be Oscar worthy if they were in a movie. The dialog 
 is so well written that you hardly notice how long some of the cutscenes are. (Although the scenes 
 at the end of the game do drag on a bit longer than is necessary.)
  
  Weapon pickups are completely revamped for this game as well. Almost every weapon you pick up is 
 ID locked for the soldier that it was specifically issued to. (This includes grenades and mines.) 
 In order to use most of them you need to get in contact with your arms dealer Drebin. Along with 
 unlocking guns that you have already picked up, Drebin also has more weapons and attachments for 
 your purchase. Personally I ran with an M4 Custom with a laser sight, shotgun attachment, scope, 
 and silencer, all of which were purchased from or unlocked by Drebin. There are some weapons that 
 are extremely expensive, but you can play through multiple times to build up the cash that you 
 will need to buy them. Along with selling and unlocking weapons you will sell any duplicates of 
 weapons that you have already acquired to Drebin to earn points for purchases and unlocks.
  
  Other features that really make this game stand out are the multitude of characters that return 
 from previous Metal Gear Solid installments. Not only do the characters show up, but all of the 
 voice actors from the previous games have returned to reprise their roles. This makes for great 
 consistency and flow for fans of the series. All of the loose ends from the previous installments 
 are wrapped up as well, and in an epic fashion no less.
  
  Metal Gear Solid 4 is a masterful ending to a great series. Not only is the game one of the most 
 graphically advanced games on the PS3, it is an absolute masterpiece that any PS3 owner needs to 
 buy. The story reels you in, the graphics are awesome, and the gameplay mixes great action with 
 excellent puzzles. Konami and Hideo Kojima have made a product that is a legitimate system seller, 
 and if you haven't played this game your are missing out. I am giving this a 10 only because I 
 couldn't rate it any higher, and I will be replaying it many times over to find everything there 
 is in this epic Metal Gear Universe. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tsiper
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 23, 2008 3:14 pm PT
Review:  Wow and do I mean wow This game is so absolutely perfect I am awh struck. Thank goodness Mr. Kojima 
 and crew remembered us gamers the ones that have been gaming since the Atari 2600, Especially in 
 this era of Wii's and all of the casual gamers and the flood of games that are aimed at the casual 
 gamer that can't tell that they are actually playing the same game just in different clothes. I 
 never dreamed that this game would be so good. MGS 4 hits on all points, cylinders , and afterburners. 
 I for one really appreciate that Mr. Hideo Kojima and crew went above and beyond to give us the 
 game that we all wanted but could never have dreamed would be so very very good. I am glad that 
 he has made a stand for the technical gamer the Hardcore gamer after all we are the ones that have 
 stuck with gaming even when it wasn't cool. Belive me I know I used to get bugged about it at school 
 and even work that games are for loosers. And let me tell you if that is true then I will take 
 my MGS 4 and happily be the biggest losser of them all because this game is definetly a gift to 
 all of the MGS fans. Now this game is long it took me 23.49 hours to beat the game and I did it 
 in pretty much one sitting and wow my goodness it was worth it! and now I am going thru it again 
 on big boss hard.
  
  Now let me admit I have loved and own all of the MGS games even the Acids they are awesome in they're 
 own right. I have loved all of the games even MGS 2 with its complex story and I played it over 
 and over until I understood it all I even thought Raiden was really cool. I really appreciate how 
 Kojima productions made sure every story plot sub plot and nook and cranny was completely fleshed 
 out and explained in full detail. After you have beaten this game you will have had all of your 
 questions answered every single one of them!!!!!! (even the meaning of life) lol!!! I love the 
 single player and I really enjoy the multi player I really love that its just a starter pack I 
 can't wait to get the add ons. Some times when you buy a game you just don't get much bang for 
 your buck. I am overwhelmingly happy to say that this time THAT IS NOT THE CASE!!! Wow this game 
 is worth every single solitary penny and then some! You will enjoy the beautiful cinimatics that 
 are done with the in game engine and if after the game and some multi player you are still confused 
 Konami has most generously given to us for free the Metal Gear Solid Database with more info on 
 everything MGS and MG than anyone would ever need to know. I am talking flow charts even for the 
 relationships and everything. Sound and graphics are outof this world. This game truely sets the 
 bar for what every game should look and sound like in the future no matter what system they are 
 on. Mr Kojima and crew Awesome job and thank you as always for making me cry at the end and for 
 a beautiful game well done. Now everyone else go buy a copy now!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bone3593
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 23, 2008 2:23 pm PT
Review:  finally finished the epic Metal Gear Solid 4! I actually finished it a couple days ago but I have 
 been to busy to write a blog. I never thought I would say this, but Metal Gear Solid 4 is a reason 
 to buy a PS3. I never thought I was going to get a PS3 until I saw some gameplay trailers and read 
 previews. I am so happy I got one though. It is seriously like waatching a movie. The very last 
 cutscene last an hour!! And that is just one cut scene of this long game. If you don't feel like 
 watching them or you have to go do something you can allways just pause or skip it. 
  
  As for the gameplay goes, this game can be played many ways. You can go out guns blazing, or be 
 stealthy and never fire a shot. That is until you fight one of the many boss fights. They can be 
 very challenging, but very fun. They never feel to frustrating, but they never feel to easy either. 
 There is also some customizable options for your camoflage, and your guns. The Drebin Points are 
 a great idea and it is allawys fun to see the many guns you can buy and then customize them. There 
 a also scenes where you are on the back of a vehicle or other vehicle based parts. (one part will 
 be talked about for years) All in all the gameplay is incredible. The only complaint I can think 
 of is it can be easy to get lost in the game. It is hard to complain when they give you a map. 
 But there are some parts when I found myself just running around in a circle not knowing where 
 to go. That is the only complaint of the whole game, and the only thing that is somewhat bad about 
 the game. 
  
  As far as graphics go, this is pushing the PS3 to its limits on the graphics. There are many different 
 setting and all are very detailed and are incredible to see. The cutscenes are movie qualitie and 
 the amazing thing is, the cutscenes look exactly like they do when you start to play the game. 
 The transtition from cutscene to gameplay proves that there isn't much of a differnence. This is 
 a graphical masterpeice. 
  
  My final impressions are that this game deserves to be game of the year. Yeah there is GTA but 
 there is just something about this game that makes it all the much better. If you have a PS3 then 
 get this game, if you don't then I would reccomend some how playing this game. It is definetley 
 worth it.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: dvader654
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 23, 2008 1:37 pm PT
Review:  It has been over four years that gaming world has awaited the final mission of the legendary Solid 
 Snake. So much hype has been thrown around; to some MGS4 is enough to buy a PS3 for. With all the 
 weight on its shoulders Metal Gear Solid 4 still manages to exceed expectations and deliver a game 
 experience that will be remembered for a long time to come. Make no mistake, this is Hideo Kojima's 
 masterpiece, I doubt I have ever seen a game where such love and care went into it.
  
  While past MGS games for the most part took place in one or two locations, this game takes place 
 all over the world. No longer is it a small insurrection Snake is sent to take out, at this point 
 it is the entire world that is on the brink of ruin and Solid Snake must save the day. Compared 
 to the other MGS games, MGS4 is like a sweeping movie epic. It has a massive cast, takes you all 
 over the world, and manages to answer practically every lingering question the series has proposed. 
 The story is a major part of this game, huge chunks of exposition will break apart the gameplay 
 segments. Thankfully the cutscenes are presented in such a way that it rivals most CG movies, the 
 production value is at a point I have never seen before. Yes there is a ton of cutscenes but unlike 
 past MGS games almost all of them are stunning to watch. Codec storytelling is cutdown to almost 
 nothing; all meaningful plot advancements come from the glorious in game cinematics. If huge amounts 
 of cutscenes bothered you before it will bother you again, as with all MGS games it has hours upon 
 hours of cutscenes. Still, these are cutscenes worth watching as it deals with emotions and aspects 
 most games will never touch. You will feel pain, remorse, laughter, sadness, laughter, joy, and 
 love. All the characters you have grown to love all come together; all their lives reach a turning 
 point, its impossible to not get swept up in the emotional impact of the story.
  
  Quite possibly the most impressive aspect of the cutscenes is that many of them now transition 
 seamlessly into the game itself. Its something you have to see to appreciate, it adds so much to 
 the mix of game and story. The two are now interwoven in a way that it feels like its one. The 
 only complaint about the story I can come up with is that it does not end on the same high notes 
 that earlier acts in the game do, it kind of gets bloated and almost MGS2 like toward the end. 
 Overall though I was satisfied with story, plus if you want to look deeper into the plot you can 
 find plenty of political commentary. 
  
  There are some people that play MGS games just for the story; well I am not one of them. I play 
 MGS games cause I believe they offer some of the best unique action/stealth based gameplay. MGS4 
 takes the great improvements added to MGS3, mainly the camo system and opening of environments, 
 to a whole new level. Snake now infiltrates a war zone; no longer is it just you and a group of 
 enemies you must evade. Two factions will be fighting in many areas and you can either choose to 
 help out the local militia or just sneak around in the chaos. This aspect brings about so many 
 gameplay possibilities; for instance you can hide in shadows taking out anyone that gets in your 
 way silently, or you can disguise yourself as a militia man and advance with them as you help defeat 
 the PMC army, or you can be Rambo and just kill everything in your path. Every new area you enter 
 has some unique event happening, whether its a tank making its way down an enemy street or a battle 
 for a power plant, the variety in locations and situations is staggering. 
  
  The best part of it all is that Solid Snake now controls like a dream. All the mechanics have been 
 reworked to provide a control scheme that fits in line with today's modern shooters. No longer 
 is gunplay a pain, now you can run and gun with ease. The third person camera works as well as 
 any third person shooter I have ever played, at any time you can enter first person view for more 
 zoomed in shots. Also of note, Snake no longer sticks to walls, at first this may seem like a bad 
 change cause it used to be so easy backing into a wall to peak around corners but when the action 
 would get rough to often would you accidentally stick to a wall when you really wanted to shoot, 
 that does not happen any more. Snake also has more evasive maneuvers like side rolls and the ability 
 to roll while prone. CQC is back and better than ever, holding up enemies or grabbing them is easier 
 to do than ever before. The octocamo applies the MGS3 camo system without any of the constant menu 
 surfing. Also introduced is the solid eye system which is an all in one radar, night vision, heads 
 up display system, you won't believe you used to play MGS games without it. Everything is so streamlined, 
 its vast improvement to the controls and helps the gameplay tremendously.
  
  With this new control scheme comes a greater emphasis on gunplay. MGS4 has a RE4 like gun seller 
 named Drebin which sells you weapons and ammo for Drebin Points, points you get from finding weapons 
 all over the battlefield. There are 70 weapons in the game, most of them can be customized even 
 further with silencers, grips, scopes, and with some even a grenade launcher attachment. For the 
 Gandhi types that don't like to kill, there is a slew of stun weapon types as well. Finding DP 
 and gathering all the weapons is a game in its own. To be honest most players will probably find 
 a favorite weapon of each type and just stick with it but it's still nice to have the huge array 
 of weapons (some of which are very odd and can lead to hilarious situations) . The game makes sure 
 to make use of all these guns; there are many action heavy moments where you are forced to shoot 
 your way through the enemy. These set pieces are spectacular and really showcases how far this 
 game has come to making MGS has good a shooter as it is a stealth game. The only issue with this 
 system is that you are never out of ammo; conservation is not needed. 
  
  Initial footage of this game made MGS4 look like MGS3+ or something like that. Well in a stroke 
 of pure genius (in my opinion, some may think this is what hurts the game) , that is only the first 
 half of the game. The second half take you out of that war zone style of play and throws you into 
 a whirlwind of gameplay variety and scenarios that pull aspects of all MGS games together to create 
 the ultimate Metal Gear experience. You experience very unique locations and gameplay elements 
 you have never seen or played in a MGS game. I was left in awe at the stuff I was doing, my eyes 
 were popping out of their head at some of the action sequences, and every single MGS fan will be 
 in love with one of the later sections. Lets not forget the boss fights, while I think they never 
 reach the greatness of some of the MGS3 boss fights, they are all very memorable in their own ways. 
 I just wished there was more ways to take some of them down, like in MGS3. Seems that with the 
 emphasis on guns the unique tricks you can pull on them with your items has been pulled down to 
 a minimum, its mostly just shooting them to death (besides two puzzle like bosses) . There is not 
 a stinker in the bunch though, they maybe a bit easy but the way the battles are presented will 
 blow you away. 
  
  To say this game is deep is an understatement. When you first play the game (about 20 hours of 
 play, of which around 8 hours are cutscenes) odds are you missed out on some areas and did not 
 see the crazy amount of easter eggs and secrets hidden throughout the game. One such item is an 
 ipod, which you get at the start of the game with some tracks but many music tracks of classic 
 MG and Kojima games are hidden all over the game. Even if you don't want to look for secrets there 
 are so many ways to play the game there is no way you can say you experienced it all in one playthrough. 
 At the end of the game you get emblems depending on how you play, there are 40 of these, as you 
 play using different styles you unlock them. You will probably not put this game down for a very 
 very long time. To top it off there is even a full online game included, I won't go much into detail 
 here cause I will review it as a separate game but MGO is a great alternative to the usual online 
 shooter. 
  
  This game not only has great story and excellent gameplay but on the tech front it's a showcase 
 game. Graphically it is the most impressive console game I have ever played. You will see and play 
 things you thought could only be done in CG. The most impressive of which is the final boss fight, 
 which I swear is the most visually impressive fight in the history of videogames. Not to be outdone 
 the sound is movie quality. You have to play this game on some sort of surround sound, it would 
 be a crime not to. The sounds of the battlefield come to you from all sides; it is an immersive 
 sound experience like no other. Musically the score rivals even the biggest of Hollywood 's blockbusters. 
 Sadly the main theme is missing cause of plagiarism, still Harry Gregson-Williams does an incredible 
 job closing out the series musically. If I had to find one real flaw with MGS4 it is that it does 
 have frequent small loads and installs after every act, even that is a minor inconvenience.
  
  Metal Gear Solid 4 is the total package. Every inch of this game is oozing with quality, not 
 one aspect is left behind. On a technical level its one of the highest quality games you will ever 
 play. The true genius however is how Kojima leaves his mark on this game. Like the best directors 
 in movies, you can see Kojima's style come through in the gameplay and cutscenes. This game was 
 clearly a labor of love, you can tell that he poured every last inch of what he had into making 
 this game the ultimate masterpiece, to make it his greatest achievement. You don't just play this 
 game, you feel it, it grabs you, demands your attention in a way that few games ever do. It is 
 a landmark game, its a game that will be one of the defining moments of a generation, it simply 
 is one of the all time greatest games. 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: skyfire1
Rating: 6.5
Date: Jun 23, 2008 1:02 pm PT
Review:  I've been a fan of the Metal Gear Solid series since the first one.
  The series overall has had a big impact on my life in general. When
  I first played Metal Gear 
 Solid I it blew me away. The idea that you
  could play a game where the objective is to not be seen was revolutionary.
  I remember how my 
 heart pounded when I first screwed up and HQ sent 6
  guys to hunt down my ass. I tried to shoot them all but they had shields
  and I ran out of ammo. 
 I had one grenade left so I threw it and ran. After
  staying out of their sight for a well the alert level dropped enough for me
  to find a nice box 
 to hide behind. The alert mode dropped to zero and I
  breathed a sigh of relief. It was right then that I knew this was a awesome
  series
  
  A 
 few years later then came Metal Gear Solid 2. This game impressed me better then the first one. 
 The boss fights were better and the stealth mechanics improved. The storyline was very compelling 
 and coherent. Many fans were disappointed that you had to play Raiden but still it was no doubt 
 better than the first.
  
  A few more long years past and Kojima spoiled us again with Metal Gear Solid 3. Holy Shnikes Just 
 when you think it couldn't get any better. Not only did you have to sneak into a huge fortress 
 undetected but you also had to make sure your stamina gauge is kept up. You also had to keep a 
 eye on your camo meter. This game was the defining moment for Kojima.
  
  Now its 2008 and my long awaited sequel has arrived. After I waited through
  about 20 minutes 
 of cutscenes I get to play as a aged Solid Snake. Interesting. You also have to make sure y0u don't 
 get stressed too much or your Psyche meter will drop. "Thats pretty neat" I thought. After going 
 through a few hours of I asked myself a few questions. Where is the challenge? You go through all 
 the trouble to keep your psyche meter up when later Naomi gives you a syringe, rendering the entire 
 meter meaningless? Another failed element, Unlike the previous games, you can get the disguises 
 easily. If you decide to go rambo, you'll find that unlike the previous games, its easy. Theres 
 no need to run around looking for ammo, you can buy weapons and ammo from Drebin whenever you feel 
 like it. The dumb AI makes this
  element worse. The PMCS will stare for 3 seconds before shooting you. I thought the SOP injections 
 were supposed to fix that. What the hell Hideo? The stealth elements are ruined completely too. 
 Theres no need to find a better camo pattern, your octocam automaticly mimics the thing you are 
 next too. Even if you play it dumb and get detected, theres never anything to worry about. You 
 can just lay on the ground and pick them off with your silenced pistol and if you run out you can 
 get more ammo from Drebin. It seems as if Hideo purposely tried to make this game as easy for the 
 casual gamer as he possibly could. Keep in mind I started out playing this game on hard. The only 
 difficulty you have in combat is if you manage to run out of rations, noodles, and regainers. The 
 only challenging aspects of combat
  are when you have to fight a boss or you have to take on the frogs. While Metal Gear Solid 2's 
 storyline was very crazy and far fetched, Metal Gear Solid 4's story is crazy, far fetched, dull, 
 and incoherent. Hideo really needs to hire a real movie director. Most of the characters are butchered 
 in this final installment and just make the game awkward. For an example, why was Otacon so upset 
 that Naomi died? It made sense that he was sad when Sniper Wolf died; he had a relationship with 
 her that spanned at least a few months. But why did he care so much about Naomi. He only had a 
 real relationship with her for a total of 1 day. It just doesn't make a damn bit of sense. There 
 are also more stupid plot elements that I will not spoil for you.
  
  To sum it all up, I was disappointed terribly by Metal Gear Solid 4. There are
  a few fun and 
 challenging parts but most of the game is clearly meant for the casual player. I feel that Hideo 
 Kojima did the same thing to Metal Gear Solid that George Lucas did the Star Wars Trilogy. I think 
 you should rent it and if you like the multiplayer, buy it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: greyfoxsnake
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 23, 2008 12:54 pm PT
Review:  10,000 Watts
  
  I got a loaded gun
  a weapon of beta sex sex
  total recall
  But I'm still in such a daze
  
  Fed up, I start to realize
  can't stop the flow
  of upcoming 
 files
  hey you, wanna enjoy my artificial love
  can't stop the thrills, they don't give me enough
  there is no god,
  chaos and disorder
  
 it's a party
  that's crossing the border
  
  Burn to feel
  Burn the last thought
  Come and test it
  on every dance floor
  
  Another pleasure
  just a pleasure of love
  
 another pleasure
  is never enough
  
  Another pleasure
  just a pleasure of love
  10.000 watts are never enough
  
  I'm just a falling star
  a victim of excess
  digital shock
 
  I'm trapped inside the maze
  reloaded, I'm cloning my whole life
  chemical love, industrialized
  
  **** you, I don't need your boring love
  I got the pills 
 and they thrill me enough
  there's hope
  a new world order
  a new race, that's crossing the border
  
  Burn to feel
  Burn the last thought
  Come and 
 test it
  on every dance floor
  
  Another pleasure
  just a pleasure of love
  another pleasure
  is never enough
  
  Another pleasure
  just a pleasure of love
  10.000 
 watts are never enough
  
  Another pleasure
  just a pleasure of love
  another pleasure
  is never enough
  
  Ich weil in dieser welt
  da es euch so gefallt
  
 eine machinerie
  gedopt mit sex chemie. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: splendormk7
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 23, 2008 12:50 pm PT
Review:  buddy what else could we say about this movie ahhh sorry v (H) ideo game .. ? graphic is fascinating 
 sound is outstanding nothing is bad i' ll make it short .. Bestest game we have ever played .. 
 if someone says this game is not good enough we should make him say : Requesting back up ASAP .. 
 please i didn't mean it guys give me another chance .. i swear to god i am gonna love this game 
 ... we dont need these losers guys we made a clan .. once you plunged into it you can never leave 
 it .. addiction situations you know ... huh guys i gotta go now i need to do something and you 
 know what it is .. do yourself a favor if you love playin' videogames go out and get a ps3 in order 
 to feel this innovation .. alright? most of us will play MGS4 over and over again but it is worth 
 it guys ... Spl (E. E) ndoR loves you .... so Frost does .... see you guys ..................... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: carljohnson3456
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 23, 2008 12:43 pm PT
Review:  Man oh man, where do I start? I'm not even going to try to conduct a legit "review" because I cant. 
 I've tried. I cant even judge this game really. It's hard to explain, but I tried to compliment 
 it to the best of my ability and it still seems cliche' and tired. You cant say enough. 
  
  The graphics are some of the best I've seen this gen. Besides Uncharted and Gears, I cant really 
 think of a game I've played on a console that looks better. Kojima Productions did a fine job making 
 use of the PS3's graphical capabilities. 
  
  This game has the most most realistic environment I've ever played behind GTAIV. The environment 
 really sucks you in. You can watch buildings crumble to rubble in the far off distance. You can 
 watch armys battle without interferring. Snake complains about his back if you crouch too long. 
 Dust and debris blows around, you have to be careful not to step on bottles, and stay out of enemy's 
 site. It's pretty engaging, everything.
  
  The storyline is without a doubt, going to be heavy for some. I actually understood this game much 
 more than I ever have a MGS game though. Granted, I was only 12, 15, and 18 when I played the previous 
 games... and alot of the old cut scenes were boring and hard to pay attention to... not this game. 
 The cutscenes are wonderfully crafted, and pretty entertaining. The only ones that might have trouble 
 keeping your attention is the mission briefings. I actually was entertained by every cut scene 
 in this game though, because I was so drawn into the game. And the cutscenes do run long at some 
 points, and some times you will sit and watch cutscenes for 45 minutes.
  
  With that said, Kojima did a masterful job of connecting the player to Snake. I've never felt more 
 connected to a character in any form of media. Snake's aged, and it shows throughtout the game. 
 You actually feel for Snake in this one, he's not the complete bad ass that can do no wrong anymore. 
 He's a tired soldier, trying to complete his final mission, even if he dies trying. It's a really 
 different take on any character I've ever played, but Snake is at his best in this game. It's clear 
 to see the thoughts goin on in his head as he puffs away on a cigarette. You can really see that 
 even he's unsure he can pull this mission off. It really brings him to a "human" level for a change.
 
  
  The gameplay has been overhauled, with an over the shoulder aiming system, and much tighter control. 
 Sometimes this game plays more like a third person shooter than it does a stealth game. You can 
 still sneak around the battlefields, but you can also go in guns blazing. There are some missions 
 that require you do run 'n gun, and are some of the most exciting moments I've ever witnessed in 
 a video game. 
  
  I'm not a good reviewer, I just like to write about games, so I'm just going to to say I'm not 
 pleased with this review. I wish I could say more about the game, but like I said, it would sound 
 cliche' and insincere. But, simply put, games this special dont come around very often. Games that 
 can actually move you in some aspects... they're a rare breed. Seeing the end of this game... it's 
 completely satisfying. Hideo Kojima tied up any loose ends of the franchise together, and all of 
 the questions you have will probably be answered. 
  
  Forget that I gave this game a 10, forget that IGN did, forget that Gamespot did. Scores are irrelevant 
 to this game. It's above a "status" of any kind... regardless of AAAA, AAA, or AA. It's a masterpeice, 
 a true work of art. If you dont plan on buying it, at least give it a rent. This game needs to 
 be experinced. I dont care how fanboyish that sounds, because I actually mean it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rragnaar
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 23, 2008 11:10 am PT
Review:  We've been waiting for MGS4 since November of 2004 when we got the chance to play MGS3. That game 
 was my favorite on the PS2, and I have a feeling that I've found my favorite on the PS3. MGS4 combines 
 'solid' gameplay with incredible presentation in a way that isn't matched by any other series, 
 and surpasses the previous MGS games. Kojima might get a little too long winded with his cutscenes, 
 but this is the end of Snake's story. There are so many loose ends to tie up, and so many subplots 
 to resolve, that excess can be forgiven. This game is designed to be a fitting sendoff to one of 
 gaming's greatest heroes and it delivers.
  
  
  
  Gameplay-
  
  Metal Gear Solid 4 is divided up into 5 Act's. This is a brilliant way to pace the game. Each Act 
 presents new types of gameplay, new areas to explore, new enemies to fight and new weapons with 
 which to defeat said enemies. I won't go into any detail regarding later parts of the game as the 
 game presents much more than the traditional MGS 'tactical espionage action' that we've become 
 accustomed to. The first two Acts of the game have a similar formula in that you are infiltrating 
 a war zone in each one, and you can choose to help the local militias in their fight against Liquid 
 Ocelot's PMCs or you can go it alone.
  
  
  
  The game changes dramatically depending on how you choose to handle these militias. Leave them 
 alone and, at best they will treat you with suspicion, and at worst they will regard you as an 
 enemy. The brilliance of Metal Gear's game design is that it allows for so much freedom in how 
 you play the game, especially once you've beaten the game once, as your items and weapons carry 
 over to each new playthrough. Pure stealth is always an option, and it is a rewarding way to play 
 through most of the game, although there are certain 'on rails' sections that make it unnecessarily 
 difficult if you are trying to do a 'no kills, no alerts' run. Thankfully the game borrows from 
 MGS3 in that it no longer punishes you if you want to make use of the game's stunning array of 
 weaponry. The games before MGS3 were very narrowly focused on stealth, and while they are excellent 
 games in their own right, the MGS formula is a lot more fun when you can pull out some over the 
 top weapons and dispose of your enemies in new and different ways.
  
  
  
  Regarding the weaponry, there are nearly 70 weapons in the game, and most of them are customizable 
 thanks to a new character in the game, Drebin. Drebin is a gun launderer/arms dealer who sells 
 you weapons, ammo and parts that allow you to customize your weapons. Tired of your plain old M4? 
 Why not add a grenade launcher or shotgun to the underside of the barrel? The weapons in MGS4 are 
 fantastic, and having Drebin around only makes them better.
  
  
  
  There are some stunning set pieces in which you battle the bosses in this game. The bosses aren't 
 as challenging or unique as previous bosses in the series, but they are certainly a lot of fun. 
 My favorite of which takes place on a snowy battlefield.
  
  
  Overall, I think Kojima made a fantastic decision to split the game into Acts, as it allows the 
 game to be bitten off in chunks... and each of those chunks presents something new and fantastic. 
 For me, the freedom in the gameplay where you can choose to play as stealthily or as combative 
 as you like really adds to the replayability, couple that with each Act providing different gameplay, 
 and you can see why I'm already on my third playthrough of the game. Quite simply, MGS4's gameplay 
 is better than any previous game in the series. It is nothing short of addictive.
  
  
  
  Graphics, Performance and Sound-
  
  
  
  This game is gorgeous, pure and simple. Some 
 of the textures are a little low res, and some of the shadows flicker, but those are mere nitpicks. 
 When you take into account the scale of the areas, and the number of things happening at once, 
 especially later in the game, MGS4's graphics are phenomenal.
  
  
  The framerate is unstable, but from what I've seen in my playthrough, that simply means that there 
 are moments when it runs a higher framerate. I never saw it drop to unacceptable levels, but it 
 does run higher in smaller areas.
  
  
  The only real negative that I can find in this department is that the game has installs placed 
 throughout it. In order to get around Sony's mandated cap on how big an install file can be, they've 
 included a small install at the beginning of each act that replaces the previous act's file. After 
 the initial 8 minute install at the start of the game, the act installs take around 2 minutes each. 
 I'm sure that this affects different people different ways, but it didn't hurt my experience with 
 the game. The installs go quick, and they are placed in spots where they don't break the action.
 
  
  
  
  The sound in MGS4 is top notch. I haven't heard it on a surround sound setup yet, but nevertheless 
 the sound is stunning. Each weapon sounds unique, each area has its own ambience, and when you 
 are in the heat of battle there is so much going on aurally that it is beatiful symphony of bullets, 
 music, explosions and screams.
  
  
  
  Story and Presentation-
  
  
  This game excels at storytelling and presentation. The cutscenes, all rendered in real time, are 
 breathtaking, and since they are real time, they don't pull you out of the game. I could go on 
 about the presentation, but really, there isn't much more that I could say other than MGS4's presentation 
 is better than any game that has preceded it. I won't go into story details at all, other than 
 to say that Snake's final mission is an epic story. The twists and turns of the plot are so well 
 done. Even the most minor characters in the series have a part to play in its finale.
  
  
  The story will be the most controversial part of this game. For some it will be too long, and 
 for others it might be too convoluted. As an MGS fan, I loved it. Bring popcorn for the end, as 
 it is a long one. While I think the game's story is an incredible one, there are a few scenes at 
 the end that could use some editing. The end is satisfying, but altogether I'd say it is too long 
 by about 20 minutes or so. However, for a series that has lasted 20 years, what's another 20 minutes?
 
  
  
  Overall- Metal Gear Solid 4 is an incredible experience that shouldn't be missed. It is a game 
 that I have replayed, and a game that I will continue to keep playing. The core gameplay is so 
 solid that you will keep coming back long after you've seen the story. I couldn't ask for a better 
 game.
  
  
  
  10 out of 10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wengk
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 23, 2008 9:32 am PT
Review:  This is definately one of the best games I have played on the PS3.
  
  I have always been a PC gamer, but recently purchased a PS3 and this game was at the top of my 
 radar.
  
  Now let's get to the review.
  
  1. Gameplay - Definately one of the best gameplay experience I have had in a long time. Some people 
 might think the cut scenes are too long, but for someone that haven't play the first few MGS games, 
 this give you enough back story to understand what is going on.
  
  2. Graphics - By far the best graphical game on the PS3, very good attention to details.
  
 
  3. Sound - The sound in the game is superb, very good balance and voice acting. The IPOD is a 
 nice touch, but unfortunately you cannot have it equipped with another item, which made the IPOD 
 not as useful.
  
  4. Value - I find that in this department, the game wasn't as long as I expected it to be. I was 
 hoping for around 25 hours of gameplay and 5 hours of cut scenes. I think the game was only around 
 15 hours of gameplay and 5 hours of cut scenes. 
  
  5. Overall - I think if all games were made to this kind of a standard for the PS3, a lot more 
 people getting the console. 
  
  Final Comments - I guess you can always pick and point out flaws in every game. I think MGS4 definately 
 has a few flaws, but it is all minor and it is over shadowed by all the positives. I personally 
 never played any of the previous MGS games. I still find this to be one of the best games around.
 
  
  So, why 9.5 and not 10, because nothing is perfect.
  
  MGS4 leaving you wanting more and I hope more quality games like this one gets released for the 
 PS3.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: smc1770
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 23, 2008 9:03 am PT
Review:  This game was the reason I got a PS3. I love all the Metal Gear games especially this one. The 
 cinematics were pretty lengthy at times, but the gameplay and graphics made up for that. Online 
 play is just as addictive. I was a little cautious when it came to going online. But found the 
 process very easy! And having such a great game with the console, makes the whole experience perfect. 
 If this really is the end of Snake, they definitely do him and all the elements of the MGS series 
 justice. I predict that the online game is going to be around for a while as well. It has enough 
 elements to keep it interesting. What I like about this multiplayer scenario is that teamwork is 
 more effective and efficient. Playing lone wolf will have you watching your back constantly. My 
 favorite gun as of this moment is the M4 Custom (also my favorite during my Counter-Strike dayz) 
 I love that there are so many weapons to choose from. But Im a hard head and stick with what I 
 pick early on unless forced to try something else. MGS4 IS THE BEST GAME OF 2008!!! I can't think 
 of any game that can even challenge it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kingdre
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 23, 2008 8:28 am PT
Review:  As a fan of the Metal Gear Solid series, I couldn't have asked for a better ending to a story that 
 has taken several years (and 3 consoles) to finish. From the very start, this game was a must-have 
 for me. This game has met all my expectations for the franchise and more. The only drawback is 
 that the story will not make sense to a person who hasn't played MGS from the beginning. But to 
 loyal fans such as myself, all loose ends have been tied up and all questions answered.
  
  The graphics are absolutely remarkable. Undoubtedly the best I have seen this gen. The transition 
 from cutscene to gameplay is as simple as the HUD appearing on screen. Even in SD, the game looks 
 stunning. My parents thinking they were watching a movie when it was actually a cutscene is a testament 
 to the quality of the graphics. Snake has come a long way from the pixelated person he was back 
 in MGS1.
  
  The sound is also amazing. Gunfire, explosions, footsteps, and even grass being stepped on are 
 all blended into the game perfectly. The voice acting is what you would expect from a game like 
 this. My only complaint is that Snake sounds like he should cough up some phlegm. Raspy voices 
 aside, all the other characters pretty much sound the same. But one cool aspect that I think can 
 be easily overlooked is the split-voice effect used for the bosses. It really adds depth to the 
 whole beauty and the beast thing. The music of some cutscenes are also worth a mention. It was 
 so good and so fitting to the scene that it made my hair stand. No kidding. Very dramatic.
  
  The gameplay is a huge leap forward. This Snake may be old, but he has a bigger variety of 
 movements. Rolling, rolling while crouched, shooting while lying on his back, and walking while 
 crouched among other things. The OctoCamo was a nice addition as well. It took the concept of camouflage 
 used in MGS3 and took it to the next level. Now, Snake doesn't have to keep changing outfits to 
 match his environment; the suit does it for him. This makes hiding and sneaking a whole lot easier. 
 The Solid Eye and Metal Gear Mk. II make it easier to know where your enemies are. No more running 
 into enemies at the next turn like MGS3 or staying out of the blue cones like MGS1 and 2.
  Another new touch is the Drebin Points system. Snake can buy weapons and sell the ones he picks 
 up and keep the ammo. Some weapons are also open to customization which adds another feature never 
 seen in an MGS game before.
  The boss battles are pretty straightforward. That much I will say.
  
  The game also has several 
 unlockable items that might interest a few gamers who want to have it all. Suffice it to say, you 
 will definitely not be unlocking everything after only a couple playthroughs.
  
  Overall this game deserves a 10. Or at least a 9.9. The graphics are incredible and imo should 
 be the standard for PS3 games from here on out. The sounds help the world come to life and the 
 gameplay is just right. The story has been successfully concluded with all questions answered, 
 giving fans some much needed closure. This game made Solid Snake and hideo Kojima legendary icons 
 in the gaming world. It's been a long time coming and for Solid Snake, a more perfect ending couldn't 
 be written. 
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: kendo1234
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 23, 2008 8:01 am PT
Review:  Okay, this review is going to sound ever so fanboyish bu hey, im a fan of both the Metal Gear Saga 
 and the multitude of films Hideo Kojima has homaged throughout the series (after all, the central 
 character is based on Kurt Russel, or an amalgam thereof) .
  
  MGS4 is a complete and utter masterpiece, from start to finish it becomes a byword for epic, Kojima 
 throwing setpiece after setpiece at the player, balancing intense sequences of revolutionary action 
 (the on-rails bike chase is breathtaking even on multiple playthroughs) and well paced blockbuster 
 cut scenes.
  
  My review is a tad late and as a result will probably not be read as everyone has no doubt made 
 thier decision about this game, but, after my 5th playthrough (the unlocks are also unique and 
 amazing) i just felt the need to express some MGS love in typed form. Much the same as Bungie did 
 with Halo 3, Hideo Kojima has streamlined the tctical espionage action he created in such a way 
 as to create the perfect MGS game, one which stealth is a reliable mechanic but can b flouted for 
 head on action whenever you feel like. A game that hascherry picked the best elements of previous 
 games and made them leanerand better. The result is never anything short of astonishing.
  
  Note: Like many of the reviews has said this is a game for fans. Regardless of the recent release 
 of the MGS database on PSN, MGS4 is the conclusion to a labyrinthine saga which began in the late 
 80's and anyone approaching the series from this point will be confused, overwhelmed and perhaps 
 a little mad. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Brandon2127
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 23, 2008 7:21 am PT
Review:  Let's start with the blatantly obvious. The graphics are absolutely ASTOUNDING. To give you an 
 example of how real they look my mother came to visit me a week ago and wandered in on me playing 
 Metal Gear (it was at a cutscene at the time) and she actually said "Are you just gonna sit there 
 watching movies or give your Mum a hug?" She actually thought I was watching a DVD rather than 
 playing a game! They are so crisp and clean, no jagged edges at all (well I haven't seen any) . 
 The only part of the graphics that distinguish Metal Gear from a movie is that there is no bodily 
 hair (don't get any rude ideas...) like arm, leg and facial hair. That is understandable however 
 as all the tiny details in the hairs would have to be individually animated and that uses memory 
 that could be put to much better use. 10/10
  
  The music is not only as profound, as powerful and as, well... perfect as ever but there is the 
 added twist of Snake's new iPod! It allows you to play music from the other games in the Metal 
 Gear Saga but also the official Metal Gear Solid Podcasts. It also adds the extra element of collecting 
 new tunes as you progress through the game. Not ONLY THAT (yes there is another element) but listening 
 the iPod reduces Snake's stress levels which is useful when trying to reduce the amount of healing 
 items used. The older songs certainly give out the feeling of nostalgia that the many flashbacks 
 start. 10/10
  
  The gameplay is completely on par with everything else so far but I'm afraid to get into too much 
 detail for fear of spoilers so I'll just mention the points that have had the biggest impact for 
 me. The first is the introduction of the over-the-shoulder view for shooting. This makes machine-gun 
 and pistol shooting much faster which is VERY useful as the possibility of being over-run by enemies 
 is much higher than in previous installments. Next is the weapon customisation, the assault rifles 
 and sub-machine guns can be customised with a variety of scopes, grenade launchers (and other attachments) , 
 rifle lights, grips and a laser sight. This really allows for a degree of personalisation for each 
 person's style of gunplay. Lights can also be added to some pistols but the only REALLY useful 
 pistols, the Mk2 and the Desert Eagle can't be customised. 10/10
  
  Finally I'm going to mention the characters. Probably the best part about the characters is that 
 every single character that was still alive at the end of the previous installments returns in 
 one way or another and the ones that had the misfortune of dying are mentioned or shown at least 
 once. I won't say anymore for fear of spoilers. 10/10
  
  Overall 10/10
  
  I thought the Classification was appropriate. :D 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mike-uk
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 23, 2008 6:09 am PT
Review:  This is the best metal gear solid in the series, the graphics are the best on the ps3 so far and 
 online is great, however the fact that if you want a second character slot you must pay for it 
 sucks. 
  
  This game will, if your experienced at MGS4 games take you about 17-20 hours to complete. You will 
 be very suprised by the amount of weapons in this game, for example in previous installments you 
 are limited to about 2 handguns, in this game there is about 10 handguns. Another reason why this 
 is so good is because this game has acts. The customisation of weapons is a new feature and gives 
 you a more included feel when playing as snake because you have personally adjusted and tweaked 
 your own weapons for maxium effect when you need them in the games action sequences. 
  
  Acts are different missions of the game and all acts are set in different locations so this gives 
 you a break from the same place which can become boring. I will give this game 10/10, if you own 
 a ps3 then buy this game now.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Xendos
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 23, 2008 4:11 am PT
Review:  MGS4 is exactly the shot in the arm PS3 owners needed. It is the culmination of Kojima's dream 
 of near flawless cinematic gaming, and quite simply the deepest and most enthralling game that 
 I have ever played. The graphics are absolutely astounding, the gameplay lives up to and surpasses 
 any Metal Gear game before it, and the plotline is brilliantly played out. The game requires that 
 you be very well versed in the MGS universe's story in order to fully understand the plot, but 
 for those that have been waiting for all those loose ends to tie up, this game will be an absolute 
 blast.
  
  MGS games are known for their cinematic cutscenes, but no game following the chronicles of Snake 
 has ever had THIS many action sequences. While 95% of them are absolutely amazing to watch, I did 
 reach a point every now and then when I realized that I had not touched the controller for nearly 
 20 or 30 minutes, and this happens quite a few times. I beat the game in just under 18 hours, which 
 is surprisingly much shorter than I had expected, but the production values of the game more than 
 make up for that, since it's all so beautiful to watch.
  
  I want to give this game a 10, but I just cant; Kojima and crew have certainly crafted one of the 
 greatest games ever made, but the balance of gameplay to storyline is a bit too heavy handed. Nearly 
 half of the game is spent observing it, not actually playing it, which is expected when a game 
 is meant to wrap up 20 years worth of plotline, but still is a bit of a snag. 
  
  Still, I cannot say this enough: If you have a PS3, you must play this game. If you don't have 
 a PS3 yet, this game is the strongest case yet to convince you to buy one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bigkegofhealth
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 23, 2008 2:51 am PT
Review:  I have played all of the playstation and psp metal gear titles and I am attached to both plot and 
 characters so for me this game was eagerly anticipated.
  
  For me, I think this was the most compelling, involving and spectacular game that I have ever played. 
 I would happily say its in my top three of all time.
  
  I completed the game in approximately 23 hours, I would estimate that 8 hours of this was spent 
 on cinematics. Not a problem for me at all. These were the best cinematics I have ever seen in 
 a game. Some even rival the quality of modern anime (eg: advent children) . The plot was unique 
 and fantastic and charactersiticly Metal Gear.
  
  The gameplay was excellent. Being caught between two factions was interesting. The guns are great 
 and whats more customisable. The bosses are VERY good and have interesting patterns requiring sophisticated 
 tactics. Use of items give an extra edge to problem solving. Environments are beautiful and affect 
 your strategy.
  
  Graphics aren't my major draw for a game but this game has the best I have ever seen.
  
  What's 
 more I am compelled to go back to the game, albeit probably skipping the cutscenes and just focusing 
 on the firefights. That is until I plan a metal gear weekend. I am left with such a moving feeling 
 of the whole Metal Gear Cycle that I have a massive urge to play through the whole series again! 
 From Big Boss to epic conclusion. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gra_ham_man5
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 16, 2009 11:50 pm PT
Review:  Basically, since this game is such an amazing experience, I don't want to say too much about it. 
 So here is my review...
  
  -Presentation: A story of loyalty, betrayal, and typical Metal Gear twists that you won't see coming. 
 Action and Cinematics have never blended so well. Everything is simply stunning. 
  
  10/10
  
  -Graphics: Beautiful. Incredible. Visually breathtaking. Without a doubt, one of the 
 best looking games ever made. Superb camera angles. 
  
  10/10
  
  -Sound: An amazing and eerie soundtrack, spectacular sound design with sound effects, and powerful 
 voice acting make this title even more amazing. Snake's voice has never sounded so awesome.
  
  10/10
  
  -Gameplay: The new gameplay mechanics aside, this game took everything from the 
 previous games and made it that much better (and that's saying a lot since the game mechanics were 
 already really good) . With so many different styles of play, you will be wanting to play this game 
 over and over again. Metal Gear Online is also really fun and a nice addition.
  
  10/10
  
  -Lasting Appeal: There are lots of secrets to find and tons of ways to tackle every combat 
 situation. Metal Gear Online should keep you busy for a long time to come after you're done beating 
 the story mode for the eighteenth time.
  
  10/10
  
  Usually my reviews are much more in-depth, but I believe you owe it to yourself to experience this 
 title on your own. Words alone cannot express the true story telling power and technical awe of 
 Metal Gear Solid 4. The single player is lengthy at about 15-20 hours the first time through, and 
 Metal Gear Online will keep you busy for some time. You owe it to yourself. Go out and rent or 
 buy this game now. It's easily the one of the greatest games of all time. Period. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vTank
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 23, 2008 12:48 am PT
Review:  All I've been playing for the past four years or so has pretty much been Starcraft. I really wanted 
 something new in my life so I got a PS3 and this was the first game I bought for it, courtesy to 
 gamespot. com. Being a console FPS beginner this video game prodigy was being put to the test. I 
 started off on Solid Normal (hard/medium difficulty) . The controls confused me, the camera angles 
 drove me nuts. The FPS aspect was difficult. I had no idea how to sneak around and fighting head 
 on with the enemy ended in quick deaths. After frusterating myself I started against on Liquid 
 Easy. I ran through the whole game blasting my way through every enemy no matter how ridiculous 
 it was. I didn't try out hardly any items, I only used a few weapons. The game still took me quite 
 some time to finish because of some parts that made me run around in confusion and TONS of cutscenes. 
 So I finished the game. 
  
  The Story:
  The story is great, but do expect to be watching it a lot. In liquid easy mode even though I spent 
 about 15 hours playing the game it felt like most of that time was spent watching cutscenes. The 
 story is also mostly nerd-proof although some parts had my nerd alarm go off I was forced to supress 
 the thoughts in light of the great story. The story did make me cry at multiple points, being a 
 death metal fan doesn't stop that. I still think the ending where the aliens invaded the planet 
 was a little lame. I'm just kidding, that didn't happen. Playing through the game a second time 
 currently there are a few cutscenes I skip but most of them I actually watch again, it's that good. 
 There are also some very bad ass bosses and characters as long as some very cool characters. 
 
  
  The Gameplay:
  Well running through it on liquid easy didn't really express to me how great the gameplay really 
 was. I'm currently playing Big Boss Hard difficulty (yeah I jumped from liquid easy to Big Boss 
 Hard) . It's hard but I actually feel like the difficulty is just about right for me. This time 
 around I'm being forced to really immerse in the more dynamic and complex gameplay. Sneaking around 
 and picking off enemies is a ton of fun. Different situations seem to have different AIs as well. 
 The AI is actually pretty intelligent. If you think it will then yes it probably will. You have 
 various tools for sneaking around. You get a robot that you can send on recon missions and even 
 zap a soldier or two. You get a box and a drum that you can hide inside of pretty early in the 
 game. You get a dart gun which is immediately useful. Your octocamo suit comes in handy and there 
 is plenty of sneaking around. Some areas are easier to blast through than others so you'll have 
 to figure it out by trial and error. Luckily it's very forgiving, throughout the game there are 
 various checkpoints. Every time you die you can continue from the last checkpoint with full health 
 and you won't be being chased down when you respawn even if that was the way it was when you reached 
 the checkpoint. The weapon and customization selection is very exciting. You can buy weapons at 
 any time and the system for earning money is very reasonable, picking up the weapons of dead soldiers 
 which you already possess. It's really difficult to go through all of the things in the gameplay, 
 there's a lot to it and I'm sure you'll find plenty of tactical tools to get your way through any 
 situation.
  
  The Graphics:
  They were very confusing to me at first but I don't have an HD tv and my eyes are slightly bad. 
 I really just needed to adjust however, at this point I can tell what's going on and the graphics 
 are very great looking and not too confusing. Oh, and I forgot to say, the graphics are awesome. 
 End of story.
  
  Online Play:
  Haven't done it yet.
  
  Minus 0.5 Points:
  I was upset to find that you couldn't watch the cutscenes from the main menu and could only see 
 most of the cutscenes when you are actually at that part in the game and only when you are at that 
 point in the game. I wasn't disappointed by the linear gameplay but I did wish there was a haven 
 from the story mode besides online play. There is no "arena" gameplay and I think they could have 
 included that pretty easily and it would have made the game that much more awesome. There was one 
 point in the game where I found the gameplay more tedious than fun but that was just a small slither 
 of the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SolidKhan00
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 22, 2008 10:03 pm PT
Review:  MGS4 is arguably the best game of this era. I think that as well. The game just does sooo many 
 things right it makes up for the few things it does wrong.
  
  Gameplay: 10
  
  The gameplay is spot-on. People may complain about cutscene length saying: "Oh i heard from so-and-so 
 that MGS4's cutscene length is 20 hours of the 25 hour game....." Wrong. The cutscenes are perfect 
 length (although you could argue about the FINAL final cutscene) . The game is great as well. Shooting, 
 cover, camouflage, boss battles, sneaking and vehicle sequences all work very well with the reworked 
 camera and control scheme. You can buy weapons and unlock ID'd weapons from the gun launderer Drebin 
 for currency known as Drebin points.
  
  Graphics: 11/10
  
  Need i even say it?
  
  Sound: 10/10
  
  The voice acting is great (if not a LITTLE melodramatic here and there) and 
 the music fits the situations great.
  
  Value: 10/10
  
  There are bonus weapons, achievement emblems you get at the end, and you can carry over your Drebin 
 points, items and weapons after each play through. You can also download additional things through 
 the extras menu like Ipod songs and camo patterns.
  
  Multiplayer: 10/10
  
  MGO (Metal Gear Online) is the de-facto multiplayer experience on PSN now (its up there with CoD4) . 
 You can decide how your character looks and their skills they carry into battle with them such 
 as weapon mastery and special abilities. You can choose your equipment loadout at the start of 
 each match. There are (i think) 6 maps to play on.
  
  Overall:
  
  If you want a good game, go buy this one NOW!!
  
  Final score: 10/10
  
  PS: Just letting 
 you know, the 40-100 hrs includes 3 full play throughs and MGO. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Star_Wars117
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 22, 2008 8:36 pm PT
Review:  Story: Your Solid snake or old snake which ever you wish. Your back to stop liquid from enslaving 
 humanity and launching his nukes.
  
  Missions: 5 acts split into sectors. Range from driving a mech to killing bosses. Missions (acts) 
 range from 2-5 hours each
  
  Controls: Easy controls to learn and make the game very easy to play. Standard FPS controls in 
 a stealthy game.
  
  Features: Amazing Graphics and Audio, Conclusions to the story, Lots of weapons and customization 
 options
  
  AI: The AI in this game is amazing from each boss down to the footsoldier they are smarter than 
 the average gamer it seems. They work in groups to track you down! And kill you
  
  Graphics: Beats Crysis by a longshot. the most amazing graphics from any game to date. Everything 
 is detailed down to the last atom.
  
  Audio: Amazing voice acting and music makes this game a masterpiece. The voice acting is very professional 
 and the battle sounds make you feel like your actually in the desert carrying a rifle fighting 
 the enemy.
  
  Multiplayer: Metal Gear online is fun. It may not be for everybody though. You can create 1 free 
 charcter. This is just a starter pack and the full game will be released soon.
  
  Requirements: A little knowlodge of the MGS Universe.
  
  The Good: Everything about this game. 
 
  
  The Bad: Honestly. I cant find anything wrong with this game
  
  The Ugly: Nothing
  
  Replay Ability: High
  
  The Bottom Line: The most amazing game out 
 this year. A great conclusion to a long running series. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lemmdawg
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jun 24, 2008 9:53 pm PT
Review:  Gee whiz Batman, I think we've found hokier dialogue than that of even the Boy Wonder. For half 
 of the game I was laughing not with Metal Gear Solid, but at it, wondering who the editor was throughout 
 this B movie mess of a game. But I get ahead of myself. 
  
  First off, I have followed the series since the Playstation debut. The first MGS is one of my favorite 
 games, rating up there with Xenogears. During my middle school days the concept of stealth was 
 beyond my comprehension, and there was nothing cooler than to run around with the Red Alert window 
 blaring. Obviously as the series continued, I had to tailor my style more to the gameplay, though 
 evidently not enough as it still took nearly an hour to get through the Sorrow's goddamn river. 
 I've always enjoyed the quirky nature of the MGS series, and am well aware of the often cheesy, 
 if not endearing scenes.
  
  So I have been greatly anticipating the Magnus Opus of Kojima. The end all of all stealth video 
 games. As a poor post college schlep I decided to gamble my money on the high hopes of the PS3. 
 Because of its money grubbing costs, I've bought only a handful of games  Madden and Fifa, Rock 
 Band, and Marvel Ultimate Alliance (curse Deadpool's voice) . I've been saving some of my thirteen 
 dollar an hour salary and sacrificing a few lunches for this, the game that would transcend its 
 medium of entertainment, and turn it into something of the likes of art.
  
  And the very intro blew me away. An octopus selling guns? An ominous gameshow where an old woman 
 looks like she's going to be terminated? Trippy dude! Awesome, Kojima's already outdoing himself. 
 And the eggs! Wow, that's actual gameplay graphics! I could eat those eggs, though I prefer sunny 
 side down, but maybe sunny side up is supposed to be a metaphor of Sunny's optimistic future. Whoa, 
 Kojima's so deep. And then we're dropped into the battlefield where you see Old Snake, still muscle 
 rippling, cigarette smoking, mother f'ing Snake. 
  
  As I play through the game, the graphics are awe inspiring. Even on my crappy 19 inch low res TV 
 I am blown away by the details of everything  the cracks in the walls from bullets, the lighting, 
 the camera splattering blood. As the plot unfolds every loose end from every other game is addressed, 
 and you get cameo after nostalgic cameo. And boy does the game cater to all the fans of the series. 
 Without giving anything away the intro to Act 4 is ingenious, almost tear jerkingly so. 
  
  But for a game that's supposed to be a triple A best seller, there were many flaws. Granted, I 
 haven't played the game on anything higher than the normal difficulty (so it is very likely what 
 I say is just based on the difficulty level) , but the AI was sometimes downright stupid. I could 
 literally silence a soldier no more than a foot away from another one, and that soldier would stand 
 there oblivious to its downed comrade. This was not always the case; sometimes the soldier would 
 actually wake up the other one, but I found it glaringly stupid.
  
  In Act three, and for those who don't want any gameplay spoilers, skip this paragraph, I was thoroughly 
 bored. In the beginning you set out to find Big Mama by following a Resistance soldier. After about 
 the fourth loading screen, I was wondering when this stupid cat and mouse charade would end. Considering 
 you can run around and silence or kill any of the soldiers guarding the streets before the Resistance 
 character even meets up with them, there was hardly any tension. Even more frustrating was the 
 fact that on the very last map before you meet Big Mama the Resistance character can run away if 
 he is caught, and then you miss the cut scene where he changes clothes. I ran around for more than 
 thirty minutes trying to find the whistling ass, and the red dot where he was supposed to be showed 
 me an empty alleyway. I finally gave up and reloaded, and sure enough that alleyway turned out 
 to be where he changes clothes.
  
  Yet I can be forgiving of that as there are many more points in the game where the play is exciting 
 and nerve wracking. What I can't forgive is the over the top melodrama and attempts to make this 
 art. I think Kojima's conceit might have gotten the best of him. Once again, a gameplay spoiler, 
 the last Act seems to be where Kojima loses all track of himself and his game. Perhaps he's trying 
 to be new, but more often than naught he fails. The split screens where on one side is gameplay 
 and the other side is cinematic was distracting. The whole time I wanted to watch the cool fight 
 scene or the faces of all your comrades, but I was too busy blowing crap up or crawling, pounding 
 on the triangle button. It reminded me of Ang Lee's Hulk movie, where he forgot that the movie 
 wasn't supposed to be just art, but entertaining.
  
  Of the fifty billion hours worth of cut scenes that would make Xenosaga jealous, half of them were 
 so poorly acted and delivered I was slitting my wrists. When you're supposed to feel sorry for 
 a character you want to punch him in the face for terrible crying sound bytes. You get these random 
 plot developments where characters do over the top things like make out with each other while shooting 
 hundreds of soldiers, and all the while you see the limitations of PS3 still, as there is air between 
 their lips. It makes for terrible terrible drama, and it is unfortunate that the last Act devolves 
 so much, though there is a funny part with Mantis. It's like Kojima is trying to develop characters 
 where there wasn't any development in the first place, and the last Act is far too late for that.
 
  
  In the end this game answered all of my questions. But it gave me a Matrix Revolutions sort of 
 feeling. Would I have watched the last one had the first one not been so cool? The same question 
 pertains to this game. I would probably say no. As a stand alone, this plot would be too complex 
 and full of allusions to the other games for you to really get or understand half of what is happening, 
 and you would never get to fully comprehend Kojima's philosophies. Is it worth the tens that all 
 these professional reviewers seem to be giving it? Obviously, I don't think so, and I question 
 Sony, the corporations, the survival of the video game industry and the PS3. It's like a whole 
 nother Kojima conspiracy. Regardless of this review, or any other one that's highly critical of 
 the game, this will still sell millions, and with all things considered it still is an enjoyable, 
 flawed experience.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: lostaddict1993
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 22, 2008 6:26 pm PT
Review:  Never before have I been so completely gripped and astounded by a video game. This is quite simply 
 the shining achievement in video game story telling, balancing, and pure giddy fun.
  
  Story: Needless to say, the Metal Gear Solid series has previously been highly story driven. This 
 trend continues in Guns of the Patriots as the game weaves an intricate and enticing story that 
 (for lack of a better expression) sucks you in. You'll find yourself playing the game wondering 
 when the next cutscene will come and what will happen. Yes, the cutscenes are long; but they are 
 so well done and free of talking green heads that you will look forward to them.
  
  Gameplay: MGS4 trashes the old aiming system that has been one of my biggest complaints throughout 
 the series. The game is now played like many of the third person shooters out there although I 
 personally think that it plays better than titles like Gears of War. You hold L1 to aim your gun 
 and press R1 to fire. L2 manages your items and R2 manages your weapons, making it easy to equip 
 a weapon or use an item on the fly. Snake controls like you've always wanted him to control. You 
 can now move while crouching or hold the X button to go prone and crawl on the ground. The OctoCamo 
 suit is a stroke of genius and makes for many strategic possibilities when entering a firefight. 
 The areas are well balanced and varied, calling for a wide range of different tactics to be put 
 into effect. You'll play the game looking forward to the cutscenes and watch the cutscenes looking 
 forward to getting back to the shooting/stealth.
  
  Graphics/Art Direction: This may very well be the best looking video game I have ever seen. The 
 characters are detailed, realistic, and believable. The atmosphere is perfectly created to draw 
 you into the game. The game will install somewhere around 5 GB by it's conclusion (A 10 min. starting 
 install time and a 2-3 min. install time between acts) . Unless you have the 20 GB model of the 
 ps3 this should not be a problem, although even if you do it is worth deleting some demos or videos 
 just to be able to play this masterpiece. While playing the game you will truly appreciate the 
 installation as it runs at a flawless clip without a skip or a stutter through cutscenes or massive 
 firefights; all while being one of the prettiest games out there.
  
  Closing Thoughts: This is simply a game that must be experienced to be fully understood. Go out 
 and buy this game right now. You must. If you don't have a ps3, now is the perfect time to buy 
 one. Everybody who passes this up is missing out on a truly amazing entertainment experience. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MildMike
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jun 22, 2008 6:17 pm PT
Review:  It's Metal Gear for sure, but what's with this guys affinity with video ? 
  I mean I've always thought that the attraction to video games was the interaction. With this version 
 of Metal Gear, you spend more time watching it than playing it. Luckily you can fast forward the 
 video if you don't wanna watch it, ( which is what I always do ) but then you might not know what 
 you're meant to be doing next. Sometimes all you have to do in between video bits is walk into 
 the next room, or down a hallway, which in my opinion is not enough gameplay. Hideo needs to get 
 his gameplay / video ratio down to a moreinteractivelevel. I've said it before, if I wanna 
 watch video, I'll buy a movie, I I wanna read text, I'll buy a book, When I buy a video game it's 
 because I wanna interact with it , not just watch it.
  Otherwise it's another well made chapter of Metal Gear, except I don't really like how they've 
 changed the position that Snake takes when he's taking cover behind a wall. I preferred the older 
 position, like in Metal gear 2.
  Also some of the enemies were way too easy to kill, and you didn't really have to worry too much 
 about stealth, ( in places ) . 
  The weapons upgrade feature was good also, but I think that the auto aim feature needed a bit of 
 work. 
  All said and done tho' it's a very good game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Maverin1
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 22, 2008 4:51 pm PT
Review:  Metal Gear Solid 4 takes place in the near future of 2014 where the global economy is based around 
 war. You are the legendary war hero on his last mission to save the world from his enemy Liquid 
 Ocelot. The game takes you through five beautiful and non linear environments all over the world.
 
  Metal Gear Solid 4 brings back a lot of old game mechanics while also introducing new mechanics. 
 You will once again find yourself hiding in the in plain sight with a new and high tech suit called 
 Octocamo. Octocamo allows you to hide anywhere you want without being spotted allowing you to get 
 much closer to the enemy without being seen. You can still hold up enemies and this time around 
 you can search them and find multiple items that will be useful in the mission.
  You will be given a wide array of weapons both lethal and non-lethal to aid you. These weapons 
 range from tranquillizer guns to assault rifles and even a rail gun capable of destroying tanks 
 in a single shot. You also have a variety of cqc attacks for when you are up close and personal 
 with the enemy.
  A new and fun feature in the game is the ability to fight in battles and aid rebels in the war 
 against the PMCs. Doing so will increase your reputation with the militia or rebels who will in 
 turn help you get through some sticky situations. Of course you could also use the distraction 
 of battle to sneak past the enemy and out of the war zone.
  You will be facing off against many enemy groups which are Praying Mantis, Raven seven and a few 
 others. Each PMC group is controlled by one of the four PMC bosses known as the Beauty and The 
 Beasts. They are Laughing Octopus, Raging Raven, Crying Wolf, and Screaming Mantis. There are also 
 a few other bosses including Vamp and of course Liquid Ocelot.
  Along side the soldiers you will also encounter the Gekko also known as Irvings. They are basically 
 unmanned walking tanks. They are very strong, able to kill you in one hit if you get close. They 
 are hard to kill and in most cases your safest option is to avoid them and run if they attack. 
 You will also have to face Sliders, a pair of unmanned wings that go on bombing runs and swoop 
 down low to try to hit you. Though these can be taken out with a few shots.
  As for the story, just like the other games it could be described as epic. It is a fitting end 
 to the incredible tale. The bad thing is that just like the other games it can take some thought 
 to understand. The cut scenes are long and there are a lot of them but the visuals are amazing 
 and you will find yourself watching them again and again.
  The story will bring out all of your emotions. Suspense, anger, and even sadness. Of course there 
 will always be people who can't understand the masterpiece and will fail to enjoy it and with that 
 said I will admit that it is a game made for fans so people new to the franchise should definitely 
 start with MGS1.
  That's about it for the review so now it's time to cover the Goods and Bads.
  
  GOODS-Beautiful 
 visuals. Amazing story and cut scenes. Engaging game play and replay value that will keep you glued 
 long after it's over. Wonderful voice acting and well thought out characters.
  
  BADS-It ends...
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: _EXCON_
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 22, 2008 3:18 pm PT
Review:  To top it all off MGS4 has become my favorite game of all time and don't call me biased because 
 i wasn't actually a massive fan of MGS3 it was a great game but it just didn't appeal to me, in 
 my review for it i gave it what i think it deserved, a 9. If your new to the series don't steer 
 clear from this game just make sure you get up to date first, trust me its worth it.
  
  Lets start with the proportion of the game because thats what people seem to be complaining about. 
 Yes the game is largely made of cut scenes but for some thats just not a bad thing. The story focuses 
 around Solid Snake AKA Old Snake who must stop the world from falling to the feet of the patriots. 
 Thats all i will say to avoid giving any major spoilers, however i must say the plot is a dramatic 
 and emotional journey especially to fans. The game felt short to me but keep in mind playing this 
 game was more or less the only thing i was doing in a 16 hour period. There are 4 acts in this 
 game and for someone taking there time would complete this game in about 20 hours+
  
  The game play has been improved from previous games so if your a gamer who couldn't give a damn 
 about story lines and have detested this game due to its complicated control scheme you may feel 
 like having another go at it. The gun play is solid and so is the sneaking, this time around you 
 will even get the option to go out guns blazing or use a more tactical approach.
  
  The series gold is also its curse with the massive cut scenes which may put most gamers off. However 
 if your willing to get into the plot Metal Gear Solid 4 is one of the best games of all time and 
 shall be remembered for years to come.
  
  Summary: Without a doubt the best game in the series and possibly one of the best games ever made. 
 With solid game play and a plot that could make you cry MGS4 is the game of this gen.
  
  Graphics: Outstanding, you will be left in total awe and shall praise every detail from the middle 
 east setting to other countries all around the globe. The character models are incredible and some 
 of the most amazing i have ever seen. The game pushes the PS3's processing powers to the max!
 
  
  Sound: Again amazing from the brilliant sound track to the solid voice acting. This helps build 
 drama and excitement into the entire game. Uncompressed sound FTW!
  
  Game play: Extremely addictive if a little out of proportion however metal gear online is there 
 to help and with a lot of replay value you can't go wrong.
  
  Story: Best in video gaming history.... period.
  
  Lasting Appeal: With loads of extra content 
 to get on a separate play through and a whole multi player mode makes MGS4 one of the most addictive 
 games of this age.
  
  Overall: Your not going to find a better game than this, this generation. It surpasses all previous 
 titles and leaves other games in the dust.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: deltawing1
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 22, 2008 2:53 pm PT
Review:  I've never played any of the previous games in the MGS series before - this is my first. 
  
  The game makes you laugh and it makes you cry, it's a wild ride! It's part stealth-based and 
 part outright guns-a-blazing action. It has a true uniqueness and charm to it, which you rarely 
 see in today's games. 
  
  MGS4 draws you in slowly until you are fully immersed. There is no tutorial level to annoy you 
 with, it just gets straight into the action but eases you in slowly. There are lots of Hollywood-style 
 cutscenes that just blend in very well with the gameplay. Many of those cutscenes are very long, 
 and you can choose to skip them if you wish. Personally I think the cutscenes are great as they 
 give you time to relax and recharge before the next episode of action.
  
  Many gamers argue that video games are an art. This is the closest you can get to that statement.
 
  
  If you decided to get an Xbox 360 instead of PS3, I pity you :-) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wonderboy_46
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 22, 2008 2:22 pm PT
Review:  "Kept you waitin' huh?"
  
  Over the last twenty years the Metal Gear series has influenced and changed the action / adventure 
 genre with every new entry in the series. Without it, stealth-action would not exist and story-telling 
 in games would not be what it is today. Metal Gear needed a final chapter fitting of its great 
 legacy and that's exactly what Hideo Kojima has given to it.
  
  From the very beginning you get that special atmosphere only a Metal Gear game can create, starting 
 with the familiar gunshot echo upon selecting a new game from the main menu. For me that has always 
 been the moment when all the hype and expectation of the new MGS game finally comes to fruition. 
 That feeling of, "this is it. Metal Gear is here."
  
  After an install period which lasts around 10 minutes it's go time. During the game's installation 
 you're treated to a real visual showcase of the Old Snake character model up-close and in-engine 
 - your first indication that you've got something special in your hands. MGS4's character models 
 are so far beyond any other game that its shocking. You also get some typical Kojima comedy, as 
 smoking warnings scroll by in-between the usual video-game health warnings... while Snake stands 
 by puffing away on his trademark cigarettes. So even while the game is installing you're still being 
 entertained. It's worth mentioning the before each new act in the story a further 2 minute install 
 is necessary. In most games this would be pretty intrusive but in MGS4 you'll be glad of the break 
 to take in and absorb all that's been going on.
  
  The visuals in the environments are just as impressive as the character models. Textures have been 
 produced with great realism and in the larger battles the framerate very rarely dips even slightly. 
 There is the odd flat looking texture but a game of this epic scale can be forgiven for that. The 
 level design is slightly "old-fashioned" but you'll be so engrossed in what's going on that you'll 
 barely notice.
  
  If you've played previous games in the saga you'll notice that the controls have been changed considerably. 
 The new button-layout is much more "western." The shooting and camera controls now evoke those 
 made standard in 3rd person shooters like "Gears of War." Actions like Close-Quarters-Combat (CQC) 
 and taking cover have also been streamlined. This makes them much more user-friendly and encourages 
 more use of what, in previous titles, were often unnecessary and ignored additions to the control 
 of Snake.
  
  Once you've had time to get used to the new and improved controls you'll be introduced to Snake's 
 most important new items, OctoCamo and the Solid Eye. OctoCamo is essentially a high-tech version 
 of MGS3's camouflage mechanics. It allows Snake's sneaking-suit to take on the colour and texture 
 of any surface he presses against, either by going prone or taking cover against an object. It 
 looks great and also removes the biggest issue from MGS3 where you constantly had to pause the 
 game to change camoflages using a menu system. The Solid Eye is an electronic eye-patch, combining 
 binocular, night vision and analytical functions. The last of these allows Snake to see determine 
 the nature of items and enemies in the environment before approaching them.
  
  Determining the nature of enemy soldiers is incredibly important in the new battlefield environments. 
 A key new gameplay mechanic sees Snake infiltrating different areas around the globe in which local 
 militias are battling with Private Military Companies (PMCs) . Neither side is truly Snake's enemy 
 as he works towards his own goals in the war-torn regions. However, siding with one or other of 
 the warring factions can help Snake achieve his own objectives. Taking sides is as simple as attacking 
 a PMC or militia soldier during the battles or offering one a useful item to gain their trust. 
 As a result, soldiers who trust Snake will offer him alternative routes and create distractions 
 to aid his progress. It's a mechanic which is very simple to engage with and influence and allows 
 you the freedom to fight in the battles with your chosen side (using the improved shooting controls) 
 or adopt a more traditional stealth-based approach.
  
  If you choose the more "run and gun" style of play you'll find it to be much more accessible than 
 in previous MGS games. Some of this is due to the terrific improvements in control, but it's also 
 down to the in-depth weapons customisation in the game. One character you meet early on acts as 
 a weapons wholesaler, offering new weapons as well as upgrades and ammo, for a price. Most weapons 
 offer at least one upgradable part, with many offering 5 or 6 customisable pieces. Considering 
 that there are around 50 weapons in the game this is quite an achievement, overshadowing some recent 
 FPS games like "Call of Duty 4."
  
  Of course, even with all the amazing new things going on in MGS4 there is always going to be one 
 thing in a Metal Gear game which rises above anything any other game can offer. The story. 
  
  Metal Gear Solid 4 is quite simply the best piece of story-telling in video-game history. The 
 quality of the writing and direction is better than most Hollywood blockbusters. Cut-scenes flow 
 seamlessly with the gameplay and run beautifully in real-time inside the game engine. Most importantly 
 though, every loose end in the Metal Gear saga is explained and tied-off. I'm reluctant to say 
 too much about the story in case I spoil it for anyone yet to finish it. Suffice to say though, 
 that its an emotional roller-coaster and I'm certainly not ashamed to say that, as a huge MGS fan, 
 I spent the majority of the finale in tears.
  
  On top of the single-player story you also get "Metal Gear Online," a multiplayer game taking place 
 in the MGS universe. It works well enough and features all the game modes you'd expect. However, 
 the emphasis on premium downloadable content and the fact that so many better and more accessible 
 online games exist will prevent it from being anything more than an also-ran. However, this has 
 no detrimental effect on the overall package whatsoever, because no-one will purchase MGS4 with 
 the online content as a priority over the single-player experience and story.
  
  For years Hideo Kojima has been seeking to create his ultimate masterpiece, to fulfil both his 
 own dreams and those of his fans. I can say, very confidently, that he has achieved not only this, 
 but he has also produced comfortably the greatest video game of all time. Never before and probably 
 never again will story and gameplay be so perfectly in tune with one another. 
  
  I realised today that, though I thought I was emotional at the game's end because of the story, 
 deep down I had realised that gaming will never again be as good as this. Metal Gear Solid 4: Guns 
 of The Patriots is as close to perfect as we are ever going to see.
  
  "I'm no hero. Never was."
  - Solid Snake 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sendmn23
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 22, 2008 1:44 pm PT
Review:  My only complaint in this awesome game is the loading, and the installing. Its kinda like being 
 at the movies and having the projector jam on you. Its almost a jarring effect to be snapped out 
 of attention like so. I felt the same way with Metal Gear Solid 4. Thats about my only gripe on 
 Hideos' master piece!
  I wont spoil anything for any one, but during the story I got teary eyed a couple of times. I loved 
 how he brought the whole thing full circle. I felt sorry for snake at times. I couldn't believe 
 how much of a bad ass raiden was. I felt sorry for him too, and there were times I clapped and 
 cheered out right. This was probably the best game of its kind to come out this year, Thats my 
 oppinion anyways.
  The game play is freaking rad. I love all the new additions. It felt alot like Resident Evil 4 
 to me..... in a lot of ways. Either way it was the Metal Gear I've grown to love. This is propbably 
 the only reason thus far to own a Ps3. THE ONLY REASON! anything else should be bought for the 
 x-box 360... lol! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Garyon
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 22, 2008 12:06 pm PT
Review:  this game is incredibly fun, there are many different ways you can play it, yout can play it like 
 the older ones where you just try to sneak through it all. Only to put targets to sleep and such, 
 or you can play it more like a 3rd person shooter, and kill most of the stuff (although you will 
 need to do some sneaking, it's hard to kill everyone and still progress seeing that they call reinforcements)
 
  The story-line is very involving, much of the game is in cinematics, like Kingdom Hearts II. It 
 takes a lot of time to explain how things are and why they're happening.
  For someone who hasn't played any of the other MGS's (completely) I think it did a very good job 
 at keeping you with the program, it made me feel like there is somethings I'm supposed to know 
 every now and then but it wasn't usually too important. Mostly I just didn't know much about groups 
 and the importance of some previous people. Most of it seems to clear up though.
  The multiplayer is really fun, I like the other more different game matches, which are the ones 
 besides the usual deathmatch and team-deathmatch (although they're still fun) I have still yet 
 to play online much, so I still don't know what is obtainable from it or how much more there is 
 to it. 
  If they do make more MGS games after that (which it does give a hint about that in the SP game) 
 I will be looking forward to them and will definitely buy them.
  Right now I just got to borrow the first 3 games from a friend and play those through :P then play 
 through MGS4 again. looking forward to it =D 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Exedino2
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 22, 2008 10:32 am PT
Review:  A great ending to an impressive and complex storyline spanning the entire series! Arguably a piece 
 of gaming history and most definitely the best encounter with Liquid. As well as beautiful cut 
 scenes and original game play MGS4 is a must have !!! It brings together everything that was familiar 
 to fans of the game and snake himself introducing varied level design and fun features such as 
 tracking! MGS4 more than lives up to anyones expectations and plays like a dream cleverly balancing 
 stealth and espionage with clear cut explosive action effortlessly. Not only that the introduction 
 of Metal Gear Solid Online brings about a highly addictive new angle to the genre and is more than 
 capable of gripping even the most hardcore of gamers. In my mind an ample replacement for the online 
 word of Call of duty 4 'oholics. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SamuRai_JeDi
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 22, 2008 10:19 am PT
Review:  First of all, I'm going to start out by saying I'm not the type of person to fall into hype and 
 review games with great scores just because everyone else is. SO, by saying that, MGS4 is simply 
 stunning.
  
  There really isn't any aspect of this game that falls short. There is NO area of this game that 
 I would actually want to change for any reason. If you're a fan of the series and by playing the 
 first three Metal Gears just simply makes this game even better. 
  
  The gameplay is superb. The weapons, CQC, stealth, customization; I could honestly go on and on 
 about this game, but I'm going to try and do my best to not put out any minor spoilers. The first 
 play through I kinda tried to be stealthy, but not really and it was a blast. Now, Im going through 
 again and am trying to get very very minimal alerts and a lot of kills; therefore stealth is a 
 must. I must say I'm currently having a lot more fun time playing stealthy and quite.
  
  The storyline is jaw dropping. I'm not going to ruin anything for ne one who may read this, but 
 the story made me so intrigued and that alone made playing the game that much better.
  
  I honestl think that there was some mistake giving GTAIV a 10, because MGS4 seriously blows that 
 game out of the water. 
  
  I never really like giving absolutely perfect scores, but this game simply deserves it. I recommend 
 getting the official game guide, it comes with ever extra and every emblem and really makes you 
 want to go for some challenges and extra playthroughs. Peace. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: smeg1967
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 22, 2008 9:35 am PT
Review:  Kojima and snake team up again for one final forray into the world of espionage action. Quite possibly 
 the best videogame franchise of all time ends with a slap in the face of all lazy unimagineative 
 developers clogging up the videogame world. 
  
  This review will be kept short as I'll highlight good and bad points of the game.
  
  Good Points:
 
  Startiling attention to detail
  Fantastic controls and fighting mechanics
  Good story (come back to that one)
  Graphically on another planet
  Lots of gaming options = 
 a lot of bang for your buck
  THE best in game music ever
  THE best set pieces ever seen in a videogame
  THE best and most memorable charicters in videogame 
 history.
  
  Bad points:
  Plot has lots of holes and too complicated
  Easy boss battles (unless on very hard mode)
  Over dramatic at times.
  
  Thats about it in 
 a nutshell but the overiding message to gamers is buy a ps3 or if you have a ps3 get this game 
 its simply the best videogame ever! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pandaramaster
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 22, 2008 9:18 am PT
Review:  If you need a reason to buy a PS3, this is it. MGS4 is a stunning achievement for the videogame 
 industry, and a satisfying conclusion for the Metal Gear Solid franchise.
  
  How can I write this review without spoiling any of the major surprises within ? The truth is, 
 the review would have to be a shoddy, poorly written l33t writing that clearly states this game 
 "iz gud". If I was to do it that way, it would be a mockery of Hideo Kojima and his extremely talented 
 team and everything they've accomplished these past four years. Metal Gear Solid 4 ends a legacy 
 that started ten years ago. It's an incredible legacy, with an impact not felt since, well, I can't 
 remember any other console game that has the influence and impact of MGS. Ten years later, does 
 MGS 4 have the same visceral impact? Yes, it does.
  
  The industry has grown up and matured and tolerances on certain things have now gone. MGS 4 is 
 a reflection of our new phase of next generation gaming. It feels fresh, yet entices old MGS fans 
 with familiarity. It doesn't alienate but rather elevates the game to a wider audience. Though 
 to fully appreciate every aspect of the game, you will need to see the events of the three previous 
 games. It's not an absolute requirement, but you will certainly be a bit confused at certain key 
 points of the story. And in all fairness, every impact that Kojima Productions aimed for will be 
 weaker. The series' story is certainly one that is worth the effort of researching past games.
 
  
  I really, really do not want to spoil anything about the game. The game mechanics have been revamped 
 to suit the modern gamer's tastes. Gone is the fixed camera perspective, awkward shooting and forced 
 emphasis on stealth. In comes a far greater control of Snake with many opportunities to tackle 
 each situation. The combat feels perfect, thanks to the modern influence of Resident Evil 4, yet 
 it still retains that MGS feel. Gone is the awkward CQC mechanics that almost ruined Snake Eater. 
 Gone is the non controllable camera, in comes Subsistence's 3-D camera.
  
  The gameplay is far more accessible for today's casual gamer, however, I do not wish to give the 
 impression that the game is solely about the story. You can skip the sequences, yes, but to do 
 that would deny half the total content of the magnificence of Metal Gear Solid 4. I must admit, 
 there's flaws here and there. The story can be a bit long winded, the crawling control is still 
 a bit plagued by staying a bit too much into the past, and can be annoying when you want to crawl 
 but you merely roll and must stop to crawl through a air vent opening - instead of flawlessly going 
 from full stance to crawling, for example. And perhaps the biggest turn off is the constant installing 
 of new acts. But even then, I cannot deny the greatness this title exhibits.
  
  The visual presentation of Metal Gear Solid 4 is simply the best I have ever seen in a videogame 
 - period. Yes, I will be bold enough to state that at times it surpasses Crysis. I know many will 
 bemoan that statement and will immediately not recommend this review, but you really have to see 
 it on HD at 720p. I have Crysis, it does look totally amazing but the art direction and overall 
 design lacked any sort of artistic flair (perhaps the alien spaceship level can be excluded from 
 that) . But that bracketed sentence is my point, everywhere you look in MGS 4 you can instantly 
 see the familar design of Yoji Shinkawa. It's a perfect balance of an artistic stamp and realism. 
 The mechanical design is also amazing. But the truly great moment is seeing everything come to 
 life. Everything is as believable as it can possibly be. The lighting, animations, the subtle details 
 that you don't notice at first, some of the finest lip synching (except a few moments granted) 
 - everything is outstanding. There's not one truly noticeable flaw with the visual prowess of MGS 
 4. And the same goes for the audio. The Dolby surround sound really brings this game to life in 
 ways I could never imagine. The sound effects are brilliant, with every twang and bang, and difference 
 in direction as mere examples, to the performances of every actor within the game, to quite frankly 
 the best soundtrack the series has received so far. Everything just gels, feels, looks and sounds 
 perfect.
  
  The longevity depends on your patience of the story. For loyal followers of the series, it would 
 last between 15-20 hours uncovering all the plot points. For people who wish to bypass the entire 
 story, perhaps 7-9 hours. There's depth here, but it depends solely on the player's tastes. You 
 get out of it what you put into it. If you like the story, you'll definitely get value for money 
 and if you like the gaming, you will also get a thrill from it. Even the frustration of getting 
 the multiplayer going is worth it to wring out more of the game. Oh, then there's unlockables such 
 as Ipod music, costumes and the ranks after completion.
  
  Metal Gear Solid 4 is definitely the best reason to invest in a Playstation 3. I cannot see Metal 
 Gear Solid 4 coming to the Xbox 360. There's so much going on I think it would be impossible to 
 get all the content onto the 360 without some sort of severe compromise. There, I said how I felt 
 about its possibility of it coming to the 360. Never say never though. So here's my final conclusion 
 to this poor review. Metal Gear Solid 4 is definitely a must play for MGS fans, it's a stunning 
 game with a satisfying conclusion to the epic tale of Solid Snake. It's far more accessible, far 
 more enjoyable and most of all, it's just an amazing experience for anyone. I haven't covered everything, 
 I don't want to because the game lives on its surprises and twists and turns. This is a definite 
 must buy, a definite must play and one of the finest titles I have ever had the pleasure of playing. 
 Now I can't wait to see what Hideo Kojima and his team do next. Not with MGS, but with a new IP. 
 Now that is worth getting excitied about. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: creekmo
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jun 22, 2008 8:11 am PT
Review:  Don't mistake this review as me trying to slam the game in every way, because it is a very solid 
 game. The reason I want to focus on the bad parts of the game is because you can read a thousand 
 reviews from people telling you that this game is perfect. This is indeed an excellent game, and 
 truly a technological marvel, but for anyone who has not been a hardcore Snake fan in the past, 
 and will be judging the game with an unbiased set of eyes, you will find some serious annoyances 
 in this game that will make you wonder where all these 10's and five-star ratings are coming from.
 
  
  Let me start out with the good. Again, I will keep this brief because it has been stated everywhere. 
 The graphics are top-notch, best I've seen on the PS3 so far and even rivals high-end PC games 
 like Crysis, in my opinion. The Octocamo may be the single coolest thing I have ever seen in a 
 video game, and I had tons of fun just playing with it. If you choose to run-and-gun over stealth, 
 you will find a lot of satisfaction playing around with the weapons and customizing them. Stealth 
 elements are done nicely, but the potential of this area has not been maximized, so don't expect 
 Splinter Cell difficulty from stealth parts. And, supposedly, if you are a long-time fan, the story 
 finally ties everything together from every other Metal Gear game you've played in the past, and 
 you will definitely be getting the deepest Metal Gear game you have ever, and I suppose will ever, 
 play, since this is the last one.
  
  Now for the bad.
  
  The aforementioned story is far, far, far too long. Yes, I know I have the option to skip past 
 all the storyline, but here's the deal: A storyline shouldn't make me want to skip past it, especially 
 one that everyone talks about as if it is some great Shakespearean work of art. Listen, if you 
 haven't been a hardcore fan of this series, this storyline is going to be one long, convoluted 
 mess of techno-babble and series-specific jargon that you will probably lose interest in about 
 halfway through the game. And again, skipping through these cutscenes would be reasonable if it 
 didn't shave about half the game's overall length down. By my figuring, if you skipped through 
 all the cutscenes and and maximized your time in this game, you could probably beat it in about 
 7 hours. Now I could be off there a little, but I'm telling you, if you actually sit through all 
 the dialogue of this game, by the time it is over, you are going to feel like you spent half the 
 game doing nothing but watching cutscenes. They happen far too frequently, are far too long, and 
 again, if you are not a fanboy of the series, the storyline won't do much for you.
  
  For one, it is obvious that whoever wrote this story was writing it for a non-American audience. 
 Every attempt at humor falls very flat, to the point that you aren't even sure if they were trying 
 to be humorous, and every attempt at drama is just way over the top. There is no way I can describe 
 this without spoiling some of the storyline, so I am going to do just that. One part that was particularly 
 ridiculous was that Otacon has a little romantic interlude with Naomi, who turns out to be a bad 
 guy, and when she dies later in the game, he has to watch her die, and is sobbing and calling her 
 name like his beloved wife of 15 years just got shot, and this is after a) only one "night" together, 
 and b) well after he had found out she was working for the other side and he probably shouldn't 
 have felt quite so bad for her. In another particularly bad piece of drama, Raiden saves Snake's 
 life by cutting off his own arm, which was pinned under rubble and therefore trapping him, and 
 he runs down to a boat dock where a massive battleship that looks like it is about the size of 
 3 destroyers lined up together is crashing through the dock, bearing down on a barely conscious 
 Snake. Raiden throws himself against the hull of the ship, which miraculously stops the dock from 
 falling apart under the weight of the ship too (?) and stops this gabillion megaton warship just 
 mere feet from Snake, supposedly killing Raiden in the process in a magical 15 minute cutscene. 
 As if this weren't bad enough on it's own, you then find out just 5 minutes later, through some 
 dialogue with Otacon, that Raiden survived but is out of action. If Raiden was going to live through 
 that experience, I'd have rather you not wasted my time with the huge cutscene making his death 
 so dramatic. Think about it like this: what if, in Return of the Jedi, after Vader took off the 
 mask and he and Luke had the huge moment together where he died, in the next scene on Endor with 
 all the friends partying with the Ewoks, C3-PO just announces that Vader actually lived and will 
 be ok. Sorta takes all the drama out of the previous scene, doesn't it?
  
  The storyline gets in the way of the action, period. It seems as if, for every 15 minutes of gameplay 
 you get, you have a 15 minute cutscene to deal with. This is not a game to pick of and play if 
 you have limited time, because if you only have 1-2 hours to play, you're going to spend a chunk 
 of that in cutscenes. And it isn't enough to say "well you could skip past them if you wanted" 
 because if you do that, especially on your first run through, you are going to miss some incredible 
 visuals, which to me, are just about the only real reason to watch those scenes. They are all rendered 
 with the same engine that powers the actual gameplay, and a lot of really cool visuals happen in 
 those scenes. Also, I know this review makes it sound as if I am anti-storyline, but nothing could 
 be further from the truth. I love compelling storylines that actually give me incentive to keep 
 playing, but at the end of this game, I find myself wishing that the developers would have spent 
 as much time designing levels, and therefore simply adding more gameplay to this title, and less 
 time trying to hash out pointless storyline parts, and then finding the longest possible way to 
 has out those parts. The game simply did not need the storyline to be this long and drawn out, 
 but it DID need more gameplay levels. This game is far too short if you only count actual in-game 
 time and not cutscene time. This game needed more meat and less potatoes, if you get my drift.
 
  
  Also, there is very little challenge to this game, at least on normal difficulty settings. I'm 
 sure things get challenging on the last difficulty level, which I have not tried, but I did not 
 play this game on the easiest setting the first time through, and I found very little challenge 
 here. The game gives you the option to run-and-gun or stealth through, but neither route is all 
 that hard. In the firearms department, although the weapons are very fun and gratifying to use, 
 Snake can very easily win gunfights when badly outnumbered. This means that, at least to me, stealth 
 isn't a very appealing option, because, let's face it, shooting people with an M60 is simply more 
 fun than sneaking around them. Especially once you meet Drebin, and can therefore always have access 
 to whatever guns and ammo you may need at any given time, you will never feel outgunned in a gunfight. 
 And the stealth bits don't seem to be nearly as challenging as stealth sequences from games like 
 Splinter Cell or even Sypon Filter on the PSP, for that matter. And the boss fights are, in a word, 
 inexcusable. If you have to redo a boss more than 3 times, you can't consider yourself a gamer, 
 and some bosses will inevitably be dropped the very first time you play them. And this is especially 
 bad since each boss has massive possibilities that simply are not even touched on. For instance, 
 one boss is this female with some mechanized tentacles just like Doctor Octopus. When you first 
 see this thing, you imagine a super difficult encounter with you having to move and roll everywhere 
 to avoid getting hit by the tentacles, taking little potshots when you can, etc..... in the actual 
 fight, her tentacles don't even come into play. That's right, even though you see her wreaking 
 havoc with those things in cutscenes, she apparently doesn't think Snake is important enough to 
 bring them to bear, and just has them for decoration. 
  
  Again, I don't want to mislead anyone by saying that my overall review of the game is a bad review. 
 Obviously the numeric score tells you otherwise. But I did grow a little frustrated reading so 
 many reviews where people are glossing over or not even touching on issues that, if they weren't 
 reviewing a Metal Gear game, probably would have been a much bigger deal to them. So I wanted to 
 give a review from the perspective of someone who just happens to own a PS3 and enjoys good games, 
 not someone who is a Metal Gear or Sony fanboy who refuses to see these issues. I have been gaming 
 since the Atari 2600, and I know good games when I play them. This game is a great game, but it 
 is not without its issues, and I wanted to shed some light on them.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: ao28
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 22, 2008 7:14 am PT
Review:  I agree with ign in the fact that if any game deserves an 11 out of 10, this is it. Graphics:10, 
 Gameplay:10, everything is a ten, or if it could be, an 11. I won't spoil the incredible story, 
 but I will say it is the best story ever. The graphics are far by the best ever. It makes Call 
 of duty 4's graphics look bad! The gameplay and shooting is incredible. Unlike past games in the 
 series, almost all of the game is a warzone. Which means if your like me, you'll want to help out 
 the malitia and kill pmc soldiers than sneak around. Even though sneaking around is good sometimes 
 and is also very fun. The story will have you gripped till the very end. And all the MGS fans out 
 there, Raiden is no longer a sissy! Again, words can't describe this game, pick it up! If you don't 
 have a ps3, if you have the money buy it for this game! BEST GAME EVER! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dniq_gamespot
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jul 8, 2008 9:37 pm PT
Review:  First, I'd like to point out that I have never played any previous games in the series, so my rating 
 won't be based on emotions from the past.
  
  Also, I'm not a PS3 fanboy, so I won't slap a "Perfect" rating on anything PS3-only, and I fully 
 understand that the majority of fanboys will rate my review down just for the fact I didn't rate 
 this game 10.
  
  From the start I was expecting something totally awesome, after all the hype surrounding the game. 
 And I must admit, the game is very good, HOWEVER!
  
  1. It is EXTREMELY annoying in its absolutely unreasonable length of cut scenes. They really should 
 have hired a real director and real editor, because about 90% of all cut scenes are total crap 
 and should have ended up on a cutting room floor. They don't add much to the story, and take up 
 most of the game - sometimes it feels like more than half-a-game consists of the cut scenes, you 
 don't even get to play much, just sit back and watch. If I had wanted to watch a movie - I'd have 
 rented a dozen from Netflix for 18 bucks a month. For $60 I expect to have fun and enjoy a game, 
 and not just sit and watch.
  
  2. Controls are, probably, the worst that I have ever seen. In fact, I think MGS4 takes the trophy 
 right here, for the worst possible control scheme in the industry.
  
  3. Game saving is really bad: you can only start the entire scene from scratch when you save the 
 game. Sometimes you might get thrown quite far back and loose like half-an-hour of game play.
 
  
  4. Loading screens are EVERYWHERE! There's one particular chasing sequence, where loading screen 
 pops up every 1-2 minutes. This is extremely annoying, and one of the things that really put me 
 off of the game. I thought that with all the installation of the gaming content to the hard drive, 
 and all the technology, they would have learned to stream content off of the hard drive, but no, 
 there's almost no hard drive activity other than during the loading screens.
  
  5. In order to play Metal Gear Online you _have to register_ on Konami web site??? Are you fraking 
 kidding me??? I'm not going to register, filling out all these fields with a controller, and I'm 
 not going to connect a keyboard to a _gaming_ console. I have already registered on PSN, that should 
 suffice. If Konami can't make use of it, like Infinity Ward did with their CoD4 or Ubisoft with 
 R6V:2 - to hell with it, I'm trading my MGS4 disk in.
  
  All in all, I don't believe the game deserves the 10 rating: bad controls, bad editing of cut scenes, 
 loading screens et cetera... It probably could be rated 10 for a specific console, since there 
 isn't many decent games on PS3, but when you take into account all games from all consoles out 
 there, 8 is the most I can give it.
  
  UPDATE: Once I found out I have to register in order to play online - I'm lowering my rating to 
 7.5. This is the dumbest idea I've ever heard of on gaming consoles. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 2ClickFlare
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 22, 2008 4:32 am PT
Review:  I know a lot of people. I have had a lot of friends. And even as young friends, we shared each 
 others experiences, and related to one another through music (mostly) , drawing (art) , and games. 
 I have kept in touch with some, allowed others to drift just within my reach, and abandonded others 
 altogether. As I played through MGS4, I found myself revelling in the past, amazed at what can 
 be, and sorrowful that many I have let go may never understand what true SACRIFICE means. I am 
 a 28 year old male nurse. I give of myself and my talents freely to those in need (mostly the needy) , 
 and, though it may seem a bit weighty, I feel a certain sense of renewal after completing this 
 game.
  
  I have seen Solid Snake through every one of his battles, wars, and doubts, and I can say, as an 
 everyman, that MGS4 not only resolved everything I had wondered about in the series (and yes, also 
 raised new questions) , but also has given proper respect where it was due, and allowed me to make 
 peace with this part of my life that has meant at something, for so long.
  
  Metal Gear Solid 4: Guns of the Patriots is something absolutely must be experienced by anyone 
 who has poured themselves into the franchise.
  
  Sunny... You did it. Can I have some salt? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: alhonso
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 22, 2008 2:56 am PT
Review:  Only one word can be used to describe this game: "Perfect". If you are looking for a game with 
 a storyline, there is no other in the universe than this. In everything from the gameplay, narration, 
 cutscenes and even the little funny things that make you laugh while you are playing a game e. g. 
 Jonathan who has hair shaped like an exclamation mark that has become a trademark of the Metal 
 Gear series. Though you will be spending a lot of time watching cinematics, do not assume that 
 the gameplay has been affected in any way. Perhaps we can even say that the cinematics of the game 
 will put many Hollywood movies to shame. The soul and passion, the magic that has been present 
 in all the previous metal gear solid games most certainly is not absent is any form. People who 
 unfortunately play this game as a shooting/action game may not enjoy it as much, as this is a game 
 made to be played as a tactical game.
  
  
  One the many things that have been improved in this game is the availability of weapons, although 
 they need to be bought using Drevin Points (gained be selling guns found during the game, which 
 you cannot use because of being ID'd) . This means you can have all sorts of weapons from rocket 
 launchers to pistols to grenades, the whole shebang. One other thing that I really liked is that 
 is this instalment of MGS, you can move while crouched, which is really advantageous. Then you 
 got the state of the art camouflage kit called the Octocam, which comes extremely handy, along 
 with the SolidEye and Metal Gear Mk. II (a tiny robot that can become invisible) . 
  
  
  The enjoyments and improvements of this game is way too many to be talked about. So in brief, if 
 you want to find out BUY IT. This is game that cannot be missed for anything in the world.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jrfanfreak88
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 21, 2008 10:51 pm PT
Review:  I have played all of the Metal Gear Solid games and to me MGS4 is probably the best out of all 
 of them. On top of that, it is by far the best PS3 game to date and one of the best games I have 
 ever played in my life. It's not easy to really pinpoint a single reason to why it is my favorite 
 so here's a list of pros and cons of the game: 
  
  Pros:
  
  Amazing graphics! Regardless of what you have seen in the trailers this game will surprise you 
 visually. All of the cutscenes are done in real time and are not pre-rendered. On top of that you 
 can zoom in during cutscenes as if Kojima himself is daring you to find a flaw with the graphics, 
 which after two times through the game I must say I haven't. Furthermore, things like explosions, 
 weather, water, wind, infared, and many other elements have been done to a level of high finish. 
 This is what next gen is all about!
  
  The story is something that I enjoyed as well. I haven't been so attached to the main character 
 of a game in years, and I have to say that the game does an excellent job to put us in snake's 
 shoes. The cutscenes are a bit long but they really help develop the characters throughout the 
 game so I am not sure if making them shorter would be wise or unwise. After all, it is the cutscenes 
 that really help you connect with what's going on. Plus, there may be room open for a MGS5 so what's 
 not to like (Unfortunately I doubt that Solid Snake would be in MGS5 though) . Sometimes the story 
 is a tad bit confusing but near the end of the game everything gets cleared up in case you missed 
 something earlier. 
  
  Weapons Customization is also a really cool feature. You can add laser sites, dot scopes, regular 
 scopes, shotgun attachments, grenade attachments, a flashlight, and grips. On top of this you can 
 buy emotional ammunition that makes enemies cry, laugh, etc, as well as buy different colored smoke 
 bombs. Also with Drebin's shop you won't be out of luck when you need to buy ammo as long as you've 
 been doing a good job of picking up weapons from people. 
  
  Because of these weapons options, you can now truly decide to run and gun through the game or use 
 stealth. Unlike past MGS titles you can now buy guns and ammo any time you want to, so as long 
 as you are killing/knocking out enemies and taking their weapons you shouldn't have to worry about 
 running out of bullets. Plus, on larger maps the enemy will continue to respawn over and over until 
 you decide to move further into the level (this doesn't happen on smaller areas) . The first time 
 I played through the game I was really aggressive but the second time through I found it just as 
 fun to make sure I made it through the game without having the "alert" phase happen. So, two totally 
 different ways to play are possible, plus 5 different ways to play with the different difficulties, 
 and yes, the Big Boss difficult is incredibly hard.
  
  The sound is also a very powerful element to the game with an excellent score by Harry Gregson-Williams 
 but also the background noise, gun sounds, and character dialog are done to near perfection. I 
 highly recommend playing with headphones if possible. 
  
  
  Cons:
  
  Sometimes the cutscenes do feel like they are dragging on, but with past Metal Gear games I am 
 somewhat used to it. I didn't experience any 90 minute cut scenes but there are some that are right 
 around the 60 minute mark, but at this point in the game it's somewhat understandable why it's 
 so long. Overall I was not too disappointed by this, especially since you can drive around the 
 little MK II robot in the mission briefings (these are some of the long cutscenes at the beginning 
 of each act) .
  
  The single player experience feels a tad bit short (technically speaking you can beat the game 
 in under 5 hours if you run quickly through every level) . The flip side to this is that replaying 
 the game over and over to unlock things does not feel like a huge hassle and the game doesn't overstay 
 it's welcome. For me, I felt like Oblivion and even GTA IV have a tendency to feel like they are 
 never ending so with MGS4 it doesn't feel like this huge chore to say "ok i'm going to play the 
 game over again but this time I will do X and X differently". 
  
  
  Conclusion:
  
  I've beat the game twice so far, and wanted to make sure I played through it at least twice before 
 writing this review. If you are a MGS fan purchasing MGS4 is a no brainer. If you don't have a 
 PS3 but want the game bad enough in my opinion it is worth it. The game answers a lot of questions, 
 and the newly released MGS database helps out even more, especially for new comers to the series. 
 On top of that the gameplay is the most fun it has ever been, there's tons of stuff to do and unlock, 
 the graphics will impress even those that don't like video games, and for true fans of the series 
 I have to say this game is incredibly special. As it has been said in many game reviews, Solid 
 Snake's story comes to a fitting end. 
  
  This is one of the best games I have ever played in my 17+ years of gaming, I highly recommend 
 that you don't pass it up. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: S-F-3
Rating: 6.5
Date: Jun 21, 2008 10:37 pm PT
Review:  Dont understand while everyone gave this game 9.5 or 10 because to me its a 8 because it is just 
 the same thing over and over and if you have played the other games it is basiclly the same. besides 
 the amazing visuals in this game every thing else is just average in my opinion. The game is good 
 ye but everybody makes it out to be the god of all PS3 games. My favorite part is when it makes 
 fun of the xbox 360. Besides that i dont think it to be any better than GTA4, Uncharted, Assasins 
 Creed, and the online is a bore compared to COD4. This game dosent have any thing special besides 
 the visuals that put it above any other game in the same class its in besides those games that 
 cost 20.00 because no body has heard of them. to anyone out there that is thinking about buying 
 this game, unless you are a big fan of the series then i advise you not to i already made that 
 mistake. well that is my review on this average game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: B_man0299
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 21, 2008 10:15 pm PT
Review:  I am somewhat new to the series (i played mgs 2 & 3 at a friends house 2 years ago) . I now love 
 this game and this series. It sucks that it is the end of Solid Snake's fight *SPOILER*. The games 
 graphics are beautiful (Hideo should be proud) , the in game music fits so well it is almost like 
 there is no music at all. The realism in this game is staggering, from realistic AI, destroying 
 things, to facial expressions. The cut scenes, i don't mind their length. It is almost like watching 
 a hollywood movie (yes, they're that good) , plus it gives you time to eat a big meal and still 
 be playing the game. The storyline of this game is exciting and confusing, but all the previous 
 things in the past are tied up in this game. One thing that is weird in this game are the gekko, 
 they moo like cows, and release some sort of fluid that makes them look like they are going to 
 the bathroom. I hate how Raiden nearly dies and loses both arms, but then he gets 2 artificial 
 arms to replace them *SPOILER*. Plus I hate how he doesn't want to fight anymore, he is the second 
 coolest guy in the game (vamp is coolest) . The voice acting in this game is very well done, Hideo 
 Kojima got a ton of hollywood actors to voice characters in his game. The motions of the people 
 are so well done, it seems like they're actually real people. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lil_zelda_dude
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 21, 2008 9:44 pm PT
Review:  Metal Gear Solid 4 truly deserves a 10, it seems wierd people throwing around 10's, but its truly 
 coincidental that two great games were released around the same time. But Metal Gear Solid 4, in 
 my opinion, is the greatest game I've ever played. Lets make this simple...
  Graphics- 
  If you've read other reviews, you already know that they set new expectations for games. Finally 
 the Playstation 3 is showing its strength. Whats even more impressive is when the awe dropping 
 cutscenes cut right into gameplay without any loading times. Very Impressive! The environment is 
 also quite destructible, although its not usually the wisest thing to shoot a rocket at a helicopter, 
 it will come down and eventually explode into pieces which is a really cool thing to see. You can 
 also blow up cars, shoot computers etc. Most things have a superb reaction. Camera effects are 
 now apparent, from blood, to dirt, to mud, to snow, it all adds up to the best graphics in a game. 
 
  Story/Cutscene controversy
  Ok, people always criticize the length of the cutscenes in this series. But the story is better 
 told than in any other game, and its described thoroughly and wonderfully through cutscenes and 
 unique artwork. The story has so much depth and information behind everything that it brings the 
 game world to life with much realism. The Cutscenes you wont want to miss, from some awesome action 
 sequences to some major story twists and plot points, you'll never feel the instinct to skip them.
 
  Gameplay-
  The core gameplay of Metal Gear Solid 4 has not changed, but the new features are all added for 
 the better. From the OctoCamo which adds a WHOLE other layer to the smallest things like the drum 
 can which is a more efficient way to get around than the C box ( although of course the Cbox in 
 my opinion is more stealthier) . New players to the series will feel at home rather they like 3rd 
 person shooters or stealth games. Even if the player is more interested in one genre they may feel 
 the urge to expierement with the other. Either way you play the experience is solid. Neither the 
 stealth or the shooting feel like an afterthought, its really suprising how they created such a 
 balance with the two.
  Sound-
  Of course the soundtrack for metal gear solid is going to be great. The music adds to the already 
 solid expierence. You may be reminiscing with the older classic soundtrack with songs like Snake 
 Eater, or maybe your listening to the new emotional theme of Old Snake. Not only this, maybe your 
 listening to songs on your in game iPod, maybe even a podcast! 
  Overall-
  Theres so much to do in this game you may not get around to doing it the first playthrough. And 
 even without the very interesting unlockables you will feel the urge to playthrough it again. This 
 game is not only great, but it stays fresh even on the fourth playthrough. This game is a must 
 buy and now the PS3 finally has something to brag about. If you have to buy a PS3 to get this game, 
 you simpy must do it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tlow0678
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 21, 2008 8:20 pm PT
Review:  After playing through the game twice, I can honestly say that this game is pretty fun. But it does 
 have a multitude of cons to go along with all those shiny, deserved pros.
  
  First off, this game is 50% movie, 50% game. Some might even call it an interactive movie. I'd 
 say theres about 8 hours gameply, 10 hours of cinematics. However, it seems like there is much 
 more cinematic then there actually is. This is because the cutscenes are very frequent, and most 
 are usually 10 + minutes. Luckily, you can pause these scenes. Not recommended, however, is skipping 
 the scenes. This game is much like the popular series Lost. Miss 5 seconds of the cinemtics, and 
 you will be utterly lost. Also, turn on the subtitles. This game has an annoying habit of having 
 important speech fall inaudible due to ambience and bad sound programming.
  
  Another annoying habit this game has is the over-explanation of every single aspect and sub-plot. 
 For example, in the game, nanobots play an important role (which you learn almost immediately) . 
 However, over the course of the game, a good 30 minutes is spent explaining every forgettable nuance 
 of these nanobots. Its nice that the makers of this game want the player to understand what is 
 going on, but there is no need to over-explain everything. Because, trust me, they don't just over-explain 
 nanobots, they over-explain almost everything, and it quickly gets annoying.
  
  The story is great and original, but for the gamers who get easily confused (such as me) it can 
 be too much. The story, for me, personally, is over-complicated, as it has so many sub-plots and 
 plot turns that it can get overwhelming. This, combined with the over-explanation of everything, 
 can cause the story become over-bearing. And since this game is story based, that is bad.
  
  The game is Tactical Espionage Action, but it is just as easy, and fun, to run into an area 
 guns ablaze and kill everything. But it is also enjoyable to sneak through areas undected like 
 a high-tech ninja. This game has so many cool gadgets (octocamo ^_^) and weapons, that it leaves 
 your approach to any level limitless. However, some levels (ther are only 5) are so short and straightforward 
 that they call for a very starightforward style of play. This is somewhat bad, as it limits your 
 approach, thus limiting the fun. The stealth could have used more depth, such as the amazing stealth 
 in the Splinter Cell franchise, but the other amazing aspects of gameplay cause this to be overseen. 
 In general, the gameplay is amazing.
  
  Graphically, this game matches the likes of other popular top-notch games, such as Uncharted or 
 Assassin's Creed. Soundwise, it has good sound affects and music, but nothing special.
  
  Overall, the gameplay of the game is amazing, but the story, although good and involving, can be 
 overbearing at times. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mrxdemix
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 21, 2008 7:44 pm PT
Review:  I personally have played MGS1-MGS3 and became a fan in the process, and given those games were 
 some of the best of their respective generations, and had poor gameplay, it's safe to say that 
 a MGS with good gameplay would be nothing less than incredible. That proves itself to be true in 
 MGS4, and coupled with some of the best music and audio of any game to date, one of the most thrilling 
 and interesting stories of all time and graphics that are unrivaled on any console, this game is 
 truly a masterpiece.
  
  It's hard to explain what it feels like to play and complete this game for someone who has never 
 played the series before. The director of this titles as well as the previous games, Hideo Kojima, 
 declared this his last game as well as Solid Snake's. During the game, you will encounter things 
 that will provoke nostalgia, emotion and an unprecedented amount of enjoyment. For someone who 
 has played the previous games, this game is unmatched, and to me, the only thing that can either 
 tie or topple a game of this caliber is something similar, a series ender.
  
  For someone who hasn't played the series, this game will get you up to speed on the storyline but 
 it won't feel quite the same. However, the boss fights, gameplay as well as the intriguing multi-player 
 make this a game worth buying.
  
  To sum it up, this is the best game I have played to date, period. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Blue_GundamRX78
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 21, 2008 8:09 pm PT
Review:  Finally "Metal Gear Solid 4: Guns of the Patriots" is out! 
  Like most of you I'm a die-hard MGS fan. I've stuck around with the game for years, and I've loved 
 every one (though some games more than others) . So when MGS4 came out you can bet I was there the 
 first day to pick up my limited edition copy.
  Without a doubt, MGS4 is the best out of all of them. There's simply nothing not to like about 
 this game, other than the game ever ending. It's a wonderful game, and one of the best games out 
 for the PS3 currently -- and any other system -- in my opinion, anyway.
  
  It's the gift that keeps on giving. It never stops being this fun, amazing and breathtaking game 
 that's done so well you can't stop playing it and you're constantly amazed by it. The first time 
 you step into the world you'll find yourself softly muttering "wow".
  It runs well, the graphics are great, the voice acting is wonderful, the story is superb, and it 
 just feels like you're watching a movie. With the action mixed with humor, and rewarding exploration, 
 just like the past Metal Gear games, there's nothing I can find to dislike about it .The game is 
 a masterpiece in every sense of the word. My only complaint with it is that there's no movie viewer 
 section allowing you to go back and replay the in-game movies you've seen, because some of them 
 are really great and I'd like to watch them again.
  
  But, unfortunately, not everything about it can be amazing. The partner game it comes with, "Metal 
 Gear Online", falls short and simply doesn't live up to MGS4. MGO is an interesting concept, and 
 is nice for killing time, but I just don't find it all that enjoyable. Good thing it was free, 
 eh?
  
  Simply put, MGS4 is an awesome game that's sure to please any Metal Gear fan. It ties up many loose 
 ends the other games have left, answers many questions, and I like how it brings back many of the 
 characters from the past games. And even better, Otacon is in it! And Sunny is just adorable. 
 
  This game is a must-have, there's no other way around it. Pick it up today, you wont be sorry! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: big_mac_combo
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 21, 2008 6:43 pm PT
Review:  To start off, MGS4 is one of THE greatest games i have ever played... EVER. 
  It's everything MGS fans were hoping for and more. The graphics r probably the best i've seen so 
 far. There is a LOT of detail in the characters and environments. The sound is amazing with great 
 sound effects, voice acting and soundtrack. Gameplay has definately been up'd from previous MGS 
 games. Snake has more cool moves this time despite the fact he's aged quite a bit. He can also 
 now movie with aiming. The game also comes with Metal Gear Online and is it awsome. u can play 
 with up to 15 other player in many of the game types and maps available. The only thing im gunna 
 say about the story is that it is one of THE best i have ever experienced. Kojima has done an incredible 
 job of wrapping up the story of both snake and the side characters such as raiden and meryl. Bottom 
 line is... if u own a PS3, u MUST buy MGS4. buy it even if u dun like stealth/action/shooter games, 
 jus suppose the cause and hope that kojima with make another metal gear. if u dun buy it i will 
 come to ur house, murder u, and rape ur mother. JUS BUY IT ALREADY 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SuperB56
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 21, 2008 6:12 pm PT
Review:  On thursday, June 19, 2008, I had a choice in getting either Metal Gear Solid or The Bourne Conspiracy ( 
 I got both) . Though I had the most fun playing Metal Gear Solid 4: Guns of the Patriots the newest 
 game out made by the producer Hideo Kojima, it was no joke. On the 12 of June. Millions of People 
 all around the world went to "Live the Experience" by playing a game filled with Killer Graphics, 
 Spine-Chilling fight scenes, and a brand new storyline that will revolutionize gaming forever. 
 The Areas are designed beautifully, especially the flashback to MGS 1, Where you saw the deserted 
 Shadow Moses Island once again. Even though I barely ever played the first MGS. I did play the 
 Twin Snakes so I sort of knew the area. The flashback is so great that cameras are still in the 
 correct spots around the area. The Character graphics are better than ever before in my opinion. 
 Compared to Snake Eater for the PS2. They are so detailed that right at the end if you look closely 
 a Raiden, You still see some marks from His mask left on his face. Next there are the fight scenes 
 which must have alone taken years to create. They are perfect. For example, right at the end when 
 you are battle to the end against the vicious terrorist known as Liquid Snake. (Even though in this 
 he is known as Liquid Ocelot I will always remember him as Liquid Snake.) This was probably the 
 most brutal battle I have seen in ages. Last but not least there is the beautifully crafted storyline, 
 which impressivly combined every single other metal gear solid together in some way. I was most 
 impressed with in the beginning of the series you barely knew anything about the characters, but 
 as the story progresses on, you learn more, until the very end which you will find out everything. 
 If you are ever in the store and you see this game, but you ignore it, you, no offense are really 
 foolish. Even though, yes there are a few reasons to pass this one by, perhaps it could be the 
 same exact soundtrack that we have heard for every other game. Or the same exact start to every 
 mission briefing watching Sunny cook eggs. One other reason that frustrates me the most is the 
 masks you are able to wear through the game. Okay, you obviously do not understand my reasoning. 
 the reason is the coolest version of Solid Snake is not the first version, or the one from Subsistence, 
 or from Sons of Liberty. It is the one from The Twin Snakes. Because it copies the first one but 
 it has better graphics. I think that to make people buy more stuff you should do what you did for 
 twin snakes, if you want it known make more duplications. Take Sons of Liberty, Subsistence, Twin 
 Snakes, Snake Eater, and Portable Ops and make them into 360 and PS3 versions you would make a 
 little more money. maybe even make them into a bundle pack with the excellent graphics used in 
 this game. I think that because of this game we should open new doors to the world of gaming. We 
 should use these graphics for all video games. Thank You very much Hideo Kojima we will miss Metal 
 Gear Solid terribly, but thank you for ending it so beautifully... thank you for giving us the 
 Instant Classic... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dean_gustafson
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 21, 2008 5:32 pm PT
Review:  I scored Metal Gear Solid 4: Guns of the Patriots 10 because it's been worth the wait I'd say the 
 difficulty is just right because this game draws in not only the Metal Gear fans some of which 
 have been waiting since 1987 when I was only 2 but also new fans that have I know already heard 
 that this isn't just another FPS this is MGS4! Although a massive game with what I can call beautiful 
 graphics because not only are they beautiful but Hideo Kojima's vision of Metal Gear is cool but 
 all of Kojima Productions as well everyone from Hideo Kojima himself through to Kojima Productions 
 and the actors as well David Hayter plays Snake just right even through the hard story driven game 
 that is highly inspired by movies seems like one to in high definition movie like on Blu-ray in 
 full Dolby as well not often I use the word perfect but what Hideo Kojima has produced here truly 
 is the perfect end to the Metal Gear Saga!
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Funkelo
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 21, 2008 5:02 pm PT
Review:  Metal Gear Solid 4 is an epic game. The story is perfectly done. The cinematics are awesome, so 
 I recommend when you play the game not to skip them. Yes, sometimes you will be a little impatience 
 and want to play but really don't skip them because it's not the same without them. 
  The gameplay is really well done. It has so much content. First, you have a lot of weapons. You 
 can find them and also buy it from a guy named Drebin. 
  You know that this is a tactical game so for that is great. You can hide in the bushes, grass, 
 rocks and other things. And the most greatest thing about this is the OctoGamo, a special suit 
 to camuflate yourself. That is one of the most cool things that I've seen in a game. 
  About the difficult, this game is not hard, but not easy either if you play in normal mode. As 
 I said, this is a tactical game so you can't just go and kill your enemies, you have to be patience 
 and think about the right time to act. Otherwise you'll be killed in a matter of time. 
  The bosses fights are fun, but some of them are long and hard. You have to think how you have to 
 kill them and use the right weapons. Once you kill them you'll gain special tools or weapons.
 
  The story is great and when you finish the game you will have a great ending. I must say that 
 is one of the most satysfing endings that I have seen in my life. 
  The only complain that I have is that the game is not very long. I finished in 20 hours in normal. 
 But that's all. The game is fantastic and a sure buy for PS3 owners.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: BOOGIE55
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 3, 2008 6:43 pm PT
Review:  (The following are the PROS and CONS for the game. The stars number of stars represent each things' 
 impact on the game. One star having the lowest impact and three having the highest.
  
  PROS: ***Top Notch Graphics ***Dramatically Improved Gameplay ***Great Story ***Movie-Quality Cutscenes 
 ***The New Octo-Camo **Great Weapon Customization ***Boss Battles ***Enemy AI ***Great Use Of Stealth 
 Tactics **Satisfying Voice Acting **Good Multiplayer Skills System **Emblems Of All Types And Difficulties
 
  
  CONS: ***Story Mode Could've Had More Gameplay **Online Gameplay Isn't Very Good
  
  Presentation - 10 
  Graphics/Sound - 10
  Gameplay - 9.5
  Entertainment - 10
  Lasting Appeal 
 - 9.5
  
  METAL GEAR SOLID 4: GUNS OF THE PATRIOTS 9.8/10 
  
  Comments - Definitely a must buy for all PS3 owners whether you are new to the series or not. If 
 you don't have one I suggest you go buy the bundle. This game should surely keep you busy for a 
 week or 2 and is surely worth your $60 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: wowguytc
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 21, 2008 2:43 pm PT
Review:  First things first, this is the greatest game of all time. The Legend of Zelda Ocarinia of Time 
 previously held that title in my eyes but it was time to crown the new king. MGS4 is more than 
 a game, its an experience. The story is amazing along with the graphics but this is a given with 
 any Metal Gear game. You actually feel like your playing an action packed epic movie. Hardcore 
 Metal Gear fans will appreciate every second of this game because it was designed with the fans 
 in mind. It is still good for Metal Gear newcomers but they might not be used to long cut scenes. 
 The cut scenes never feel out of place or overstay their welcome. They are action packed and filled 
 with many new twists and surprises. You will be on the edge of your seat through out majority of 
 the game. The boss battles are amazing and rely on the graphical horsepower of the PS3 to carry 
 on the battle. The weapon customization works out great and is always in your reach by the push 
 of the start button. You want to get through the game to get the whole story but at the same time 
 you don't want it to end. The gameplay is a little different than previous Metal Gear games but 
 never feels out of place. After every act your just left with shock and awe and can't wait to see 
 what happens in the next act. The only flaw this game has is that it has to end. The collector's 
 edition is worth the price for the extra blu-ray it comes with (which I'm watching as I type) , 
 the artbook, and amazing soundtrack. Do yourself a favor, get this game. If you don't have a PS3 
 get one. They have MGS4 bundle and if it's to expensive this is why they have credit cards. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PSWII60user
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 21, 2008 2:05 pm PT
Review:  I'm going to be honest, i thought that the metal gear series was a joke, a goofy boring game that 
 was not so good. after playing through most of MGS4, i wanna kick myself for not playing the others 
 when i had the chance. yes the storytelling is "heavy-handed" but it is done so well that it is 
 a pleasure to watch and wait to play. like the review said, you never feel like you have to sneak 
 or like you have to get into fire fights. all the characters are great and i like to sit back and 
 watch the cinematic after an intense mission. this game has the best AI i have ever seen the awareness 
 of the AI to noise and the slightest motion is amazing. the boss fights are extremely well done. 
 what else can i say. MGS4 is a pleasure to play and i just wish i had played the other in the series. 
 but until i can do that, all the research has come i handy.
  
  OH and the thing on psn store is great. it is a free download that lets you look up any character 
 or plot story. you have to get that if you need a refresher, or if you havent played the other 
 games like me. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Masta-O
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 9, 2008 3:16 pm PT
Review:  The Metal Gear Solid series has always been known for its impressive storyline and its intense 
 stealth gameplay.
  However, in this game Hideo Kojima (Writer / Producer / Director) and his boys have decided to 
 take a sort of different direction.
  
  You are Solid Snake or as the game prefers to call him Old Snake, a legendary soldier who was famous 
 for stopping and sabotaging different types of Metal Gears around the world, recently he suffers 
 from intense accelerating ageing which slowly kills off all of his internal and external organs.
 
  Though the cause is still unknown, you are sent to the middle east to eliminate Liquid Ocelot, 
 a man who is hell-bent on world domination
  The game kicks off with the main character riding with the local militia in the back of a truck 
 somewhere in the middle east as they are going to a warzone where the PMCs (Private Military Companies) 
 have the militia beat.
  
  The storyline and plot are as any Metal Gear game are top-notch and feel very well written, however, 
 the storyline still has its flaws, since Hideo Kojima wanted to tie up all the loose ends, and 
 answer all the questions that have been asked by the series' loyal fan base which ended up being 
 extremely confusing since it was almost an impossible job to cram and end all of the storylines 
 in just one little game but still they barely pulled it off.
  If you haven't played any other Metal Gear game or don't know the story then don't bother even 
 playing this game, since Kojima mainly focuses on heavy-handed storytelling then it is not worth 
 it to lose such a big chunk from this outstanding experience.
  So I highly recommend that you either read the past Metal Gear games stories or play them which 
 is of course the more fun way.
  
  Metal Gear Solid has always benefited from great technically proficient graphics and this game 
 is no exception, from the great highly textured high definition wrinkles on Old Snake's face to 
 the smoke coming out of Snake's mouth after smoking a cigarette to the tears shed on the face of 
 Otacon, the game has never disappointed graphics-wise.
  
  Gameplay in the Metal Gear series was always a very intense nail-bitting affair of stealth and 
 sneaking around without getting spotted by enemy guards or soldiers.
  However, this time Kojima Productions have tweaked this formula to a greater extent. they introduced 
 us to a new style of gameplay where you are supposed to sneak stealthily and infiltrate battlefields 
 and war zones, and yes this means that as the war is going on you will have to slip by unnoticed, 
 and even though you can help the local militia in their battles it is just best to use a sneakier 
 approach.
  In other Metal Gear games if you were exposed it was very hard to lose the tail and it was also 
 impossible to stay alive, however, this time around you can fight your way out of a situation if 
 you managed to get spotted but still it is not a much encouraged way.
  The controls have been tweaked also this time around, the hardcore fan base might feel deceived 
 and take a little while getting used to the controls but other newcomers to the series might become 
 a little more attract since it is an easy to learn control system.
  Animation has always been top-notch in previous Metal Gear games to further enhance the incredible 
 cinematic experience of this game and this time it actually surpassed its predecessors by having 
 even more expressive faces and smoother motion-captured animations which have been perfectly executed.
 
  In addition to this, the weapons are perfect now, each weapon has its own unique feel which further 
 adds to the immense level of realism in the game wether it be the simple but yet effective Mk. 
 II tranquilizer gun or the Rail Gun, every gun has its unique feel to it.
  There are also a big downpoint in this game which was its length, I on a personal basis was expecting 
 a huge 50-hour or so campaign but then was shocked with the awful truth which was that the game 
 ended in less than 20-hours in my first play on the Solid Normal difficulty level, which means 
 that it is even shorter than Metal Gear Solid 3 : Snake Eater but still that doesn't keep it from 
 being the excellent work of art that it is.
  
  Sound has not been always Metal Gear's strongest factor, however, this game changed it all, sound 
 is now perfect.
  Metal Gear Solid has managed to set a new standard for sound editing and sound mixing by adding 
 incredible sound effects and of course the always terrific voice-acting provided by the same favorite 
 cast (David Hayter, Jennifer Hale, Patric Zimmerman, Christopher Randolph, Quinton Flynn, etc...) .
 
  
  Once again the gaming genius Hideo Kojima has pulled it off by delivering a masterpiece that the 
 gaming world was in need for. They also have outdone themselves and once more reclaimed their well 
 deserved stealth gaming throne.
  
  I highly recommend this game to anyone who is familiar with the whole Metal Gear Solid Saga since 
 this is a perfect to an already legendary gaming series, so give it a try whenever if you are in 
 need of some tactical espionage action. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DonHamoodi
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 21, 2008 1:20 pm PT
Review:  This game was hyped about alot before its release, I agree! But unlike most games out there (e. g. 
 Assassins Creed, Heavenly Sword, Haze, etc.) this game deserves all the hype it got if not even 
 more! MGS 4 is more of an Art than just a game. If you love action games or if you love sneaking 
 games, or if you love both sneaking and action at the same time, then this game is a must!!! Not 
 only that, MGS4 will attract your emotions like no other game. It has sad moments, happy moments, 
 funny moments and brutal moments!! The graphics - apart from the low resolution - is stunning, 
 the physics is so realistic and the AI is the best up to date. The gameplay also is one of the 
 best around, as you gotta lots of options on how to sneak and how to eliminate the enemy!! The 
 storyline act as a magnet that attracts you and makes you want to keep playing, and provides a 
 perfect ending and recapping to what happened in previous MGS games. The online play is a great 
 bonus that also add to the reply value to this masterpiece. In conclusion I just want to say that 
 If u dont have this game yet buy it!! you wont regret it, I assure you!!!
  
  Salam (Peace) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SuperBazza87
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 21, 2008 12:43 pm PT
Review:  Love how easy it is to switch to 1st person mode in this. No need to crawl through the vents or 
 look through a sniper (still love sniping though) . Very Jaw Dropping moments, comedy moments and 
 so much work and preperation put into the storyline and was worth the wait. Some Boss fights was 
 easy but some other boss fights u really need to do so much work into especially screaming mantis 
 boss fight. Love going back down memory lane to Metal Gear Solid 1 with the reintroduction of shadow 
 moses. What a way to rap it all up but very long lord of the rings like ending but it was for good 
 reason; same with the installations b4 each Act. Wouldn't mind a future Metal Gear Solid game on 
 the PS3 just to put Microsoft XBOX in its place. Plan on doing the storyline again and I'am having 
 fun with Metal Gear Online but sometimes the 1st person view accuracy is very sloppy in it but 
 easier aiming with L1 in third person mode. This is a Collectors item and will make Microsoft think 
 twice ;) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 11proby
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 21, 2008 11:53 am PT
Review:  Metal Gear what can i say a great story with a great gameplay. This game does deserve a 10.0 and 
 the greatest game of the year. The game makes halo 3 and gears of war seem like a baby game. This 
 is of course the last game of the series and we see the fate of solid snake by beating the game. 
 Liquid (snakes enemy) has taken a wepon that can be used to rule the world and snake has to stop 
 him before he does. On the way on this action pact game u meet new people and people u didn't see 
 till the first. The game has good graphics compared to the other games and games in generals. If 
 you get a ps3 make this your first game. Plus if you just now playing MGS4 then make this be your 
 warning you will be  
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MG_GEKKO
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 21, 2008 11:45 am PT
Review:  I am now on my fourth play through. I have to say though the game is short, without cutscenes, 
 it is well worth the cash.
  
  The hardest level, The Boss Extreme, gave me a goal to obtain the Big Boss Emblem. I had my struggles, 
 Act 3, but I was able to obtain it :D
  
  If you are not a big fan of the other MGS games then I think this might just sway you into trying 
 the others in the series. The graphics are out of this world, though building can't be chipped 
 away at or windows smashed. I think the OctoCamo makes up for this, as anything you touch in your 
 surroundings it will immatate :D
  
  Metal Gear Solid Online has to be something to praise in the game. Though I have not played this 
 too much due to my Playstation 3 not agreeing with my router (Netgear) . I did manage to play one 
 or two, here and there, and I have to say that hiding in a box just to jump out and stangle your 
 enemy... Priceless :D 
::::::

::::::
UserName: slimshady124
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 21, 2008 11:07 am PT
Review:  I've never played a Metal Gear Solid game in my life, but when I heard all the hype, I just thought, 
 "I guess I'm a little lucky to get this on release." My expectations weren't high. I didn't expect 
 the masterpiece it would become. But then I played it. It's the greatest game I've played in my 
 entire life. Sure, the cutscenes and mission briefings took really long, but the rumble was great. 
 Yes, there was rumble even in cutscenes! Whether Snake was loading his weapon, stepping aboard 
 a helicopter, or punching someone, it felt as if you were actually Snake, that you were really 
 there. The rumble in the game was also impressive, usually happening when Snake fell, fired or 
 a weapon, or loaded one. Remember that these are just a few examples, s expect many more. The gameplay 
 was great. Being stealthy usually helped, but you could just gun down everyone in your path. The 
 new Octocamo suit was amazing. It blended in with your environment in real-time, meaning that if 
 you are against a wall or lying on the ground, your suit makes camoflauge similiar to the textures 
 around you. So, if you're on grass, your camoflauge turns that color. There is also FaceCamo, but 
 you don't get that until you are a little further into the game. The weapons were great and it 
 was fun and easy to customize them using points that you gain after you sell the gun to an arms 
 dealer. Don't worry, you get the ammo, he gets the gun. The controls felt just right and didn't 
 cause any problems. Little Metal Gear Mk. II (2) is also easy to use. He's a little robot you can 
 use to scout the area ahead before you do and he can electrocute enemies. The pause menu is easy 
 to use and is very user friendly. The graphics were simply mind-blowing! I found myself comparing 
 the graphics to the room I was playing in and they looked almost exactly the same! Boss fights 
 weren't too difficult and were pretty fun since they were usually against huge bosses. There is 
 this one movie-type motorcycle chase which is awesome to play when your shooting at huge robots 
 flying above you trying to take you out. The gameplay towards the end of the game is very interesting, 
 but I'm not going to ruin anything. This is an amazing final mission for Old Snake. We salute you, 
 Snake. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PS3_cod4
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 22, 2008 8:33 am PT
Review:  Ok, This is the only game of the series that I have played, but if you are like me then you will 
 be amazed at this game! From every corner to every enemy, this game is just simply fantastic!! 
 This game will keep you biting your fingernails all the way through the story and this game is 
 endless hours of entertainment. If you buy this game, it is like buying two for one because the 
 online is its own game, even though it does take a long time to set up but once that part is over 
 there's another 20 or more hours of simple fun. You play as the "Old Snake" but he still has the 
 skills. That is all i have to say about this game right now but watch out for more reviews from 
 my channel PS3_cod4 and there is only one more thing i have to say about this game, if you are 
 the kind of person that buys a game, beats it, and gives it back to the store next day, I would 
 say keep MGS4 because if you already beat the story once, you can play it again and you get to 
 keep all of your old guns! Thats all I have to say to you and watch out for more reviews from PS3_cod4. 
 PEACE!
  
  
  Verdict GET METAL GEAR SOLID 4! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: perip1975
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 21, 2008 8:15 am PT
Review:  Metal gear est et sera toujours une rfrence et unique en matire de jeu d'infiltration.
  
  Solid snake 4 Nous donne la chance de mettre tous les morceaux du puzzle en place et de finir 
 cette grande histoire sans  avoir a se poser de questions du comment et du pourquoi ! Pour moi 
 l'histoire de Metal Gear se trouve  tre aussi digne que Star wars ou encore Le seigneur des anneaux. 
 Hideo Kojima crer un personnage pique en crent solid snake ce soldat solitaire et  comme mission 
 de tout simplement de sauver l'humanit. 
  
  Une qualite graphique incroyable, un excellent game play et une histoire a couper le souffle et 
 que dire des personnages... 10/10.
  
  Je donne a ce jeu 10/10 et je donne aussi 10/10  l'ensemble de l'oeuvre et je prie pour que Konami 
 et Hideo Kojima dcident de remasteriser metal gear solid pour la PS3. Et pourquoi quelques films 
 ? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: demonslayer228
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 21, 2008 7:44 am PT
Review:  Alright this game deserve a 10.0 because The story is great if you know the whole metal gear solid 
 story you should get metal gear solid 1,2, and 3 .
  to know how the story goes like if you know it your one place can't stop sitting down and don't 
 wanna take breaks until you beat this game. when you beat this game and love the metal gear solid 
 story you might be sad that the single player and great story end's. As for many people they were 
 sad since this was the last metal gear solid game. but yet there is still Meta Gear Online which 
 you can play or yet do different mission when your at the main menu not the "In Game Main Menu" 
 well the thing bad about the game is the installing time for example if your up to Act 3 right? 
 and your brother or sister or Dad, uncle is up to Act 5 each time you wanna load New game after 
 they play you have to install no choice which some people dislike but it's only 2 minutes well 
 i have a bigger brother and i gotta install after he plays. Also The camara is fixed and the shooting 
 it's not "Stop 1st Person View And Shoot" you can now move in that position well also there's a 
 shop which you can unlock new weapons and buy ammo and make a gun. well you need DB points to get 
 them is simple when a CPU drops a Gun and you have full ammo of what gun he has you pick it up 
 and that extra ammo get sold so you gain Db Points and that's about it my review is done now see 
 ya. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KevinConklin
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 11, 2009 2:04 pm PT
Review:  Before actually buying this game, i rented it. I had never played a single MGS game before, and 
 I didnt know what to expect. After my 3 days of playing for about 10 minutes a day, I scored this 
 game a 6.5 because I just didnt like it.
  However, I downloaded the demo, realize the game was much better than i thought ,and I just bought 
 it.
  I bought this game yesterday at about 3pm, and have played over 15 gameplay hours while going to 
 class every day.
  i CANNOT put this game down.
  Most action games either feel like a stealth game with action thrown in, or an action game with 
 stealth thrown in, MGS4, however, is not that at all. It is what you make it. If you wanna run 
 and gun, then do it! and it is an amazing action game.
  But, if you never want to kill a soldier all the way through, then do that!
  This game is absolutely 
 stunning, and the online is the cherry on top.
  GO BUY THIS GAME NOW!
  
  BUT - if you do buy the game, and have never played any MGS games before... then go to this website:
 
  http://boardsus. playstation. com/playstation/board/message? board. id=mgs&thread. id=85966
  
  and READ it! this explains the entire chronological story from the beginning! it makes parts that 
 would have confused me a lot clearer!
  
  Score:
  
  Gameplay - 10
  Graphics - 10
  Sound - 9
  Replay Value - 9
  Fun - 10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Austers
Rating: 6
Date: Jun 21, 2008 7:08 am PT
Review:  i think that this is a good game but its all been there done that, i found the cut scenes very 
 annoying, they are way too long. i dont see why people thinks its so good i think it is like GTA 
 IV, its good at the start but you get bored of it. you have to watch the cut scenes to know what 
 is going on but some of them are so boring. the problem is when youve completed the story the multiplayer 
 pretty much sucks, it lags all the time, too many people glitching, and the people on there are 
 extremely abusive and keep ruining the story for people. i think that the graphics are good but 
 not the best ive seen better if youd shown me the game in 2006 i would of thought wow but there 
 not that great i believe the graphics are the same are resistance 1. the controls are too fiddily 
 and take too long long to get used to. i think that this game is overhyped by fanboys wanting it 
 to do well i hyped myself up for this game but i was disappointed its a bit meh. i would recommending 
 renting this first so you dont waste your money im going to trade mine in and get my money back 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: raiden492
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 21, 2008 4:20 am PT
Review:  I have been playing MGS games since longer than I can remember, but admittedly I had been getting 
 a bit tired of waiting so long for the next instalment. And it was so worth the wait. This is definitely 
 the greatest MGS game, the best PS3 game to date, and easily in the top 5 greatest games of all 
 time. It has the graphics of Crysis, the game play and ingenuity of a classic MGS, the cinematics 
 and storytelling of an Oscar-winning movie and online play to rival Call Of Duty 4. 
  
  This game is pure excellence, no doubt about it. Some say it is boring because most cut-scenes 
 are very long, but how else do you rap up 21 years of gaming brilliance? Personally, I say bring 
 on the cut-scenes! I thought that an almost 90-minute final cut-scene made it feel like a film, 
 which I think is a new and great idea for gaming (Konami once again changing the face of gaming) .
 
  
  MGS 4 also has a sort of war-simulator in it, creating battles that look and feel real, allowing 
 you to just ignore it and move on quietly, take the side of the local rebels and fight the PMC's, 
 or go all out and take on everybody (may I add I have tried this and it is very difficult fighting 
 two armies at once) . 
  
  Once again, CQC (Close Quarters Combat) has been improved hugely with the addition of disarming, 
 held-up searches, silent knock-out and being able to not only slit their throat, but inject them 
 with a nanomachine-destroying syringe.
  
  Metal Gear Online (MGO) is a great add-on to the game once you are finished with the single-player 
 mode. There is the classic death match and team death match, along with retrieval and defence mission, 
 but the best of all being sneaking mission. You have the two normal sides against each other, but 
 with Snake thrown into the mix, using CQC and octocamo (stealth suit) trying to take on all the 
 soldiers.
  
  So, to finish of, MGS4 is the perfect way to end the timeless saga, that will never be forgotten, 
 even after finishing the 20-hour story. In my books, and hopefully in everyone else's, MGS4 is 
 a truly epic game that will never die. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Styvan
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 21, 2008 3:53 am PT
Review:  Anyone who has got a PS3 MUST have this game. This game really sucks you in with great gameplay 
 and immersive storytelling. Boss fights are finally enjoyable and force you to reason how to defeat 
 them since shooting like hell won't work. Even 'trash mobs' have a great AI, giving you a hell 
 of a time trying to sneak past them. But this time sneaking is no the only way to face the game 
 since you will be able to take on a more FPS attitude and clean the way thru its amazing story.
 
  
  And when the game's over you can always take on its online counterpart, building your own 'Snake' 
 and putting him thru battles with human opponents.
  
  Get this game, you won't regret it.. Assured!!!!!
  
  Keep an eye out for the amazing quantity 
 of 'ghost tracks' in the game, helping you getting more into the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Altiar25
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 21, 2008 3:16 am PT
Review:  Heyz, this game is my first ever MGS game and to be honest i wasnt looking forward to it much, 
 i only wanted it because i knew everyone else would have it and i wanted to play it online. Needless 
 to say i loved this game. 
  
  Story:
  I thought the story was good. I managed to keep track on what was going on but sometimes it got 
 complicated, but it theres always a twist in the story line so your'll never know whats going to 
 happen next.
  
  Gameplay:
  The gameplay is really good. The octocamo is amazing and has got to be the greatist invention in 
 a game yet. You can be stealth or charge in guns ablazing, either way can work. Its not always 
 the same though because insted of just going stealth, in some missions you may need to follow someone's 
 footsteps or follow a person to a place.
  
  Cinimatics:
  Ok, we all know that MGS has LOADS of cinimatics. I always remember it for its incredibly long 
 cinimatics. I watched them all to follow the story and even though they are long they are great. 
 The graphics of the people are amazing. You can press L1 at times and you'll see a different camra 
 angle or you can press X for a flashback. Some cinimatics last at least 20 mins or a lot more. 
 Some include loads of action or just complicated talking.
  
  Weapons:
  The weapons are great. Theres loads you can buy and find from Drebin. 
  
  Online:
  Online 
 is great and certain matchs can be wicked if you use teamwork. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zak234
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 21, 2008 1:31 am PT
Review:  
  MGS4 is so awesome. This game has best 3D, graphics, controls, sound. The graphics are absolutely 
 mind blowing and the best overall graphics I have seen. I never thought that Konami would make 
 best MGS4 ever. They did it. It's the first time that MGS4 is far better than the past series. 
 You can control the camera everywhere you want. The storyline is so great that makes you hype. 
 There are over 68+ weapons and you can customize them. If you don't like the old Snake then use 
 the face camo, so it won't bother you. MGS4 gameplay is really amazing, The action makes you feel 
 tense like you are right there hiding, sneaking, shooting, crawling! 
  Your suit is chamelion in nature, everywere you go, any surface, wall anything your next to or 
 laying on is replicated nicely by your suit. This game belongs to PS3 and it's exclusive. Kojima 
 decided to stay on PS3 and not breaking Sony's friendship. MGS4 includes Metal Gear Online. You 
 can decide it whenever you want to play MGS4 or MGO. It makes lot of fun. There are lot of cutscenes 
 and it is far better than Hollywood movies. Forget Hollywood, enjoy MGS4. I am also glad it released 
 solely on the PS3; showing that the XBOX360 system has a fatal flaw: data limitation which results 
 in graphical limitation. MGS4 filling a BD to the brim shows that the PS3 is a better performer
 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: bane6667
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 20, 2008 11:28 pm PT
Review:  ok i was always the mgs fan i loved it a great story with graphics way ahead its time and gameplay 
 that suck you in to the game.
  
  gameplay: just like the old ones except you can shoot a gun over the shoulder view and you get 
 two factions that are in war and you can sneak past the war or help milita fight or go on your 
 own. you got choices all the way sneak or shoot and if you choose sneak its easier with the new 
 octo camo suit where when you lay down or lean against something the camo turns to that color object. 
 guns feel perfect period. mgs3 players remember when there was stamina well now its a phyche bar 
 and a stress number if you kill lots of people or if you get hurt yourself stress builds up then 
 your phyche goes down and then when its too low you cant aim well and snake kinda pukes but dont 
 worry its only a big problem if you play 2nd hardest mode.
  
  graphics: amazing but there are a few parts where the graphics go down like in the hq kitchen the 
 lighting and textures are terrible like on the ps2 but the rest of the game looks 2009 good
  
  value: beaten played for 26 hours still play it 
  
  cons: story can be hard to get. too 
 much cutscenes 
::::::

::::::
UserName: adamVH1984
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 9, 2008 3:01 pm PT
Review:  Metal Gear Solid 4 is one of the most unique games on the market today, just as the series was 
 5 years ago. It's an unusual blend of stealth, cinematics, story telling, and action, and for most 
 people, it works. For others, it may be the worst experience of their life. That said, I will review 
 the game the way I see it and most of the public.
  
  Gameplay- Even though the other metal gear games revolved solely around stealth tactics, you can 
 now also have a more run and gun approach to the game. Granted, the game is still much more rewarding 
 if you use quieter means but if you ever get impatient or need to take out your anger, you can 
 squeeze the trigger of over 60 guns, most customizable. The weapon selection not only blows away 
 other MGS games, but shooters in general. They all behave extremely different and most are customizable. 
 You will definitely develop favorites, along with items. There are several cool items including 
 a robot you can use to scout, and eye-patch that tells you information about the battlefield, and 
 an octocamo suit, which automatically lets you mesh with the environment. This is one of my favorite 
 parts as it looks awesome and it is versatile. You can sneak up on anyone in the game and use several 
 close quarters combat moves on them to take them down, or pop them from a distance with a clean 
 headshot. The game spans across five acts, with around 20 hours of play. Here's the twist with 
 metal gear, around a third of the game is cut-scenes, but that is not a bad thing at all. If you 
 haven't played any of these games before, the story might go right over you, but you can still 
 enjoy the game. If you do know the story, this will satisfy you beyond belief. This game brought 
 me the farthest into the game like no other game ever has. The story is so well told and the future 
 is told so realistically, you can almost believe it will actually happen. I won't spoil anything 
 story wise, but you will be satisfied. The online part of the game is also very fun but this brings 
 up my one complaint with the game. The signing up and logging on process is a pain in the rear. 
 Not only this, but you only get one free ID with each PS3. So that means if you and your brother 
 (like me) each play, one of us will have to buy another ID. Plus there are only five maps, even 
 though more will be available for purchase. I just think they could have smoothed out the process 
 for online, and ease back on all of the buying.
  
  Graphics- Though it's not flawless, it still is one of the best looking games to date. Faces and 
 body's look awesome and all of the explosions and areas look very detailed. Only so often will 
 the frame rate dip just a hair or a texture will be blurry, but overall it is a stunning, 1080p 
 game.
  
  Sound- The thing I love about this is that it is fully surround and none of the sounds are compressed 
 because of the capacity space. That means that every sound, no matter how unimportant it is, is 
 crystal clear and not muddy at all. There are tons of songs to get for your ipod and every single 
 gun sounds different. Not only this, but the voice-work couldn't be better. A + material here.
 
  
  Value-I am currently on my third playthrough of the game and I plan to have several more to get 
 all the goodies. There are so many little easter eggs and unlockables in the single player alone 
 that this game is easily worth buying. The online is also a nice addition. I have the limited addition 
 and the soundtrack and blu-ray extra disc was well worth the 15 extra dollars. 
  
  Metal Gear Solid 4 is either going to be a game you absolutely can't get enough of, or a game that 
 you can't stand even hearing the name. For me, it's the former. It is such a well polished game 
 that even for non educated gamers, MGS is a series you need to try out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Spartan-1775
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 20, 2008 5:47 pm PT
Review:  The final installment of MGS directed by Hideo Kojima was waited for 3.5 years now that its finally 
 here we can all sure say the wait was worth it. The game's graphics are simply outstanding and 
 the sound is of movie theater quality. The game play has been a little revamped from the originals 
 but it is a lot better and its easy to get use to even for the MGS Veterans. The boss fights are 
 amazing and challenging at the same time even some of the battles make you think of tactics from 
 the other games in the series. The flashback system worked really well and helped even the people 
 who have been paying attention to the series understand it even better to tie up all of the plot 
 as Kojima stated so all the questions are answered. Kojima also brought back a whole cast of familiar 
 and lovable characters along with some new ones. The plot of series itself in this game thickens 
 so much and has so many twists and turns your head might explode from comprehending all the information 
 thats being said on your TV. Snake as you all know isn't as young as he used to be so along with 
 the troubles of being called Old Snake he also suffers back cramps and the sorts in MGS 3 their 
 was a stamina bar which is know replaced with a Psyche bar which if it goes down to low can affect 
 your performance and make Stress get easier to gain which is not good for Snakes health however 
 if you do get enough stress you enter a combat high which allows Snake to do more damage and be 
 more accurate with his weapons but shortly after he collapses from exhaustion making the experience 
 even more realistic not to mention the cinematic's just streaming to the gameplay is simply outstanding 
 you can barely tell the difference between the gameplay and the cinematic's other then the life 
 bar. I wish I could say more but theres simply too much to say for this game it deserves a 10 and 
 you must play it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ballinry7
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 20, 2008 5:27 pm PT
Review:  Metal Gear solid 4 could have been sold for 200 dollars and I would have bought it if I knew that 
 this game was going to be so BADASS! The storyline in Metal Gear Solid 4 is amazing, the cutscenes 
 are excellent, and the graphics, are just wow. The gameplay is what matters and thank god the cutscenes 
 are as good as everything else in this game is. The online sometimes I've noticed takes a few seconds 
 to show how much you have hit him/her or can be rarely laggy, but when it's perfect you will enjoy 
 it very much. This game deserves game of the year and you should go and buy it played the series 
 or not. Hideo Kojima should be very proud of himself for making one of the best games of all time 
 in my opinion and for making one of the best francises to date. I say that if you would pick up 
 one game for the Ps3 and only play one game, this would most likley in my mind be it.
  
  Presentaion:10
  Gamplay:10
  Storyline:10
  Badassyness (Bad ass ey ness) :10
  Overall:10 
 (Duh!) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gatorguy
Rating: 7
Date: Jun 20, 2008 5:02 pm PT
Review:  MGS4 is one if the best games I have ever played, but it comes with a major flaw. Only a third 
 of my time I spent playing the game was actually spent PLAYING the game. Most of the time I spent 
 watching cool things happen on screen while stabbing knives into my brain because of the stupidity 
 of the plot. I has some very excellent ideas at its core, but I think they went a little overboard 
 with the melodrama and tying every past game together. This really makes me sad because when I 
 actually can play the game I love it. Maybe something was lost in translation, but I just couldn't 
 watch that many hours of snake grunting in confusion. As a disclaimer, I have not played online 
 yet, but if it isn't good enough to make me soil myself with glee I don't see it doing much to 
 change my mind. So while the GAME deserves a 10, I'd have to give the movies a 4 which averages 
 out to 7. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Vashy88
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 20, 2008 4:06 pm PT
Review:  War has changed.... ok ill do the review...
  
  The game is awesome from the beginning and it only gets better throughout the game! The game has 
 everything a metal gear-game should have and also the added multiplayer and added fps-mode which 
 make the game even more enjoyable. Don't get me wrong I would have loved the game even without 
 fps since i don't really enjoy fps games like halo-series or call of duty-series cause in the end 
 they are all the same, where you just shoot your way through endless amounts of enemies. 
  
  The story is an awesome for a videogame... actually it's also much better action movie than 
 most of the movies I have ever seen. Some of the maps feel like they are taken from some war movie 
 like Saving Private Ryan.
  
  Story of the game is so amazing that it's hard to even describe it properly with words, it had 
 many funny moments and a few sad ones too. Also there was a certain place in the game that reminded 
 me about the first metal gear solid-game and the good old days when me and my friends played it 
 from beginning to the finish over and over again... I miss those times ; ( .
  
  The ending of the snake's story was suprising (in a good way) also I hope this won't be the last 
 metal gear-game there will be.
  
  Anyone who gives this game lower score than 8 has lost his mind, is retarded or is just a whiny 
 kid who loves complaining. (don't listen to those people they should get help.) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kikook
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 20, 2008 1:46 pm PT
Review:  Ok im going to say it right now, You need to have knowledge of the other MGS games to understand 
 this. This game is about a man named David (codename Solid Snake) and he has to find out what his 
 brother is planing (his name is Liquid Ocelot) Thats about as much as the story I will say so I 
 dont reveal too much. Their are 5 acts in the game an in each act your in a different area so their 
 is diversity within the game levels. But you have to do a 3 min install to the game everytime you 
 beat the act. You also have a variety of weapons you can use, You an customize your favorite weapon 
 to give you an edge on the battle field. You also have a suit called the Octocamo which will blend 
 in with its surroundings to make you virtually invisible. Snake can use many moves in battle to 
 help him, Which is called CQC (Close Quarters Combat) which you can choke till they knock out, Disarm 
 them, or throw to the ground. Their is about 9 moves you can do with CQC. Snake can also "Hold 
 people up" when you get behind someone and aim at them when your close and not seen you will tell 
 him to "Stick it up" and they will throw their weapon away. You can steal their items as well when 
 you hold a person up. This game isnt a Splinter Cell game so dont expect to do something "One Way" 
 with its big enviorment you can engage the enemy anyway you want. The game has the best boss battles 
 a game could have, Some you have to think logically rather than instinctivly. All in all this game 
 is really really good and is fun, But some cutscenes are long but wont deter you away from it. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CALBORN
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 20, 2008 12:10 pm PT
Review:  Seem like 2008 will not be alone for GTA IV because here come a new hit single and will hit hard 
 which call Metal Gear Solid 4 : Guns of the patriot. For how many years do we her the hype of MGS4?? 
 Even i cant remember when is the time they anounced MGS4. But i still remember i read a news from 
 PSM book, during that time i was still playing half way of my MGS3 : snake eater. It was quit a 
 long time. But it seem like they make the right choice to make a perfect ending to end this spectacular 
 game. MGS4 is a fan base game which main target is the MGS fan. If u are a newbie, u better off 
 research the game story at any website or wikipedia, to know more to and imerse into Metal Gear 
 World. 
  
  Lets start of the review, start from the story line, basically this is the best story and dramatic 
 story u will ever watch. It will make u imerse deep into the story line as Snake trying to eliminate 
 Liquid and other thing. I will not spoil much of the story , so I advice u to buy and understand 
 the game. 
  
  Follow on to the gameplay, MGS4 has never change from it predecessor, it still remain the same 
 old key play to avoid misunderstanding and understanding of the button with other shooter stealth 
 game like Splinter Cell. Everytime u finish an act u need a few install time, Bare with it because 
 it need a lot of space to produce a good graphic and game. Worth the wait.
  
  Follow on to the anticipated Metal Gear Online. This is another version oof shooting game like 
 call of duty 4 for much harder control and shooting style. It stay more to the 3rd person view 
 but u may change to first person view but hard to shoot compare to other war game. During shooting 
 it create a high recoil and movement of the gun. So its kinda hard to play.
  
  Overall , this game is a termendous and a very god damn good reason for new buyer to buy PS3. It 
 really brings out the power of the PS3 and providing Gamer a spectacular game of the year. It seem 
 like GTA IV is not alone, there are another stealth killer call Metal Gear Solid 4: Guns Of The 
 Patriot" 
::::::

::::::
UserName: batmanboy11
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 20, 2008 11:43 am PT
Review:  First of all you need to play this game, if you own a PS3. Otherwise why are sitting here reading 
 this? The bosses are the cleverest boss battles ever. If you have played a previous Metal Gear 
 game this is what you have come to expect from the series. The difficulty is perfect with no huge 
 increase. But for your first play through I suggest Liquid easy. Some might say the cut-scenes 
 are too long but why would you buy Metal Gear Solid 4 is you want straight up action. After you 
 beat it once there is good replay value. Whether it is purchasing all 69 weapons or getting all 
 symbols etc you'll want to play again and again. 10 out of 10! 10  
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wallyllama1
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 20, 2008 11:17 am PT
Review:  Discussing Metal Gear has a lot in common with talking about religion or politics with extended 
 family over Thanksgiving dinner: things start out amicably enough but quickly devolve into shouting, 
 name calling, and perhaps flying mashed potatoes. If you were to put five people in a locked room 
 and forced them to talk about it, two would love the series, two would hate the series, and the 
 last would profess Hideo Kojima to be god incarnate, all while asking "Can love bloom on the battlefield?" 
 in low, harsh tones. No one will ever agree, and Metal Gear Solid 4 has made the sound decision 
 to not even try to win over those two out of five who don't like it. The game is simply not for 
 them. The two who like the series will love MGS4 and the last guy with the Foxhound tattoo who 
 practices CQC will have multiple fan boy orgasms. 
  
  MGS4 is the perfect example of fan service done right. It is never tacky and takes itself just 
 seriously enough to give people exactly what they want to see while tying up all the lose ends. 
 There is no cliffhanger here, by the end of the game all the questions are answered, everyone is 
 accounted for, and followers from casual to rabid will be pleased with what they have seen. The 
 game is littered with allusions to its precursors that will simply fly over the head of anyone 
 who hasn't played them. For example, the first ten minutes of the first chapter, after you finally 
 get to play, consist of Old Snake running from a swarm of Geckos, the new 'big bad' for this game. 
 He turns a corner after narrowly avoiding being crushed and sees a cardboard box sitting in the 
 middle of the room that he can hide under. This in itself is self referential, but it goes even 
 further when a Gecko crushes the box to find it filled with watermelons, which were on prominent 
 display during a kitchen firefight in MGS2. Snake later appears from around a corner, camouflaged, 
 and lights up. There are layers of history here; the MGS legacy is all present in one place, proudly 
 on display.
  
  Part of this legacy, like it or not, is the way MGS4 tells its story: through really, really long 
 cut scenes. Perhaps it is a failing of Kojima's that he cannot get his point across through game 
 play alone and must resort to ninety minute mini-movies, but I honestly would not have it any other 
 way. The cut scenes were just as engaging as any other part of the game, perhaps more so. Characters 
 that I have known and cared about for years fell in love, fought through personal tragedies and 
 got the ever living snot kicked of them. Just because I wasn't pushing buttons telling them what 
 to do all the time doesn't mean I wasn't involved; anyone who says other wise must be forgetting 
 about another popular genre of entertainment that does this all the time: movies. I would watch 
 MGS4 even if there was no interaction as all. It is a story six games in the making revolving around 
 one of the best characters in all of gaming. Certain other bald Sony exclusive tragic heroes could 
 learn a lot from Snake, like how not to be a douche bag all the time and that even an emo badass 
 is still just emo. 
  
  I don't know anyone who ever really cared about Kratos, to pick on a current example. Fans like 
 Snake to the point that there was a great deal of anger over MGS2 when people realized he wasn't 
 a playable character for most of the game. Snake is human, he is vulnerable and at the same time 
 superhuman, at least he used to be. The choice to age Snake in MGS4 is far from cosmetic. The story 
 revolves around him coming to terms with his swiftly approaching demise and he grows more and more 
 desperate about what he views as his destiny as the game wears on. It is difficult to see him doubled 
 over in pain, clutching his back out of agony, or literally crawling towards an objective because 
 he can no longer walk. I felt sorry, almost guilty, for pushing him on, kill after kill, only to 
 know that none of it really mattered. The final outcome was unavoidable, out of destiny or duty, 
 it did not matter.
  
  As much as I love the story and the characters, it cannot be denied that the game play has not 
 changed a great deal from previous titles. If the excellent cut scenes, well developed characters 
 and exceptional voice acting are stripped away all that is left is a game that has been surpassed 
 on all fronts. There have been better stealth games for years, see Splinter Cell, and that is supposed 
 to be what Metal Gear is all about: tactical espionage action. The sneaking still works, and is 
 as necessary as ever, but it would have been nice to have a few of Sam Fischer's moves to help 
 out. When the sneaking fails and the shooting starts the age of the game mechanics, just like Snake, 
 start to show even more. Over the shoulder action has evolved a great deal, from Resident Evil 
 4 to Gears of War to Uncharted, the bar has been raised, and MGS4 simply does not keep up. Everything 
 works, it just feels old and cumbersome, making cranky old Snake seem even more fitting.
  
  There are also problems with the presentation of the game itself. MGS4 oozes polish, so when a 
 bad texture pops up it really sticks out. Snake always looks good, but every once and a while something 
 near him that is poor looks all the more ugly because he is next to it. In addition there are more 
 then a few places where load times become intrusive, and I don't mean the multiple mandatory install 
 times. There are two chase scenes that could have been truly excellent, but are broken up by several 
 loading screens between areas. The momentum of the sequences are completely thrown off; it's jarring 
 to escape certain death only to be rewarded with waiting to do it again. There are even load times 
 between cut scenes, and while they provide ample time to refresh the beer and snack supply, it 
 would be much better if they just weren't there.
  
  Even compared to its predecessors there are problems. I view MSG3 to be the best game of the series 
 overall, mostly because the ending had me choking back man tears and it had several amazing boss 
 encounters. MGS4, in spite if everything that happens, never reaches the same level of emotional 
 impact as 3 did. The bosses, even though they look amazing, are not of the same quality as The 
 End from 3 or Psycho Mantis and Sniper Wolf from MGS1. MGS4, while excellent in its own right, 
 suffers under the weight of what is trying to do: bring to a close an incredible saga that has 
 more incredible moments then any other series, including anything with space marines or flying 
 plumbers. When the credits rolled, after one final twist and cameo, I felt like standing up from 
 the midst of my empty coke cans and Twinkie wrappers and saluting the screen. Not for MGS4 itself, 
 but the for the landmark series that it brought to a close. If this truly is the end of Metal Gear 
 (!) , then goodbye Snake, you went out with dignity, and I'll miss you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: man007_s
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 26, 2008 1:11 pm PT
Review:  **Spoiler-free**
  
  first off, this game is the best in series for its fans and a masterpiece for the newbies because 
 they haven't yet encountered a game at its level of intence and action but not in its plot because 
 it's specified for the hardcore gamers, actually the casual gamers can get grip out of it but they 
 won't completely enjoy the story because it depends on the previous sequels. Although, you can 
 understand the story from some videos out there in you tube or somewhere else.
  
  MGS4 is the most emotional and innovative game i've ever played in my life. Sometimes its intense 
 will drive you unwillingly scream or even some cut-scenes make your tears fall.
  
  The camera and the control got a great improvement and also if you are not that much at 3rd person 
 camera you can go through the game in FPS mode, but most of the fans of stealth and MGS series 
 won't agree with you 'cause that would ruin the fun of the game.
  
  The only down side of this game is the too long cut-scenes but it's OK for me.
  
  and now it's 
 the best game of 2008 
::::::

::::::
UserName: micmill
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 20, 2008 9:06 am PT
Review:  I am not a Metal Gear head, never played any of the previous Metal Gear games. I always heard a 
 lot about them and I have a good friend who's a Metal Gear lifer, but for whatever reason I never 
 gave the old Metal Gear games a run. Due to the huge hoopla of MGS4 and due to the fact that I 
 am a PS3 guy, I decided to jump on the Metal Gear bandwagon and give it a run. To put it simply, 
 this game was amazing. It is absolutely beautiful to look at and the gameplay elements are both 
 addictive and nearly flawless. It really did an amazing job of blending equally strong stealth 
 gameplay and gun fighting. You never feel pigeon-holed into one style or the other. The Octo-camo 
 is sick, the huge arsenal of guns is sick, and the variety of gameplay is sick (such as awesome 
 vehicle segments and incredible boss battles) . I had to read online about the basic story elements 
 and Metal Gear background, but once you have a basic foundation on the Metal Gear universe and 
 the main character's and history, the story on MGS4 is really cool. The cutscenes are long, but 
 the cinematography on said cut scenes is Hollywood-esque and very entertaining. I loved this game, 
 it was an addictive epic that is a must play for any PS3 owner! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: max611
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 20, 2008 6:34 am PT
Review:  Metal Gear Solid 4: Guns of the Patriots is a story-driven adventure game, with seasoned hero Solid 
 Snake drafted for one final mission. Set across stages including the Middle East and South America, 
 the now aged Snake has been asked to assassinate his old adversary, Liquid Ocelot. To do this, 
 however, he must make his way through a series of battlefields, using his legendary stealth abilities 
 and all-new OctoCamo suit to avoid detection and to reach his target. With series favorites such 
 as Meryl Silverburgh, Raiden, Hal 'Otacon' Emmerich, Eva and Roy Campbell returning, and with all 
 new gameplay features including a remote-controlled Metal Gear Mk. II and enhanced CQC (Close Quarters 
 Combat) system, Metal Gear Solid 4 rounds out the Metal Gear saga with a fittingly cinematic and 
 gripping final outing.
  
  That Game Is The Best Ever Nothing Can Beat That!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nicholai69
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 27, 2009 1:54 pm PT
Review:  Graphics-10
  Gameplay-8
  Sound-10
  Replay Value-8
  
  
  
  I had mgs4 in my grasp a lil late than most this time since i had some annoying complications with 
 EMA and I had to start Old Snake's journey 6 days after release.
  Naturally watching all the video reviews and reading the now flooding amount of player reviews 
 not having for myself was eating me up inside and frankly was almost considering intimidating GTA 
 and robbing a game shop then admitting GTA made me do it...
  While i doubt any game will get me that wound up except maybe Resident Evil 5 it really was a chore 
 to just sit and wait while everyone else was enjoying the greatest MGS to date.
  I obviously managed to get it and because of that i skipped almost week of college just to have 
 some alone time with my lil precious :P.
  Feeling skeptical about the amount of 10's foating around almost as much as GTA4 i thought this 
 might be another major dissapointment and luckily I actually agree with the majority of the critics 
 about how fookin brilliant this game is. Actually calling it just a game would be quite an understatement 
 considering how many messages and cinematics there are, the MGS series as i see it are very much 
 unique and no company has tryed to copy its methods ide expect probably cause there too intimidated 
 or just have too much respect for this outstanding series (very closing to tieing with the Resident 
 Evil series in my taste's) .
  
  Instead of starting my review early like some who only reviewed after around 3 hours to give it 
 the verdict of the greatest game since games began, I played through the whole 18-22 hour long 
 story to have a clear view of how i think what it really deserves.
  And i can see why through the first few hours people would see it as the biggest event since Jesus' 
 2nd coming since the first hours have some of the greatest gameplay yet.
  
  As Snake, or approprietly called Old Snake for this run thanks to his accelerated ageing, your 
 called out of a hard lifes of Metal Gear destroying to have Cambell almost beg for you to take 
 down the biggest threat the world has ever seen, Liquid Ocelot. I spose as far as the story goes 
 thats the prob the best i should leave it because 1. just how large this story is and 2. just how 
 many twists occur throughout. Though its no secret that 'alot' of old friends are returning there 
 roles in the story will surprise you indeed and it makes it all the harder to say goodbye to some 
 of them. Being sadly the last of this awesome series you can expect to find every loose end tied 
 up and every story element explained to some incredible results. From why Vamp just won't die to 
 the true founder's of the Patriots, everything that left you hanging in the past MGS' is found 
 out in MGS4.
  Though with such a massive story and an even larger roster of characters to fill it with i expected 
 it may fall a little and might feel a lil over-whelming like maybe they could of left somethings 
 out, but luckily everything works perfectly and the story like the MGS predeccesors is the main 
 motivation to keep going.
  
  The other main reason is of course the outstanding gameplay, what i especially love is unlike most 
 of the 4th's these days MGS4 didn't completely revelate there gameplay schemes and merely improved 
 extremely on the old ones. The main new additions is finally being able to move while crouching, 
 the new over the should view teamed with the first person view (which you can move while in said 
 view's) being able to roll left+right while aiming and a playing dead ability. Everything else 
 is basically what you've already seen except much easier to pull off or just alot more fun to execute, 
 which I'm extremely glad for since the MGS gameplay didn't really need much improvement in my opinion 
 anyway. Though not being able to interrogate soldiers anymore is abit of shame but won't be surely 
 missed.
  Though the styles now seem much more even, in the sense that shooting everything in sight doesn't 
 secure death by insane amount of numbers this time around, infact the soldiers are now so much 
 easier to battle with sometimes stealth isn't really needed. Stealth is still a fun option with 
 loads of options and ways to sneak through, though the presence of an ongoing war in the first 
 levels make both the stealth and the shooting much easier to get through as one faction of the 
 war can actually become very useful allies for getting around. Though as the game goes through 
 the stages, you might need to rely on stealth abit more since you will eventually end up on your 
 own though also with much less soldiers to deal with.
  Another reason why MGS4 seems maybe leaning towards more the 3rd person shooter is because of how 
 many scripted parts require you to blast your way through especially nearing the end, which makes 
 the amazing variety of weaponry to come across a very welcome addition.
  
  Weapons in this game is much much much more varied than just one handgun, one assault rifle and 
 just one type of book to distract the guards with.
  Theres around 45+ weapons to play around with and really give you the choice of what weapon set 
 suits you best, be it a desert eagle along with an m60 and RPG or maybe a silenced pistol along 
 with an automatic silenced sniper. Another great addition to the weapons is customisation, while 
 some guns have more customisations than others around 80% can have some sort of attachment be it 
 a suppresor or a torch or even a grenade launcher. So the amount of weaponry and how to use it 
 spells quite abit of reply value just to play through again with a different set of weapons.
  
  Being MGS title of course sets you up with also a huge amount of cutscenes to sit through (and 
 enjoy) and some interactive flashbacks to watch aswell. Yet again though after about the 20 hours 
 it would take you to complete the game at least 9 hours of that is cutscenes, not like its problem 
 for MGS fans since if you've lasted this long with the franchise the cutscenes have to be one of 
 the reasons why you love these games, I can honestly admit even though maybe compared to more of 
 a movie the story alone deserves the game a 9/10. Sometimes gameplay and cutscenes can also combine 
 in a splitscreen mode to make a very intense and sometimes even tear inducing experience due to 
 watching what everyone is going through while your doing your job.
  
  With so much to watch its a very warm welcome for the beauty of the graphics as it easily the greatest 
 looking game i have played ( i haven't seen much of crysis but from what i've read there even better 
 than that) with some top notch animation work and almost unbelievable enviroments. The characters 
 of course look perfect and resemble some high budget CGI movie models, well the whole games looks 
 like your very own interactive CGI movie in fact. MGS4 truelly is what the next gen of gaming should 
 look like, its very much like the representive of just whats possible.
  
  The sound is just as perfect as the visuals with perfect voice acting (well from most) to an approproitly 
 epic soundtrack. Throughout you'll also encounter alot of dialoque from the past just popping up 
 mid-gameplay if it goes with the situation or maybe when exploring a certain Alaskan base or just 
 for some quirky humor and can really bring some nostagia and also helps with tieing up the amount 
 of loose ends.
  
  Like no game though in my opinion MGS4 isn't exactly perfect, there's not as many boss fights in 
 this one and all are much easier than say the teeth grinding boss' in Snake Eater, don't get me 
 wrong there still fun just a few more boss' to own would of made up for it. Also the game in general 
 (on Solid Normal at least) is much easier this time around especially due to Old Snakes much improved 
 moveset with the shooting.
  Also the Ipod which is just one of the random gadgets to expect from a MGS game doesn't live up 
 to its entertainment value since you can't have any other item equipped while listening to some 
 tracks from the predeccesors themselves, though can come in handy when your just hiding around 
 and would prefer something listen to other than the alert theme.
  
  I haven't tryed the online play all that much though i do know first hand it is quite a pain for 
 how long it can take to get started but at least your character customisation is decent enough 
 to wait for. Since i haven't got a headset I still tink i'll leave online play alone though for 
 now.
  
  That typed though this game is the very meaning of a must buy for the ps3 since it really does 
 blow all the competition away and while i can see why people everywere are slapping 10s althougher 
 it i can still think it could of maybe bin a little longer since as i said theres still not as 
 much gameplay as you'de like.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: randiolo
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 20, 2008 2:52 am PT
Review:  The word masterpeace tens to fall short of what this journey through Kojima's world. This experience 
 is so heartfelt, dynamic, aw inspiring and totally mindblowing that if you were to not play this 
 game and consider yourself to be a gamer then you should not be allowed anywhere near a console 
 ever again. But if your do not consider yourself to be a gamer then passing up this opportunity 
 would be a monumental mistake. Aspects like game play, controls, mechanics have all been vastly 
 improved ever since MGS3 and the new camera angle that was introduced in MGS3 Subsistence makes 
 progressing through the game much easier.
  Unbeliveable cutseans transition into gameplay absolutely seamlessly which demonstrates how powerful 
 the PS3 is and how it is able to have in-game rendered cutseans that far surpass any pre-rendered 
 or any other graphics on the market today. 
  
  Metal gear solid has pulled off the unbeliveable, an emotional experience i never though i could 
 have outside of a cinema or any other medium. I am not ashamed to admit i shed a tear in the closing 
 moments of this game, although i do not seem to think of MGS4 as a game, i think it is something 
 everyone should experiance, gamer or not. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: whoaPSP
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 20, 2008 1:27 am PT
Review:  MGS series is one of the series that will push the boundaries of hardware to its limits. MGS4 is 
 no different.
  
  The story-telling is awesome. It is one of the few games where the in-game graphics is as good 
 as the cut-scenes. Fans of the series have to play this game for closure in the series. All the 
 memorable characters from previous series return for one last chapter.
  
  Graphically MGS4 shows the power of the PS3 technically. The beautiful environment and detailed 
 characters is simply superb. Voice-over works, sound effects and music scores hit the theme just 
 right. 
  
  Controls are slick once you get use to it. Newcomers may find it overwhelming at first, but it 
 will rub along with you. There is no single way to play the game. You can play hide and sneak the 
 whole game or Rambo your way through. Both ways you can still finish the game and you will get 
 a different experience throughout.
  
  Overall, it was worth the wait. I respect Kojima Productions for the high production value and 
 experience in making great games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: griffripper
Rating: 9.9
Date: Jun 20, 2008 1:22 am PT
Review:  Well............. I mean what can I say. It's Metal Gear Solid. I mean that should be enough right. 
 And yes, that is right. But let's just give it a review anyway because it deserves one that actually 
 doesn't have 10 as its' rating. And you may wonder, "Why did you give it just a 9.9"? Well, I'll 
 soon get to that. Here are a few more things. Yes, I have grown up with this series since day one 
 on the MSX. But that doesn't mean everyone who grew up with series liked it. I mean I grew up with 
 Ninja Gaiden on the NES. But I'm not that big of a fan of Ninja Gaiden II.
  And no, I am not a Sony fanboy! I actually own and play all three consoles. Actually scratch that 
 last one. I mean two. I never turn on my Wii. But then again, who is? Alright, to the review. (Oh, 
 and if you didn't read earlier, this will have some spoilers!)
  
  Presentation: This game started out in such a dramatic yet epic beginning. You hear Snake talking 
 about how has changed, and how it's not about nations, ideologies, or ethnicity. As he is saying 
 that, you find that Snake had somehow found himself in the middle east who has teamed up with militia 
 men, who are not fighting for power or money, but their homes. You find Snake jumping out of the 
 truck him and the militia men were traveling in. And finds himself in a war zone. You then will 
 eventually find yourself being able to play. But here comes another jolly ole' cut-scene again. 
 You find youself then having to escape from what looks like mini Metal Gear REX's. Called Geko.
 
  Once then after the intense cut-scene you watch, it will go into another one explaining how you 
 got there and why your there, (if you didn't watch the trailers, your there for Liquid Ocelot) .
 
  It will come back to the present day and you can play again. Otacon a. k. a. Hal Emmerich, will 
 call you and tell you where your first check point will be. Once you find yourself at the checkpoint 
 
  you will be met up with what Otacon likes to call the Metal Gear Mk. II. Which is a remote controlled 
 robot you can use to shock enimies on the battlefield. It's nothing more than a small scout on 
 the battlefield that can only go so far. Not impressed by the presentation yet? Well than continue 
 reading about the story. (This is where the spoilers will come in) .
  
  So Metal Gear Solid 4 picks up 7 years after the Tanker incident and 5 years after the Big Shell 
 incident. In other words after Metal Gear Solid 2. Metal Gear Solid 3 was prequel for all the one's 
 that didn't know that. When at an unknown grave sight, a helicopter lands reveling Otacon and Colonel 
 Campbell. They are back and need you for a final mission, They tell you that your orders are to 
 strictly terminate Liquid and stop his insurection. They tell you the whereabouts of Liquid Ocelot 
 a. k. a. Liquid Snake. Since this takes place in the future, almost every soldier in the world has 
 nanomachines and I. D. tagged weapons, gear, etc.
  And once you have found Liquid, you find out that he has managed to take control of it all. You 
 also find that Liquid has an army full of PMC's (Private Military Contractors) , to mathc up against 
 the U. S. A.'s military. Of course he gets away causing you look all over the world for him. When 
 doing so, you caome across another memorable set of bosses part of the Beauty and the Beast Corp. 
 Four beautiful women emotionally scarred from war. You will find their names similar to the Foxhound 
 bosses you fought on Shadow Moses in Metal Gear Solid. Laughing Octopus (Decoy Octopus) , Crying 
 Wolf (Sniper Wolf) , Raging Raven (Vulcan Raven) , and Screaming Mantis (Psycho Mantis) . You also 
 have Vamp from Metal Gear Solid 2. That is where Raiden comes into play. You find that Raiden and 
 Rosemary's relationship from MGS 2,
  has fallen apart. And that Rose is married to Campbell. Won't tell you why, you'll have to play 
 the game for that. Snake also comes across Meryl Silverburgh from MGS 1. Who is Roy Campbell's 
 daughter from a scanteless affair. She now has a team called Rat Patrol Team 01. Along with Rat 
 Patrol is Ed, who is big brute, doesn't talk much, but get's the job done. Johnathen who is second 
 in command, and last and very least. Johny a. k. a. Akiba. Who is the clutz with very bad bowl movements. 
 They are supposed to be the new FOXHOUND. This game really had one of the most epic and dramatic 
 endings. To my favorite franchise of all time. So now that you basically no the story, let's get 
 on with gameplay elements.
  
  Game Play: You might notice that the game is actually a little more difficult. But what the hell 
 happened to European Extreme Mode? Metal Gear Solid 4 has so much to do in the game, yet it has 
 such a little control scheme. It won't hurt you if your new to the series. But, if you are used 
 to all of the other games, this will take some getting used to. It's also very cool that at the 
 start of the game menu there is a V. R. simulation which allows you to do whatever. It's not like 
 previous V. R. games in the series. It's really just a shooting range so you can get used to the 
 controls. I'm glad the Kojima could relize that. But you may have to look at your booklet on C. Q. C. 
 techniques. And other simple things that your just not used to in other Metal Gear Solid titles. 
 This is a game you have to be patient with. I especially like the new over the shoulder view they 
 have now. Some people say they do nothing but encourage you to run and gun. I don't believe that. 
 I just believe that the world has been without a Metal Gear Solid title in a while, they forgot 
 how to sneak. There are ways. Trust me that Octocamo really works, because it's the only way you're 
 gonna beat Big Boss mode. Trust me on that! I am glad that Kojima stayed with the camoflauge technique. 
 Even when so many people whined about it. Well suck it up you babies! There more extras like hiding 
 in a dumpster and shooting from it. You can hide in drum can this time, and role over enemies with 
 it. Don't worry though you will still be able to obtain the magical and classic box.
  Also you can look at a Playboy. Don't get your hopes though you sweating 13 year old boy. There 
 is no nudity in the game. Until some perverted modder comes by and does something to the game. 
 Sometimes when Snakes stress meter is high it is harder for him to recover and gain stamina. So 
 you should go look at a Playboy to take the stress down, or cigerate. Either one works.
  That's also another thing added to the game. Stress! Since Snake has become much older, it's easier 
 for him to get stressed out. It's simple really. The higher the stress, the poorer performance 
 Snake does. They have even added an iPod to the mix. You start out with a few songs from previous 
 MGS titles and one podcast. You have to find more songs to listen to them. There is even rumored 
 to downloadable songs on the PlayStation Network store. While I do wish I could have just downloaded 
 my own songs into the game, this is pretty good. Also in the game, you are given the choice to 
 help whether the PMC's or the militia men. Either side will start to take a liking to you depending 
 on which side you shoot. You can give food such as rations or noodles to either side and will like 
 you even more, and you might get something back special in return. Also this game the best final 
 fight between Solid Snake and Liquid Snake. You will love the nostalgia.
  
  Detail: Yes MGS 4 has the best, and I will say this for a fact, the best graphics I've ever seen 
 in a game. It has so much detail in the game. And yes even more of Kojima's perverted and witty 
 sense of humor. Everything looks crystal clear. Even without an HD tv. This game will still have 
 the best graphics in a game so far.
  You will also love the nostalgia and easter eggs that are in the game. But only the ones that know 
 a lot about the series and more will get them. The game also has a series fun and cool unlockables 
 in the game that are very difficult to get.
  
  And now do want to know why I gave it 9.9? Simply because there is no perfect game. A perfect game 
 would be something everybody likes. And this game is not for everyone. As tempting as it looks. 
 For the ones that haven't played it, NEED TO PLAY THE OTHERS FIRST. Other wise when you finish 
 this you will have wasted a perfectly good story line. Another reason I couldn't bring myself to 
 give it a 10. I don't know why, but it just didn't feel like the same Metal Gear Solid. You knew 
 exactly what to do most of the time. There wasn't as big of a plot twist until the very end. Maybe 
 it's just me though. But this truly was Solid Snake's best mission. and deserves a salute. 
  
  And for all of the fans that had finished the game and the series. I just have one simple question 
 for you.
  
  Did you rike it?
  
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheJayDaddy
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 19, 2008 9:48 pm PT
Review:  Even though the PS3 has not been out al too long, this game has shown what the PS3 can do! Even 
 from the 1st load time, where snake is giving you what not to do's, not going to say what!! You 
 feel and intense emotion about what is in store for you! You get dropped into the middle of a war 
 zone where the combat takes off! With a Great story to help move you in the game, you start to 
 collect a variety of weapons that you can use whenever you need.... With that great story comes 
 a deep, and I mean, deep story! The only reason the score was held back from a 10. As your playing 
 the times between actually playing vs watching can get up into 20 minutes! Little long when you 
 just want more action. Besides that, it has some amazing graphics and easy to learn controls. If 
 you want to sneak around and take out them out, or if you just want to blast your way thru it... 
 either way you will enjoy this game. With never playing the Metal Gear series before, it was easy 
 for me to get into the story and what was going on. This is a must have for anyone's collection! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dragonlord8888
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 26, 2008 1:46 am PT
Review:  Metal Gear Solid 4 is the best game I have played thus far. In true MG fashion, story and gameplay 
 combine to create a stunning masterpiece.
  I could not have asked for a better sendoff if I wanted to. This is the only game that not only 
 lives up to, but also surpasses the hype attached to it. PS3 fans consider yourselves blessed: 
 This is the pinnacle of gaming.
  
  Graphics: 10: There were some instances where I thought I was watching a movie.
  Gameplay: 10: 
 As it can be played as both a shooter or a stealth game, it appeals to fans of both genres. (Story: 
 10: The best story in an MG game to date.)
  Sound: 10: Realistic sound effects and awesome music, especially "Love Theme"
  Value: 10: As 
 the last MG game with Solid Snake, this will be treasured for years to come.
  Tilt: 10: I'd give this a 25 if I could....
  
  New (and Final) Rating Scale: 
  10: Awesome: 
 A game that is as close to perfect as possible.
  9.5-9: Excellent: One of the best games available with only 1 or 2 flaws.
  8.5-8: Great: Has 
 a few flaws, but otherwise a very fun game.
  7.5-7: Good: Not the best, but an enjoyable game with a fair share of flaws.
  6.5-6: Fair: Will 
 still be liked by hardcore fans, yet everyone else is warned.
  5.5-5: Decent: A fairly decent game, nothing terrible, but nothing great.
  4.5-4: Poor: This 
 game is lacking in the entertainment department.
  3.5-3: Bad: Uggh, not recommended as it provides little fun.
  2.5-2: Terrible: This game is so 
 bad, it might induce vomiting.
  1.5-1: Awful: Playing this game is just as bad as catching AIDS.
  
  10: Awesome: This game 
 pushes the limits of this 10, practically breaking into 11.... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fox191
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 19, 2008 9:23 pm PT
Review:  A must-have game for any ps3 owner. The final chapter in the Metal Gear Series is well worth the 
 wait and fulfills its promise to neatly tie up the various character arcs. Various websites (outside 
 the game) or even the quick flashbacks and explanations provided in the game will suffice for any 
 new comers to the series. I do highly recommend that anyone serious about understanding every little 
 joke or nuance should at least look DL the new, free konami MGS4 download. For veterans of the 
 series, MGS4 is a tearjerker and heartstopper from start to finish.
  
  I know people who play guns-blazing with grenades and others who play in the shadows. You can go 
 hand to hand or head shot someone with a sniper rifle. No matter what experience you have with 
 or whether you prefer action or stealth, this is a gaming masterpiece that SCREAMS TO BE PLAYED. 
 It's time you jumped in and started it up. The only downside is that eventually the story ends! 
 This game is polished beyond belief. The cinematic scenes in the game are the best I have ever 
 seen and the story is both gripping and meaningful.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: JONSTON007
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 19, 2008 9:08 pm PT
Review:  All the hype was true, this is going to be the game of the year. With the new technology out today, 
 the possibilities of good graphics go up. MGS4 used everything in its power to cover almost every 
 surface of the game. If you look at many frames of the game, sometimes there are obvious rough 
 patches, but not enough to take away from its score. Having a vast amount of guns and customizations, 
 no enemy it to difficult to beat. Along with game play, weapons, and graphics, there is a in-game 
 camera that you control. Anytime during the game, you can take a picture (except for cut scenes) . 
 
  
  Even with all its good qualities, there were some very annoying thing in this game that drove me 
 crazy. Mainly, the scenes are like mini movies; they never end. Now that awesome and all but i 
 had to go PEE and the clip took 40 minutes to end no exaggeration. Also, there are a couple levels 
 and moments where the creators take the player back to another MGS predecessor. For me I was not 
 a fan of that, but people who played earlier versions might enjoy this. Although this was my first 
 Metal Gear Solid, I fell into the storyline and felt like I've played forever. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: snakes_codec
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 19, 2008 8:29 pm PT
Review:  what it said in the heading this game lives up to these things and more its not with out minor 
 floors but you will love this game so much it wont matter 
  
  
  STORY
  
  MGS4 continues where the story of MGS2 left off all be it 5 years in the future the worlds military 
 powers have implanted nanomachines into soldiers so they have total control over them in this world 
 countries know longer rely on there own armed forces instead they employ PMCS to do the fighting 
 for them so as you can tell the world has really changes between metal gear solid 2 & 4 on the 
 Sufis the world seems fine like this but it far from fine liquid snake who has now totally taken 
 control of ocelots body has taken control of the worlds 5 largest PMCS and now has an army mighty 
 er than the US military solid snake is rapidly aging and on top of that his foxdie that Naomi implanted 
 in him in MGS1 is unstable in 3 months it will start to spread to to the general population so 
 to sum it up MGS4 is the final chapter in solid snakes story i wont say wealthier he dies or not 
 but what i will say is it comes to a close in a very fitting and sad way my only complaint with 
 the story is it takes to long to really get into gear but when it does wow you will be blown away 
 it has everything a good story should have .
  
  
  GRAFICS
  
  this game has to be the most stunning looking game to ever come out on a console it really takes 
 advantage of the PS3S power in metal gear solid 4 instead of dreading watching cutseens you look 
 forward to it the cutseens a just stunning in every way i don't think there's a game out there 
 that looks better than this also taking into account there all done in real time to you really 
 start to appreciate how good looking it is its fault las i havent run into any glitch of blurry 
 background yet this game has really set a new standard in how a game should look .
  
  
  SOUND 
  
  the sound track to this game is fantastic like the previous MGS games the sound track 
 will stay with and stay in your head for days but on top of that they add all the songs from previous 
 instalment in the series on a sweet i pod feature that comes with podcasts and all the MGS music 
 that you have to unlock by finding the songs all across the game as for the voice acting is once 
 again one of the highlights in this game with a fantastic performance from David hayter as snake 
 who he portrays perfectly its a real highlight that everyone will love .
  
  
  GAMEPLAY
  
  MGS4 controls haven't changed much from past games but that isn't a bad thing you will pick 
 up the controls pretty quickly and when you do you will have a blast as for the places you will 
 sneak around there is the middle east south America eastern Europe and one island that will bring 
 back a few memories I'm sure for those who have played the past games and another witch i wont 
 tell you because it a major spoiler but any way back to the gameplay as for weapons you cant simple 
 pick weapons you pick up and just use them you have to have there ID S unlocked and i know what 
 your thinking well how do i unlock them it really simple you have earn drebin points and this guy 
 called drebin unlocks them for you on top of unlocking your guns he also sales guns and ammo to 
 you and custom parts that will improve you guns performance in battle you buy these thing again 
 by earning drebin point witch you get by salvaging weapons of the enemy's you kill in battle its 
 really easy to access drebins shop to you don't have to meet the guy to buy weapons and ammo you 
 can access his shop on the menu screen another thing that stands out is the the new camo suit that 
 snake has called octocamo witch blends in with anything you pressed up against wealthier it s walls 
 floors crates and many other things the boss battles are huge and memorable and very epic there 
 a Battle with an octopus in a lab a Battle with a raven in an abandoned clock tower and a battle 
 with a wolf in a snowfield and other Battle's i wont spoil but to put it this way the bosses are 
 all very freaky and have there own unique stories that you will injoy hearing about .
  
  
  OVERAL
  
  you wont be disappointed by this game it lives up to its hype and gives more 
 the only complaints i have is it has long install times and the story takes a while to get into 
 gear but if you get past these things you will be blown away by how good this game is trust me 
 buy it its really worth it .
  
  
  score 10
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheWesker
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 19, 2008 7:49 pm PT
Review:  War has changed. So has the Metal Gear Solid franchise with its fourth installment. Thankfully, 
 it's all for the better, culminating in one of the best games ever.
  
  Metal Gear Solid 4 has been the most highly anticipated game for the Playstation 3 since before 
 the console was even announced. All over the internet and magazines, plenty of gamers and MGS nerds 
 wondering when we will see the next installment in the famed franchise. Luckily, in June 2008, 
 it is finally here. Even better, what is here is perfection.
  
  The graphical presentation of MGS4 is top notch. Never before have I spent nearly the whole game 
 with my jaw gaping, virtually drooling at every cutscene and gameplay sequence. The character models 
 are beautifully detailed. Snake's age is a hot topic in the game, and the graphical poweress shows 
 off every jeriatric detail of him. All cutscenes are done in real time, which makes it all the 
 more amazing. There were moments in the game when I had to do a double take and make sure that 
 I was watching a game, and not a real movie.
  
  Control issues have been a touchy subject when it comes to the MGS series. Luckily, there isn't 
 anything to worry about when it comes to MGS4. The configuration has been streamlined to be more 
 along the lines of a good third person shooter, even taking a few tips from that 'other' stealth 
 game. You're only a button press away from an over-the-shoulder view and just one more for a first 
 person view. Any of these views can be used at any point in time and really gives Snake the edge 
 when it is needed most. There are plenty of moments in MGS4 that need very precise and concise 
 gunplay and this new control scheme delivers on all fronts. Sixaxis motion control is rarely used, 
 but what is there, works well. Also, if you are a lucky owner of the Dualshock 3, it is utilized 
 very well, and is a staple all its own in the immersion factor.
  
  Without spoiling anything, the story is very well done and shows off the masterpiece that Hideo 
 Kojima has created. Snake's brother, Liquid has harnessed the power to ultimately control the world 
 and it's up to Snake to stop him. Several characters from past MGS games are here to help or kill 
 Snake, and it's up to you to help Snake along the way. Snake is showing his age and it is displayed 
 prominently throughout the game. He's also a chain smoker, smoking nearly every couple of minutes 
 in a cutscene. MGS4 is presumably the last game in the series, and it is all handled very well. 
 Every loose end is tied up, nothing left unsaid. During my playthrough, even a few tears were shed, 
 and that is something no one would have expected to hear about a video game, I assure you.
  
  MGS4 will only take about 18-20 hours to complete on the normal difficulty, but can probably 
 be defeated within 5-10 hours when skipping all cutscenes and codec sequences. The question as 
 to why you would do that is beyond me, but for those speed runners, and for those who can't understand 
 the story, the option is there. The cutscenes can be rather lengthy, but they are acted and directed 
 so well that skipping just one would be a crime. This is a game that is just as important to watch 
 as to play.
  
  Metal Gear Online heads MGS4's plethora of extras. A full online mode taking the gameplay from 
 the single player game online pitting you against 16 of your most dear friends is at your disposal. 
 Yep, you can even kill your opponents with a Playboy magazine from across the country. It is slightly 
 unfortunate that there are only a few maps to choose from, but there will be more downloadable 
 later as this is only billed as the 'Starter Pack' for Metal Gear Online. A few of the other extras 
 include downloadable camoflauge and ipod songs. They are all nice touches to an already perfect 
 game.
  
  Metal Gear Solid 4 is easily the greatest entry in the MGS series, sporting a refined control scheme, 
 excellent story and superb extras that will keep you coming back for more. It deserves nothing 
 less then a perfect score. It's okay not to believe the hype, but believe me when I say it is well 
 deserved and worth buying a Playstation 3 over. Buy this game.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: carneyfolk
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 19, 2008 7:45 pm PT
Review:  What can I say that hasn't already been said. This game is epic. I have already played it through 
 3 times and I am still not sick of it. MGS4 is the masterpiece that finishes the chronicles of 
 Solid Snake.
  
  The graphics are amazing, it is hard to tell when a cutscene ends and gameplay begins. The character 
 models have an amazing amount of detail. The environments are lush and immersive. The most amazing 
 part of all is how much is going on at once. There are complete battles going on around you and 
 the framerate drop is almost unnoticeable in even the most graphic intensive of situations. This 
 is the best looking game of any system.
  
  The sound effects are top notch. To the rumbling of a tank down a dusty city street, the sound 
 of distant gun fire. The voice acting is top notch as well, the emotion and quality really helps 
 immurse you into the story.
  
  The controls are the best of any MGS game, or the vast majority of any games. The simplified controls 
 no longer make it a chore to cycle through your items. Shooting has become alot more user friendly, 
 with both over the shoulder, and first person aiming. My only knock is a lack of a run function. 
 But being a stealth game, and running could potentially make it a bit easier, I understand why 
 it does not have this function.
  
  The sheer number of weapons and items in the game is staggering. I love the Drebin system and the 
 add ons like laser sights, scopes, suppressors, etc...
  
  The story.... well... I am not goign to give anything away, just let me say that the story, and its 
 conclusion are epic. It ranks up there with some of the best movies i have seen.
  
  I honestly dont know what else to say, i feel bad for 360 owners as they will not be able to experience 
 one of the best games ever made, and the best game of this generation. MGS4 is a game everyone 
 should play, it raised the bar for what i expect from any game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bigdc
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 19, 2008 7:04 pm PT
Review:  Where to start on this game, there have been no mixed reactions online for this one. It's Great: 
 everyone agrees and im not the one to rain on a parade, this game is Really Good.
  I keep hearing best looking game ever, now thats where I dissagree. Crysis for the PC is still 
 the best looking game out there. Now as for a console game it pobably is the best looking game 
 out there, But not by leaps and bounds as some reviews will have you believe. But I will say that 
 it might have a slight advantage over gears of war witch in my opinion is the best looking console 
 game to date. 
  What is more impressive is the enviroments, with every little detail and how it reacts to whats 
 going on around you. For example I was shooting from a large room into a restaurant kitchen and 
 glasses were breaking, utensels were flying across the floor glass was shattering and particle 
 effects from stray bullets filled the room it was the most impressive thing I have ever seen from 
 a technical standpoint. 
  But here is what I dont get... If Kanami/kojima can make these things happed on the PS3 why cant 
 anyone else. I always argued that the 360 had slight edge in graphics, but the PS3 is capable of 
 far more then we have been led to believe.
  You cant Go wrong with this game its well worth $60.00 But if your wondering about purchising a 
 PS3 and this game's got you on the fence check out the comming soon tab for the ps3 on this web 
 site, looks like nota' till tekken 6.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: saviormonroe
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 19, 2008 5:59 pm PT
Review:  The first thing I noticed were the graphics and how amazing they were. I have never seen any game 
 look so plush, and it's more realistic than cartoony, which makes it look even more convincing. 
 Then the game play was insane from the first act on up. It wasn't repetitive either. It constantly 
 changed up with vehicle combat scenes to Gear battles scenes (Ray vs Rex) . The sound was A1 as 
 well, and the voice acting was superb. The story was the best that I have experienced in any game, 
 and even though the cut scenes were lengthy they were completely necessary to make the story as 
 engulfing as it was. I've always said it was the little things that make Metal Gear and any other 
 game excellent. MGS4 brought the little things to a whole new level. Don't want to spoil anything, 
 you just have to play the game to understand. I can honestly say this is one of the best, if not 
 the best game I've ever played, and I haven't even played the MGO yet. This is a Must Have for 
 any PS3 owner. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: the-queen
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 19, 2008 5:29 pm PT
Review:  The famous stealth game Metal Gear is coming to a close after 21 years. From it's humble beginnings 
 as Metal Gear on the MSX2 and Nintendo Entertainment System, transformation to Metal Gear Solid 
 on the Playstation to the next-generation of Blu-Ray and PS3.
  
  I don't wish to ruin the story for you, in case you've yet to play or complete, but I'll give the 
 backstory. You play Solid Snake in 2014, a clone of an excellent and experience soldier. Snake 
 has now aged considerably due to his cloning process and has a few months to live. Former characters 
 return to aid Snake in his mission of terminated his clone brother, Liquid controlling the body 
 of a former nemesis, Revolver Ocelot before he takes over the world and ends the reign of The Patriots, 
 a shadowy group who control the USA and soldiers through nanomachines.
  
  The graphics in MGS4 are exceptional, as you would expect from a game made only for the Playstation 
 3 and uses the entire space of the Blu-Ray disc. Everything in the game moves, nothing is static, 
 even when Snake is standing, his hair and bandana blow in the direction of the wind, clothing like 
 suits ruffle and crease in the wind. Shadows, lighting and reflection are realistic and the facial 
 expression are only comparible to Half-Life 2, you can tell when a character is sad, happy or just 
 mild. The sound of the game is up to standards as usual, with the music being composed by British 
 composer who's beginning to make his repritoire with game soundtracks such as composing the excellent 
 soundtrack of Call of Duty 4, but by using the in-game iPod you can listen to songs from pass Metal 
 Gear Solid games. The voice acting and scripting is just as dramatic ever, thank god.
  
  one easy criticism would have been the announcment of the installation process, which may become 
 a nuiscance to the impatient, but it isn't just a boring blank screen with a percent bar slowly 
 rising, you get to see Snake have a few smokes and some health warnings and tips are shown.
  
  With 21 years under it's belt, the Metal Gear series has been adored, loved and given many 
 awards, and with MGS4 being the last in the series, it leaves the series with the big ta-ra it 
 deserves. Thank you Mr. Kojima for bringing this series in all it's brilliance to our homes. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xGamesterx1080
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 19, 2008 5:16 pm PT
Review:  This game is a milestone for gaming. Many people say that "It can't be a 10, GTA already got a 
 10, we can't have two tens in a year." So then move aside GTA cause this game is outstanding. I 
 dont know how to describe it without spoiling anything so i will put some minor spoilers (which 
 you would probably know now if u saw the trailers) . 
  
  WARNING: THERE MAY BE POSSIBLE SPOILERS (MINOR) IN THIS REVIEW.
  
  This game is about Solid 
 Snake who is now old due to accelerated aging (cause unknown) . He has to terminate his rival Ocelot 
 who has been taken over by snake's twin Liquid's arm. Liquid has something evil up his sleeve (play 
 the game to find out what) and snake must stop him. Story sounds real simple but firstly, there 
 are probably a dozen or two twists and turns throughout the game. Then, all and i mean ALL questions 
 that you had about things in the other games (Patriots, FoxDIE, etc.) will be answered so its a 
 real relief. thats all i will talk about the story or else it will be ruined.
  
  Now the gameplay. Everything added from previous games such as aiming and cmo has been refined. 
 They are perfect. Then the new additions such as rolling, walking while crouched, moving while 
 aiming and new weapons and items have made this even more fun to play then ever. With other MGSes, 
 i would only play to find out the story but now i love playing. The graphics and sound in this 
 game are perfect. There are also awards for certain things adding replay value. (im on my 2nd playthrough 
 now) . Dont believe me, check out some vids or go to futureshop and play one of the demos. 
  
  Now the final part that makes this game unbelivable. METAL GEAR ONLINE!!! IT IS AMAZING but 
 I wont talk about it because if you still aren't compelled to buy this game after what i talked 
 about theres no point (also its 2 am and im exhausted) .
  
  Well there goes my review for the greatest game ever made and i just have to give Kudos to Mr. 
 Kojima. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: king23_
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 18, 2009 7:36 pm PT
Review:  Back in 1987 Hideo Kojima created Metal Gear, a stealth action game for the MSX2 home computer. 
 Now 21 years later Metal Gear Solid 4 has been released and it is the final game to tell the story 
 of Solid Snake.
  
  Set in 2014, 5 years after the Big Shell Incident of MGS2, a rapidly aging Solid Snake is assigned 
 to eliminate Liquid Ocelot. I don't want to spoil anything for you, but I can say fans of the original 
 games will meet some old friends (and enemies) and will even revist a familiar place, because unlike 
 past games, their are 5 different locations in which MGS4 takes place.
  
  Regardless of whether or not you've played past Metal Gear games, you'll most likely be confused 
 by the story at times because it can get complex. But don't take that the wrong way, because the 
 story is still amazingly written with tons of fun twists that keep you hooked. I don't think any 
 game has ever been able to mix fantastic storytelling in and out with fantastic gameplay the same 
 way that MGS4 is able to do. If you haven't played the past games you should be able to understand 
 most of what's going on, but I would recommend that you play the other games because not only will 
 you get to know the story better, but all of the Metal Gear games have been excellent. 
  
  Some people have complained that Metal Gear Solid games are more of movies than games, and if you're 
 not a fan of cutscenes than you might feel the same way about MGS4 as you did about the past games. 
 A huge part of MGS4 is it's story, which is told through beautiful cutscenes. MGS4 doesn't seem 
 to have many long codec conversations though, but I'm not complaining. 
  
  Visually, MGS4 is amazing. It features possibly the best graphics I've seen in any game on a console 
 to date. You may find a few problems with the graphics here and there, but overall they're great.
 
  
  The gameplay, for the most part, should feel very similar to those who've played previous games. 
 But this time around it's easier to shoot your way through if you don't care for sneaking, because 
 the aiming system has been vastly improved. That doesn't mean you can just run straight through 
 the game shooting, that might be pretty hard. You'll still need to use your stealth throughout 
 a lot of parts in the game. This way it just gives you more options to play through the game however 
 you want.
  
  Also, as the years have gone by, technology has improved which means Snake has some new gadgets. 
 There is the Solid Eye, which can give you information about things you look at, and it also has 
 built in binoculars and night vision. There is also a Mk. II , which is a small robot you can use 
 to communicate with other characters or you can even take control of it and stun enemies. Your 
 gadgets are provided by Otacon who is a big help to Snake in the game.
  
  Sound has played a big part of MGS games, and MGS4 won't disappoint. The soundtrack is put together 
 brilliantly. You'll hear old favorites and new scores which deliver the same amount of high quality 
 that you've come to expect from the songs in a Metal Gear game. The voice acting is also excellent. 
 You can really get a sense of emotion from the way the lines are acted out, which immerses you 
 into the game. 
  
  As far as value goes, the first playthrough took me about 17 , but that time includes how much 
 you watch cutscenes. There is more than enough reason for you to go and replay it to get all the 
 different emblems, play on a different difficulty level, or if you just want to experience the 
 great single player game again. There's also a free Metal Gear Online mode.
  
  Metal Gear Online can be pretty fun at times, with just your average multiplayer game modes for 
 the most part, but it's still pretty enjoyable. I have a few gripes about it, like the fact that 
 you're only allowed one character per PS3 so if anyone else in your hosue wants to play MGO you 
 either have to share characters or buy a new one. Also the leveling up system is a little confusing.
 
  
  Metal Gear Solid 4: Guns of the Patriots is an amazing conclusion to Solid Snake's adventure. I 
 could sit here and pick at the minor bugs in this game, but in the end the games greatness outweighs 
 all of those tiny nitpicks. Metal Gear Solid 4 is every bit deserving of the 10 out of 10 score 
 I gave it, and it will go down as one of the greatest games to ever be created. You have earned 
 your rest Snake.
  
  Gameplay: 10
  Graphics: 10
  Sound: 10
  Value: 10
  Tilt: 10
  Score: 10
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: tryfe_lyn
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 19, 2008 2:59 pm PT
Review:  Everybody is familiar with Kojima's Metal Gear series. Metal Gear Solid 4 is the final chapter 
 in Snake's epic journey on the Playstation 3. I won't go into too many details in this review because 
 most have already read the many praising reviews or experienced this great game by now. I'll keep 
 it short and simple:
  
  Gameplay: 10
  
  Sound: 10
  
  Graphics: 10
  
  Lasting Appeal: 10
  
  Overall: 9.9
  
  Now I'm sure you're asking, how can I give it 10s 
 in all the major categories and give it an overall score of 9.9. Well, it's simple... nothing in 
 this world is perfect and although MGS4 comes close it gets a 9.9 due to the fact that this is 
 Snake's last epic and crazy journey. I wish Kojima would create another follow up title, but he 
 has stated that this will be the last one he produces and Snake's final mission which hurts me. 
 Thank you Kojima for the 20+ years and thank you for giving the world a look into your crazy world. 
 You are a great storyteller and I know I will personally miss the ride that is Metal Gear.
  
  Anyone with a PS3 will love the experience that is MGS4 and fans of the series will not be 
 disappointed until you realize that it's over. Now... on to Metal Gear Online... I'm personally looking 
 to collect as many dogtags possible so beware!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cky17
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 19, 2008 2:43 pm PT
Review:  Great game, changes how you have always played this game where you go into a base destroy your 
 objective and game over. This game puts you in a new setting in the Middle East somewhere. The Metal 
 Gear Online is fun but single player is better. The game has many new features like Snake's camoflague 
 blends into whatever environment he is around. Another new feature is the MK.2 which is a little 
 robot that has a camera attached to it that way you can see what is coming up instead of just walking 
 around the corner and getting killed. Metal Gear Solid 4 is the best of all the games in the series. 
 If you are a fan of all the Metal Gear Solid games this one will definitely change all or your 
 expectations. This game lives up to the hype. Great Game. Must play for any one that is a fan or action/adventure 
 games. Graphics are amazing and the storyline is amazing almost like a movie. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: notquitesure
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 19, 2008 1:22 pm PT
Review:  Right ok, i feel that im going to keep this review pretty short, seen as everyones basically writing 
 the same thing about how amazing it is etc...
  and their not wrong. this game IS amazing and should be bought by anyone with a PS3.
  
  the 
 single player portion of the game is immense, and i shall indeed be going through it a few times 
 because its just great to play and you are able to tackle each mission in a variety of ways to 
 get to the end.
  
  i have no gripes with the single player mode.. and if i found any then i would just be nit picking.
 
  
  but what isnt as good... by quite a way is the online play.
  to be honest with you ive only given it a few hours of my time and i just dont feel that the type 
 of game metal gear is... its not very good with other people.
  
  where they first fell down was that stupid konami ID rubbish.
  we all know its just going to 
 be a way of getting money out of us in the long run and is a lot of messing about.
  
  i haven't been able to find any of my friends online because you have to search for them which 
 is useless. we all have different names which you will have to ask your friend for before hand 
 etc.... zzzz
  
  then i go to play the game (alone) and no one seems to have a mic!!!!!!
  its a tactical game and no one is talking to each other. i know thats not the games fault, but 
 it certainly doesn't help what so ever.
  
  you spawn in front of enemies ALOT! and once your in the line of fire you can wave goodbye.
  
 
  matches don't ever quite seem to end. it tells u every so often who's won, but i feel confused 
 and get no satisfaction from winning or killing anyone in the game to that matter.
  
  the only mode i actually found fun is the one when someone is snake and has octo-camo and legs 
 it about stealthiness. thats a bit more like what Metal Gear is all about.
  
  hopefully when i am finally able to find one of my friends in a game things may start to change, 
 but until then, ill be sticking with the single player mode.
  
  so if you want your fix of online shooting i would stick with the slowly dating COD4 and for an 
 amazing cinematic single player game i would beg you all to play MGS4. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cherrytwister
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 19, 2008 1:10 pm PT
Review:  *Graphics are the better than COD4.
  *Gameplay is very fun (so many options)
  *Levels are long (I just completed Act 2 and have over 15 hours of game play)
  *Cut scenes are 
 awesome, it's like watch a MOVIE and PLAYING a GAME at the same time!
  *Plot keeps you entertained and has humor.
  
  ****if you own a PS3 you must have this game, 
 if not than RUN to the store and buy a PS3 with a copy of METAL GEAR SOLID 4****
  
  
  
  
  *Graphics are the better than COD4.
  *Gameplay is very fun (so many options)
  *Levels are 
 long (I just completed Act 2 and have over 15 hours of game play)
  *Cut scenes are awesome, it's like watch a MOVIE and PLAYING a GAME at the same time!
  *Plot 
 keeps you entertained and has humor.
  
  ****if you own a PS3 you must have this game, if not than RUN to the store and buy a PS3 with a 
 copy of METAL GEAR SOLID 4**** 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Darkblyth
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 15, 2008 7:21 am PT
Review:  This Game is So Good But not as good as gta Evan if it made me stay up all night playing it but 
 its the best stealth game i played it beats Hitman Blood Money i really like it that they are saying 
 it not going to the xbox on the game if you get out the Metal Gear Mrk II or III Snake has a Ps3 
 Controller and sunny plays with a psp and has a ps3 but no ps2 or ps1 : ( but still ps3 is there 
 when i found out this is his last game i wasn't Bothered at all but now i am i hope he makes an 
 MGS5 but I'm not finished the game yet till i know why there will be no MGS5 lets hope this game 
 stays a ps3 #1 game why is gta no #1 cos its on the 360 right this game is great i recommend you 
 buy it before its out of stock cos Snakes Nickname is solid this game is solid Make sure you buy 
 this before its to late 
::::::

::::::
UserName: howardorr
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 19, 2008 1:21 pm PT
Review:  Metal Gear Solid 4 is all the triumphs and shortcomings of the entire Metal Gear series writ large. 
 The game is beautifully made, with the best cut-scenes ever made for a videogame, and breathtaking 
 sound and level design, especially in the first stages of the game. Hideo Kojima, the mastermind 
 behind the series, couldn't care less about any criticisms: it is his baby, and to play the game 
 to the end you have to accept the short game, long cut-scenes and occasionally unresponsive controls. 
 
  
  As the Metal Gear series ostensibly ends with this instalment of Kojima's epic and often convoluted 
 conspiracy series, there is a lot of explaining and tying up of loose ends to do before the final 
 credits roll. Kojima's avowed love of cinema has never been more evident than in MGS4: ultra-lengthy 
 cut-scenes often mean the player can put the controller down for a good twenty minutes at a time. 
 The cut-scenes themselves are the best ever made for a game: character modelling and the hi-def 
 rendering are amazingly detailed, with only some of the myriad plot twists letting the side down 
 in spots. The sheer amount and duration of these in no ways lessens their quality as the game progresses. 
 
  
  Of course, critics of the games in the past will repeat what they have said in the past: games 
 are to be played, not watched. The occasional quick-time button pressing during these scenes (in 
 order to trigger comic-book flashbacks) and the ability to move around during the briefing scenes 
 only emphasises the passivity that comes from these scenes, which take up roughly sixty percent 
 of the entire game experience. As one of these critics in the past, I would answer that the cut-scenes 
 are of such quality and add so much to the Metal Gear universe that they largely mitigate the relative 
 lack of gameplay in the MGS4 experience. 
  
  Gameplay itself is very similar to previous iterations of Metal Gear Solid. The responsiveness 
 of the player character (an aged version of famous Snake Plissken) is generally good, but my gripes 
 about his slowness to turn, stand after executing rolls, and lie down flat still stand. The game 
 engine -including enemy A. I.- is essentially the same as Snake and Raiden's debut on the PlayStation 
 2 in 2001. The engine is ageing, like Snake himself, and this sometimes lets down the otherwise 
 diamond polish of the graphical and sonic production. 
  
  However, the central issue with gameplay is that there is simply not enough of it. The first two 
 acts, with their innovative Faction system, are probably the best in the game, with technically 
 stunning chase sequences involving a bicycle and a Metal Gear mech later on too short-lived to 
 really imprint themselves in the mind after the game is over. Furthermore, an almost-wonderful 
 stealth mission based on a foggy doppelganger of Prague is too on-rails to be truly satisfying. 
 The question remains, as it has since MGS2: does Kojima have enough confidence in the (now ageing) 
 game engine of Metal Gear Solid to expose it more to scrutiny? Or is he just so in love with his 
 self-made myth to switch off his cinema blinkers? 
  
  A promising online game comes with MGS4, which will add hours to the overall Metal Gear milieu. 
 But replay value comes with the knowledge that the best the game has to offer comes early on, with 
 sizable dialogue scenes coming to edge out the generally excellent stealth and shooting action. 
 Of course, lovers of Metal Gear Solid won't care, and detractors will find little to really switch 
 them on to Kojima's baby this late on. MGS4's biggest recommendation is it is a Metal Gear game, 
 par excellance; its biggest criticism is it is a Metal Gear game, par excellance. Now go enjoy! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: torres_unix
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 19, 2008 12:47 pm PT
Review:  This will be quite short for a review of an instant classic!
  
  The graphics are amazing.
  The sound is amazing.
  The story, although convoluted, brings the 
 much anticipated closure to MGS.
  The gameplay is amazing, although I did prefer the top-down style of
  the first MGS.
  
  In 
 essence, this is the game we've been waiting for, MGS3 was bittersweet flavor that I was longing 
 to forget. If there was a reason that you were waiting to buy a PS3, this is IT!
  
  The game gets better as you play it and I believe there is tremendous replay value. I am one of 
 the few Raiden fans and I believe that his role in this game has improved his strength as a supporting 
 character, although not as strong as Otacon.
  
  Revolver Ocelot returns to bring the world into chaos, and it's expected that the final confrontation 
 between him and Snake will be memorable - the story cuts cenes integrate so seamlessly into the 
 game that you'll wonder when exactly you're supposed to begin to control your character. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jordasher2002
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 19, 2008 6:46 am PT
Review:  Grand Theft Auto 4 did get a 10, but after playing MGS4 I think believe MGS4 is more deserving 
 of this #10 rating.
  
  To tell you the truth I never ever played a game for such a long stretch of time in one day I could 
 almost say that leaving my room felt alot like I had been stuck in a dream. Those graphics are 
 fricken unbelievable, never scene anything like that in my entire life and on top of that it came 
 out of a PS3, which I had know idea was possible.
  
  The sound was bloody amazing too.
  
  I played this game on 100 inch screen with an HD72 Projector and a Logitech 5500 Speaker system 
 with the speakers built into my bed room walls for surround sound, so you can imagine the kind 
 of detail I can see and hear, and it tops every other game I have ever played in the past.
  
  Although I was a bit worried at the beggining of the game, the gameplay seemed to be quite 
 thin, until I realized it was only the introduction to one of the most masterfully crafted games 
 in human history thus far, this is not a joke people. Gameplay is 100%.
  Be patient and you will soon realize how much you can do and the excitement never ends until the 
 game is turned off.
  
  Also the game is full length meaning its not too short. I just finished playing the game for today 
 where I left off at a point where I thought the game was coming to an end, but it didn't its seems 
 there is still a butt load more of excitement to be had and I can't bloody wait. I'm at the next 
 chapter.
  
  I still have the urge to tell you guys again I can not comprehend how on earth the PS3 is capable 
 of all this, it makes no sense.
  
  CONS:
  ok now for the bad news
  
  There was only 2 problems I had with the game, very minor.
  
  - All the women in this game 
 are fricken Gorgeous, but there is so much cleavage in this game that it is actually distracting 
 and unrealistic and makes wonder if these characters either desperate for attention or just couldn't 
 afford to where a bra.
  It Just does't make sense to the point of being an annoying distraction because all the rest the 
 game is aiming for realizim. Don't get me wrong I love the ladies but dang I'm not fit for action 
 when I'm thinking about boobies, they could have toned it down, anyways its still quite the view.
 
  - Another minor thing was that some of the humar was a bit awkward, but if you like it then good 
 for you. But this game is still one mega bad ass game.
  
  One last thing, this game seems to have thought of pretty much everything a gamer would want in 
 a game, including the things that would appeal to the minority audience, yet doesn't seem to get 
 in the way of the more popular things such as the ability to change the character of Solid Snake's 
 appearence for example there is the camoSuit and Disguises, but at one point in the game you actually 
 aquire a Camo Mask with the ability to use other characters faces alot like Mission Impossible.
 
  For me though I was very happy for some reason to see that you can use the camo face of Snake's 
 younger self, so that you don't have to play the game controlling some old guy with white hair. 
 I don't know why I cared about such a thing but hey Hideo Kojima thought of that and I thought 
 that was fantastic. there is also the faces of Otacon, Raiden, Young Snake with or without the 
 Bandana and Old snake without the Bandana, a Ninja Mask and who knows what else will be included 
 later on in the game.
  
  -- Ok well I'm back to re-edit my review because now I think I'm near the end of the game.
  
 
  - I have reached a chapter where game has just gotten more exciting. 
  I'm on a mission to Shadow Moses Island from the First Medal Gear Solid and its bringing back memories. 
 At this point its become clear to me that I honestly don't believe a game can possibly top the 
 experience of this game unless Hideo Kojima somehow manages to top his own masterpiece. 
  
  I'm definetly going to play through this game at least another 5 times.
  I only paid 59.99 for 
 this game and it feals like I bought a precious diamond. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SlayerX980
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 19, 2008 6:20 am PT
Review:  Metal Gear Solid is a big deal for a lot of people. Cinematic gaming probably wouldn't be where 
 it is today if Hideo Kojima and his team hadn't brought us the original PlayStation game and for 
 many the series stands way ahead of the pack. It's been far from a smooth ride though. Awkward 
 controls and a convoluted, often overacted story made the PlayStation 2 games an acquired taste. 
 The question looming over the head of MGS4, then, isn't if it'll please hardcore fans (it unquestionably 
 does) but if Kojima has seen where the series needed improving. The fact that this is the single 
 best PS3 exclusive released to date should answer that question for you.
  
  A huge part of the Metal Gear Solid series is its story. It's often criticised for being too convoluted 
 and told through excessive cut scenes, but for fans it's a big deal. We won't spoil anything here, 
 but sleep easy knowing that Kojima delivers the goods and then some. Sure, at times the mixture 
 of comedic elements, political comments and despair sit uneasily with one another, but familiar 
 characters return, plot twists surprise and jaws hit the floor. It's typical Kojima storytelling, 
 for better or worse.
  
  The voice acting is top class, the direction is brilliant and it's not too difficult to follow 
 the basic storyline. Some things are definitely hard to work out (I don't believe for a second 
 that I full understood exactly what was going on in every facet of the storyline) , but it in no 
 way hurt my enjoyment of the game. And yes, the cut scenes are at times exceedingly long, and no, 
 you can't save during the middle of them. This is one of MGS4's most disappointing aspects. I can't 
 help but feel that with a harsher edit and a quicker pace the cut scenes could have been something 
 really special. There's also an abundance of lengthy codec conversations and quite dull explanations 
 that really needed to be re-worked into entertaining cut scenes. These moments hurt the flow of 
 the game, as do the unfortunate loading screens in the middle of intense sequences - forgivable 
 only because they often look so spectacular.
  
  One of the most significant changes to Metal Gear Solid 4 is the control system. I played a few 
 hours of MGS3 the night before getting my hands on MGS4 and the changes make for a far more playable 
 game. For many the stop and shoot gameplay felt rather dated by the time MGS3 arrived, with the 
 rooted to the spot first-person viewpoint feeling incredibly restrictive. This has been completely 
 changed in MGS4, which allows you to move and shoot from either a first or third-person point of 
 view.
  
  L1 brings up your targeting reticule in a third-person perspective and from here you can move and 
 shoot, albeit slower than when moving without a weapon drawn. MGS4 features a GTA-style auto-aim 
 system, but you're able to disable this and use free-aiming if you wish. A tap on the triangle 
 button while your weapon is drawn changes the action to a first-person perspective, giving you 
 a more precise aim. You're still rather limited as far as movement speed goes, but are no longer 
 forced to stand still, which will come as a huge relief to many gamers.
  
  Elsewhere much remains the same. There's no jump button (which takes some getting used to) and 
 L2 operates the item inventory while R2 handles weapons. As in previous games, these on-screen 
 menus only show what's been equipped from the pause menu and your slots are limited. The first 
 20 minutes or so will prove to be quite difficult to newcomers even with the changes to the control 
 scheme. MGS4 still plays rather differently to your average action title so you'll probably see 
 the game over screen fairly frequently during the first act. You'll settle into it though, learning 
 how best to move through each environment and avoid the patrolling enemies.
  
  Early on in the game Snake is given a tactical eyepiece which allows him to use a radar and view 
 threatening soldiers. The game uses an ally system, where you can help out rebels in order to win 
 favour and easier passage. Blue icons represent friends, while red represents enemies. If you're 
 seen to be taking out enemies you'll be able to move through a level without facing an onslaught 
 from both sides of the war. It's easier said than done, as rebels will attack you if they don't 
 know who you are, but worth the effort.
  
  To make the most of the game's new-found gun prowess Snake has access to a black market gun retailer. 
 Drebin appears early on in the game (along with his coke drinking, silver pant wearing monkey) 
 and from that point on you're able to trade any collected weapons for points, redeemable for new 
 weapons and ammo. All the weapons dropped by soldiers in the game are hard coded to each soldier 
 and Drebin is able to unlock them and offer you a selection of side arms, rifles, machine guns 
 and heavy duty weapons. At no point in the game after I'd met Drebin did I have a shortage of ammo. 
 It might be a tad unrealistic to enter a shop while in the middle of a battle, but it makes the 
 game more enjoyable to play.
  
  With stealth still being the core component of the game Snake has numerous tools at his disposal. 
 These include a knife that can stun enemies, a tranquillizer gun, the MK II robot (ideal for scoping 
 out areas while invisible) and a new OctoCamo suit that has chameleon-like properties. If Snake 
 is still it will take on the appearance and texture of the surface it's next too. This is good 
 enough to fool the naked eye and infra-red sensors. Your level of cover is displayed in the upper 
 right corner of the screen, so you're always aware of how visible you are. During certain sections 
 you'll have access to additional disguises and camouflage items, including a few that have been 
 included for nostalgic purposes.
  
  Avoiding enemies has always been a core component of the Metal Gear Solid series and it remains 
 so here. If you're spotted the enemy will start actively pursuing you, so you need to get out of 
 sight for long enough for the counter to count down to zero. If you're spotted during this time 
 it'll hit 99 seconds again and you'll have to start the evasion from scratch.
  
  Enemies vary a lot throughout the game, coming in all shapes and sizes, from the standard soldiers 
 to the half robot, half animal Gekkos that can crush you if you're not careful. Bosses don't disappoint 
 either, with those on offer being some of the most creatively designed I've ever seen in a video 
 game. You can't simply shoot until their health bar is depleted either, with some thought required 
 to pinpoint their weaknesses.
  
  Once you've familiarised yourself with the nuances of the control scheme (which allows you to play 
 the game in numerous ways - complete a level without killing anyone if you're good enough) the 
 opening two thirds of the game are full of superb moments and thrilling gameplay. Things change 
 from here on, though, with cut scenes suddenly taking up the majority of your time and the actual 
 gameplay sections feeling rather disconnected from one another. As the game turns more and more 
 into a movie things start to drag, and by the end I found it hard to give the game my full attention. 
 There's no one cut scene that lasts too long, but at times they're joined together in a way that 
 feels rather self indulgent. A boss fight near the end may well impress MGS devotees, but as a 
 climax it felt woefully inadequate for such an epic game - but in keeping with its direction.
 
  
  Much has been said about MGS4's visuals. From a technical point of view I wasn't blown away as 
 much as I expected to be, mainly down to some rough texture work here and there and a frame rate 
 that doesn't stay as smooth as I'd have liked. Despite this MGS4 easily competes with the best 
 visuals consoles have produced, in no small part to the incredible design work in the game. MGS4 
 is a joy to play through, with some truly wonderful looking levels and enemy designs that quite 
 frankly stand head and shoulders above what we see in most games. Cut scenes look incredible and 
 for the most part offer some form of interactivity, but at times it's a shame you're having to 
 watch some of the most action packed moments instead of playing in them.
  
  When talking about the presentation the superb audio can't be overlooked. The use of surrounds 
 is incredible and voice over work on the whole is on a level above the best we've heard. Having 
 said that, at times some less than spectacular acting lets down key dramatic moments. One scene 
 towards the end of the game fell completely flat as the actor failed to convey the emotion required. 
 It's a small complaint in the grand scheme of things but one that stands out due to the cinematic 
 feel.
  
  Also included with MGS4 is Metal Gear Online, a team-based multiplayer game that will be expanded 
 in the months to come. At the moment it's a great alternative to MGS4's single-player mode, although 
 by no means for everyone. If you're expecting a standard online shooter, think again, or rather 
 think again while re-spawning as you'll be shot dead rather quickly. By far the star of the online 
 show is a sneaking game mode in which one player is Snake, another is the MK II and the rest are 
 trying to hunt him down. This makes for some thrilling hunter/hunted gameplay, with superb support 
 options available to the MK II player - invisible electrocution is always fun. With a selection 
 of other team-based modes and plenty of players on the servers, MGO should have quite a future. 
 It is worth noting that only one character is allowed per console. If a second player requires 
 their own character it'll cost you money.
  
  Metal Gear Solid 4 had a lot to live up to and it's done so brilliantly. It's a game that will 
 go down in history as one of the most ambitious and cinematic ever made, but also, finally, and 
 more importantly, it will go down as a MGS game with gameplay that doesn't polarise opinion. It's 
 not without it problems, most notably in the change of pace in the last third and the often laborious 
 cut scenes (if you could play even half of the best cinematic moments MGS4 would wipe the floor 
 with the best games we've ever seen) , but MGS fans won't care. Although unquestionably a game everyone 
 should play, when you're forced to take the back seat the blurred line between a game and movie 
 prevents MGS4 from being the 10/10 masterpiece we hoped it would be.
  
  
  Gameplay: 8
  Graphics: 10
  Sound: 10
  Overall: 9
  
  
  The good:
  
  - Refined controls.
  - Awesome 
 audio.
  - Stunning presentation.
  
  
  The bad:
  
  - Some cut scenes drag. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: alterbridge9
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 19, 2008 5:54 am PT
Review:  This game is the single reason I own a PS3. I had been waiting 4 years for this game since finishing 
 MGS3 and heard that 4 was in the pipeline. I have been a loyal follower of the MGS series since 
 Shadow Moses all those years ago and own all of the games including Substance and Subsistence!
 
  
  The graphics in the game are some special with superb environments that make you believe you are 
 in the various places that the story takes you. The characters in the game again look amazing with 
 a couple getting much needed improvements from their last outing in MGS on the PS1 lol! The story 
 is the most engaging I have ever experienced since the LOTR. The story does rely on A LOT of back 
 story so if your not familiar with previous games then I would recommend playing those first or 
 else a lot of the story will be alien to you. Most of the story is told through cut scenes that 
 are lengthy on occasions but if your familiar with the MGS format then you'll be right at home. 
 The gameplay is brilliant as now you can play either stealthily, all guns blazing or a combination 
 of both.
  
  The muliplayer element Metal Gear Online does take A LONG time to get going with all the registration 
 needed. However once online it is quite enjoyable although I didn't enjoy it due the slow pace 
 as I'm used to CoD4.
  
  Overall I would say that MGS4 is out and away the best game on any console and I'm quite sad that 
 there won't be another one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kypreo69
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 25, 2008 4:34 pm PT
Review:  I reckon games like this only come once in a lifetime, i would have never imagined myself give 
 a game 10/10 but i got to say this game deserves it hands down.
  
  From the presentaion to the gameplay and the magnificent story, this game just has it all, it's 
 so perfect i'm just glad to have it in my collection and cherish it forever.
  
  Let's start with the story. Does it answer all the questions from previous games? Yes. Is it one 
 of the best stories to ever grace on any system? Heck yes. But here's the thing, people who have 
 never played a Metal Gear Solid game before will be so lost it ain't funny, there will be plot 
 twists all over the place that would have you just scratching you're head in confusion.
  People who have played previous installments will feel right at home and will feel all kinds of 
 feelings, from happy to sad from sad to excitment and from excitment to utterly shocked. It's a 
 game you just got to play to believe.
  
  Now onto the presentation. This game is so gorgeous that you're eyes will pop out from the beautiful 
 visuals, i would have never thought this game would pull it off but it did, yes there is some flat 
 textures here and there but that won't stop you from just staring at the screen from the prettiness. 
 The audio is perfect as well, if you have the right set up the sound will be blow you're mind, 
 and as for the musical score? Don't get me started, the music is so beautiful that it's one of 
 the best gaming soundtracks out there.
  
  The gameplay has being tweaked up since the last game, and it makes it more improved. Like the 
 shoulder aiming percpective from Resident Evil 4 and Gears Of War makes it's first appearance in 
 a Metal Gear Solid game and does a wonderful job at it. The first person view is still intact and 
 what makes it better is that you can move around in it this time, you can basically play the whole 
 game in first person if you want. You can actually play this game buy running and gunning this 
 time around (but don't expect to survive forever) and the good old sneaking system is back, and 
 thats what makes these games a joy to play, but you got to be a patient person if you want to sneak 
 around because you're going to have to do some waiting around for guards to move and all. But if 
 you don't get an alert phrase through out the whole game you get special rewards which makes it 
 worth it at the end. 
  
  There's a new suit that snake gets in the game called the octocamo suit which is a revamped version 
 of Metal Gear Solid 3's camouflage system, you actually blend with the enviroment, so for instance 
 if you go to a wall and lean on it the suit will automatically change to the same texture as what 
 the wall has and if you want to turn the suit back to normal all you have to do is just shake you're 
 controller and it turns back, as simple as that. It's a really good feature and it saves you from 
 pressing the start button all the time and changing you're suit like in Metal Gear Solid 3. As 
 for the cutscenes yes some are long but it's not Metal Gear Solid if it doesnt have long ones, 
 the cutscenes are a joy to watch and i couldn't asked a better way to do it. This time around there's 
 not alot of codec calls or that much people to talk to but i guess it's for the best.
  
  
  My final words: Does Snake live or die? Well thats for me to know and for you to find out, 
 and i just want to thank Hideo Kojima for making such a legendary game. Oh and please buy this 
 game NOW you will do yourself a big favor, you will be thanking me later.
  
  Pros:
  - Spectacular presentation.
  - One of the best stories in gaming.
  - Superb gameplay.
  
 
  Cons:
  - Flat textures here and there (but nothing to worry about) .
  
  
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: CannonAnBall
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 19, 2008 2:09 am PT
Review:  First of all, I've read a few reviews and a couple of them have annoyed me for the simple reason 
 that the game hasn't been completed by the reviewer. How can you give a score of 6.5 or whatever 
 after only getting through 10hrs? I know where I was after 10hrs and I know what is left....
  
  Anyway, I loved this game from start to finish. When I wasn't playing, I was wishing I was 
 and thats why the game is a classic for me. The moment I completed it, I started again, just to 
 see what else I could do differently. Not many games for me can do this. 
  
  The graphics look great and the cutscenes are gorgeous. Yes the dialogue can get complicated but 
 then other franchises, especially in TV and film can be just and complicated - The X-Files springs 
 to mind at the moment when they get all scientific! It's all part of the experience and one that 
 I thoroughly enjoyed.
  
  MGS4 is just awesome. I wouldn't say that I'm a big fan, I loved the first one but that was many 
 years ago when I played that. I came to the game with minimal knowledge of the franchise and I 
 understood what was going on. A joy and a real gaming high for me. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ronhoon
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 18, 2008 10:40 pm PT
Review:  I was looking forward to this game ever since I first bought my PS3. Not only for the game play 
 itself, but to see how the visual effects would look. I hold MGS seiries to a high standard due 
 tho their success in the past. When I first put the game in I was impressed from the start the 
 install screen looked great on my 47" HDTV. From then on I knew it was gonna be a good visually 
 stunning game. Not to mention the cut scenes we really great, and funny to boot. Once in the game 
 and playing through the first few minutes my mind was but at ease as far as game play goes. I will 
 be the first to admit I am not a huge fan of the MGS series but this game made it really easy to 
 pick the game play. I was really enjoying being sneaky or if i felt like it just run on in and 
 start blasting away at everyone. That being said I do like the option on some part, but on some 
 parts I like that they made it where you have to be sneaky, it really keeps you on you toes. I 
 hope you enjoy the game as much as I am. This is by far the best MGS in the collection. Apart of 
 course from the original Metal Gear on NES. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BlackNinjas
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 18, 2008 9:37 pm PT
Review:  Metal Gear Solid was the beginning of stealth games as we know it, or i should say, Tactical Espionage 
 Action. When it first came out, all people knew about how to play games was that you either had 
 to destroy every single thing on the screen or jump from one panel to the next. But not Metal Gear 
 Solid. When it first came out in the late 80s, people were astounded by it and loved it. It was 
 a great new take on video-games in general. Now to the game at hand. Metal Gear Solid 4 is perfect 
 in every way. Even if you can't reach complete perfection, I can't imagine anything closer to that 
 than this game. The game play is amazing. The new over-the shoulder view works very well with the 
 game. It makes aiming and firing your gun fun and easy, it also makes sneaking around and crawling 
 a very simple thing to do. CQC, or close quarters combat, is much like all the other MGS games, 
 but you will find that it is easier to beat down enemies if it ever comes to that. The story in 
 Metal Gear Solid is one of the best I have ever seen, even if it's because it is carried on from 
 the other games. Long time fans of the series will have all of their questions answered that they 
 had from the beginning at the Shadow Moses event. If you are just coming in to the series now, 
 you may be able to pick up on the events if you are very clever, but you may have to play the originals 
 to fully understand the magnitude of the story. Almost every character from the Metal Gear Solid 
 universe makes an appearance in this game, alive and dead. Some of the confrontations will leave 
 you tearful, give you a sense of longing, or have you giggling like a fanboy. This game is a true 
 masterpiece and it is my favorite game to date. Everyone who owns a Playstation 3 should buy this 
 game immediately and experience it. Even if you do not own a PS3, find some way to play it, for 
 the time you spent playing this epic masterpiece will never leave you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: theo_1
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 20, 2008 8:17 am PT
Review:  True this game is loaded with cut-scenes though they are interactive and you get points for interacting.
 
  
  The cut-scenes truly add to the value of the game, as they are so beautifully done. Hollywood could 
 not have done a better job of story telling as Kojima. He truly weaves a compelling tale, in that 
 he builds on existing characters static and dynamic alike, while he has you engrossed as to how 
 these people and the overall story will develop. I do not see how this world he has created could 
 ever be over.
  
  Sure there is a great deal of scenes in comparison to game-play, but surprisingly I find myself 
 anticipating the next scene. Though the game-play is no slouch it is every bit as good as the scenes. 
 I've not played Metal Gear since the Original NES version and I was able to jump right into the 
 shooting, creeping and crawling. Just when I thought I was done with these stealth type games this 
 game has just the right ingredients of stealth and tactical shooter varied by the selection of 
 difficulty to satisfy gamers of any kind or age.
  
  So far I have made it into Act 3 and have probably spent near 14 hours into it. (granted I probably 
 could have done it a little quicker) 
  
  Little things like earning points to buy weapons, ammo, and modifications for those weapons make 
 this game awesome. I have not had so much fun since Ninja Gaiden came onto 360 which I believe 
 to also be another one of the greatest games ever. 
  
  Simply put this game is truly worth all the hype and then a whole lot more. This is a Console seller 
 and if you already have a PS3 and are wondering what the next game you should buy is, MGS4 is a 
 Sure Thing, and you are a fool for not buying this Game (By the way I just bought it 2 days ago 
 and was not really going to buy it, but I bought GOW used for my PSP at GameStop, beat it in 5-6 
 hours of play and returned it. I figured I'd take my chance at MGS4, thinking to myself, "it will 
 probably be a disappointment." I have never been so wrong. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: j5r9s2
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 18, 2008 8:09 pm PT
Review:  I will start my review by saying I gave this game a 10 out of 10. I realize that is a perfect score. 
 The things I didn't like about the game, I would have to say it's not that I don't like them. I 
 would of just preferred it a little different. I will start with the things I liked, this could 
 be confused with loved... Then I will move on to the ,Hate, but that is a strong word considering 
 it wasn't that harsh. So I guess I will word it, could of been better. That being said here is 
 my opinion...
  
  Liked... This Game is probably the best PS3 game up to date, The Feel is amazing, the controls 
 Comfortable. Graphics great but really how many games today have bad graphics. The story line is 
 famous but MGS4 but a couple new twist onto it. Weapons and shooting Life like due to I like the 
 way a third person shooter works. Stages big enough to go through more then once and still find 
 something you haven't seen before. Camoflauge great for a stealth game as this one. You can either 
 play Stealth or go on a killing spree. I like the idea of picking up guns from the fallen soldiers 
 and then even patting them down for something better. back to the camoflage, what other game can 
 you hide in a dumpster, under boxes or walk with then over you, or roll around in a 50 gallon drum. 
 all around great game...
  
  okay here we go, could of been better... I think the Cut scenes could of been a little shorter 
 and to the point. thats about it.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: assassinX01
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 18, 2008 7:45 pm PT
Review:  Let's get one thing out of the way: comparissons. In short, don't bother comparing this title to 
 any other game out there; not other stealth games, not other shooters, not even other games that 
 received perfect scores (e. g. GTAIV) . Metal Gear Solid 4: Guns of the Patriots cannot fairly be 
 compared to any other game, including its predecessors, because no game is even in the same company 
 as Metal Gear Solid 4 in so many ways. 
  The gameplay is largely a refinement of previous MGS games. Yet it is infinitely far more accessable 
 than the previous Metal Gear Solid games. I am a prime example of someone who simply could not 
 play the other Metal Gear games because they were too complex and far too touchy. That isn't to 
 say the controls aren't deep and won't take a while to acquaint yourself with, but the controls 
 are perhaps the most powerful control set of any game I've ever played. The gameplay is not pure 
 stealth, or pure action, or even a mix of the two. It is, at almost any point in the story, what 
 you want it to be. If you feel in the mood to creep along without interracting with another person, 
 you can. If you want to sneak up on your unsuspecting victims and sedate/kill them with one of 
 the fifty some odd weapons, you can. If you want to go ape sh** and run and gun through the levels, 
 you can. This inherent bredth of gameplay adds a tremendous replay value where there otherwise 
 would be none. Each stage can be played in so many ways that it just not fair to classify this 
 game in the 'stealth' genre. 
  That said, there are three (very) minor quibbles with the gameplay. Up first is the lack of a jump 
 button. It very will may be that Kojima simply didn't want to put the option in, as it wouldn't 
 really have added much to the gameplay (the action button functions as a jump button in context) , 
 but the masses of the gaming industry have been brainwashed into needing a jump button, so it's 
 absence is (barely) noticeable. The second issue is the fact that the item and weapon interface 
 are a bit of a throwback. By that I mean that you have a set list of weapons and items which are 
 accessible in game (and when you press the button to access them, gameplay stops) but the list 
 components can only be modified from a sub menu on the start menu. Personally, I felt this in no 
 way detracted from the gameplay, but it is worth mentioning as it may bother some. Lastly, there's 
 the issue that you can still escape from alerts by exiting the area and bringing up an alert screen. 
 This issue is especially glaring since Metal Gear Solid 4: Guns of the Patriots brushes perfection 
 in so many other aspects. But back to the posative. This is easily the most cinematic game ever 
 created, even if there are a few too many cut scenes. The on rail action sequences are unparalleled, 
 and gameplay as a whole offers so much variety that you could play the same section five times 
 five different ways and swear you're playing a different game each time. Lastly, the MGS online 
 starter kit is a great addition.
  Graphically, MGS4 has no equal. And here's where I break my 'no comparission rule.' This is not 
 a game that uses impossible color palettes (e. g. Gear of War) to appear gorgeous; its beauty is 
 more subtle, more realistic. The cutscenes are all rendered using in-game assets (meaning what 
 you see in the cutscenes is what you see when you're playing a level) and the detail, lighting, 
 texturing, and animation are all done masterfully. At times, you'll swear you're watching a pre-rendered 
 Final Fantasty cutscene (end rule breaking) .
  The sound is of course equally impressive. The cast is wholisitically excellently. The soundtrack 
 is excellent, even if it is a bit boisterous at times. The guns sound amazing. Crank up your surround 
 sound when the Dolby intro begins, and you'll see just how much of a treat you're in for. 
  If you have a Playstation, you must buy this game. Without question. If you have the money to buy 
 a Playstation, I suggest you buy one. But if all you have is a friend with a Playstation and this 
 game, borrow it. Even with all its unusual approaches to gameplay (which will be viewed as genius 
 or madness in a few years) , this is a game that everyone should experience. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: reign_six6six
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 18, 2008 6:33 pm PT
Review:  Where do I begin? This game blew me away from the first few moments. Metal Gear Solid has always 
 been my favorite games and MGS4 does not disappoint in any way. The graphics are the best I have 
 seen to date its beautifully done. My grandmother thought they were real people lol so you know 
 they have to be doing something rite. The game play is the best yet. This time around you can customize 
 your weapons to make them fit your tastes. I don't want to give to much away so I'll just say every 
 question has been answered since Metal Gear is known for its surprises I don't want to spoil it 
 I'll just leave it at you need to play this game. Those of you that are big MGS fans like me you 
 will not be disappointed I promise this game deserves way higher than just 10. Sooo get this game 
 as soon as you can! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rebelad
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 18, 2008 6:13 pm PT
Review:  The day i got mgs4 i was nervous thinking that i would be disappointed but it was everything you 
 can ask for and more. From beginning to end it was a roller coaster slowly answering everything 
 that i have been wondering about. Metal Gear Solid 4 will make you feel like you are watching a 
 movie and its a darn good one also if you played and enjoyed the previous games. Mgs4 will also 
 raise the bar in gaming to improve all other future games I can't wait to see what happens next. 
 In game graphics is great and also game play is right on the is no longer the blindness of not 
 seeing someone like on the previous games when you had to go to first person to see anything. But 
 while your playing it you know that your playing a Metal Gear Solid Game and i think it was the 
 best i hope they remake the mgs1 with the same graphics it would make money for them and a smile 
 on my face. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: animemed
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 18, 2008 6:07 pm PT
Review:  If god would have ever made a game this would have been it. You might be thinking I' m going a 
 bit over the top. That just means you haven't played MGS4 or you been living in a shoe box. So 
 stop reading my review and go and buy MGS4, don't do this for me or for every gamer in the world 
 but for self you would regret it. 
  
  Yes you have to buy a doodoo PS3 and it's most likely going to be the only game you're ever going 
 to play on this console but like I said it's worth it
  
  
  Thank You Mr Kojima I forgive you for dumb Raiden from MGS2, Yeah he's cool now in MGS4 but only 
 just because he's got the ninja suit. And he don't sound or look like a girl anymore, well he's 
 still looks like a girl but you don't need to grab his genitals to find out anymore
  
  Let's just hope they don't release this on the 360 it will take away the history they both have 
 together.
  LOVE U MGS4 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nooblet69
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 18, 2008 5:50 pm PT
Review:  If you've played a metal gear solid game before you know that the story and gameplay are the core 
 elements in it. Metal Gear Solid 4 doesnt stray away from these elements at all. The game begins 
 a little slow introducing you to the new story and showing you some new gadgets and camoflouge. 
 But overall it draws you in until the very end and leaves you with a great sense of satisfaction 
 at the end of a great series.
  
  Story : Overall the story does a good job of tieing up all the loose ends that have been introduced 
 in previous games. It will also leave you with a great sense of nostalgia from the old games as 
 you revisit and get flashbacks from the series as far back as the first metal gear games for PC. 
 It is humorous and serious when it needs to be. Compared to games like MGS2 it is pretty straight 
 forward and easy to understand but some parts may leave you a little confused still. At the end 
 you will have a great sense of satisfaction for the end of a great series.
  
  Gameplay : The gameplay is very fun and addictive and can be approached in several ways. You can 
 either run and gun if your on an easier game mode but with higher levels of difficulty it is rather 
 hard to survive this way. Anywhere after normal I would suggest using stealth most of the time 
 because not only is it very fun using the octocamo system and solid eye but can save you a lot 
 of trouble. The Metal gear series is very unique and has always let you kind of choose which way 
 you want to play.
  
  Graphics : The graphics are quite beautiful and very attractive especially in the cut-scenes with 
 an hd tv but its nothing we havent seen before in games like Assasin's Creed, Call of Duty 4, etc. 
 Some of the textures are a little off and look strange but the environment is amazing in most parts. 
 Great graphics but the story and gameplay outweigh them id say.
  
  Sound : The sound is amazing as far as voice acting and other noises go. But it falls short when 
 it comes to the gun sounds as they sound rather generic for a video game and not real like heard 
 in games like Call of Duty 4. 
  
  Multiplayer : The multiplayer is fun and incorporates a lot of the cool stuff from the single player 
 and really allows you to customize your character and choose how you want to own others on the 
 battlefield. It allows for many different play styles and some fun team tactics. You can choose 
 from a few different game modes like deathmatch, team deathmatch, capture the flag, etc. Overall 
 its fun but wont keep you hooked for as long as a game like Call of Duty 4 would seeing as that 
 game was mostly made for multiplayer even though its single player was very good too.
  
  Amazing game for sure and one any Ps3 owner can be proud of. In my book it is a 10 but in reality 
 I believe it should have a 9.0-9.5 seeing as the game really isnt perfect and dosent appeal to 
 everyone. Some people will just be annoyed at the amount of cut-scenes but for someone like me 
 who has been fan of the series and story since Mgs 1 for playstation 1 they are necessary. If your 
 new to the series I would definitely either rent it or play it at a friends house first but if 
 your a fan and have played previous games you should pick this up without hesitation. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RyusMaximus
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 18, 2008 5:44 pm PT
Review:  Wow, where do i begin. To simply start off, let me tell you that Metal Gear Solid 4: Guns of the 
 Patriots is one of, if not the best video game ever made. This game just makes my jaw drop at some 
 points during gameplay/cutscenes. Your final adventure as Solid Snake will truly entertain you. 
 Put it this way: A PS3 owner without MGS4 would be like a Xbox 360 owner without Halo 3.
  
  Story: 10/10
  
  This game has a perfect and powerful story that will keep you guessing and 
 thinking about what is next to come. Even though i have not had any past experience with the MGS 
 games, i still can follow a long and understand what is happening throughout the game. It might 
 be helpful to read up some facts about the past MGS games to help you get the best experience while 
 playing MGS4.
  
  Graphics: 11/10
  
  MGS4 HAS THE BEST GRAPHICS OF ANY VIDEO GAME OUT THERE!!! I was just shocked when i first played 
 the game. The cutscenes are absolutely gorgeous in 1080p and there is no pause between gameplay 
 and cutscenes. When you see the gameplay or watch a cutscene, it looks like the developers took 
 all the time in the world to make sure every single detail looked crisp and accurate. From creases 
 on faces to waving headbans, this game truly defines what great graphics really are.
  
  Controls: 10/10
  
  Gotta love the controls in this game. No complaints here. I like how they 
 made a first person option available when you are shooting a gun. Everything as far as controls 
 is sharp. Nothing feels awkward when you want to fire a weapon, crawl, or use a mounted turret. 
 
  
  Voice Acting: 9/10
  
  Voice acting is great for the most part in MGS4. Every character's voice fits their appearance, 
 except for Snake. I think his voice can sound kind of weird sometimes. But i dont know, thats just 
 me. Also, sometimes some of the character's lips dont match their words. It is very hard to notice 
 though. 
  
  Weapons: 10/10
  
  This game capitalizes BIG TIME as far as weapon choice and use. Early in the game, you meet a gun 
 dealer named Drebin. From that point on you can purchase weapons from his shop and remove id tags 
 on certain guns so you can use them. From sniper rifles to shotguns, this game has everything! 
 Customization is also a very cool feature. You can purchase add on parts for your favorite guns. 
 For example, you could buy a silencer for your Custom M4 or even a grenade launcher!
  
  
  Overall, MGS4 is simply amazing. This game has truly left a footnote on video game history. It 
 will be the game that future video game designers will compare their game to. I just cant describe 
 how MGS4 really is. You need to buy this game and play it for yourself in order to see that this 
 game is and will be the best game to buy for a long, long time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lucid1314
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 18, 2008 5:35 pm PT
Review:  I'm just going to start this off and tell you something... The Metal Gear series has always been 
 my favorite video game franchise ever.
  
  Now on to MGS4...
  
  Metal Gear Solid 4 is as I said the best game I've ever played.
  
  Story:
  Unfortunately 
 this is the last game in the series that Hideo Kojima will direct :/ but anyways, this time around 
 it's Solid Snake's last run and he's going down with the best story I've seen in a game. He's rapidly 
 aging as everyone knows, I'm not going to spoil anything. For people who like the franchise and 
 have played the other games and are a little confused about what was happening. Have no fear Metal 
 Gear Solid 4 is here to tie up all the loose ends and everything. The story is FULL of emotion 
 and is executed so well. Rarely you'll hear some lame dialouge.
  
  Gameplay:
  Gameplay is a lot better. They fixed all of the things that made the controls occasionally awkward. 
 Aiming is now over-the-shoulder, you can actually move while aiming and if you want you can look 
 down the sights of your guns. Sneaking is a lot better now, with the added addition of being able 
 to run/walk while crouched. while prone you can crawl fast or move inch by inch by lightly moving 
 the joysitck forward. This helps not being seen by enemies and so on. The very new addition: the 
 Octocamo is amazing! just simply amazing, it makes sneaking a hell of a lot more fun (not to say 
 the other games sneaking was bad, it was still fun) . It kills Splinter Cell which I always found 
 to be boring beyond belief. There's a lot of really cool things you can do, such as when prone, 
 pressing triangle will cause Snake to flip on his back and you can shoot while doing this. Your 
 arsenal of weapons is very big. You can still roll and so on, and over all the game play is amazing 
 and vastly improved.
  
  Graphics:
  Simply put, the graphics are god....
  a LOT of detail on the characters and textures. Though you will sometimes see some occasionally 
 bad looking textures.
  
  Sound:
  Sound is amazing as well, voice cast is still amazing as always with no one but I think one character 
 with a different voice actor.
  
  Online: 
  With amazing gameplay, the online is very fun, you can do everything you can do in the campaign 
 except octocamo (unless you're playing sneaking mission) There are several game modes: Team Deathmatch, 
 Deathmatch, Rescue (one flag capture with attackers and defenders) , Capture (CTF) , and Sneaking 
 (one person is Snake and another is the Metal Gear Mk. II and they work together to take out people 
 on red and blue teams and take their dog tags to score. Mk. II helps knock people out and Snake 
 can take their tags, all the while a team deathmatch is looking for Snake and fighting each other.) 
 The online is very great, not a lot of lag, varied guns to satisfy everyone's urges and so on. 
 My only complaint is registering and the fact you can only have ONE free character.
  
  Overall:
  
  THIS GAME IS GOD! :D 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mr_duong
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 18, 2008 5:16 pm PT
Review:  As an MGS fan... when i first grabbed my copy of mgs4, i was hyped, psyched, and crazy. i went home 
 and put it in my ps3 right away. this game does not lower that hype, it simply raises it even more. 
 from the installation screen to the main menu screen, the games graphics are just a tease in these 
 small sections. when you start a new game.. the level of intensity has never been this high in a 
 game. MGS4 is just fantastic. from the cinematic direction... to the action packed gameplay. fans 
 of the series are also in for a treat as there are many things reminiscent to past games, and for 
 those who think mgs is just watered down to a shooting game are wrong. MGS4 maintains its sneakyness 
 more than ever.... enemies are much smarter than before and shooting your way through is the hardest 
 way through. sneaking past enemies, the game no longer maintains its linear structure as before. 
 Not to mention, the story will keep you captivated. fan or no fan, kojima has made the story easy 
 for gamers to suck up, as concludes the series with a bang. all questions are answered and theres 
 is never a moment where you think.. "i knew that was coming". this game is full of suprises and 
 upgrades, its hard to go back. this is the only game this year i believe that deserves a 10. MGS4 
 is simply Epic, even more than its predecessors. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wcladley
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 18, 2008 4:52 pm PT
Review:  MGS 4 represents what a score of 10 should mean. Unlike GTAIV, which was appallingly hyped and 
 unfortunately did live up to perfection, this game is aesthetically and technically progressive 
 enough to deserve a perfect score. Yes, no game is perfect in an absolute sense, but this game 
 manages to perfect the video game experience relative to what has come before it, and as such deserves 
 a 10. I think the key factor that makes it such a stand out is that it manages to equate what is 
 going on the narrative level to what is happening on the visceral level. Prior games that I have 
 played (and, to be fair, I have not played everything out there) , seem to have excelled at either 
 telling a decent story or providing a wonderfully visceral gaming experience, but never seemed 
 to do both well. Examples: Call of Duty 4 did a great job at making the player feel the realities 
 of war, but its narrative framework (not overly impressive to begin with) faded as you got caught 
 up in the action. Final Fantasy VII and its descendants have all managed to offer decent narratives 
 but the graphics and game play created a distance between the player and game... the FF-style RPG, 
 in my opinion, never made the player part of the narrative world with its graphical presentation.
 
  
  In MGS 4, however, the visceral and narrative elements seem to enhance each other. The narrative 
 adds meaning to the on-screen actions and environments, and the technically abilities of the game 
 and platform are used to effectively advance the narrative. For example, the dialogs about the 
 Beauty and the Beast Corps describe how each boss is in someway haunted and overwhelmed by the 
 barbarism of war. The battles against them throughout the game thematize "haunting" on a graphical 
 level, placing them perilously near to you but always obscured from direct vision. Thus, the narrative 
 allows you to appreciate the haunting aspects of the boss battles while the game engine creates 
 new ways for the bosses to obscure themselves in pursuit of you. 
  
  Now, this is not to say that MGS4 is a supremely crafted narrative. It is not, but hopefully it 
 will be a building block for even more immersive experiences in the future. For years, the debate 
 has been whether or not video games could provide cinematic experiences. I think MGS4 suggests 
 that not only can such experiences be available in a video game, but that the medium in fact has 
 qualities that make it unique and quite distinct from cinema- and perhaps more effective. 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: gta4fanboy201
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 17, 2009 11:58 am PT
Review:  Metal Gear Solid 4 has been one of the most anticipated games for this generation of gaming. And 
 for many reasons inculding it being exclusivly for the ps3 and it being the killer app for the 
 system, it being the end to Solid Snakes fantastically cineamatic and compleeing story story and 
 for its amazing graphics and revamped gameplay. But does it suceed? F*! K YEAH! This game is without 
 a doubt the best game ever created and it might stay tis way for a very long while. First lets 
 talk about the story. Its fantastic, and a stunning way to bring this series to a closer. Everything 
 is answered to why Snake is so old, wh is Ocelot really working for, who are the Patriots/la-le-lu-le-lo, 
 does Snake die, does Liquid win? Everything is answered. I wish i could talk about the story but 
 i don't want to ruin the game for diehard fans like me who've stuck with the series since the original 
 Metal Gear. The only people that might not truely stick with whats goining on in the story though 
 is newcomers to the series. They might seem a little lost because they might not know hats going 
 on but it wouldn't matter because the story would keep them fixed to the game nontheless. The are 
 cutscenes that exceed the hour mark but you hardly notice because your so sucked into the plot. 
 I can some up the graphics in a line. They are simply the best out there. You can tell that they 
 truely pushed the duel layered blu-ray discs to the max with there stunning visuals. They put in 
 so much attention to detail that its astounding. From the wrinkles on Old Snakes face to the hairs 
 on Raidens head. Yes Raiden actually kicks ass this time around. Now lets talk about the gameplay. 
 Its been completly revamped and its terrific, theres not a single flaw in the gameplay. The over 
 the shoulder view works perfectly. It plays like Gears of War , but its just better. When your 
 aiming down the sights just press the triangle button and you can play the game in an FPS view. 
 Both ways work terrificly, but perfered the behind the shoulder gameplay because it just fits in 
 more with the series. You can now walk or run in a crouched position whicbh is fantastic when your 
 trying to sneak by the enemy. One of the coolest new features in the game in my opinion is that 
 when your lying down in the middle of a battle field and a enemy walks right past you, you quickly 
 double tap the triangle and you go from lying on you stomach to on your back. WHile like this Snake 
 can aim down on his enemys easier and its also histerical to quickly turn around and snipe a enemy 
 in the back of the head because he couldn't spot you. Oh so statisfying. Another cool new feature 
 is the Octo Camo which atomatically blends right in with the enviroment which provents the enemy 
 from seeing you on the battlefield. Another cool new tool is the Mk 11 and the Mk 111 which lets 
 you navigate a small toy type Metal Gear around the nearby area an check for enemys. If you see 
 an gaurd anywhere you can shock them and knock them out which is very helpful. The best new added 
 feature in the game is the drebin shop. Here you can buy new weapons and ammo from the points you 
 get by doing certain tasks and the weapons you pick up throughout the game. You can also upgrade 
 your weapons. Like the M4 Custom you recieve from drebien after you go through a rebel base very 
 early on in the game. You can put a shotgun, a scope, supressor, flashlight, lasersight and a grip 
 onto the same weapon all though this weighs down the gun it certainly is really amazing. There 
 are over 70 guns for you to collect so get at it. Metal Gear Solid 4: Guns of the Patriots is certainly 
 a fitting end to the amazing story of Solid Snake, and is also a true masterpiece. This is how 
 games should be made congrats Snake you can finally rest in peace, And to Hideo Kojima congrats 
 too you finally made the masterpiece you've saught to make for so long. Now to all you readers, 
 GO AND BUY THIS GAME NOW so you to can obtain the BIg Boss emblem. Metal Gear Solid 4: Guns of 
 the Patriots is truely THE BEST GAME EVER CREATED. Congrates again Mr. Kojima. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: alfarhan
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 18, 2008 4:45 pm PT
Review:  Jesus christ, Konami have made something quite simply unimagenable !!!!! They've created a game 
 that no one over 13 should miss. It's a magnifecent way to conclude such a legendrey series that 
 been so popular and yet sooooo dominating. Well, Splinter cell 5: conviction defintley has a LOT 
 to live up to if ubisoft want it to compete with mgs4!!!!!!!!! About mgs4, it's about a legendary 
 soldier (sloid Snake) on his "final mission" to eliminate Liquid Ocelot (a man with revolver ocelot's 
 appearance, and liquisd snake's brain) . You'll have to play through a couple of amazing acts which 
 all are differnet from each other and they are also very long, but the best new feature konami 
 have produced is the octocamo suit which enables u to blend in with the background snake's currentley 
 in !!!!! Also, you have a useable ipod with dissapointgly 10 different tracks (all have something 
 to do with mgs4) , but you'll be able download new songs for in extras in the main menu!!!! this 
 is a game that's defintely worth buying and will keep u going for years to come. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rebelious
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 18, 2008 3:18 pm PT
Review:  After four years of waiting for the final entry of the metal gear solid saga, I can gladly say 
 that it was well worth the wait. A long wait at that. This game sets the bar for any other game 
 made after it very high in quality of story , graphics, and gameplay. Alot of familiar faces show 
 up in this game and there plenty of fan service to go around.
  
  Graphics: Beautiful. Tthe detail in this game is amazing. Framerate would drop on one occasion, 
 but nothing too major to ruin the experience. Blood splatters on the screen, particles and debree 
 fly around from explosions and gunfire. Very well made detail in the character models. But details 
 like this are expected. After all we're talking about a development team who could bring the best 
 out of the ps2 (MGS2) .
  
  Sound: Best soundtrack since MGS3 :snake eater. Well actually it brings back some of the best music 
 from it's prequals. But the main soundtrack has a very powerful and moody feel which matches the 
 story of this game. The song that plays during the credits is the best I've heard in the mgs series. 
 The sound effects are top notch as well. The sound of battles taking place from a distance makes 
 the war zone very believable. The voice acting very good
  
  Gameplay: Best controls for the series. Octocamo is a way better convinience than Snake eaters 
 camo system. Aiming your weapon puts you in the shoulder veiw (ala RE4) . No cover system though, 
 which is very wierd, so you have to improvise. The action and stealth go smooth together. My biggest 
 complaint is that eventually the game ends.
  
  If you've never played an MGS game before, I would advise you to buy MGS essentials and play through 
 the first 3 games so you can appeciate MGS4 more. If you're not a ps3 owner, swallow your pride 
 and get the system for this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vamp58
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 18, 2008 3:10 pm PT
Review:  I have seen only act 4 of the game and well I am amazed, it has by far blew anything else out of 
 the water. It is PERFECTION! 
  Being a major fan of Xbox 360 it has been hard to admit it  nothing can match this game, not even 
 the anticipated release of the Xbox 360 exclusive Gears of War 2.
  After the release of the disappointing game Haze, PS3 needed to get back on track to raise the 
 bar high above anything else and one man dreamed and created this amazing game.
  The amazingly epic but yet sad storyline of the game works brilliantly, you really do feel immersed 
 in the game and feel apart of its story. Because of this Hideo Kojima has out done himself, if 
 you can make the gamer feel part of the game you have done an outstanding job. We can only hope 
 that Kojima will not leave it at MGS4 and make more games just as great. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: ffs1234
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 18, 2008 2:03 pm PT
Review:  this is the first review ive every made, but a few hours after completing metal gear solid 4... 
 i honestly cant see a reason why i shouldnt write one.
  
  the gameplay itself is nothing short of epic, the stealth as for all metal gear solid games feels 
 simelar to other titles (notably snake eater because of the use of the octo camo suit) but then 
 again, so new. for example, on the battlefield when ur not in an alert status u can play dead so 
 PMC's and rebels dont even notice you, a new feature to the series. another new feature is the 
 ability to crawl on the floor very slowly without being recognised, edging along with you fingertips 
 and feet, which is pointless through most of the game, but has its moments where its used to get 
 u in line for a good shot at unsuspecting guards. other stealth elements return such as disguises 
 and face camo (available later on) along with ducking, crawling, vents, oil drums and notably the 
 ol' cardboard box; snakes second home!
  
  next we move onto mgs' best improvment... the gunplay. no more "oh no they've seen me, iv'e got 
 to use my gun now" moments with dodgy aiming and angles; replace with an over the shoulder gears 
 of war aiming system with pop out shoot controls which really make the difference. sometimes the 
 game requires u to go out all guns blazing, which is a 1st for the series. also added is the ability 
 to customize your guns with laser pointing, scopes, red dot sight, flashlight grenade launchers 
 and more, where do you get these goodies from? an arms dealer... yes you can now buy guns in mgs 
 which opens up a whole new perspective on the story plot which ull find out as soon as u meet him.
 
  
  im not going to say anymore apart from the last boss fight vs liquid ocelot is THE best boss fight 
 ever, not for control sceme/graphics etc... but for sheer emotion... those whov played previous 
 metal gear solid's will understand what i mean by that... but during the whole fight, i was grinning 
 saddisticly at the atmosphere created by these two guys.
  
  AND YOU NEED TO SEE THE TWIST AT THE END... no video will give you the full effect unless you play 
 the game through urself, watch all the credits... and get the tissues ready, goodbye snake. a true 
 gaming legend. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ToxicInferno
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 18, 2008 1:04 pm PT
Review:  Well. Where to start?
  
  No doubt, you've seen clips of gameplay. No doubt you are interested in buying this game. If not, 
 go and watch some trailers and decide you want this game now.
  
  The reason I'm saying that is because this game is an action packed, whirlwind of an adventure, 
 and once you've seen a piece of it, you won't look back.
  
  If you have ever played 007: Everything or Nothing, you can imagine they were aiming for something 
 like MGS4 when they started. Some of the gameplay elements are similar. It's a third person shooter, 
 full of gadgets, with a range of locations, and lots of weapons.
  
  But 007 missed the point completely. How it did that, I don't know.
  
  You play as Solid Snake. 
 He's a soldier, who specialises in stealth, so naturally, the game is based around stealth elements. 
 Your environments are specifically designed to bring out these abilities.
  
  These include crouching and crawling, with a very advanced analog acceleration measuer (my fancy 
 way of saying the if you push slightly, it moves Snake slowly) . You also have a few gadgets, such 
 as a scouting robot, a stealth suit (called Octocamo, that blendsn into your surroundings) , and 
 many others.
  
  The stealth side really slows the game down. Most likely, you will try to utilise these elements. 
 You will find yourself, very quickly, planning your actions, watching guards for patterns and sneaking 
 around as slowly as possible. This, strangely enough, does not get tedious.
  
  But you aren't forced to use stealth. It is possible to actually play through the entire game, 
 and only ever actually kill on boss battles (more about them later) . Alternatively, you could go 
 in, guns blazing, or sneak up behind people and knock them against the floor to knock them out, 
 or use Anaesthetic guns to knock them out. There are countless ways to play, and you get awards 
 at the end, depending on how you played the game.
  
  I suppose, at the moment, you're thinking "What about the 90 minute cutscenes I've been hearing 
 about?" Well, they are there, they really are.
  
  Technically, they're lots of 15 minute cutscenes, which are one after the other, adding up to 90 
 minutes. Still 90 minutes is a long time.
  
  Still, I sat through it all last night. And believe me, they are NOT boring, or tedious or anything. 
 They are enjoyable. Most director's struggle to make thrilling, exciting 90-minute motion pictures, 
 never mind cutscenes.
  
  The bosses I spoke about earlier. They aren't just "shoot at me until I'm dead" bosses. Each one 
 requires you to really think about how to kill them. Some are very very hard, but so amazingly 
 written into the game.
  
  Kojima is a genious. There is no other way to put it. He has created a thrilling, epic, movie-worthy 
 game, that is not just a game, but an experience, an adventure, and a summer blockbuster.
  
  Breakdown:
  
  Graphics:
  Incredible. Literally incredible. If you've seen the cutscenes, 
 you will understand that they look incredible. And the gameplay looks virtually identical.
  10/10
  
  Controls:
  Perfect. They feel natural, and really could not be better. Everything 
 seems exact and spot on with how you play.
  10/10
  
  Physics:
  Again, amazing. Debris from the war, vehicles and everything react the way they should. Even things 
 on the floor move around as they should.
  9/10
  
  Realism:
  You feel like you are Snake. You really do. You feel your heart beating faster at points, you start 
 to shake out of nervousness. At one point in the cutscenes (The Raiden vs. Vamp part) , I flinched... 
 both times I watched it. That is the power of the realism.
  10/10
  
  Motion control:
  It's only used twice. You use it to reset Snake's Octocamo, which works well, and you also use 
 it for a boss fight late on in the game. I won't spoil it by telling you who, or when, or how, 
 but it works very well.
  9/10
  
  Rumble:
  If you're lucky enough to own a DualShock 3, then you will have this to look forward to. Not only 
 is the DS3 used in-game, but also in cutscenes, which adds some interaction into them. (Also, you 
 can look around in some cutscenes, and interact. You'll see!)
  
  All in all, I would have to say this is most definetly the best game I have ever played. The perfect 
 game? Maybe. Just maybe.
  
  Overall score: 10/10
  
  And I mean that. I'm not just a fanboy; this game deserves 10/10. I was dead against this game 
 until I played it first time. Barely stopped after that. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Joonbeams
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 18, 2008 6:08 pm PT
Review:  SPOILER FREE REVIEW
  
  The overwhelming amount of gamers that rate this a 10 should speak volumes - especially on a site 
 that caters to the extreme types who won't hesistate to nitpick a game to death and also to those 
 who demand cutting edge value for their $60. But reviews under 9 (maybe an 8 if there is real specific 
 detail) should be skipped, regarded as asinine/juvenile, and summarily dismissed as "axe-grinding" 
 douchebaggery. PERIOD!
  
  I seldom post reviews on this site - often I have to be driven by something uniquely bad, or occasionally, 
 something good. But MGS4 is one of those few games - those transcendent games - that reminds you 
 of why you even bother coming to Gamespot, arguing PS3/360, debating graphics cards and processors, 
 etc. This game is like Pac Man, original Super Mario Brothers, Super Tecmo Bowl, original Madden, 
 original GTA, Civilization - it is a game that will define the era of "Next-Gen". If you don't 
 want to bother reading my raving below, you can stop with this - IF YOU HAVE ANY SENSE OF GAMING 
 DECENCY, BUY THIS GAME NOW! 
  
  Without spoilers (and for me a spoiler is anything more than general comments) , here is my review:
 
  
  MY CREDENTIALS
  I'm a PC Gamer first and foremost - and I have an insane rig that I have used for all the latest 
 games of pretty much all genres (Civ IV to Crysis to WOW) . I also have BOTH PS3 and 360, as well 
 as a Wii and I've played all the "top" games on those consoles too. So yes, I'm a gamer - probably 
 a gaming/techie geek (also a married full time professional and military reservist) . Why am I telling 
 you this? Because as a gamespot subscriber (see, I told you I was a geek) , I'm tired of reading 
 crap from trolls with agendas and one-timers - you probably are too.
  
  STORY
  There have been some good story games lately, this one BY FAR blows them all away. I have never 
 played any other games in this series so I'm probably missing even more when compared to those 
 who have. On story alone (even w/out gameplay) , this game should get an 7/10 overall - you will 
 be overwhelmed by the amount of detail and nuance that went into the story, much like a well done 
 Hollywood movie. Yeah there are long cutscenes (which you can skip) but on my second time around 
 I actually watched them again - just like watching a good movie. If you like good stories in games, 
 you will be moved, I guarantee.
  
  GRAPHICS
  Simply the best that I have seen on a console or ANY platform for that matter (sorry my fellow 
 PC gamers) . And I'm talking about Cysis, GTA4, COD4, etc. The graphics are insane, the detail is 
 breathtaking. On 1080p flatpanel, I'm speechless. I'm blown away by how much effort went into these 
 graphics AND, most importantly, how glitch free the execution is. I work down the street from Electronic 
 Arts in the Silicon Valley, I know game designers - this was no small feat. Are they absolutely, 
 100% perfect? No (could have a slightly more interactive environment at times) . But they are the 
 best I've seen to date, certainly on any console game. On the basis of graphics and story alone, 
 I would rate this game an 8/10.
  
  GAMEPLAY
  The real reason why we play games. There is plenty of gameplay here. If you want to slash and thrash, 
 then this game is not for you. But if you like to plan, think, strategize, and when needed, blow 
 someone's head off, you will LOVE this game. There is no one way to do anything, you can try various 
 strategies (which means great replay value) . Controls are intuitive for the most part, but you 
 will be a little awkward at first. Shortly thereafter you will be cruising and will see that everything 
 makes sense. If I could sum up the gameplay in a punchy phrase, it would be "adrenaline meets calculation." 
 And again, all pulled off glitch free. The gameplay here pushes this game to a 10/10.
  
  SUMMARY
  Honestly, it is unfair that this game gets a 10/10 and so does GTA4 (which is a great 
 game, but more deserving of a 8.5-9/10) . There is NOTHING, absolutely NOTHING wrong with this game 
 (okay, for the nitpicking whiners who know nothing about the challenges of making a game, maybe 
 there is something trivial, but the rest of us know to give credit where it is due - this is as 
 close to gaming perfection as is possible in 2008-2009) . In fact, it is so, so, so RIGHT.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: BrantleySalter
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 18, 2008 9:55 am PT
Review:  I hope this is the last MGS game. I don't want to play MGS5. Why would I, after a game like this? 
 How can you possibly hope to follow the achievement that is Metal Gear Solid 4: Guns Of The Patriots? 
 This is a game that wraps up a story 20 years in the making, and does it in spectacular fashion. 
 Not only that, but its atmosphere, environments, and gameplay surpass anything that's been done 
 in the series before and is destined to take its place as the definative Metal Gear game.
  
  It begins in the middle east. The world is on a course for destruction as war has become a 
 major industry and the economy heavily depends on it, giving rise to Private Military Companies 
 (PMCs) who fight on contracts from whoever is willing to pay. Liquid Snake, Solid Snake's clone 
 twin brother who has taken over the body and mind of Revolver Ocelot, has become the head of the 
 5 largest PMCs in the world, and has amassed an army equal in scale and power to that of the U. S. 
 Military. What's more, he plans on taking control of the SOP (Sons of the Patriots) system, a system 
 that enhances and regulates the actions of, records data on, and controls soldiers through nanomachines 
 implanted in their bodies. In this way the Patriots, a shadowy organization who rules America from 
 behind the scenes, can expand their influence by being in control of the worlds' wars. During his 
 work for the United Nations, Snake's former CO Roy Campbell discovers the location of Liquid Snake, 
 now called Liquid Ocelot, and sends Snake to the middle east to finish it once and for all. In 
 the time since the events of Metal Gear Solid 2, Solid Snake has aged well beyond his years. Snake 
 was genetically engineered to begin aging rapidly at a certain point, to keep him from being used 
 against his creators. Nevertheless he accepts this final mission to put a stop to his brother's 
 plans.
  
  Upon arriving at the mission site, a battlefield where the local militia are engaged in a battle 
 with soldiers from the PMC Praying Mantis, Snake sneaks through the warzone and meets up with Rat 
 Patrol Team 01, headed by Commander Meryl Silverburgh, a young female soldier who fought alongside 
 Snake in the Shadow Moses incident from the original Metal Gear Solid. Meryl and her team direct 
 Snake to Liquid's location, where he hopes to find and assassinate Liquid. But nothing in Metal 
 Gear has ever been or ever will be that simple. Snake arrives in Liquid's camp just as he initiates 
 a test run for his plan. Snake and all of the soldiers around him who have nanomachines lose control 
 of their bodies. Liquid escapes, and so begins the race to hunt him down and prevent him from taking 
 control of the SOP system, which would essentially allow him to rule the world.
  
  Along the way, Snake meets some new friends and enemies, along with a few characters from his past. 
 The story is mainly told through cutscenes, rendered using the in-game engine. A long-complained 
 about aspect of the Metal Gear series was the length and frequency of cutscenes and Codec conversations. 
 The Codec convos are cut back considerably, and some are played out during actual gameplay. The 
 cutscenes, however, are as long and sometimes confusing as they have ever been, in true MGS style. 
 However, the storytelling is so good that you probably won't even mind. A big discussion point 
 before release was that of a rumored 90-minute cutscene. This may have been true, but the cutscenes 
 kept me so interested that I never watched one that felt anywhere close to 90 minutes. Many times 
 the game switches from cutscene to gameplay seamlessly. The sneaking element plays similarly to 
 2006's MGS3: Subsistence, with a few new features added on. The gunplay, however, sees a complete 
 overhaul, taking on a style similar to that of Resident Evil 4, Gears Of War, Uncharted: Drake's 
 Fortune, Grand Theft Auto IV, etc. Even with the changes, the game maintains the signature Metal 
 Gear feel. Snake has access to an abundance of weapons (some of which are customizable) and items. 
 A replacement of sorts for the Soliton Radar of past Metal Gear games is the Solid Eye system, 
 an eyepatch-like device that gives Snake information on enemies, allies, items, and doubles as 
 both binoculars and nightvision goggles. Another handy little tool is the Metal Gear Mk. II, a 
 small robot with scouting and light combat capabilities. It can definitely make Snake's life easier.
 
  
  MGS4 is a game that can be played in any way that the player chooses, suiting itself well to both 
 stealth gameplay and the run n' gun style, even letting you play in fps mode if you choose. The 
 a. i. makes for some challenging sneaking and combat sequences. The only problem are the boss fights, 
 which take much patience and accuracy (provided you're not using auto-aim) , as your opponent either 
 spends the entire fight running from you and only appears every minute and a half or so for a few 
 seconds, or moves so fast that targeting a specific body part (and their whole body, for that matter) 
 becomes a frustrating task.
  
  Needless to say the visuals are great, as all Metal Gear games have been for their respective times. 
 When looked at through the model viewer, Snake and his Octocamo mask disguises sometimes border 
 on being indistinguishable from actual people. The game natively runs at 60 fps, but with so much 
 going on in the game at most times, minor framerate drops are near constant. The game moves beautifully 
 even when not running at 60 fps. Sound effects and voice acting are top notch as usual.
  
  The only real complaint is that the game plays out in acts that must be installed separately to 
 play and replay them. The install times are short, the longest being 3 minutes, but become a pain 
 when you want to load and play a specific part or watch a specific cutscene.
  
  All in all, Metal Gear Solid 4: Guns Of The Patriots is an amazing ride during which you may have 
 trouble putting the controller down. Kojima Productions has crafted something special here, something 
 that will likely be remember for years to come. If video games are not art, then Metal Gear Solid 
 4 is not a video game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jonesy1911
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 18, 2008 7:52 am PT
Review:  So i can safely say this is the best MGS game so far, I've finished the game 2 times over and unlocked 
 alot of cool features, I've also played the online section of the game for over 10 hours.
  
  Here you will see my opinion on the game and what i really liked about it, what i could have 
 seen less of and basically why this game changed my opinion on what makes a great game into a masterpiece.
 
  
  Story:
  
  So the story is very complicated and near impossible to follow if you are not a fan of past games, 
 or is it, we get flashbacks and sound clips throughout the game which helps with the story telling.
 
  
  The story telling throughout this game is probably some of the best story telling in any game period, 
 it has very dramatic moments and alot of cool stuff happening around you all the time.
  
  You are no longer restricted to one area in the game as the main story is split into 5 acts all 
 of which has you at different locations doing diffrent types of missions, the story unfolds in 
 these locations to bring you to a dramatic finale which no gamer should miss.
  
  Graphics:
  
  The graphics in this game are quite possible the best graphics I've seen on a 
 console to date, a lot of people will say I'm barking mad but hear me out, sure Gear of War looks 
 great but when you see MGS4 in motion your jaw will drop.
  
  You have dust clouds in the win, litter flying around, cars exploding, grass blowing in the wind 
 aswell as some top notch texture work, one of the best graphical features in the game is deffinitly 
 the Octocamo suit which blends the textures of the game onto the suit to trick people into thinking 
 you are part of the environment.
  
  The Cutscenes in the game are probably the best I've ever witnessed in any game I've played, they 
 are full of style and swagger and leave you on the edge of your seat and this is down to the small 
 details which the graphics engine allows Kojima to create.
  
  Gameplay/Cutscenes:
  
  The gameplay is much improved and now allows non fans of the series to jump in and control snake 
 with alot more ease than previous installments, the aiming in the game is tight and feels great, 
 this is down to the over the sholder camera which has been seen in numerous games and works so 
 well that its great to have it in MGS.
  
  You can also use a first person camera to play the game if you so wish, the first person camera 
 is great for headshots and with the added feature of being able to walk around with in FP mode, 
 unlike past games which had you rooted to the floor, theres so much to talk about in this section 
 of the review i could go on forever.
  
  Two more things i will mention are weapon customization which is great with laser sights, touches, 
 shotguns, grenade launchers and scopes. You collect points from id tagged weapons which are laying 
 on the ground and at any moment you can contact a character in the game to either unlock id tagged 
 guns or buy ammo.
  
  The Cutscenes are INTENSE that's all im going to say, they feel the right lengh and do not drag.
 
  
  Sound:
  
  5.1 Check, your ears will be in heaven with some of the best surround sound mixing in a game I've 
 heard to date, explosions are intense but not over done, bullets whizzing past your head will have 
 you ducking for cover, this is not to be missed for any fan of loud clear audio.
  
  Online:
  
  MSG4 comes complete with MGO2 which is obviously Metal Gear Online, the online gameplay 
 is the same as single player but with other people if you enjoy the single player you'll love the 
 online mode, classics modes such as death match, team death match and bases are all here, add in 
 some cardboard boxes, steal drums and we're onto a winner here.
  
  One thing i forgot to mention was the CQC which is present in both single player and online, you 
 can choke people out throw them to the floor for a quick headshot, I myself play with just a pistol 
 some magazines and my trusty knife and cardboard box, stealth is my game and the game works for 
 people who are more stealth like or the run and gun type.
  
  Overall package:
  
  One hell of a package which shouldn't be missed by any PS3 owner, this is the game for the PS3 
 and this could possibly be the 08 GOTY, do yourself and favour GO BUY THE GAME!!
  
  Score:
  
  10/10, Genius' at work create a Masterpiece 
::::::

::::::
UserName: brianpoetzel
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 18, 2008 6:33 am PT
Review:  The gameplay is solid and tight. The controls are responsive. The visuals are beautiful. The story 
 is great because it flashes back and wraps up things from all the other metalgear games. Which 
 is good for me because I've been a fan. Not a huge fan, but a regular type fan person. The voice 
 acting it top notch as well as the character snimations. The characters all have personality which 
 make me sympathize with who they are and what they are doing. There's nothing worse than characters 
 I don't care about. 
  
  
  Now, on to the bad. The volume levels seems to jump around a bit. I don't know if it's my TV or 
 the game but I thought I'd mention it. The explosions and gun fire are super loud but when someone 
 speaks I can barely hear them. Maybe because the often speak in that dramatic whisper. Oh well, 
 that's a minor complaint anyway.
  
  Next are the cinematics. It's a two edged sword. They have high production value. Everything about 
 them is top notch and they are a joy to watch. But that's also a problem. This game has so many 
 cutscenes that are so long I think I've spent more time with the controller in my lap than I have 
 playing it. No joke. Last night I sat down to play. I spent 90 min in front of the TV and didn't 
 play once. I had other things to do so I had to save, quit. and leave without playing anything 
 even though I had the game in. 
  
  All in all it's a great game. When you actually get to play it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: yandor
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 18, 2008 5:44 am PT
Review:  I've played through the campaign twice, and am beginning a third (trying the Big Boss difficulty 
 level - ouch) . The game absolutely deserves multiple play-throughs, especially since you can inherit 
 all your old weapons!
  That said, there are issues worth pointing out for those wondering if they should play. Here is 
 a pro and con look at my experience:
  
  Story-
  Pro: Simply stunning. It wraps up every single detail from the series in a fresh, exciting, and 
 engaging way. There were characters and story threads I had forgotten that were all nicely tied 
 together. Yes, it's convoluted and lengthy, but it's the stuff of legends.
  Con: If you're new to the series, this will be a problem. You may find yourself scratching your 
 head. But sit back and enjoy the show. You can't ask for a more gripping, enchanted, and truly 
 bizarre story in gaming. Come on, it has three-armed black spheres with lasers attached to their 
 heads!
  
  Gameplay-
  Pro: Silky smooth once you get the knack. Controls are well configured and easy to learn. The multiple 
 styles of play (stealth, FPS, mech-battle, fighting, rail shooting) all work very well and are 
 very satisfying. A giant leap forward in the MGS world.
  Con: There is a slight learning curve, and it's either learn it or die on the battlefield. If you're 
 going to get good, you have to spend some time in the virtual training area. The most aggravating 
 issue is the "grab" and "throw". The separation of these two moves is literally the use or non-use 
 of the left stick, and while that seems trivial while reading, in gameplay, it is the difference 
 between silently taking a guard out of action or throwing him violently to the ground and alerting 
 others. Frustrating.
  
  Environments part 1 - The look
  Pro: Mostly jaw-dropping. This is the best looking game on the PS3 or any other console for that 
 matter. Certainly, as some gamers and critics have pointed out, there are some bland textures here 
 and there, but the overall look of this game is astonishing. There are so many subtle elements 
 to the world, it is not difficult to feel very immersed. And while I highly doubt, as some have 
 said, that this pushes the PS3 to it's limits (I'm positive the PS3 can do more) , this is a very 
 pretty game.
  Con: Okay, so the environments look great, but is there anything more frustrating than having the 
 ability to knock over bottles and cans in one part of the room, but not be able to move a chair 
 in another part? Certainly, I don't expect yet for games to be 100% interactive, but there are 
 many areas where the environments are static, leaving you wishing you could do more. With the high 
 level of interactivity, it's the lack of some that makes it stand out more.
  
  Environments part 2 - The feel
  Pro: Snake has a great set of moves, and he immerses nicely into 
 the well-designed world. Beautifully rendered blades of grass move as he passes through them (ala-Drake) 
 and kick up dirt if he moves too quickly. Lighting and shadows are beautiful and the water effects 
 are stunning. Snake moves within these so exquisitely, it again, sets a new mark. 
  Con: Invisible walls. Let me say that again. INVISIBLE WALLS. In an age of go-anywhere titles like 
 Assassin's Creed and GTA IV, it is more than frustrating to have a super soldier like Snake be 
 stopped by a four-foot high wooden crate, or worse, the slight slope of a small incline. All through 
 the game, Snake is forced down a very specific path and the game makes no effort to make it seem 
 plausible, especially in South America where you will be unable to stray off the trail by any length. 
 He will simply run in place at the foot of a hill, stopped by a line of rocks and grass no taller 
 than his ankle. All the more aggravating is the opening sequence, which, if you've played Assassin's 
 Creed, begs for Snake to climb the walls and get to the rooftops. I know this is a different game, 
 but it is absolutely entirely fair to compare mechanics in games, and MGS needs more free-roaming.
 
  
  Cutscenes-
  Pro: Like nothing you've ever seen in gaming (with all due respect to the Final Fantasy series!) . 
 Gorgeous cinematic movements that blend seamlessly throughout the game. And it's remarkable how 
 they move you from gameplay to movie with no blip in the graphics. It's truly a beautiful sight. 
 Yes, you put your paddle down (sometimes for 45 minutes or more) , but this is not some cheap way 
 to lengthen the game. This is masterful story-telling with incredible interactivity. Don't miss 
 out.
  Con: Only one. The flashbacks don't really work. they are too faded, choppy and hard to see.
 
  
  Top ten reasons to play MGS 4
  10 - Mantis Dolls
  9 - Playboy
  8 - Liquid engages The System cutscene
  7 - The second play-through
  6 - Screaming Mantis boss 
 fight
  5 - Metal gear Mk. II 
  4 - The music
  3 - Rex
  2 - Octocam (especially Octo-mask - you'll see why)
  1 - Seeing what will happen next
  
  
 Now go play! And no matter what the critics or gamers have to say, just have fun.
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Space_Lion
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 18, 2008 5:27 am PT
Review:  First, GTA IV was probably the first next gen experience I have had. But this one surpasses that 
 game on many levels. 
  
  First off let's look at the graphics. The character models are the most realistic I have ever seen 
 in any game in this current generation. At times they even seem real. When you first load up the 
 game and go to the installation screen, Solid Snake's face and body just scream "I'm a real person." 
 The different environments and settings are simply sublime as well. 
  
  The first Act takes place in the Middle East, and for all the helter skelter that is going on, 
 the scenery just looks so lush. The color scheme, the way the dust and wind blows, the paper flying, 
 the particle effects add to immerse you in this middle eastern conflict. The same can be said for 
 the rest of the acts. In act 3, you are in an Eastern European city; and never in a video game 
 (bar GTA IV) has a city ever looked so real and life like. The way the street lights shine, the 
 wet slick feel of the streets and buildings make it feel like the city just experienced the typical 
 Eastern European rains. And then there is that certain area in act 4 (I dear not give it away... but 
 you are in for a treat) where the harsh snows just blow in your face and the flakes and frost catch 
 on your tv screen and give the impression that you are there with Snake holding a camera in your 
 hand following him along on his final adventure. It's these little effects and detail that go a 
 long away to making the game seem realistic and submerging you into Kojima Production's world that 
 is Metal Gear. 
  
  Next we'll look at the gameplay. This is the first semi sandbox action adventure game. For the 
 first time Kojima Productions is allowing gamers to play the game how they want to. Do you want 
 to be Rambo and go guns' blazing, well now you can. The options for different playing styles in 
 this game are so vast that each time you play the game it is a different experience. On my second 
 play through, I used controls, items and weapons that I didn't bother to use my first time through. 
 For instance, the first time I played the game I decided to help out the militia groups and went 
 guns blazing like I was actually on the battlefield. Now on this run through I'm doing the exact 
 opposite. I'm hiding in the shadows and subtly helping out the militia by using the MK II to stealthily 
 shock the PMCs. And the next time I run through the game, I plan on playing it entirely in FPV. 
 These options are just a few of the many different ways you can play the game. 
  
  Then there is the octocamo, which is a breath of fresh air compared to the camo system in MGS3 
 (for those who played Snake Eater you know what I mean) . No longer do you have to press start and 
 then go to the camo menu to pick the best camo. Now you just have to lie down and wait for it to 
 change (which is quick by the way) . The fact that there is no slow down while the camo changes 
 is a testament to Kojima Productions for being the first ones to finally handle the PS3. 
  
  Another aspect that's amazing about the gameplay is the environmental factor. For instance 
 the direction the wind is blowing affects Snake's aiming. Also, Snake's psyche is affected by the 
 environmental factors as well as factors you create yourself. If snake is out in the sun for too 
 long, his stress will start to go up and his psyche will start to go down. This forces the player 
 to be more cautious when he is crawling around, thus making the game more realistic that ever before. 
 If you are crouched for too long, Snake will eventually feel back pains. Also if you kill too many 
 people at once, Snake will hear Liquid say "You enjoy killing, that's why" and this causes Snake 
 to throw up. This adds a in game conscious to the character as well as to the player. All these 
 little things build to make the game seem much more alive and dynamic. 
  
  For the controls, Kojima Productions changed them around. Finally after 10 years, they finally 
 realised that it was time to change the control scheme around. No longer will you have to press 
 3 buttons to shoot. Now it's just 2. hold L1 to aim and R1 to shot. tap triangle and you're in 
 FPV. This makes the control scheme streamlined and allows you to have more fun with the game. Now 
 you can actually hold up a guy, use him as a shield and aim and shoot his allies. The different 
 moves Snake has makes the gameplay seem limitless. I have yet to use all of Snake's known moves, 
 let alone the secret controls yet to be discovered. 
  
  But the game doesn't stop there. It's the little extra things that go a long way to making the 
 game amazing. For one Kojipro is making an in game Podcast that you can download and listen to 
 on Snake's Ipod (yes Solid Snake has an ipod) while playing the game. The Ipod itself is an amazing 
 feature. For one it lowers Snake's stress and calms him down. Secondly, listening to "Calling to 
 the Night" while fighting bosses is simply epic! Other things, like being able to shake a certain 
 characters breast by using the sixaxis adds a lot of novelty and humor that makes playing the game 
 over and over worthwhile. 
  
  All in all, this is by far the best Metal Gear game I've played. I don't want to get into the story, 
 as I feel that will ruin it for anyone who reads this. But if you have a Playstation 3. This is 
 a must for your library. If the gripping story doesn't leave you hook (as it left me) then most 
 definitely the fun, open and near endless gameplay will. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Hondje89
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 19, 2008 1:44 am PT
Review:  It took some time to be released and it took one hell of a job to make fans love this game, but 
 Hideo Kojima has done it again. Great gameplay, storytelling and cinematic cut scenes make Metal 
 Gear Solid 4 one of the best games ever made and simply the best in the series.
  
  You start the game off as Solid Snake, the legendary hero who is the main character of the story. 
 Sadly to see Snake has turned old cause of an early aging syndrome and most now seem to find a 
 way to fight Liquid one last time and stop him. Will our old hero succeed?
  
  The game starts in a not-named country in the Middle-East, where local state army soldiers are 
 fighting off a PMC (Private Military Company) called Praying Mantis. More about PMC's later. Snake 
 comes in with a truck loaded with militia state soldiers that are on their way to the front, as 
 the truck stops, Snake jumps out in militia clothes and has to make his way out of there. From 
 here on the story continues in a very intense and emotional way you expect from a Metal Gear Solid 
 game, but there are still many surprises left in the story that keep you guessing what happens 
 next until you see the final, very final credits.
  
  About the PMC's earlier, a PMC is a military company that can be used by anyone who likes to use 
 military force. In Metal Gear Solid 4 you'll see that war has become a well oiled business where 
 warfare is no longer about religion, ideologies or land. It's all about making money. To control 
 all of this, the PMC's have their mercenaries implanted with nanomachines which keeps track of 
 the soldier's health state and emotions. We talk about total military control. Everything is kept 
 in check by an AI who controls the nanomachines to be sure the soldiers are only doing what they 
 are supposed to be doing. Even when a nanomachine controlled soldier rebels he will not be able 
 to use any of his gear and weapons since everything is now ID tagged. This means that no one without 
 a licensed ID in the AI's system will be able to use any gear or weapons. Rebel and you'll be deleted 
 from the ID databank. How will you be able to pick weapons then? First off, the militia don't use 
 ID tagged weapons, so you can always get their kind of weapons and if you'll help them in battle, 
 they'll have enough weapons and items to share with you. Second of all, not much further in the 
 game you'll find DREBIN and his hairless monkey buddy. DREBIN is a gun launderer which means that 
 he makes weapons and gear ID'less so you can use them. Of course there's a price to it, you'll 
 have to earn so called DREBIN points to buy weapons and upgrades. To earn them you'll have to pick 
 up weapons and kill certain enemies to acquire the points. When you have enough, go to the START 
 menu and select DREBIN's Shop and go crazy with your weapon needs. 
  
  In Metal Gear Solid 4 the control system had a magnificent change too. In the earlier Metal Gear 
 Solid games the controls might have taken a lot of patience from many players, annoying issues 
 occurred when you tried to stick to a wall or tried to aim with your weapon. This has all been 
 changed into a more third-person shooter kind of control system; it feels a little familiar with 
 games like Ghost Recon and Gears of War. You can switch to an over the shoulder look, on both the 
 right and left shoulder, and to a first person view, which makes the gunplay way easier and a lot 
 more fun. 
  
  Another new feature in the camouflage section is the OctoCamo. This is the suit that Snake wears 
 which has to ability to change its pattern and color to the environment it's standing against to. 
 A nice gadget that fits nicely with it is the Solid Eye. This is a high-tech eye patch with a night 
 vision, binoculars and information data on soldiers, items and weapons. Talking about items, the 
 famous cardboard box makes a return and will be alongside with the new drum can, which is stronger 
 and can be flipside to use it as a weapon to roll over enemies and knock them down. Naturally enemy 
 soldiers might still detect you, and you're not invincible in either the box or the drum can. This 
 brings us down to the AI of the games soldiers and allies. The AI works good, no, not good, it 
 works great. When you're spotted it isn't just simply blending yourself to a wall with the OctoCamo 
 or hiding in a box, they'll look a better second time. 
  
  From a technical view, Metal Gear Solid 4 is just as impressive as the story and gameplay elements. 
 From the sharp environments to the high class gunfights, Metal Gear Solid 4 delivers an amazing 
 deep realistic feel about warfare and natural beauty. Even though you'll have to install the game 
 multiple times in your first play through, this isn't really a bother and it's worth the little 
 minutes of waiting, even though Metal Gear Solid 4 makes use of a dual-layer Blu-Ray disc. Though 
 graphical stunning, the game does have very little framerate drops when the massive army of Metal 
 Gear Gekko jumps in the screen with lots of other regular soldiers and explosions that come by. 
 Even so, this doesn't really affect the gameplay or the enjoyment. 
  
  There are tons of things to keep telling about the games singleplayer mode, but Metal Gear Solid 
 4 also contains online multiplayer with up to 16 players. Metal Gear Online was already introduced 
 on the PS2 with the expansion to Metal Gear Solid 3, Subsistence. MGO features more maps, weapons, 
 items, features, gametypes than its older counterpart and it's all running on the Metal Gear Solid 
 4 engine. The game has basic gametypes like Deathmatch and capture objectives, but the most fun 
 gametype must be Sneak. This is actually Team Deathmatch where two teams must kill each other to 
 win, but now one player is Snake and has a mission to collect 3 dog tags from additional players. 
 But he doesn't do this alone, he get's help from another player who controls Otacons Mk II. remote 
 Metal Gear assistance device. With the Mk II. the other player can help Snake out by stunning an 
 enemy with it's electrical charge, just like in the story mode. The opposing teams can either win 
 by killing Snake certain times or by killing each other certain times. Snake and Otacon can win 
 by collecting 3 dog tags before either of the teams win. Sadly enough, players are limited to their 
 region and continent to join servers, so it won't be able to join an American game when you're 
 from another region.
  
  MGO is a very nice addition to the Metal Gear universe and really makes up for players who have 
 had enough of the story mode. But that will be hard since there are tons of fun Easter eggs and 
 extra's to unlock in the story mode ones you play it several times. Metal Gear Solid 4 really sucks 
 you and will, well, never ever let you go. The game's story is so dramatic and emotionally intense 
 that you live alongside the characters you'll encounter in-game, the graphics, sound effects and 
 gameplay are really worth checking out and are impressive. Metal Gear Solid 4: Guns of the Patriots 
 is one of those very rare games you will feel attracted to, emotionally. You start to care about 
 the old man, Snake, and his fate. You see him struggle, you see him in pain, you'll see him in 
 tears, and you'll love him. This is his final mission, and on hell of a mission. Solid Snake, you're 
 in our hearts forever and you will not be forgotten.
  
  The Good:
  
  - Impressive gameplay
  -Technically stunning
  - Superb enemy and ally AI
  - Great storytelling
 
  - Amazing voice acting
  - Just damn cool
  - Fine working online play
  - Bye Snake...
  
  The Bad:
  
  - Installing
  - The end of the Metal Gear Solid saga
  - Bye Snake... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rickjamesxx
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 18, 2008 1:42 am PT
Review:  This is hands down the greatest game I have ever played. Ive beaten MGS 1 2 and 3 so I had high 
 expectations for this game. And it delivered. To me MGS4 is perfection. 
  
  Game play: The game play has been drastically changed. For one, there are now many different ways 
 to complete your goals and objectives. I love the amount of freedom that has been integrated into 
 MGS game play. MGS4 can cater to many different styles of play. Weather it be using the Octosuit 
 to sneak past enemies, or fighting through enemies using many CQC and many different weapons with 
 an endless amount of combinations with upgrades and such. MGS4 can suit you no matter how you choose 
 to play. 
  
  Graphics: Hands down the best looking game I have ever played. The character models are excellent. 
 The amount of detail in the characters is so great its kind of scary. The scenery is also breath 
 taking. Especially act 2 but im not going to spoil anything. And the way the game switches from 
 a cut scene to the game itself is flawless. MGS4 is a game that must be seen with your own eyes 
 to believe. 
  
  Sound: As always mgs has always been known for one of the best damn scores around and mgs4 doesn't 
 disappoint. The voice acting is top notch and the best I've ever seen in a video game. The dialog 
 is top notch and it gives all the characters personalities that fit them perfectly. As far as the 
 actual music goes. It's some of the best I've ever heard. The way the music changes based on whats 
 actually going on in the game is perfect. 
  
  Overall: This was quite possibly the best game purchase I've ever made in my entire life. This 
 is the jewel in the PS3 crown. I bought a ps3 for this game and it was worth every penny.
  
  MGS4 is a game that comes once in a lifetime and should not be missed by anyone. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MacUser511
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 18, 2008 1:10 am PT
Review:  Solid Snake -- a name which conjures images of superb gaming coupled with incredible story and production 
 values. If you have ever played a game within the last decade, you have most likely played, if 
 not heard of, Metal Gear Solid, a series renown for its complexity and rich faculties. If you have 
 played Metal Gear Solid, then you'll be happy to know that MGS4 is the best in the series, and 
 hopefully the final. If you haven't played a game in the official canon -- well ... you should probably 
 go back to square one -- Metal Gear Solid. In order to understand Metal Gear Solid 4, it is important 
 to get a grasp on what the series is. Without spoiling ANYTHING, I will attempt to explain the 
 history of Metal Gear Solid.
  
  Released in the late '90's on the original PS1, it followed the exploits of retired operative Solid 
 Snake -- the man who single-handedly destroyed Metal Gear, a bipedal tank capable of mass destruction, 
 and saved civilization. He was called back to stop a new threat -- but unknown to him, it would begin 
 a series of events that would reveal his past and send him on a path that could not be stopped. 
 This game featured some of the best recognized bosses of the entire series as created the mechanics 
 that would be used for another two games. The game received unfathomable credit from critics and 
 made ludicrous amounts of money, earning the genius director/creator Hideo Kojima his own division 
 in Konami.
  
  Due to the incredible success of the first game, Kojima created Metal Gear Solid 2: Sons of Liberty 
 for the PS2 early in its life. This installment again featured Snake, but in a slightly different 
 manner: you controlled him for but one segment. A new character, Raiden, was introduced, much to 
 the disdain of most players, including this reviewer. However, all was not lost. Snake reappeared 
 and continued his usual bravado and machismo featured in the first game. The story took many twists -- even 
 asked you to turn off your console and give up! Players got to further investigate the origins 
 of Snake as well as Raiden: both of whom were "engineered" for a single purpose. The graphics, 
 gameplay, story, sound, and charm were all increased ten-fold. However, the complex story put off 
 some players due to its sheer volume and, for some, absurdity at times.
  
  Again, Kojima was to create yet another Metal Gear Solid. This time he announced that not only 
 would it be a prequel to Metal Gear Solid, it would further reveal who Snake's father was, what 
 he did, and why Snake is who he is. It provided some of the best, and for some, the best, boss 
 battles of the series -- the Cobra Unit. This time story was refined instead of expanded, gameplay 
 was (thought to be) perfected, and the origin of Snake was thought to be understood. However, due 
 to death threats and a longing to personally finish Metal Gear Solid right, Hideo Kojima would 
 finally finish off an epic series with an epic game -- one which would be a culmination of all the 
 story, themes, gameplay, and significance of the previous titles.
  
  Here we stand today: with Metal Gear Solid 4. A game which has the expectations of the world on 
 its shoulders to deliver an experience which can possibly match the impact of Metal Gear Solid 
 1-3 combined. Has it done this? The short version: yes, and so much more. The long version (which 
 we'll be using) : to an extent which could never have been expected from a video game.
  
  Metal Gear Solid again features Solid Snake as the main character and ONLY controllable character. 
 He has an even greater moveset and arsenal at his command, but do to circumstances explained in 
 the previous titles he is rapidly aging with no chance of survival. It is his final mission: the 
 one he has chosen to follow, and the one which will finally allow him to use the rest he has earned. 
 
  
  Firstly, Metal Gear Solid 4 ties up every loose end of the "Solid saga" and has Snake at his very 
 best: a man, no longer a tool. The game utilizes this freedom to draw you into the action as best 
 as possible via "flashback" moments prompted during the incredibly well-shot cutscenes, multiple 
 viewpoints, and heavy use of pathos through your love of Snake. You genuinely feel for Snake and 
 his friends, and the ending certainly won't have you wanting.
  
  Secondly, MGS4 features THE best graphics the series has ever seen. They transcend video game and 
 go into movie quality at times, and it is obvious that serious production value has been put into 
 this game.
  
  Thirdly, MGS4 is the only game I have ever seen that can improve in graphics and story without 
 sacrificing gameplay. MGS4 is no MG$4: it delivers in the fun department. Snake is finally able 
 to move whilst crouching, and the OctoCamo camouflage system is a revolution in game design. New 
 Close-Quarters-Combat options allow for an incredible flexibility, and the ability to modify a 
 lot of your weapons is a nice touch. The bosses, as well as the rest of the game, are centered 
 around a theme of "homecoming": Snake's return to his purpose: are we supposed to continue living 
 after we have served OUR purpose? These bosses are, as such, tributes to bosses encountered before, 
 while they still bring their own new qualities. The enemy, especially in the hardest difficulties, 
 are brilliant -- but not so much that they become unrealistic. They are exactly as you would expect 
 people to act. The method by which you acquire weapons is also radically different from what you 
 have seen in previous iterations: it uses a point system to instantly buy weapons and ammo. This, 
 as has been mentioned by other sites and reviewers, is a point of controversy. You will just have 
 to decide whether to use it or not -- the game gives you that freedom.
  
  You will notice that I have been extremely vague. This is because I want you to experience MGS 
 as I have: I had no idea what the game was going to be like going into it. I knew of Snake, and 
 I knew of his foes, but I didn't know how to defeat them; I didn't know how complete the games -- and 
 I certainly didn't know of features missing in earlier iterations that are present in new ones. 
 Frankly, if I told you all of the features in MGS4, you would hate MGS1 for not having them! If 
 you have ever played MGS before, then suffice it to say that this is a natural evolution of those 
 previous games: only it has become much more natural and free than the previous. If you have not -- then 
 I expect you you buy the collection of the first three games from your local retailer. Oh, and 
 its up to you as to whether or not you get the Twin Snakes or the original MGS. I also highly recommend 
 that you DON'T get MGS3 Subsistence, but if you do, be sure to use the traditional view and not 
 the third person "over-the-shoulder". The game was not made for that, while MGS4 is. Do not succumb! 
 
  
  I really have so much more I would like to say about MGS4, but ruining anything about the game, 
 about the series, would be a capital crime in nature. As stated, this game needs to be played, 
 not discussed. If you have ever liked a single bit of MGS -- a sound, a memory, a character, a single 
 gameplay element -- you will love this game.
  
  I don't hand out 10's wildly. MGS4 deserves it. It is so new, so incredible, and yet it feels like 
 the MGS I remember from years ago.
  
  Goodbye Snake, you have earned my respect and admiration. You will always be remembered as the 
 embodiment of courage, loyalty, and reason.
  
  Graphics: 10
  Sound: 10
  Story: 10
  Gameplay: 10
  Fanboy Appeal: OVER 9000!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GamerDude3282
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 17, 2008 10:06 pm PT
Review:  Don't respond if you don't want to I just wanted to throw my thoughts out there :smileywink: 
 
  
  
  
  I've been playing video games for roughly 14 years of my 17 and a 1/2 year life span and in all 
 honesty I have to say that there has never been a game that I've felt so attached to and taken 
 so much interest in what the characters are going threw
  
  
  
  I just beat the game about an hour ago..... and I love games that have interesting and innovative 
 gameplay that controls well, and also have a story to back it up, and the extremely cinematic scenes 
 put most movies to shame :smileywink:
  
  
  
  MGS4 is one of the few games that has exceeded my expectations many meet my expectations but few 
 exceed
  
  
  
  Everything in MGS4 was done so well and I think most people would have done different than the 
 mastermind that is Kojima and his staff
  
  
  
  Everything from cinematic transports to stealthy espionage makes this game the masterpiece that 
 it is
  
  
  
  I was totally happy with everything in the game up to when Snake was going to kill himself, which 
 I would have been alright with but not my choice for an ending, and then I noiticed Big Boss was 
 way down on the credits and thought "This is strange?!!??" And then I saw the "real ending" and 
 honestly couldn't have been happier with it
  
  
  
  The whole story constantly keeps you wanting more and MGS4 perfectly ties up the story :smileywink:
 
  
  
  
  MGS4 has set a new bar for the gaming industry from everywhere from gameplay, design/graphics, 
 story, cinematic style, animation, cut scenes, and an overall game that stands on a pedestal of 
 one of the best games of all time if not the best ever
  
  
  
  May the legend that IS Snake AND Metal Gear live on forever 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Akatsuki398
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 17, 2008 10:01 pm PT
Review:  Metal Gear Solid is a series where it has that Ghost in the Shell presence with its highly developed 
 weaponry technology, nano-controlled robots, and future developed gadgets. Metal Gear Solid 4 has 
 earned its prize as one of the most ambitiously greatest sequel in the series. But MGS4 is only 
 just the last installment of the series. The story begins with an old Snake from the early predocessors, the 
 hero of Shadow Moses Island, but Snake's days have timed up, it's an accelerated aging from a fox 
 die virus that Naomi injected to Snake without noticing. The main objective in the game is to terminate 
 Liquid, who took over Ocelots body, why or how he did it. The plot in the game is just incredible. MGS4 
 is competing against my favorite sequel Metal Gear Solid. There are many cool moves you can do in 
 the game that saves you're live or from beeing detected. The stealth in the game is a bit hard so 
 you'll need to start at a lower difficulty untill you build to the big daddy league Boss Extreme.
 
  The game has matched the stunning graphics of the Xbox 360. Later on you'll be givin some sweet 
 gadgets like the Solid Eye, the MKII, and the Octocamo. The Solid Eye is one of my favorite of the 
 three added with night vision, normal, and binoculars. And the good old tool for tactical espionage 
 is back, the radar, that's right the tool that helps us tip toe past any hostile base. But the radar 
 is not as clear as the early ones in the series. The octocamo lets you play hide and seek and squidward 
 by laying down or taking cover on a surface that enables the suit to copy the color of the surface. The 
 MKII is a small and less dangerous Metal Gear prototype that looks like the comedy foil of the 
 game, if you don't know what it's like in the far distance, the MKII has a camera you can see through 
 that would help you.
  The difficulty settings are really forgiving, making a very easy to a hard path. There are a bunch 
 of weapons and items that aid you on you're mission. You can buy weapons from the black market dealer 
 Drebin that you meet not to far in the game, but to buy upgrades and firearms you need Drebin points, to 
 earn a currency like that you need to sell the weapons to him that you don't need anymore.
  The story and the game is both amusing and interesting. But sadly the sequel is the end of the series, but 
 if you are left unsatisfied, Konami has given many players a Metal Gear Online.
  Metal Gear Online is a broadband online multiplayer that you get to play with or against other 
 players. The multiplayer is fun to fun seeing the looks on you're friends faces. Metal Gear Solid 
 4 is a game that no one would ever forget with it's cutting edge gameplay, graphics, story, and voice 
 acting. MGS4 is something you might want to get you're hand on in stores. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: angry_tom
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 17, 2008 9:34 pm PT
Review:  From the moment the disc was inserted... I knew nothing would ever be the same.
  
  Insane production value is evident in every aspect of this game. The division of the plot into 
 acts and missions is an okay gimmick with different themes presented in each. The boss battles 
 are puzzling and fun. Replay value makes this game a real winner, like other installments there 
 is a bevy of unlockables.
  
  Currently I'm saving up DPts for the Musket. Graphics and controls are excellent. I haven't gotten 
 a chance to try the online mode yet but I hear it's psuedo impressive. Cinematics are lengthy but 
 well done, from facial expressions to lighting and voice acting.
  
  The ability to customize weapons is nice, but not crucial to the gameplay or enjoyment, being able 
 to purchase ammo anytime on the battlefield is really helpful. This game isn't difficult unless 
 you want it to be.
  
  If you're looking for an alternative in lou of renting a movie check this game out- and if you 
 want to perfect your sneaking skills in the ultimate stealth action game just buy it.
  
  Awesome title & good fan service.
  
  This game really increased my hankering for cigarettes 
 and I cried during the ending... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KrimmsonHell
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 17, 2008 9:02 pm PT
Review:  I for one have loved the Metal Gear and Metal Gear Solid series all the way from the 1987 version 
 to this one in 2008 the only thing I had to just comment on and I believe a view may also agree 
 with me is that it was more like a movie then an actually game , well because there are about 50 
 cut scene that range from 5 to 10 minutes long. and every time i pick up my remote after watching 
 the sort film i play for a good 10-20 minutes and theres another cut scene. but all together I 
 gotta hand it to Kojima he made one hell of a game and I am not giving away any spoilers what so 
 ever! 
  
  
  The game is amazing from bottom to top and with the Playstation 3 blue ray technology it is the 
 perfect game for PS3 and i am glad they kept it a PS3 game because others were argue on the matter 
 that its not on Xbox 360 ( but wait u guys got halo ) so stop whining XD all and all 100% sure 
 this game is the best out of the series also just love the multiplayer!
  
  ( Otacon: Snake you have to take disk 1 out and put disk 2 in Snake: What are you talking about!? 
 Otacon: Oh yeah we are on a PS3 so its high definition blue -ray technology allows the full game 
 on one disk!!! Snake: Otacon get a grip.....)
  
  
  THT was funny when they had that conversation.................
  
  Laterz write back if u liked 
 my review or wanna talk gaming (  
::::::

::::::
UserName: avataraang1
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 17, 2008 8:45 pm PT
Review:  So the wait is over and the conclusion to one of the Greatest Game Franchises of all time is over. 
 Metal Gear Solid 4 is such a good game that it will punch you in the face with sheer awesomeness, 
 you can quote me on that. Metal Gear Solid 4 is set seven years after MGS2. Your put into the shoes 
 of the old, dieing, extremely sexy (THATS RIGHT) , and Legendary Soldier, Solid Snake. Who after years 
 of searching has found his evil twin brother, Liquid (That sounds extremely cheesy on my end) is 
 finally going to finish him once and for all. The game is a stealth action game, so that means 
 no running and gunning! (But you still can :D) You must try to sneak past enemies without being 
 noticed by knocking them out via tranquilizer or close quarters combat or flat out murdering those 
 *****'s. The game adds a large amount of new weapons and features to use. Their are about 60-70 
 different guns in the game to use at your disposal.
  
  The most important element of this game is the OCTOCAMO. Octocamo is the new version of the camo 
 system in MGS4. In MG3 you had to switch between Camo's by pressing start and finding the best 
 camo to match the enviorment so the enemy will not notice you. Octocamo is different in that it 
 automatically changes to the walls around you. Simply press up against one and the camo will instantly 
 match with the wall.
  
  Snake has a large array of items to use to his advantage but writing them all out would be a hassle 
 because It would take to long and this review is taking time away from me playing the game. So 
 now since I was to wrap this up no more explaining from me! The game has the best graphics of this 
 generation. It has superior facial animation and attention to detail that no other game has. The 
 boss fights are extremely great and some really need you to pay attention to the story to realize 
 how to defeat them.
  
  The game is great because even a person whos playing this as their first MGS will be able to understand 
 the story. The game is extremely satisfying to fans since it ties up all the loose ends and answers 
 the question most have been asking. This game also has alot of fan service so many players of previous 
 games will get alot of laughs.
  
  MGS4 is game of the year no doubt and is the reason those who are iffy on buying a PS3 should buy 
 it. I know this will get thumbs down by certain fanboys but with that we know that they didnt even 
 read this review :D. MGS4 is definetly a game you wont forget anytime soon and will really suck 
 you in and make you feel for the characters which is rare to see in a game these days. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shamon85
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 17, 2008 7:50 pm PT
Review:  This game ties the whole story and loose plot points. The saga ends on a high note bringing past 
 players back into the story again for one last ride. What can I say this game is solid and gets 
 a solid ten for improve game-play and a high replay value not to mention the added mgs online . 
 The controls are even made easy for new players willing to try the game which is good and im happy 
 Sony did this because the controls were very much different before. this very last hard to forget 
 saga about a never ending war which ends in this Sony PlayStation 3 game once and for all. Therefore 
 to all who waited to buy a PlayStation system now your time you even can get the bundle which comes 
 with the game ,a dual shock 3 ,and 80 gb system plus online is free take that xbox360. So in ending 
 this is one game yo wont forget. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 1Furious1
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 17, 2008 6:42 pm PT
Review:  Well, we've all waited for MGS4 to come out and here it is!! Was it worth it? Well... Looks like 
 for most of the folks it was worth it. For me personally, it could have been better. But let's 
 start from the beginning.
  
  The good:
  
  -Graphics has been really worked on and improved.
  -The frame rate is... well... solid :) It does 
 drop once in a while during cutscenes, but for majority of the game its 60fps, which is great considering 
 the amount of "stuff" in the game :)
  -We get to play as Solid (Old) Snake again! Yay! :)
  -Sound is excellent
  -A lot of cutscenes (yeah, for me its the good part about it)
  -The game 
 is fairly long
  -A lot of weapons
  -Shooting mechanics have been greatly improved
  
  The bad:
  
  -The game, at least for me, seemed a little too easy with all these weapons in 
 it, but even without them it was still a little too easy. I felt like I needed more challenge.
 
  -David Hayter, I think, overdoes Snake's role a little bit too much. I think his voice work in 
 previous games was better. But it's just my opinion.
  -Plot sometimes is inconsistent and (IMO) there was not enough plot twists, something that we liked 
 in previous games
  -The overall story does not feel that strong. I mean, I understand it's the closure to the whole 
 thing, but I seemed to care about Snake and his friends more in the previous titles. That was actually 
 one main reason why I loved MGS so much-because of its engaging plot.
  
  I spent more time talking about the bad then the good, but the thing is what it all comes down 
 to is that this is still MGS and this game can never disappoint. The game is a must-own for the 
 series' fans (DUH!) , and a must-rent (at least) for anyone else. I hope after this game moves some 
 PS3s maybe even EA will start programming for PS3 the way they should, once they feel there is 
 some money to be made :) ) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Avenger456
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 17, 2008 6:22 pm PT
Review:  Metal gear solid 4 features a great story telling of Snakes battle to stop his brother liquid from 
 taking over the world. It is a game that challanges the player which is very rare in most games 
 of today. you will run into characters of old such as Raiden, Vamp, and Metal Gears REX and RAY. 
 The best part of the game is the perfect mix of action and stealth where you can choose to fight 
 sneak or a combo of the two. The game also brings back Metal gear online. This is fun too being 
 that you can play the game with others online. Though the game's story really gets to you if you 
 are a long time metal gear fan or just looking for a great game you should definitly check it out. 
 All gamers will find something that fits their fancy. It is a great game for every one who love 
 video games and for new PS3 owners. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Droidekadroids
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 14, 2008 1:01 pm PT
Review:  Just wow, this game is simply amazing. One of the best games out for the system, this game has 
 unlocked some of the PS3's hidden power. This game is so far the best PS3 game made, it does a 
 great mixture stealth and combat, also has a great story that is long, funny, sad, depressing, 
 surprising, tense, and amazing. 
  
  Gameplay 9.5/10- Simply put, this game is the best PS3 game I've ever played. You can blend in 
 well to environments with your suit that automatically changes color according to the environment. 
 Enemies will go in alert mode if they see you or hear a bullet shot by you. You can play this game 
 two ways, slow and sneaky or quick and tense. You can change to first person view and also buy 
 dozens of weapons, explosives, and accessories. This game does a perfect blend of stealth and combat. 
 The story is amazing and would get an A if it were an actual movie. Enemies are very smart and 
 notice you just by hearing your footsteps. There is more movie than gameplay but gameplay has a 
 good 10+ hours the first playthrough. Also, there is online which is also good or bad, according 
 to the player, some say it is great, others not to great. Online is kind of a process to register 
 for and in my opinion isn't as great as Call of Duty or Resistance, but still decent. Online does 
 leave out a few of game features such as Octo Camo and such. Overall, this game has some of the 
 best gameplay you'll ever see in stealth with many weapons you can customize and great environments. 
 It also raps the story of the MGS series very well with a few plot twists and you'll grow to appreciate 
 the series coming to an end after playing this. 
  
  Graphics 10/10- These graphics are the greatest graphics I've seen in any game. They are equal, 
 if not better, than Call of Duty 4's graphics. 
  
  Sound 10/10- Great voice acting and battle effects make this game one of the greatest in the audio 
 department.
  
  Value 9/10- Although there are more movies than actual gameplay time, this game does offer reasons 
 to replay the amazing story once finished. You can replay the game on harder difficulties and use 
 the guns you bought and upgraded on the last playthrough on this one, as well as unlock some new 
 guns. Why wouldn't you want to see the amazing story this game has to offer more than once? Online 
 also is worth playing, with a few customizations for your character and level up. Awards are also 
 unlocked after you beat the game under certain conditions, Big Boss Emblem should provide a challenge. 
 My only problem here is after mission 2, the actual gameplay time per mission drops to about under 
 an hour per mission and the human enemies are very limited after mission 3. However, getting all 
 the awards and reliving the story are more reasons to replay this game. 
  
  Tilt 9/10- Overall, this game is the best game for PS3, with one of gaming's top stories and puts 
 a great ending to the series. Your first playthrough will be your best and although gameplay time 
 is somewhat limited, online and the awards will keep you playing for months and months. This game 
 definitely is going to go down in history as one of PS3's bests. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ThronedFlame21
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 17, 2008 3:42 pm PT
Review:  Let me just first say that i own an xbox 360 and not a PS3. But i played through a good majority 
 of the game over my friends house and i must say that i am impressed. the stealth system is this 
 game is as good or better than splinter cell. with that said when you get spotted the game also 
 has an exciting combat system that you are able to save yourself with, and plenty of weapons to 
 do it with. and the story is great, from what ive seen, and even if you dont know the whole background 
 into MG, you can look things up online, and that makes the story a lot less confusing.
  
  the multiplayer was also great, and as long as most of the people in the game know what they are 
 doing and play like theyre supposed to, it is very enjoyable. 
  
  im giving this a 9.5 because the controls are a little hard to use, and the aiming system could 
 have used a big tune up. also i didnt like the fact that you had to install each chapter onto the 
 PS3, but ive heard that this is common for many games.? and im giving this a surpirsingly good 
 because like i said i only have a 360.... about time the PS3 came out with a great game... haha 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gollum007
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 17, 2008 2:40 pm PT
Review:  MGS4, the very last of the MGS series as Hideo Kojima put it. While there may be another MG related 
 series, this will mark the end of the story of legendary hero, Solid Snake. While it may have been 
 hard to pick up this game and play it as a fan for the first playthrough, it was extremely gratifying 
 and still is, as MGS4 is loaded with features such as iPod tunes, emblems, camos, radio broadcasts 
 (which the "Extras" feature in MGS4's menu will be uploaded with more of these upcoming months 
 and onward) , etc. Not only that but for fans of the series since MGS1, the nostalgia experienced 
 as you return to Shadow Moses is extremely high and brings back memories, especially while playing 
 the "Warhead Storage" song from the iPod collected at the very same spot where the song began playing 
 just before you descend from the air ducts leading into the Tank Hangar. As in every MGS game, 
 the characters shine and develop throughout each game and while there will always be new characters 
 to meet in each game, they carry alot of personality and attitude. As in every MGS game, these 
 characters aren't in any way bland or stale as many other game franchises depict their characters, 
 main or not. As you begin each Mission or Act, you will be stationed temporarily in the Nomad speaking 
 with Campbell, Otacon, Naomi, and Sunny. However, while you are stuck listening to the cutscenes 
 the first playthrough, you will be allowed to return at any time after you have went through a 
 Mission Briefing to gather any undiscovered items lying around the Nomad or you can do this while 
 the cutscenes are going on, the easiest way to control the Metal Gear Mk 2 in the game is to press 
 L2 and then triangle to get the fullscreen view of the Metal Gear Mk 2 and pick up things such 
 as iPod tunes, ammo, weapons, and a camera. Not only that but in one of the Mission Briefings, 
 Act 2 Mission Briefing, you will see Sunny playing a PSP. This is one of the funny and ironic features 
 MGS4 bestows. As every MGS4 player, you will have the chance to experience such things whether 
 or not you are trying to look for them. 
  
  Now let's move on to the aspects that generally motivate someone to buy something, in this case 
 they are the gameplay, graphics, sound, lasting appeal, replayability, and often times especially 
 in this gen, online play. While past MGS games have been worthy of the money demanded to play them, 
 most of them didn't include an online component as MGS4 does and if they did (MGS3) , it wasn't 
 as available to consumers as MGS4 is for the PS3, as the PS3 comes built with online capabilities. 
 Now to the gameplay. The gameplay in MGS4 is just as exciting and in my opinion, much more exciting 
 and less frustrating than past MGS games as Kojima's team has devoted their time and effort to 
 fixing the problems described by its fans. The gunplay is more immersive and each gun has a distinct 
 sound it outputs through firing that separates and distinguishes it from another. Also, the game 
 comes packed with the option to buy ammo, weapons, and weapon add-ons that makes acquiring these 
 things much easier than in past iterations as it relieves people of the necessity of conserving 
 as much ammo or having to hunt for ammo from dead soldiers or in and around buildings and environments. 
 The sound in MGS4, as I briefly mentioned, is top notch and is all the result of uncompressed sound 
 and the effort of Kojima Productions in making the guns sound as realistic as possible and make 
 them as identical to their real-life counterparts. The graphics in MGS4 are extremely good and 
 alot of times easily rival the likes of today's graphically superior games. The extra features 
 and bonuses of MGS4 and unlockables set in MGS4 make lasting appeal and replayability very high. 
 And while MGS is known for it's singleplayer portion, the online stands up to today's best titles 
 in terms of online value. The online component, MGO, boasts nearly all the great gameplay aspects 
 of MGS4, which is good enough for most fans of the game. MGS gets a 10/10. While no game is perfect, 
 this game deserves great praise and there's almost nothing wrong with the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AbyssD
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 17, 2008 2:19 pm PT
Review:  The best game i ever had play in my whole life no wonder this game tock 10/10 i give to it 100/100 
 :D and no less my big respet to Kojima and MGS4 Storyline 10/10 Gameplay 10/10 Cutscence 10/10 
 Sound Effect 10/10 and best Boss Fight 10/10 i juts never see such a AMAZING graphics and Story 
 this game will never finish for me i will replay it so many times that this game will never ENDS 
 for me but the ending of this game its realy sad i am not gona tell whats hopend cuz there is ppl 
 who didn't buy or finish the game but juts to tell u alot of ppl die in this game its realy sad, 
 the game that has a sad ending its makes Game just better the story gos better afcore i don't like 
 when ppl dies but its the game made like that thats why its sad and the best anyway i think thats 
 it hope u ppl enjoying the game as much as i do :D well guys long live to Kojima and MGS stories 
 best game stories i ever play in my whole life 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cloud1000
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 17, 2008 1:43 pm PT
Review:  Hideo has again made a masterpiece. The story is superb and provides closure for all MG fans including 
 some insane plot twists that will make your heart race with excitement. Graphics are amazing as 
 expected, even on a Standard Def TV this game will impress even the most high tech geeks. Gameplay 
 is very fun and there will always be different ways to complete levels. The special mix of long 
 cutscenes and gameplay is done very successful and will please fans and casual players alike. Technically 
 it uses the full potential of the PS3 and there are no performance issues known. With the promise 
 of DLC of Octocamo skins and music tracks, there will always be something to alter your experience 
 every time you play it. Multiplayer is also great but might not be appealing to fast run and gunners 
 fond of COD4 and UT3. The bonus maps promise to extend this experience for some time to come.
 
  
  There is not much else to say but try and play this game. It may finally give the PS3 the push 
 forward it needs and with no sign of an Xbox port, PS3 is the only place you will get to play this 
 masterpiece. Enjoy! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dreamachine536
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jun 17, 2008 12:38 pm PT
Review:  After waiting years for this game it is finally here. This MGS is by far one of the most ambitious 
 games in the series and offers a wide range of options to the player. 
  In the past the MGS series there have been both "Tactical" and "Espionage" action to the player 
 to choose from. But the game creators usually lean towards espionage than tactical. In MGS4 the 
 game play totally drops the espionage action and focuses in on the tactical aspect more than ever. 
 The reasons behind this are of course the environments in which you play in strictly being "war 
 zones". The game offers a customizable options for your weapons to help enhance the tactical action 
 but this option seems complicated at first but ends up being simple in nature, to simple. The only 
 thing that you can really do to your gun is either add a suppressor, laser sight, scope, grenade 
 or shotgun attachment, under grip and a flashlight. But a large amount of the weapons that are 
 offered you can only customize 1 to 2 options. Another appealing aspect is the arsenal of weapons 
 at your finger tips that you can use. There are so many weapons in this game you wont even end 
 up using half of them. 
  Next up is the Close Quarters Combat or the lack of being able to use it. Snake is suppose to be 
 a master at CQC but during the game Snake is offered very very limited options of how to use it. 
 The main and only way to use your CQC effectively is to sneak up behind an enemy and grab him. 
 Although there are more options to do from this position such as disarming, searching, and of course 
 killing you have to use complex button combinations to use each but most of the time it doesn't 
 even work and you end up letting the enemy go or you could just use your silenced handgun and kill 
 them with a head shot and eliminate the use of CQC altogether. In some of the cut scenes Snake 
 uses his CQC like he is playing with children and effortlessly disarms opponents and knocks them 
 out and this makes the player think why cant i do that in the game. 
  The individual enemy AI is still the same always walking back and forth on patrols but never deviate 
 to throw the player off this is really disappointing. Also the Team AI is a whole lot better enemies 
 will know go behind cover and try to flank you and they now throw hand and stun grenades at your 
 feet causing you to roll out of the way. BUT one thing that i hate is that they always know where 
 you are if you kill an enemy, run away and hide in your barrel or box the enemies will go straight 
 to you and kill you in this manner, shoot when you are on the ground and when you stand up knife 
 you back down to the ground and shoot you.
  So in conclusion i think that this is one of the best games out there to buy or to rent it takes 
 about 20 hours to beat the game but actually only 8 hours of it is game play and the other 12 is 
 the half hour cut scenes and codec moments. Dont get me wrong i love MGS it just the above topics 
 that i stated really take out of the game play for me. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lilballerj07
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 17, 2008 11:18 am PT
Review:  At first, like a lot people, i was not at all excited about this game because of the fact that 
 its mostly watching cut scenes and not as much playing, but i could not have been more wrong. This 
 game sets the nearly unreachable bar for any game of its kind and its likely that no game will 
 ever reach its greatness, especially not an Xbox 360 exclusive :D 
  
  You start out this game right in the middle of the action between two opposing forces and you must 
 either sneak your way past them, or kill them all, your choice. That is what this game is based 
 on. you have the option of going through the entire game without killing a single person except 
 for the occasional boss fights. i personally enjoy blasting my way through the game killing everyone 
 in sight, but thats just me.
  
  As the game goes a long, most of the questions at the beginning of the game that you might have 
 will be answered and, but if you have played any of the previous MGS games you should already know 
 whats happening. for those people like myself, who have played through all the the MGS games, this 
 game will be twice as enjoyable because there is that un-perishable connection you will have with 
 the characters and the game becomes twice as exciting. 
  
  This outstanding visual display is an example of the sheer power of the playstation 3 and its an 
 experience that could not ever be found on the Xbox 360. no matter who you are, or what kind of 
 games your into, buy this game, be patient with it at first if you dont understand everything and 
 you will not regret it. this game cannot be described in any number of words so get this game and 
 see for yourself. 
  
  
  Beauty, amazing story-line, and incredible gameplay. Only on the Playstation 3 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sexymdlman
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 17, 2008 10:36 am PT
Review:  Metal Gear Solid is one of the best games out there to date. If you don't believe me, check the 
 scores for every Metal Gear game out there to date and you'll see what I mean.
  MGS4 is unbelievably detailed. Konami spared no expense when it came to presentation. One of the 
 biggest things about presentation I loved, was that there are no longer 20 minutes dialogue codec 
 sequences. Instead they are all presented in beautiful, flawlessly animated, cutscenes. Yes, the 
 rumors are partly true about 90 minute cutscenes. I say partly, because even though they are long, 
 they go maybe an hour at the most. Either way, you're so into the story the first time you play, 
 that you don't really notice the time go by.
  On to gameplay. Konami revamped the entire control scheme. And it is SO much better! It does take 
 a while to get used to, but once you do, it's much easier to play. Enemies are actually pretty 
 smart. I never had a moment where I said "ha, stupid." (you know, when a guard runs into a bomb 
 or something)
  MG4 is an awesome game. I highly reccommend it. And if you need an excuse to buy a PS3, DEFINITELY 
 do it! This game has a lot of replay value and unlockables. The story ends just right and answers 
 pretty much all questions. If you like MGS, you need to buy this game. Or rent it. Or beat someone 
 up and steal their copy. 
  This game is the new standard for next gen gaming. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: capcom49
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 17, 2008 10:18 am PT
Review:  I played the original Metal Gear back in the day on NES and I feel like I have grown up with Solid 
 Snake through out the years. This MGS is for the fans and for those whom never played one. With 
 the vivid story that grasp you and a flashbacks to inform you this might be the very best video 
 game story series ever made. The controls are different then the previous games but the learning 
 curve is no more then a few minutes. The graphics are stunning and impressive, the best I have 
 seen on any game. The sound effects and music really put you there and can have you feel the emotion.
 
  But I have a duty as a gamer to be very critical to say the game is very short, I have beaten 
 this game in 15 hours on the first day. But as all MGS fans will say the game has a huge replay 
 value with new gear, weapons, and modes you'll be playing for days. And the online feature makes 
 this a game to keep.
  To rap it all up, this MGS4 is a game guaranteed to give you your moneys worth. Also to all, if 
 you don't at least cry once while playing this game, then you know your not a MGS fan, cause I 
 did... METAL GEAR! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Foxhound71
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 17, 2008 8:46 am PT
Review:  Well were to start. This game has been in development for about 4 years and let me say, they used 
 that time well.
  After i completed mgs3 I thought to myself, "that has to be my favourite game ever .How can they 
 follow it up."
  Well they did and let me say MGS4 takes the cake as my all time favourite game!
  You start off 
 with snakes spewing his usual metaphor, and the cutscene looks cg im serious it looks absoluteley 
 stunning, well anyway your fighting along side what remains of the civilians of I think the middle 
 east.
  It gets pretty heated when the gekkos show up (Prob my favourite mgs enemies) and your left pretty 
 hopless with no choice but to run.
  But this is the borring part of mgs4 compared to what happens later on in this epic and I cant 
 say either!
  The controls are considerably different then any of the other mgs games and it may take even seasoned 
 veterans such a while to get used to R1 being punch. However something you will love is the octocamo 
 suit. Now this thing saved my ass idk how many times while playingand its so much easier then going 
 into the menu and changing you whole outfit just because you moved from a rock to a bush.
  Another thing thats great is the fact that every gun is fair game!
  I remeber mgs2's excuse was 
 that the soldiers guns had id tags...?!
  Well mgs4 has that same excuse and i thought "hmm i geuss they scrapped they pick up any gun idead.
 
  But enter Drebin , a weapons launderer he takes the guns you find with id tags and... maks them 
 not have id tags!
  This is a great idea because not only does he sell you guns but he sells the ammo too. ANY TIME 
 just open up the menu!
  The cqc is still very handy in this game like i was in mgs3 and it seems pretty deep to me because 
 i havent even figured out all the moves and ive beaten the game 3 times!
  The aiming i also like better , the over the shoulder sorta GRAW type, although i had to change 
 the aiming speed all the way up to ten just to hit those damn frogs!
  The story in this game really does rap up all the loose ends even posed in portable ops and it 
 made me sad by the end because I truly do believe that this is Snakes last mission. I mean I knew 
 that the whole time through the game but when I was viewing the credits , when the song played 
 in the background , when the screen went dark and Metal Gar Solid 4 :Guns of the Patriots came 
 up on the screen. Thats when I knew it was finally over.
  I cant lie either I felt pretty sad when it happened and its too rare these days to find a game 
 that can ta that emotion.
  The bottom line is that this game is nothin short of shear perfection for mgs fans you will love 
 it the whole way threw when ever Snake coughs you will feel his pain (especially in that one special 
 corridor) and by the end of the game you will feel triumphant.
  Snakes last stand is surely his greatest...
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: esqueejy
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 17, 2008 8:07 am PT
Review:  It's pretty silly that people go out of their way to rag on a game receiving such widespread critical 
 acclaim. The game deserves all the accolades you can heap upon it. Really, the knit-picking is 
 horribly immature and seeing reviews of 1.0 and 3.5 mixed in with a consistent 9.5-10.0 range of 
 ratings really doesn't do anything for th egaming community. If you're so worried that PS3 has 
 finally revealed a glimpse of its future pre-eminence, go buy one... don't rate the game harshly 
 because you own a 360 and can't stand to think the best game out there might be unattainable for 
 you. Don't rate it based on watching your buddy play for 20 minutes and then select the 10-20 hours 
 option either. Games like this benefit us all no matter what system you're playing on, because 
 they raise the bar as to what is possible, not to mention what should be expected when you slap 
 $60 on a counter and leave the store with nothign more than a little plastic box containing a mass-produced 
 little plastic disc and a cheaply made insturction manual. That being said, this game draws the 
 line in the sand and dares future games to cross it.
  
  Graphics - Outstanding. The character models are more lifelike than almost any game out there. 
 The faces are expressive and you can relate to them. COD4 had some lifelike models, but these surpass 
 it. Look carefully at the eyes in particular... they're not the typical dead glass marbles you see 
 in most games... there's actually some life to them and a fleshier appearance to the faces overall. 
 The backdrops are of course not quite as detailed as the character models but they stack up to 
 GTAIV and COD4 quite easily and create a very immersive environment in which to sneak around (or, 
 if feeling a bit taxed by some long hours of play, to pull out your guns and just start whacking 
 everyone you see) .
  
  Animation - Astounding. The faces are expressive and the body movements less stilted and paper-dollish 
 than most games, particularly during cut-scenes. The lip-syncing could've been a little better 
 in places, but the virtually seamless transitions from gameplay to cut-scenes or new areas (where 
 there isn't a load time) is another immersive aspect to the game that adds to the feel of playing 
 a movie. Those who are complaining about the length of the cut-scenes have the attention span of 
 a brain damaged trisome and are completely ignoring the fact that the single-player game is intended 
 to wrap up 4+ games and several years worth of complicated and at times convoluted storyline. You 
 can get all the fierce gameplay you want thru the multi-player aspect so it's a little disingenuous 
 to complain that you don't get enough during the single-player campaign... that is, if you're not 
 to chicken to play thinking humans rather than shoot your way thru AI that, like AI in all games, 
 is a little predictable after you get accustomed to it.
  
  Sound - Very nice. Unfortunately, I've got a dead receiver at the moment, so to be fair, I haven't 
 been able to test the 5.1. On the other hand, the "fake" surround created by my Sony XBR5 has been 
 very good so far, so I expect that once the receiver is fixed, it will match the high quality of 
 th ereast of the game.
  
  Story - Not much needs to be said. Whether you have followed the series from the beginning or not, 
 whether you were disappointed in how it all turns out or liked the conclusions chosen for the character 
 arcs, you can't deny that objectively speaking, HK spins quite a yarn and he does so in a very 
 believable way (fantasy elements aside) . Moreover, the greatest achievement of all in this "episode" 
 in particular is that he actually brings enough life to the characters and the storyline that you 
 can begin to relate to them. Most games miss this mark by an incredible margin. If you're willing 
 to suspend disbelief and allow yourelf to be immersed, rather than bucking like a bronco with a 
 fat chick on board, the game does a good job of introducing emotions not normally evoked by video 
 games. It's not all just tension, release, excitement and laughs... there are some moments that 
 are genuinely sad and touching and it's a rare game indeed that can make you feel frustrated with 
 the choices and mistakes NPCs are making. In short, there is a very humanizing element to the storyline 
 which, combined with the technical achievement of the character models and their expressive faces, 
 brings real vibrant sense of life to the game.
  
  Gameplay/Mechanics - Best in show...'nuff said. MGS has always been tight and the game hits it 
 right on the money. Those who wish to compare it to GTAIV's loose and under-realized gunplay mechanics 
 are not being objective or honest with themselves. GTAIV is fantastic in so many ways, but when 
 it comes to stealthy gun play it can't hold a candle to this game. I've even read a couple comparisons 
 to Uncharted, and that's just laughable. What's more, having an enormous number of options for 
 choosing your style and approach to in-game obstacles and being able to add some pinache to the 
 way you tackle enemies (or avoid them) , just puts this game over the edge. 
  
  Multiplayer - Very good so far. Here is where you can get all the enjoyment out of those wonderful 
 gameplay mechanics.... if you don't suck. There's somethign joyous about finally being able to attempt 
 some free-form prowess with all that Snake is given as opposed to the somewhat careful and meticulous 
 manner in which most of us approached the single-player campaign (the first time through at least... raise 
 your hand if you plan on playing through again... soon) . Perhaps that's why people complained that 
 there's not enough in the single-player mission. Honestly, there's plenty, particularly if you 
 don't rush and take your time to snag all the loots, but we'll go with what seems to be the consensus... there's 
 a bit less in the single-player campaign than would have been optimum. However, you can do it all 
 day long in the online multi-player, which works smoothly once enough people have been found for 
 your matches and has a lot of potential (online multi-player always requires tweaks and patches) . 
 Having played a ton of WoW, I thought the The clan system is a nice touch too, giving you the opportunity 
 to get more of a team sense for it. The headset/earpiece is going to be a must if you want to get 
 anywhere though. I look forward to tearing many a noob a new one and seeing where the level progression 
 and speciallization comes into play.
  
  $0.02
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: salbenali
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 17, 2008 7:56 am PT
Review:  This is an outstanding game! Everything is just right. Even though some reviews complain about 
 it being a "movie," I think it actually personifies the characters even more. This game has a great 
 combination of combat, dialogue and intensity.
  I honestly do not understand why some people are not satisfied with this game. It is simply amazing. 
 What more can someone ask for? Solid Snake is back with not only more skill in combat, but with 
 somewhat more humanity and emotions than we've seen in the previous games.
  In previous metal gears, I used to get somewhat annoyed with the long unnecessary dialogue. But 
 this is different. In no way do the short "movies" take away from the gameplay. In fact the add 
 more character to the game. I have played for over 10 hours now and I really do not want to finish 
 the game. It's just too good. This is going to be a tough act to follow for upcoming games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kevdog1976
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 17, 2008 7:35 am PT
Review:  Before MGS4 even released there was alot of anticipation from us gamers on practically all aspects 
 of it. I can honestly say that this is the most deep and immersive story that you could possibly 
 ask for. The weapons library is beyond any other game i have every played or seen! Anything from 
 pistols to SAM launchers! And most of the weapons are customizable. I have been a big fan of the 
 MGS series ever since Metal Gear Solid released on PS1 in 1998! I was hooked off of that game and 
 from there, the games only got better! So many gaps in the story get filled in by MGS4 and there 
 are some very cool and unexpected twists that you would have never suspected. These are the games 
 that have that high caliber and pride put into them so we the gamers can have something we can 
 enjoy over and over again! 
  
  Raise a glass lads to Hideo Kojima and Konami for delivering a rock solid sequel in MGS4! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: superfrog123
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 17, 2008 6:28 am PT
Review:  I picked up MGS4 yesterday and I have to say it is like nothing I have ever seen on the PS3. I 
 am a fan of the Metal Gear series and I couldn't wait to pick this game up.
  The first thing I noticed about this game is how amazing the graphics are, it completely blew me 
 away. 
  So far the story has really gripped me, the game really shows the genius work of Hideo Kojima, 
 with the elements of war and philosophy put right into the game at the introduction you just know 
 that the game is going to have an epic climax, even if the introduction and the first 2 hours of 
 game play are slow. 
  
  Fans of the MGS series will notice that some of the characters from past games are back; I don't 
 want to spoil the surprises so I am not saying anything. 
  
  The cut scenes, just like in MGS2 and 3 are lengthy but beautiful to watch, with voice acting and 
 graphics that rival GTAIV and in most places surpass GTAIV. 
  
  The controls are similar to the previous games, and the inclusion of rumble is a welcome feature. 
 
  The new features in this game are excellent, my first thoughts of having a suit that automatically 
 blends into the background would make the game too easy, but the improved AI of the guards has 
 balanced it out, they now use smell as well as sight and sound to hunt Snake down.
  I was also a bit weary about Snake's stress and psyche meters, I had a feeling that it would be 
 a burden to constantly keep watch of those meters during gun fights but so far they are not so 
 much of a problem. There are many ways to decrease Snake's stress and psyche levels, my favourite 
 being a medicine for back pain, it is amusing that Snake can take almost anything that is thrown 
 at him but now that he is getting older he is succumbing to a small thing like back problems but 
 that also makes me sad knowing that this is his final mission.
  
  I think that this game is a wonderful tribute to Snake's final mission.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: istylee
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 17, 2008 6:10 am PT
Review:  There is just simply too much words to describe such a feat in gaming history. In all the gaming 
 years i've never felt as immersive, entertained and raw emotion from a video game. Everything from 
 the cutscenes, character models, weapons and environment is done so beautifully it is the best 
 looking console game released.
  
  The story is awesome and very complex, it may take time to sink in properly but it still stands 
 out among this generation and previous generations. But don't be afraid to give Metal Gear Solid 
 4 a go just because you haven't played the previous games in the series, i for one haven't played 
 any MGS game till MGS4 and let me tell you since i've finished it. I am very into the world of 
 Metal Gear Solid. I was still able to understand a lot of the story and was only confused at a 
 few points. 
  
  I could go on forever but i do not have the time or effort.
  
  But let me tell you this, if you have a Playstation 3 or even if you don't just go and get one 
 and a copy of Metal Gear Solid 4 and you will not regret it.
  
  This game is a true MASTERPIECE and i enjoyed every second of it.
  
  Thank you Hideo Kojima. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BleakCorner
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 17, 2008 3:49 am PT
Review:  Although I've only played through some of the first parts, this game simply feels "right". While 
 I would never give it a perfect 10 - the aiming system still has some flaws and the camera is a 
 little off in small areas - it comes very close. It's essentially an interactive movie - and doing 
 a great job at it. On the graphics side, the cut scenes are the best so far on the PS3 - period. 
 The low-res textures are easily dismissed as the rest of the visual side of MGS4 is so great... 
 effects are good, character models look great, vehicle models look even better and the surroundings 
 are a lot of fun to explore. The sound is flawless and works best with a good surround system - 
 every sound feels 100% natural and not a moment so far I've felt that I triggered a sound or heard 
 odd repeating things that pulled me out of the experience. With the lip sync, I first got the impression 
 I was watching it dubbed in English - so it's not perfect but still well done. Gameplay so far 
 has been good and already gave me the desire to replay certain areas to see what I've missed... 
 this is what a game should be like. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SwatlordXXX
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 17, 2008 1:36 am PT
Review:  Metal Gear Solid 4 is guaranteed to go down in history as a revolutionary masterpiece. Hideo Kojima 
 is a true visionary, creating such marvelous games with a storyline that is just unbelievably good. 
 There is nothing about this game that I didn't enjoy, from the action-packed gameplay, to the beautifully 
 rendered cinematics. 
  
  The storyline, the highly anticipated finale to one of the most popular video game series is orchestrated 
 by Kojima so perfectly, intertwining and answering most if not all of the questions the previous 
 installments had left. Not to mention amazing plot twists, intense and dramatic scenes, and just 
 exceptional gameplay that will have most players astounded by this work of art.
  
  As for the cinematics, it's perfectly clear Kojima takes full advantage of the PS3 Hardware, and 
 Blu-ray disc, to create the in-game rendered cutscenes. As this game is on the cutting edge of 
 technology, a visually amazing game to behold. 
  
  If you've played any of the previous Metal Gear Solids the controls aren't going to be that much 
 different. (Especially if you've played MSG2 and MSG3.) Although a few more tweaks have been added, 
 the majority of the controls stayed the same. The learning curve is pretty quick, as you get right 
 into the action as the game starts.
  
  Finally, I'd like to comment on the boss fights. The boss encounters are pretty original in my 
 opinion, and actually require coordination and quick thinking, especially on the higher difficulties. 
 I'm not going to spoil anything, but the final boss fight is probably one of the most amazing and 
 just plain epic boss fights I've ever played.
  
  Perfect game and a perfect ending to a masterpiece of a series. Keep up the good work Hideo Kojima, 
 Kojima Productions, and Konami. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: numbersss101
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 17, 2008 12:39 am PT
Review:  First off.......... you don't have to buy this game if you're not a fan and doesnt like this type 
 of games. My review contains some spoiler so I will put like *spoiler [wat the spoiler about] spoiler 
 * like that kind of stuff and if you buy this game and do not know the story, it will be very confusing 
 and you better watch the videos in youtube.
  
  Story: I would not talk anything bout the story except *MAJOR SPOILER * Snake is old! *Ends of 
 spoiler* lol.......... anyways, not much to talk bout the story cause if I do it will spoil it for 
 the rest of you. All I'm going to say is that the world is engulf in a brutal war and there are 
 two sides. The militia and PMC (private military company) and the world economy depends on the 
 military market
  
  ****************spoiler spoiler spoiler you spoiler will spoiler spoiler spoiler pilot spoiler 
 spoiler spoiler metal spoiler spoiler gear spoiler spoiler 
 
  
  Gameplay: This is what you will be replaying bout. If you're not a stealth fan thats ok cause you 
 can go in third person view and kill everyone but you're gonna die most of the time. The game is 
 hard. If you're a stealth character you eventually gonna be in a firefight. And if you're a full 
 blazin gun swinging char then you eventually gonnna have to do some sneaking. CQC is more easier 
 cause last time I never use them (only kicking and punching never the grabbing one) . And if you 
 dont like third person but still wanna go in full blazing, you can switch to first person and its 
 great! The best thing bout this game is that you can customize your own weapon and I was so happy 
 bout it. Theres this thing call the stress.
  The more deadly it is to your thing (forgot its name the thing under your health) . If that thing 
 goes to zero, you will suffer more damage, more recovery time, and cannot aim properly. Sadly one 
 thing they took out from the game. That is hunting. Now you cant just go up to a rabbit and shoot 
 him with your gun : ( and use him for food later. But that is still ok.
  AI are quite smart. I said quite not super or realistic in fact there are quite dumb. I was just 
 hiding behind the barrel like 10 feet away from the pmc and he was looking right at me and he didnt 
 even notice and I was like waaa? And I grab the gun from behind and his friend 2 feet away didnt 
 notice but then again, would you?
  Oh and the cutscene are long..... REALLY LONG! PREPARE A PILLOW IF NOT PATIENT! I woke up the other 
 day and want to play and the mission brifing is like 20 mins. Most of the cutscenes are very nice 
 especially the fighting ones.
  
  Sound: Its very nice and some times it want to make me cry *sniff sniff* cause it on on the right 
 time. :) The voice is very nice too and all the guns sound is nice.
  
  Graphics: Its sooooo nice! I thought I was watching a movie.
  
  Online is so fun! Its a mix 
 of rainbow six vegas and counter strike!
  
  Pros: 
  Great seqeul!
  Sound good!
  Fun gameplay!
  High replaybility!
  
  Cons:
  Few feature from the MGS 3 is taken out : ( 
 (but doesnt ruin gameplay)
  short! (I wan more!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!)
  its sad that snake is gonna die : (
  
  *Salute to snake*
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Alfredo_Sauce
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 17, 2008 12:33 am PT
Review:  I never once said to myself or anyone that I loved a game. I always said "I really really like 
 this game" or "I really enjoyed this game", but never loved. Until I played this game. I love MGS4. 
 Everything in the game is amazing. The graphics are super incredible, and also the sound is amazing. 
 I played this game on my stereo speakers and it was soooooooo awesome. Best sound in game ever. 
 I love how they put every wrinkle into Old Snake, every detail about every character is unique 
 and very realistic. Now lets talk about the game modes in MGS4. There's a Single Player, an Online 
 Multiplayer, a Virtual Range, Extras, and a Mission Briefing. Lets talk about the Single Player 
 first. When I played the Single Player I never wanted to put down my controller ever. When Single 
 Player just started I was drawn in instantly. It starts off with Old Snake in the Mid-East. With 
 the main plot of finding and killing Liquid Ocelot. So if you haven't played the game yet your 
 probably thinking to yourselves "How do go around undetected with war going on in the Middle-East?", 
 well to answer that, Old Snake wears a suit called the Octo-Camo, which allows Old Snake to bled 
 in to whatever he is basically touching. For example, if I were to lye on the ground the suit would 
 turn into the color of the ground, if the ground was brownish the suit would turn brown and etc. 
 I think thats one of the super cool things in the game is the suit. One of my personal favorites 
 to do with the suit is to fake dead and trick your enemies and then turn around and then shoot. 
 The AI in the game is really smart. They use basically all the senses to find you. They can smell 
 , touch, and see where you are. So you gotta be careful. Another cool thing about the Single Player 
 is the environment. Everything looks so realistically cool and sometimes there's destructible environments. 
 One other thing about the Single Player is the improved combat and shooting. I thought they stepped 
 it up and its a lot smoother. A thing about the Single Player is I think it's a lot more fun if 
 you treat it as a stealth more than running through and blasted and getting a lot of alerts. Another 
 cool thing added is the item you can obtain is an Ipod. Yes the apple Ipod, and it does what an 
 Ipod does. You can listen to old MGS tracks from old games or listen to a cool podcast they have. 
 They are also spoused to add in an commentary, so while your playing you can get some tips on how 
 to beat some bosses, I think thats one of the coolest idea's and I can't wait for it. So all and 
 all the Single Player is AMAZING, not to say that the story is awesome, a bit confusing and the 
 cut scenes are really long, most of them that is but I really don't mind watching them because 
 the story is great and I'm just really drawn into it but in all amazingly great. Now let's talk 
 about the Online Multiplayer. This is new for the MGS series is the Multiplayer. I think they added 
 this so people would keep playing the game because if you don't know by now is this is the last 
 MGS game. But anyways, the Online Multiplayer is great. It's loads of fun. You make your own character 
 and battle other people in various game modes. There's Deathmatch (free for all) , Team Deathmatch, 
 Rescue Mission (recapture the GA-KO or defend it) , Capture Mission (similar to king of the hill, 
 just trying to capture one point for a set period of time) , Sneaking Mission (One person gets to 
 play as Snake) , and Base Mission (Teams compete to see who can conquer the most bases scattered 
 throughout the stage) . Every mode is just so fun. The maps are also cool and very fun. Now lets 
 talk about the Virtual Range. The Virtual Range is a mode where your just in a Virtual room with 
 Virtual Dummies who just walk around and do nothing, while you get to go around and test out some 
 guns and get a feel for them. This makes way for good shooting practice. Now lets talk about the 
 Mission Briefing. This mode allows you to go back and watch some of the cut scenes before you go 
 on to your mission to review on what happen or to get a better understanding the second time around 
 or if you just missed something the first time. Now the finale thing is the Extras. Here you can 
 download extra content like downloading new skins for the Octo-Camo or downloading new music to 
 your ipod. All in all MGS4 is one of the best games I have ever played. MGS4 is definitely on my 
 top 3 three games I have ever played. I can truly say that I love this game. I love MGS4. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GUNpoint_
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 16, 2008 11:16 pm PT
Review:  Guns of the Patriots is the final installment in the Metal Gear Saga, & while it definitely answers 
 many of the questions the series so often conjures, there is a certain lack of substance in it's 
 execution that leaves a lot to be desired. 
  
  However, make no mistake, Guns of the Patriots is jam-packed with Metal Gear fanfare. Even if you're 
 slightly intrigued to find out who the patriots are, or why Snake is aging so rapidly, you'll definitely 
 be absorbed by the tactical soap opera that Guns of the Patriots portrays. To be perfectly honest 
 however, some of the plot seems inconsistent. In essence, Kojima wrote the story for Guns of the 
 Patriots in order to provide closure to the Metal Gear Saga; which is a real shame, as the story 
 never really grabs you as much as Sons of Liberty did - as well as Snake Eater & the original Metal 
 Gear Solid for the playstation.
  
  This is not to say the story is bad; it'll leave you with a heavy heart as soon as the credits 
 roll, which is a testament to how powerful the series was. Going into detail of the story would 
 only spoil the game for you, & the story is probably the game's strongest aspect, more so if you're 
 a Metal Gear fan.
  
  Solid Snake returns to reprise his role as the legendary hero of old. The voice work is as tight 
 as ever, not only for Snake, but for every character in the game. Not only is the voice acting 
 good, but the animation is top notch as well. As you'd expect, Guns of the Patriots is 50% gameplay, 
 & 50% cutscenes. Even if you're not too fond of the idea, you'd be missing out on some of the best 
 voice acting & animation in any video-game thus far.
  
  In terms of gameplay, Guns of the Patriots employs many aspects of every Metal Gear Solid entry; 
 it's all here, CQC, crawling, forward rolls, & of course, the ever popular wall press. Unfortunately, 
 the wall press feels out of place - you need to press the triangle button, as opposed to simply 
 pressing up against the wall like in the older entries. Another complaint in the gameplay department 
 is the lack of safety you felt from previous entries. Gone are the days of looking for weapons, 
 now you can simply buy them off of a gun launderer, for better or for worse. Some may find it as 
 a relief, but I find it as a sorry excuse to pack as many weapons in the game as possible. While 
 there are over 60 weapons to choose from, most of the time you'll only need your trusty M4, which 
 acts both as an assault weapon & sniper; which brings us to a pretty nifty idea - weapon customization. 
 While not every weapon in the game is customizable, the ones that are carry some pretty useful 
 upgrades, such as silencers, red dot sights, & scopes.
  
  In Guns of the Patriots, fighting your way through hordes of enemies isn't as tedious as in previous 
 entries, all thanks in part to the new over-the-shoulder view point. As for the environments, you'll 
 be mainly be sneaking around outdoors, anywhere from the turbulent Middle-East, to the South-American 
 wilderness, & even to the streets of Europe. Though a bit more emphasis could've been put into 
 that level, since that level is easily the most tedious one in the entire game.
  
  The enemy & friendly A. I. shifts from difficulty to difficulty, it can go from stupidly bad on 
 normal, to sadistically evil on extreme. But even on the lowest difficulty, enemies will check 
 for disturbances, take cover, & check up on your position if you've forgot to come to a complete 
 stand still. Speaking of stand stills, one of the game's strongest points in the gameplay department 
 is the OctoCamo; a suit in which changes according to the material you are currently pressed up 
 on.
  
  Guns of the Patriots isn't a particularly long game, & unfortunately you won't feel like you covered 
 much ground, either. You'll breeze through the game in 15 hours on your first run, while it may 
 become significantly longer on tougher difficulty levels. However, when you're done with the single-player, 
 you can always go back & unlock the many emblems that are given under certain circumstances, not 
 only that, but packaged with the game is Metal Gear Online, easily one of the most intuitive online 
 gaming experiences out on the market.
  
  Graphically, Guns of the Patriots is a true showcase; it may have some low-res textures here & 
 there, but it's character models, detail, & overall look are second to none. This isn't to say 
 its a flawless looking game though; explosions are nothing special & the physics are a bit off.
 
  
  All in all, Guns of the Patriots captures the vision of what has made the Metal Gear Saga immortal, 
 & while some of it's execution may be flawed, it's a fitting end to a poignant, dark, & occasionally 
 humorous tactical espionage drama. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hillelslovak
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 16, 2008 10:55 pm PT
Review:  Ive always been a gigantic fan of the Metal Gear Solid games. I salivated over each one because 
 they all had a perfect blend of excellent gameplay and an enriching story. After completing Metal 
 Gear Solid 4, I have to say that I think its not only the best Metal Gear Solid game, but the best 
 game of all time on any console.
  
  Gameplay- The gameplay in Metal Gear Solid 4 borrows heavily from MGS3, but adds some excellent 
 twists to the formula. The emphasis of the game is still to sneak undetected away from the enemy, 
 but go guns blazing if the heat is turned up. They have tweaked the gameplay to be more action 
 oriented this time around, while still keeping the core of the game intact. The biggest change 
 is the ability to mod and buy weapons. There are roughly 70 guns to choose from, ranging from simple 
 pistols, submachine guns, and assault rifles to grenades and portable rocket launchers. The mod 
 system works extremely well in this game. The only improvement that I can see they could have made 
 was adding the ability to sell guns you dont want. That is a minor complaint though.
  
  Graphics/Sound- Both are some of the best in videogame history. The graphics are the best I have 
 seen this generation, and really have some good effects in them. The characters all emote very 
 well, and the action looks very well done from exploding vehicles to gunfire. The sound is excellent 
 too. Its something gamers have grown to expect from the MGS series. It can be calm, fast, and even 
 add to the experience to the point where you are almost brought to tears.
  
  Story- This has to be the most complex, compelling, and well written story Ive ever seen. Old characters 
 come back, but for good reasons. All the characters have interesting stories, and that adds to 
 the drama even more so. Basically everything fromt he first 3 Metal Gear Solid games was summed 
 up perfectly byt he end of MGS4. There is room though, for possible prequels, but I fail to see 
 the point of making a direct sequel to MGS4 because the story was told and ended on such a perfect 
 note. This story will throw curveball after curveball at you, and it just oozes epicness. The cutscenes 
 can be pretty long winded and do take up muh of the game, but they are done so beautifully, and 
 there is so much story that needs to be told, you cant really blame the creators of the game for 
 focusing so heavily on the story.
  
  Online- The online is excellent, just as it was in Metal Gear Solid 3. A sort of starter pack is 
 in the MGS4 game disc, and updates will be issued to add maps, characters, etc to the multiplayer 
 game.
  
  Summary- I dont think anyone had doubts that this game was going to be one of the best games of 
 all time, but it turned out to be THE greatest of all time. If you are tired of crappy shooters 
 with no story as well as terrible sequels, and you want a game that enters the realm of art, get 
 Metal Gear Solid 4, and prepare to get your mind blown. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: michael_ps3
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 16, 2008 10:46 pm PT
Review:  Well of course MGS4 is one of the few games that are chosen for the "mighty grade" 10 witch is 
 also a PS3 exclusive!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! Anyway enough bla-bla so i will cut to the chase the first 
 thing you will notice is how beautiful and stunning the cut-scenes are full of action. The only 
 bad thing is that the cut-scenes are to long but believe me they help you to understand the story 
 better. As for the gameplay itself is awesome and you can select many different kind of weapons 
 like from the handgun with the silencer to the javelin rocket launcher and you can upgrade them 
 to the max with various weapon customizations from the merchant whenever and anywhere you want!!!!!! 
 You can also purchase ammo for every weapon. Now for the first time Snake is wearing a camouflage 
 that it will change its shape by touching any sort of surface giving you the advantage to kill 
 your enemy whenever you like with just a pull of the trigger!!!!!! BOOOOOOM and down its that simple!!!!!! 
 And finally the best part of the game the boss fights!!!!!! They are about 5 boss to encounter 
 in the whole game and they ROCK!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! All in all THIS GAME ROCKS AND IF YOU OWN A PS3 
 YOU MUST BUY  ARE YOU STILL READING?!?! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hashimgillani1
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 16, 2008 10:35 pm PT
Review:  Where do I start? Metal Gear Solid 4: Guns of The Patriots is finally here. Thats how most of the 
 reviews start. Why? Simply because for the PS3 to move forward, it needed an exclusive that would 
 blow minds, the fanboys needed an exclusive that they can use to rub into other fanboys faces and 
 the public needed a game of the likes we hadn't seen within the last decade. Well folks, all the 
 hype, the wait, the patience, the artciles that you read, the interviews, the defending of the 
 playstation 3 all pays off. I'm not afraid to say it, but I cried. I wept like a baby when this 
 game ended because unlike any game perceding it has never moved me emotional in this magnitiude 
 as MGS4 has. The game is a revolution in the way its sets standards in almost every aspect of it. 
 Cause Metal Gear Solid 4's mind blowing production brings hollywood to its knees and its phenomenal 
 gameplay sets GTAIV aside. 
  
  STORY: Lets start with the story. Intially, you start of in the Middle East with no clue what the 
 hell is going on. The opening 4 minute scene scene in the 2006 trailers is followed by you being 
 put into a caped and hooded man shoes (can't guess who it is?) . As your progress through a battlefield, 
 barely gettin any gameplay through the small scenes in between, you come upon the discovery the 
 hooded man is Snake followed by the title. To follow is the story. Liquid (or should I be saying 
 Ocelot) is trying to hack into an AI system that controls soldiers every move and senses. The SOP 
 system (Sons of the Patriots system) allows the soldiers to be controlled and more productive. 
 These soldiers are controlled by the nanomachines within their body. As you progress further into 
 the game, you realize the nanomachines in the soldiers are 3rd generation however, the ones in 
 Snake's body are 1st generation, so he's the only one left out there to make a stand. However, 
 Snake's body is rotting away. Due to him being a clone, he has accelerated aging and you learn 
 intially SPOILER he has 6 to 12 months to live. Now Liquid is trying to hack into the system so 
 he is able to control the soldiers, and Old Snake is sent disguised as a UN Inspector to terminate 
 Liquid. Simple story. In its core it is simple yes, bad guy trying to take over the world, good 
 guy trying to stop him. But if it was simple, it wouldn't be MGS, it wouldn't be Kojima's mind 
 behind it, and we wouldn't like it. The complexity is still there, and I love it. How the war economy 
 is influenced by the Private Militirization Companies, how the nano machines montior all aspects 
 of the soldiers, how the SOP system works, how the FOXDIE within Snake's body is reacting and why 
 the hell is Johnny's pants dripping with sh*t? All valid questions. Thats what keeps the plot so 
 engaging and intriguing, the story by far is the best in any MGS. My reason is that Old Snake is 
 nearing the end of his life and his last chapters are obviously very emotional for a gamer whose 
 seen this icon and character for the last 20 years, or for the last 10 years, no matter how much 
 time someone has played with the character Snake, many have come to regard him as a icon. You will 
 also encounter many characters throughout the game, many you have seen before, some you have not. 
 New like Drebin and old like..... well can't really ruin the surprise. All the lose ends are tied 
 of, all the single men and women are not single anymore without exception to Snake ofcourse. The 
 humor is also still there, the monkey in diapers who smokes, Johnny taking a dump in the barrel 
 and many more give you that light comedy in midst of a serious plot, the sign that Kojima is behind 
 this game. The story does exaclty what Kojima set out to do. Tie all the lose ends, everyone gets 
 his or her love and soulmates, every question is answered. 
  
  GAMEPLAY: Now the gameplay. Something that throws people of that there is not enough. Big failed 
 statement lads. Cause gameplay is plenty and I mean plenty, more than any other MGS, and more than 
 an average action game. But something needs to be said here. Without gameplay, a game can't be 
 perfection. So the lesson to be leart here is that MGS4's gameplay is glorius if not perfect. From 
 the many gameplay videos you may have seen, it may have looked different, a complete overhaul, 
 yes there are additions, however at its core its still MGS, or else we wouldn't love it. The Alert, 
 Evasion and Caution phases are back, the crawling and CQC is back, the Codecs are back and so is 
 R2 and L2 menus. But what about the new? Theres plenty. The newest additions are the Octocamo, 
 the Drebin Shop, Weapon Customization and the camera. The Octocamo is a suit you wear throughout 
 the whole game except that part where Noami tells you to take off your clothes. Instead of the 
 Camo system in MGS3, this suit as your move your R3 button towards whatever your touching, the 
 wall, the road, the dirt the suit changes its colors and camaflouges you. The soldiers never have 
 a chance. Its a very simple and great addition as opposed to the Camo system from MGS3 where you 
 had to go in the menu and select for the body. The Drebin Shop, which has brought something very 
 new is also great. As we know, eveery gun is ID tagged to a specific soldier. Unless, you have 
 those nano machines within you and that ID you can't use that gun. So throughout the game you will 
 kill soldiers and pick up there guns. Drebin is a gun launderer and makes business of you getting 
 your gun untagged or buying weapons from him. As you pick up guns, you obtain points and these 
 points act like money which can be used to buy weapons. Very simple system, and very different 
 from what the MGS universe is used to but its for the pro. Another new aspect is the Weapon Customization. 
 There are over 70 weapons in this game and trust me, only 30 mins into the game you acquired alot 
 of weapons making you feel overhwhelmed. The guns can be customizated. Like Call of Duty 4 you 
 are able to hook up supressors, red dot, laser, scropes, grenade launchers etc. But unlike COD4, 
 you can put 5 at once instead of just one. As for the camera, I personally think is the biggest 
 addition. The previous installments usually put you into one type of envoirment, MGS1 it was a 
 facility, MGS2 was the Big Shell facility, MGS3 some vareity but majority of it was the jungle 
 and thats what it was based around. The camera in all those games was the third person kind of 
 birds eye camera. However, in MGS4, that camera to some degree is still their but now theres two 
 more of em. Firstly, the L1, over the shoulder, Gears of War style camera. Best for gun play and 
 accurate shots. It works perfectly in all envoirments since in MGS4 you have a large varity of 
 envoirments you will be treading. There is also the first person veiw. Many say its the same as 
 the COD4 but I for one don't see that. It alows for better aim and zoom and you can play the whole 
 game in it. All these additions to the camera are also on the positive side. Actually all these 
 additions add to the MGS formula rather than substract. However, the best new aspect rather than 
 addition to MGS4 is the pace, the variety to the gameplay. You will be going in many locations 
 from open jungles, to montainous regions, to faciltiies, to war torn towns. to the foggy streets 
 of europe and beyond. Also, the enemies will be attacking in different form of assaults, from being 
 just guard posts and you taking em out, to a full frontal confronation, to sniper style, to use 
 of vechiles and Grounded Launchers. You will be either sneaking in without any kills, or helping 
 the rebels take on the assault, or leading a group througout a building taking clearing each room 
 and tailing a resistance fighter who will ultimatley lead to the leader Of course, there are also 
 the boss fights. Though they are innovative and exhilirating as ever, they aren't the best in the 
 series. I think that firstly, because they aren't important characters in the story ex. Vamp in 
 MGS2, Ocelot in MGS3 etc. Though obviously the final and big boss fights are there the set of boss 
 fights through the course of the game are four. The Beauty and the Beast Unit. Four babes who have 
 similar traits to the bosses of MGS1. After you complete each one, a small cutscene follows where 
 they shed there armour and come after you. You are to fire all on them until they're skin sheds. 
 They die and turn to rocks which is followed by a length codec by Drebin talking about the back 
 history of each boss. The change of pace keeps you engaged to the max. Such variation I have not 
 seen before. Taking elements from many games and suming it to such a different and amazing experience, 
 it certainly can be seen that alot of work has been put into the gameplay. Complaints like a mandatory 
 4.6 GB install, and then there is a 3 minute install before each act, I personally don't consider 
 them even a dust of particle on the magnicifently furnished piece of "thing" MGS4 is. And thus 
 the gameplay should get a fairly large credit in this game rather than just be called a second 
 jewel of the game as the story is called the first. My final word on the gameplay has to be that 
 the new additions add alot to the experience and take nothing away, the change of pace in envoirments 
 and how you are to approach a situation also adds to the variation to the game making it a non 
 stop explosive and engaging experience. 
  
  
  VISUAL PRESENTATION: MGS3 was released in 2005. I played it near the end of 2006 after playing 
 games like Final Fantasy 12, Kingdom Hearts and God of War. Regardless of the fact I thought the 
 graphics weren't top notch I still considered it the best game I had ever played. However, that 
 cannot be said for MGS4, the part about graphics not the part about the best game. MGS4 graphics 
 are jaw droppingly, unbelievably, pissing in the underpantsly mind blowing. The grass and trees 
 in the jungles, to the montiainous tracks, to the war torn middle eastern towns to the warehouses 
 to the underground tunnels, to the character animations and models to the guns and vechiles, to 
 the enemies and small objects laying around all add up to one hell of design and visual presenation. 
 The cutscene to gameplay transition is seemingless, one second your in a cut scene and the next 
 the cutscene camera moves behind Snake to let you know gameplay mode is back online. As for the 
 cut scenes, the praise goes to the camera angles and cinematic style presentation is mind blowing 
 literally. Sure every other game has some sort of cinematic experience but MGS4 sets the bar, its 
 the boss in that department and my god what a Big Boss it is *WINK*. My final word on the graphics 
 is that I can't complain about them, they are off the hook. MGS4 is graphically the best looking 
 game until now, Gears of War has been knocked of the setting standards bar. 
  
  MULTIPLAYER: Metal Gear Online doesn't eclipse MGS4 however it makes the whole pack worth every 
 penny you paid. Built from the same engine as MGS4, MGO is a online tactical shooter for upto 16 
 players. The starter pack with 5 maps is included in the game. You create you character from different 
 customizations, though the customizations are numerous, they do shape your character. Then similar 
 to the COD4 perks, you ahve perks in MGO which gives your character distinct abilitis. You can 
 place up to four at a time from Assault Rifle Expert to faster movement, to SMG expert to CQC expert. 
 These perks work really well and can give you an advantage when manipulated properly. Fruthermore, 
 all the guns from the orginal game are here too. As you play and get kills, you get Drebin points, 
 once you have the right amount during the play after you are dead new weapons are unlocked to buy. 
 This allows for you to change your guns many times in the match. All the famous modes from Subsistence 
 are back and new ones, including Capture, Deathmatch, Team Deathmatch but the star one is Sneaking. 
 Where one player gets to be Snake while the others have to take him out. The gameplay is again 
 the same as the orginal game, however since this is online with 16 players, it isnt run and gun 
 or COD4 gameplay. You have to be cautious throughout your session because kills are a commodity 
 and the deaths are numerous especially when your a noob or COD4 gunner. You also have the ability 
 to play dead and unlike UT3, here it actually works. Especially when your capturing a base, you 
 can play dead and the enemy has no idea if your alive or dead, once they turn there back to you, 
 you can get up and choke them to death, or slit there throat. Yes, the CQC is also involved, adding 
 more to the experience rather then just gun play. Once you choke someone, the person becomes unconcious 
 with 3 starts over there head. They can be revived with either wait, or by a tramate waking them 
 up, but usually enemies put a bullet in your head sending you off. Team play is very important 
 here, communication as well. Thus the name Tactical Espionage Action. Awards and statistics are 
 also present giving you the urge to be the best. The only downside to Metal Gear Online, although 
 is minor, but its till there. As you get online for the first time, you are told to register a 
 Konami and Game ID. The Konami ID is used for purchasing stuff while the Game ID is used for your 
 identity. The registration can be lengthy espeically if you don't have a USB keyboard. Fruthermore, 
 there are many restrictions to your password and game ID. But when you make your character, you 
 can name it whatever you want, no restrictions there and thats the name that comes up on screen 
 during online play. Clan support is present inclduing Clan rankings and thats personally the best 
 aspect to MGO. Clan support like this hasn't been seen since SOCOM and its the experience is maximized 
 when you keep you manipulate the clan support. Clans also have seperate Clan Rankings. My final 
 word on Metal Gear Online is that its not COD4 killer, neither does it eclipse the actual game, 
 however it adds to the MGS universe and MGS4 experience and makes sure that just because you have 
 finished MGS4, doesn't mean the disc is leaving the PS3. So yes, its very addicitive indeed, especially 
 when you have friends playing. 
  
  FINAL COMMENTS: In convlusion, I would like to say that Metal Gear Solid 4 accomplishes what it 
 sets out to do, to tie all the lose ends, becomes the critical and public achievement, sells more 
 than a million copies, blows minds, and gives the series a farewell. Metal Gear Solid 4 is an achievement 
 in both its gameplay and its production, and the misxonception about it being a movie is the worst 
 one I have seen in years cause theres more then enough gameplay to go around. Its story is engaging 
 and has all those MGS elements in it making it the best story in the MGS series and the best plot 
 in gaming, within the gaming industry. The gameplay takes many elements from many games, and refines 
 them that they seem new, it also sets standards in terms of bosses, the pace of the game and the 
 variation throughout it. The graphics sets new standards and puts alot of crown holders out of 
 business. This game is reommended to anyone who has a heart beat, this game is the reason to buy 
 a PS3, and it certainly should not be missed by any living soul. Also, a number of reviews have 
 come out, most of them perfect scores, some of them near perfect however there are a few, that 
 stand out, and are laughed at that consider MGS4 in the eight category. Once someone plays this 
 game, that person will understand that those people are just fake and havent played the game. Or 
 they want the game that exceeds all games within the last decade to fail because the console they 
 may support doesn't have that game or its better than any game on their console. Because whether 
 you talk to someone on the street or somone down at IGN or Gamespot, Metal Gear Solid 4: Guns of 
 the Patriots is the Game of the Year 2008. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: j-bldes
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 16, 2008 10:15 pm PT
Review:  Metal Gear Solid 4: Guns of the patriots is an example of a well developed next gen game. Now, 
 to clear up a few things, I would like to first address the whole "more movie than game" statement. 
 Number one, if you played it, you would know it's not more movie than game, it's 1st half of the 
 game is more game play, 2nd have is about uncovering the story. Most people who claim to like MGS4, 
 aren't true fans of the series and don't really understand MGS4, thus voicing their opinions as 
 they have, which they are entitled too. But for me, a true die hard MGS fan, found this to be everything 
 Kojima promised. This game has 20 years of story to wrap up in 1 disk, and they still had to make 
 some cuts. 
  
  First thing you'll notice about MGS4: GOP is the graphics. Excellent and top notch, pretty much 
 how a next gen game should look. And the best part, it's all presented in real time, meaning those 
 cut scenes aren't pre-rendered, when you play and what cut scenes you watch are the same. No CGI 
 renders here, all real time. Everything in the game works well. From transition to each level, 
 you discover the story more and more.
  
  Just as Kojima promised us a great story, he gave us great gameplay. The new OCTOCAMO is a great 
 addition, along with the Threat Ring, and the Solid Eye, all fit together to make your sneaking 
 mission more intense and determined on your skill. Just like other MGS games, you are tasked with 
 sneaking around unnoticed, and reaching your goal. The game comes with several levels of difficulties 
 to test your skill. 
  
  This game isn't for everyone. Sure you can run around and kill everyone, be in 100 alert phases, 
 and get 100 continues, but realize that as in ever MGS game, your are severely scrutinized, and 
 you can move forward by playing so, but doing so on the hard mode and higher, will not get you 
 anything, and certainly not any of the goodies stored away based on your performance. As you progress 
 in the game, you will discover more and more weapons. In fact, your looking at over 65 weapon types 
 in the single player. 
  
  There are over 130 different items (weapons included) for you to discover and use, fitted with dozens 
 of weapon customizations and munitions types to make your playing experience unique to your liking. 
 You also get a little metal gear of your own, the Mk. II. Though most would see it as useless, 
 if you actually want to do good in the game, it is a great tool. You can send him to get items 
 out of your reach, shock an enemy in front of you, and even recon if your Solid Eye is low on battery. 
 
  
  Aside from the item list (which I won't spoil for you guys) the story will keep you hooked. As you 
 discover new parts and information discovering the truth about the patriots and the people living 
 in their world, you will visit several areas, each with a level of detail unimaginable. As you 
 go to these different areas, pass the 2nd half of the game, the cut scenes go from once every area, 
 to once every time you learn something new. The cut scenes do come on a bit heavy, but for me, 
 it was fine. Recaping 20 years for those who are new to the series, and unraveling the future for 
 those anxious to find out weather snake lives or dies, each cut scenes plays a Role and if you 
 didn't watch them, you will be lost and loose out on the experience on the game.
  
  The online play is good, but in my oppinion it could be better. The main problem I have with playing 
 online is the aspect bars. I understand them being in the single player, but online? I played MGS4 
 on a LCD 32" Samsung 1080p, and my 19" pc monitor, and it feels like if your not playing it on 
 a big screen, it gets cluttered with too much information. The online weapon types have been greatly 
 reduced compared to it's single player counter part, but you experience the weapon customization 
 with "Debrin Points" being enabled. Although I think they should be on all the time. You also get 
 skills fairing you better against your opponent in a certain area, given that you spend the time 
 to master them. 
  
  
  
  All in all, this game is quite far the best game I have ever played. Great story, great game play, 
 and online (which is a requirement for me to buy a game) play are all married into one 50gb disk 
 of perfection. Unfortunately, the story ends. But like all good things, the road doesn't go on 
 for ever. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: e-EqualsMcp
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 16, 2008 7:32 pm PT
Review:  This is the first review I have written for this site. No game really garners my time to write 
 a review, not because there aren't good games out there. On the contrary in the past months, especially, 
 there have been many absolutely superb games. I'm just not the type of guy to write reviews, however, 
 this game has actually gotten me off my ass to write a review simply because this game deserves 
 it. My mind goes back a couple years ago when I first played Half Life 2. Then and there I thought 
 that there couldn't be a game to replace that title as my favorite game of all time. I was mistaken. 
 I've been thinking which I really like better and I have to say MGS4 passes Half Life 2 in my opinion. 
 The graphics are top notch and the game play has never been better. This isn't what the main draw 
 to MGS4, however. The thing that puts this title above all others is its cinematic quality. Never 
 before have I been so immersed into a game. The game makes me actually care about what is going 
 to happen, I feel attached to these characters. The camera angles, the dialog, and the evolution 
 of the plot make the game feel like you are actually controlling a movie.
  On the game play side of things the new mechanics fit in nicely. Hardcore fans of the series won't 
 be put off by the new camera system. The old games were fine and I was worried that the game wouldn't 
 feel the same as those but even from the beginning of the game I could tell I was playing a new 
 MGS game. The Drebin Shop adds a new way to play altogether. The ability to customize your weapons 
 that you buy from Drebin (which are purchased using points you obtain by picking up weapons of 
 the battlefield) makes the combat better than any other title in the series. The battlefield element 
 adds a new feel to the sneaking. You can now slip by without even having to walk slowly if the 
 enemy is engaged in combat. The octivecamo is very cool. The first time I made my body go into 
 a checkered pattern and hug up a wall made my jaw drop because he really did blend in with the 
 environment. Metal Gear Online is another nicely placed addition. Now it's not the BEST online 
 experience but it is still very fun.
  Metal Gear Solid 4 is truly an explosion from start to finish. Kojima and his crew have really 
 created a masterpiece. It saddens me to finish this review because words really can't describe 
 how good this game is. If you like the MGS series, stealth games, or hell games in general this 
 is a must have. This is not only my pick for game of the year but as I have said before my pick 
 for the greatest game of all time. This is the last Metal Gear Solid game for old snake, and what 
 a way to go out.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: rodd76dog
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jun 16, 2008 7:19 pm PT
Review:  I finally got a chance to play the game and if was great. It felt a little awkward at first but 
 eventually felt better. The game has cut scene after cut scene which personally I dont care for 
 but some are good but just to long. The gameplay is a little on the pause and react feel due to 
 the 3rd person to 1st person to complete view switching that you must due to see the enemies better. 
 The only thing that makes the game great is the hype. The game graphics are not that good to me. 
 The only things that receive a graphic upgrade was the models. The environments are ps2 graphics 
 with a black and white color wheel. The black and white was a great choice for the games graphics 
 because it adds detail to the games models. The background graphic are horrible. The games is worthy 
 of play from xbox360 lovers to wii lovers. When the game ends you feel like you havent played enough 
 but you have. The Cut scenes take you out of the game way to much. Not a breath taker but a, lets 
 see what else is new in this game type of game. The overall graphics is a 8 the player models are 
 10. IF the boards had better detail it would surpass anything out there graphically but it doesnt. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: WhiteFang94
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 16, 2008 6:55 pm PT
Review:  In my opinion this game has suprisingly amazing graphics, extreamly fun but short gameplay, lots 
 of twists to an astonishing story. It ties up all of the games into a very simple explination to 
 their stories. I rate this game a 10 and name it the best game of all time. I truly beleave Hideo 
 Kojima is a legend for his work with metal gear solid. I want him to move on to something original 
 once again. I look up to him greatly enough to want to be where he is in game divelopment. He is 
 my gaming hero and will be for a long  
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Rex369
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 16, 2008 6:48 pm PT
Review:  After GTA4 came out I didn't think a game as good as it would come out for a while. I was completely 
 wrong. This game has completely surpassed my expectations. The story mode is addictive and actually 
 pulls you in. Probably the best story I have ever played in a video game. Then there is the online. 
 The online is awesome and wall set up. I do have a few complaints with this game though. This game 
 would be great even if there was no online. But there is an online and it is great. Their are a 
 few to many videos, the installations can be annoying, and signing up for the online was a pain 
 in the donkey. Overall this was a great game and maybe didn't deserve a 10 but since I gave GTA4 
 a 10 I have to give this one a 10. This is a big step for the PS3 and video games all together. 
 This should be a game in everyones collection and makes buying a PS3 worth it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: onething77
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 5, 2008 1:24 pm PT
Review:  (Flashback) .. Ah!... I remember when it first started. When I was first introduced to Snake, Liquid 
 and Otacon. I remember when I first glanced at this sick, twisted, and dark feeling game that leaves 
 you breathless. But I never thought it could have gotten any better. Surely, I was proven wrong. 
 Here I stand, today, in aw, holding my MGS4 copy, wondering how Hideo Kojima was able to make such 
 a game. Its quite simple. MGS4 rewrites the rules of cinematic and gameplay we gamers want to see 
 and experience. Damn! And I thought GTAIV was amazing. MGS4 possesses this feeling of satisfaction, 
 of infinite pleasure. Its simple, this game is pure sex-for-gamers! I highly doubt it will ever 
 be surpassed. MGS4 stands tall compared to Halo and Call Of Duty, and this is the game that will 
 make you want to purchase a PS3. The story draws you in, even to the point where you feel sympathy 
 for the villains. The game's charisma and charm will leave everyone speechless, and only liars 
 will resolve to not admitting so. Get it or die. Until then, enjoy this masterful game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: predatorium
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 16, 2008 6:27 pm PT
Review:  I have only played through the game on Big Boss Hard difficulty, and it was just right, maybe a 
 little bit on the easy side, but now I have unlocked Extreme, so I think that will shut me up. 
 I tried to play it as the way it should be played, like a sneaking game. Very satisfying. 
  
  
  The BAD STUFF first shall we? : 
  
  Threat ring: totally unnecessary, it's just irritatingly 
 floating around you. I mean we metal gear players have suffered with bad camera angels for soo 
 long, but still been able to pull off perfect sneakings.
  
  Mk 2: Only used it once, and that was on a very nostalgic occasion.. involving electrified floor. 
 I allways liked to play MGS 3 on extreme, because it didn't give you any of those crazy gadgets 
 like the sonar and stuff. Sometimes less is more, makes the game more immersive. That brings me 
 to the controls 
  
  
  THE GOOD AND THE BAD... and the ugSscchh! wanna get sued?!
  
  The controls (oh really?) : There's a lot of things you can do, and it takes a while to get used 
 to, and the buttons are pressure sensitive, which as we all know, can screw things up for you sometimes. 
 But you get the hang of it, and then you become DA Snake. So it has it ups and downs. Just read 
 the manual... and try to remember it all!
  
  CQC returns with some added moves. The strip search of enemies is now performed a bit more realisticly 
 than the shaking hoola hoop soldiers of previous installments. And all other moves do look very 
 slick and realistic.
  
  
  THE STORY
  
  This is the final chapter, and kind of like Star Wars ep 3, they had to cram everything unfinished 
 in here, luckily with a much bigger time window, and therefore a billion times better pulled off. 
 I mean Anakin turning to the darkside 2 minutes after having a laugh with Obi?! Oh well, back on 
 topic. So instead of just finishing everything up, a whole new spectrum (with the nanosoldiers 
 and all that) is introduced. Which tends to go over the top and really haves you sitting on the 
 edge of your seat trying to take it all in. But the good part is that it does rap everything up, 
 although you wish it could have been done in a less confusing way. What is really worth mentioning 
 about the cutscenes are that 1: they blend very nicely in to gameplay. 2: You can now PAUSE during 
 the cinematics! Thanks Kojima!
  
  
  ENEMIES 
  
  Most of the time you will fight squad operating PMCs (private military contractors.. I think) who 
 work together as squads to bring down the militia and you, Snake. You can ally with either side, 
 but I only tried being friends with the Rebels, or Militia as they are called. So the PMCs where 
 my enemies, and it felt like the natural choice actually, since the rebels where allways the ones 
 trying to break through the PMCs defenses, kind of what Snake is trying to do. 
  
  Then there's the small metal gear things walking around. I just stayed out of there way and that 
 worked fine, although they can be scary since they remind me of a T-rex hunting you down, they 
 do have some impressive melee attack skills with their legs, so stay away. You'll eventually get 
 your hands on a big familiar weapon, that you can bring these mini gears down with.
  
  There's also special forces ninja-like soldiers who come frome time to time to push you around, 
 using P90s and crazy jumping spiderman skills. A few shots to the head and they go down. You just 
 got to find the right moment when they are not moving too much. 
  
  Finally there's a robot type of enemy in form of balls with arms that roll around and shoot and 
 jump at you trying to grab you.
  
  
  BOSSES.. that I won't spoil.
  
  Kind of like in all metal gear games there is a group of bosses with their own strength and weaknesses. 
 This group consists of four sexy girls, which doesn't look too sexy when you first encounter them. 
 The boss fights are quite easy once you get the hang of what you have to do, which isn't hard at 
 all. They aren't as interesting as in previous games, sorry to say. But they tend to be more of 
 the scary type, which is a plus.
  
  
  WEAPONS.. of tiny destruction
  
  The weapon choice is vast and varied, with all modern weaponry you can think of, and then some. 
 Quite early on in the game you meet Drebin, a weapon launderer. You see, all weapons have ID locks 
 in MGS 4, and Drebin can unlock them for you. You can buy weapons and ammo from him anytime during 
 the game from the pause menu. You can also customize your weapons with parts you buy from him. 
 Like supressors, scopes, grips etc. Every weapon that you pick up on the battlefield (you can pick 
 up weapons from every body lying around this time around) that you allready own, will automatically 
 be sold to Drebin minus the ammo which you get to keep. By doing different things in the game you 
 can earn Drebin points that you can use in his shop.
  
  
  THE DESIGN
  
  Beautiful! Motion capture, Metal Gear in HD, sharp textures, awesome effects, big maps, interactive 
 environments and lots of detail, such as bottles lying around that makes sound if you walk over 
 them and stuff like that. Then there's the sound. The music is awesome, as we all have come to 
 expect from a Metal Gear game, and hear this, you have an iPOD! From the item menu you can access 
 your iPod where you can listen to music from all metal gears and other Konami games. You will come 
 across music tracks hidden all over the game that will be added to your ingame iPod. The voice 
 acting is great as allways.
  
  The game has a great sence of humour to it, and really have some great jokes about older games 
 in the series and such. Speaking of that, the game really takes you through the hole series with 
 flashbacks and other big and small design implementations to make you remember the whole experience 
 in a way to say farewell. Do I make any sense? Well you understand when you play the game. At the 
 end of the game I cried, just a little but still, it was very emotional. Not just the whole this 
 is THE end thing, but the way the story ended for every character in the game. 
  
  
  just want to mention the MULTIPLAYER
  
  Metal Gear Online is included in the game, and is really 
 a unique and fun game since it includes the elements from the single player, such as CQC, cardboard 
 boxes etc. But also thanks to the very cool character creation system, where you can decide every 
 peace of tactical equipment. Also in games there there is the ability to fully customize weapons, 
 if Drebin points are activated. Meaning that if you kill you earn points to buy customizations.
 
  
  
  CONCLUSION
  
  Not the best in the series, personally the first (MGS) and third are my favourites. Very Very good 
 looking and sounding game, with great game play and memorable moments. Great story that spiraled 
 a little bit out of control along the way, but still managed to finish up quite nicely. 
  
  The first game to bring me to tears, but was it tears of joy or sadness? Play the game to find 
 out.
  
  
  
  The score slider is broken! It has to be 9.5 instead of 9.3 then. Thanks for reading!!
  
  
 
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: RevolutionLink
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 16, 2008 6:22 pm PT
Review:  From Metal Gear Solid on the Playstation to Sons of Liberty and Snake Eater on the PS2 the MGS 
 franchise has always been one of the most highly regarded in the video game industry. With this 
 franchise came unique gameplay, amazing storytelling and top of the line visuals. But how do you 
 end a series that is beloved by so many? You do it in style and Hideo Kojima with his amazing development 
 team have proved once again how great this series is. You will be absolutely overwhelmed with emotions 
 as you take Solid Snake through his final mission. 
  
  The storytelling from the Metal Gear Solid franchise is one of the most complicated in the industry 
 and so much emphasis has been placed on it throughout its twenty one year history. The experiences 
 within the games could be compared with some of the best films out there. This may set some people 
 off as minutes of gameplay can be sandwiched into hours of cut scenes, but that's what the franchise 
 is all about. Obviously if you weren't a fan of that in the past than your opinion won't be changed 
 this time around. Not to spoil anything but besides the ending cinematics there were several that 
 advanced the one hour mark one even closing in on eighty minutes. The thing is though if you don't 
 know the storyline of this franchise or if you decide to boycott it in this game than you'll only 
 be having half of the experience. Of course Kojima along with his writers put a lot of effort into 
 closing up the many plot lines in this series all of which should be satisfying to fans. Not to 
 be bias but this is definitely the greatest story in any video game I have played thus far and 
 I couldn't be happier with the final result. Of course to tell this great story the cinematics 
 must be amazing, and they are. To tell the truth the transitions from cinematic to gameplay are 
 unnoticeable and the gameplay and story just compliment each other so well. All of your favourite, 
 or not so favourite, characters returncoughMei Ling. Playing the game has a real purpose to it 
 as you dwell deeper into their storylines and you really start to feel for the characters. Thankfully 
 closure is brought to each of them. Overall the plot from the Metal Gear franchise has always been 
 so deep and riveting and enough can't be said about it in Guns of the Patriots. 
  
  As I mentioned before the gameplay within the Metal Gear franchise is one to its own. The emphasis 
 throughout the series has been placed on stealth action rather than straight combat action. Besides 
 a few occasions here and there you could essentially go the entire game without killing anyone. 
 On the other hand though the game can be played essentially like any other FPS. This time around 
 the latter experience has improved with more weapons and customizability being added to the gameplay. 
 There are a huge variety of weapons that you can gain around the battlefield or from a man called 
 Drebin. You can sell, buy and upgrade your armory straight from the start menu. This takes some 
 difficulty out of the game as you won't be hunting for or conserving your ammo. The storyline will 
 essentially take you through five acts each with their own unique setting. These settings and environments 
 vary greatly as you traverse through the ruins of an Middle Eastern town, to the jungles of South 
 America or even to a nostalgic island covered in snow. The boss battles in this game are also terrific 
 each of them being unique from the other and each of them a load of fun to play. From fighting 
 a mutating creature in a laboratory to a mechanical wolf in a howling blizzard each of them is 
 stunning. The stealth movements in this game also feel as real as ever. The addition of the OctoCamo 
 suit is really great as you can blend into the environments around you. So overall its nice that 
 you can take either route, advancing through the game in a stealth or combat oriented fashion. 
 There are so many new gameplay moments that are added into this game that wouldn't be associated 
 with the franchise. Whether it be the superb car chase through a European town or the fight between 
 Metal Gear Rex and Ray, these moments are abundant and superb. With the success of online in Subsistence 
 it was no question that it would be included in MGS4. A variety of modes with up to 16 players 
 can be utilized. It seems like every game these days has to have online and its good to know that 
 Metal Gear is pretty good and has set itself apart from other online games. When it boils down 
 to it the Metal Gear franchise is the best stealth action series out there and you won't be disappointed 
 this one last time.
  
  Guns of the Patriots is probably the greatest technical achievement in video game history. The 
 Playstation 3 is pushed to its limits and every character, scenery, and explosion is perfect. The 
 motion capture and combat is all so realistic and it is an amazing experience. Its hard to explain 
 the graphics in this game but to put it simply Guns of the Patriots sets the bar and will probably 
 go untouched for quite some time. The music in this game is quite good containing pieces from all 
 previous Metal Gears to some new works as well. The music really sets the tone in the game whether 
 it be a high adrenaline situation or some important dialogue. The voice acting is this game as 
 usual is amazing. David Hayter provides some of his best work yet as he is also supported by an 
 array of familiar characters. MetalGear!?
  
  The fact of the matter is if you've never enjoyed the Metal Gear Solid franchise than your crazy. 
 No just kidding but you won't like this game as if follows the same road. That said though you'll 
 only be having half of the experience if you haven't played any previous titles in the franchise. 
 Questions that have gone on throughout the entire franchise have been answered. Solid Snake is 
 one of the most legendary heroes out there and MGS is one of the most legendary series as well. 
 To bring this series to a close and do it in such an amazing fashions speaks leagues about Hideo 
 Kojima and his development team. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: demonicrage666
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 16, 2008 5:17 pm PT
Review:  This is the greatest gaming experience I have ever encountered. Yes... i may sound biased but for 
 this game I cannot say enough in words how truly wonderful this game is. From the beginning opening 
 sequence to the thrilling finale, this game is a gem. Every question is answered, Every secret 
 exposed and Snake gets the redemption on the course of his life that only Hideo Kojima can pave 
 for him. This saga ends in a spectacular fashion. I recommend that anyone who is able to play to 
 this game to run out and purchase it and enjoy it. Being a fan of the series this is a wonderful 
 conclusion to the grand story that the Metal Gear Saga is. Controls - 10, Graphics 10, Story 10, 
 Overall experience 100. I Love This Game. I Have'nt even played the multiplayer yet so that says 
 alot. Hideo and company have really outdone themselves. I will miss all the memorable characters, 
 all the memorable moments and most of all the enjoyment of looking foward to having a New Metal 
 Gear to look foward to. There is no game out there that can touch it. Sorry Guys but Master Chief 
 has got nothing on Solid Snake. May The snakes live forever. lol 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RKM_1999
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 16, 2008 4:33 pm PT
Review:  Metal Gear Solid 4 is the greatest game for the playstation 3! I loved the story and it made me 
 understand who the Patriots were and all that. But I truely don't like Raiden's part in the game 
 I never liked him since he came into the picture. But for the part he played and I don't want to 
 give anything away but I liked the end to his story. And for Snake... wow... I got scared there for 
 a minute when we was at the grave site.... (Good work scaring me Hideo!) And for the game play... it's 
 excellent... but what don't make since to me is why did Solid Snake know how to do CQC? It felt 
 like I was playin' MGS 3 again.. It felt like I was controlin' Big Boss... But it's all good... And 
 I did'nt like the part where your following a certain person to got to someone... it was a lil' 
 hard for me... i like sneaking and all that but maybe it was because my first time through... and 
 the Shadow Moses part... wow! I liked when your goin' into it and you start like if your playing 
 Metal Gear Solid 1! That was tight.... And when your goin' through Shadow Moses you can hear parts 
 from the Metal Gear Solid 1 game.... NICE WORK HIDEO! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: anshanlord
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 16, 2008 4:21 pm PT
Review:  mgs 4 starts to be the best game of the year and maybe the best game ever created! i must admit 
 althogh i was a fan of mgs series but i did not expected the game to be this good!
  story line is like the greatest political & dramatic stories ever told
  at the end you will finish 
 with tears in your eyes & your jaws on the floor
  all the main charachters from all mgs series came to finish the story of solid snake & ofcource 
 the patriots.
  at the end of the game you will know who created them & who led them throgh ruling the world.
 
  lets leave the story here and go to gameplay & graphics i must admit this is the smothest and 
 best gameplay i ever expirinced & it feels a total feeling that you would have in a vetran soldier 
 like solid snake shoes!
  the graphics are great and very beutifl its nothing compared to graphic master like crysis but 
 beside crysis is the best graphics ever we saw very good motion captures in titles such as heavenly 
 sword & uncharted: drake's fortune but this one is a whole lot better & the charachters just feel 
 as right as real humans.
  sounds are just as great as they should be in some parts of the game like the act 4 in shadow moses 
 island you will hear old sound tracks from metal gear solid 1 that brings a lot o f good memories 
 back & in about a minute you will play with snake in mgs 1!!!! but its too short still you will 
 see some places in mgs 1 again and it really feels good.
  if you want to play the game like you dont miss a single thing the game takes you about 25 hours 
 but if you just want to finish the game in a normal way it will be ended in less than 20 hours (my 
 first save 17:36)
  the metal gear online is just as good as it can get its very much similar to the one we had on 
 ps2 with mgs 3: subsistance but making an id is really a pain in the ***...
  the game has 4 difficulty modes in the begining: liqid, naked, solid & bigboss
  the liqid mode will 
 be preferd as the very easy, naked will be easy, solid is normal & bigboss is hard after you finish 
 the game another mode as extreme big boss will appear that is tottaly chalenging and fun thogh 
 very very very hard.
  any way this game is just the best game i ever played & i belive its the best game created on history 
 of video games or at least in this generation
  
  have nice time 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dragon0113
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 16, 2008 3:55 pm PT
Review:  Hideo Kojima has truly outdone himself on what is believed to be the final installment of the Metal 
 Gear franchise. Let's hope that he realizes that the fans are going to want more and he figures 
 out a way to continue the Series.
  This is as close to perfection as game with this magnitude can get. I can only find one aspect 
 that I have a problem with, and that's the fact that the cut scenes are long and drawn out. Some 
 scenes could have been shorter without compromising the story, but if you have been an avid follower 
 of the MGS series you have come to expect this kind of story telling. However, it is something 
 for the most part that I am able to overlook. Just make sure you have your popcorn and redbull 
 readily available because, although the cut scenes are long, you do not want to miss them.
  The Controls could not be any better. If you are new to MGS, you will probably want to play through 
 the game at least once and spend most of your time experimenting with Snake's different capabilities 
 and moves. If you are familiar with MGS you will be begging for the many opportunities for CQC.
 
  There is no right way to make your way through the game. You can either chose to be passive or 
 you can run in with guns blazing; it is totally up to you. You can play through the game several 
 times and find a different way to reach your goal each time. This is what really makes this game 
 so extraordinary.
  The graphics look awesome and it enhances your game play to no end. This has got to be one of the 
 best games I have seen.
  There is definitely no shortage of weapons to choose from; many of which are customizable. A lot 
 of times you will have a hard time figuring out which weapon you want to use. 
  This game is a must have. Whether you are a hardcore or casual gamer or are just looking for something 
 unlike other game out there, you will want to add this game to your collection. If you have been 
 putting off buying that PS3, waiting for a game to come along that can justify the purchase, well 
 that game is here and you will not be disappointed.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Linik0007
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 16, 2008 3:33 pm PT
Review:  thats right all you MGS fans, Snake is back, and hes not only as awesome as ever, but hes also 
 as old as ever, for in this game, you play as old snake, instead of young, aside from that, lets 
 get to the review.
  
  Pros: 
  Excellent Voice actors
  Amazing Graphics
  Excellent stealth gameplay
  Excellent combat gameplay (it plays a bit like gears of war, meaning 
 that there is some cover involved, but you have an HP bar, unlike other new shooters)
  realistic sound
  wonderful music
  
  Cons:
  Faulty advertising (Ipods, playboys and a japanese 
 energy drink)
  Ps3 exclusive
  sometimes over acted
  slight lag for multiplayer
  
  but aside from the cons, Metal gear solid is a beutiful game both gameplay wise and graphic wise, 
 and should be owned by all metal gear fans.
  
  I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I 
 I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I 
  I I I I I I I I I I Linik0007 Review I I I I I I I I I I 
  I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I 
 I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I 
 I I I I 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Raikoh_
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 18, 2008 3:42 am PT
Review:  Metal Gear Solid 4: Guns of the Patriots is the closing chapter to Solid Snake's long fight on 
 the battlefield. The game is a third person action adventure that blends stealth and shooting elements 
 together, making it easier to enjoy depending on your preferred play style.
  
  We follow Solid Snake, now known as Old Snake, on one last mission to rid the world of Liquid Ocelot 
 and his diabolical plans. A lot of older characters make an appearance along side of some newer 
 faces. The story ties up all the loose ends left by all the Metal Gear games and delivers an amazing 
 story telling experience which is by far Hideo Kojima's finest. Sometimes you can see flashbacks 
 and through Snake's eyes during cut scenes, which adds a little spin on this.
  
  The graphics are well done. The game installs each act individually and this keeps the game from 
 having frame rate issues. Cut scenes are absolutely gorgeous but pretty long. The sound quality 
 is fantastic and combined with the beautiful graphics they deliver a perfect cinematic experience.
 
  
  The game play is smooth and any one familiar with the metal gear series should have no problem 
 mastering the controls. Snake now has a new suit, that will change depending on what Snake is touching, 
 called OctoCamo. It really adds a new twist on the stealth element since you'll find yourself hiding 
 out in plain site of the enemy and you'll occasionally find yourself in tight situations as enemies 
 patrol the streets and pass only a few feet by Snake. There are plenty of guns at Snake's disposal, 
 which you can either find, or buy using Drebin points. You can also customize your guns in a number 
 of ways. The A. I. is just fine, they'll hunt Snake down if you trigger an alert or use certain 
 items depending on where they think Snake is. There's always multiple paths to choose from so you 
 don't always have to go the same way get to your objectives. You can also influence the outcome 
 of certain firefights, although that is completely your choice if you want to or not. You can set 
 the OctoCamo to either manual or automatic if you don't ant to constantly switch back and forth. 
 You may also save certain pieces of camouflage for manual use if you like. If you don't feel like 
 taking the risk of triggering an alert you may use the MK. II to neutralize enemy soldiers, that 
 may be in your way. Everything feels more also feels more alive as ferocious gun fights break out 
 between the rebels and private military corporations. Groups of enemies will walk through the streets 
 using hand signals to communicate, scream out orders during battle and take cover when needed.
 
  
  Metal Gear online is also included on the disc and it's very fun. There's a nice variety of game 
 modes, and you may customize your own character. Sneak mode has to be one of the most interesting 
 game modes, where one player gets to be Solid Snake, another gets to control the MK. II, complete 
 with OctoCamo and stealth, and everyone else is split up into 2 teams and they're all trying to 
 kill Snake.
  
  Metal Gear Solid 4: Guns of the Patriots is Kojima and Konami's masterpiece. It has loads of replay 
 value, and answer a lot of questions. No PS3 owner should go without at least giving the game a 
 try. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: capin131
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 20, 2008 12:42 pm PT
Review:  Bullets whiz over your prone body as you sneak through the forest. Mortar fire can be heard in 
 the distance, screeching above. The mortar strikes the ground with force, kicking up dust, dirt 
 and debris, eliciting a wince. You keep going -- after all, you've got a job to do.
  
  You continue your long, slow crawl through the muck. From the east comes a squadron of militia 
 fighters who do not notice you hiding in some high grass. They push forward while you follow close 
 behind, careful to not arouse suspicion. Soon enough, the rebels begin to engage private military 
 corporation (PMC) troops that are entrenched in their base. Amidst the chaos, you start to circle 
 around the battlefield, but soon find that your initial pathway is cut-off by a machine gun that 
 will surely tear you to shreds if you continue on. Pulling back, you quickly check your map for 
 another way to evade these two factions. Confirming that a hill to the west will do the trick, 
 you slither to your destination, successfully evading all combat. 
  
  Soon after, you'll meet up with Drebin, a cool, calm, no non-sense kind of guy who will be your 
 supplier of all sort of explosives, weapons, and ammunition, who will allow you to tailor your 
 battlefield experience a bit. To be sure, Metal Gear Solid 4 is a stealth action game first and 
 foremost, but there are some concessions here for someone who likes to run-and-gun. 
  
  After purchasing some much needed supplies, you forge ahead. Using your Solid Eye, which allows 
 you to view where enemy forces are, (radar and binoculars) how concealed you are from them, as 
 well as allowing an infra-red option to help you in the darker locales, you spot two PMC soldiers 
 patrolling a road that you need to travel along. Swapping to your tranquilizer pistol, you take 
 aim for the first. A shot to the neck drops him in one fell swoop. His partner turns around, puzzled 
 at the sight of his fallen comrade. Before he gets a chance to investigate, you plug him with two 
 tranquilizer shotsjust to be safe. Staring at your pistol, you're shocked at how easy the controls 
 are than in past missions, and you're thankful you're not fighting from an over-head, top-down 
 viewpoint. Laying still, you allow your "OctoCamo" suit to readjust to fit the terrain that you 
 will be traversing up ahead. You move forward. Coming up to another PMC base, you take shelter 
 behind a concrete block. You try to take cover behind it, in the hopes of being able to take pot 
 shots at the enemy, then ducking back down into cover. Sadly, Snake wasn't equipped with this seemingly 
 basic ability.
  
  After infiltrating a compound for a person of interest, you make your way around another battlefield. 
 A bulldozer for the now friendly militia (because you did not fire at them in previous parts of 
 the game) is destroyed, slowing your progress to find this "person of interest." Destination points 
 on your mini-map direct you to destroy two doors that seemingly lead to where you have to go, though, 
 it is clear after many attempts to bust down the doors that your map is mistaken. Instead, you 
 will have to go elsewhere, as you mutter under your breath about the poor direction. This will 
 not be the only time that poor direction will cause some discomfort, most noticeably when you encounter 
 certain boss characters in the game. Not only poor direction, but an extremely "gamey" cheesiness 
 comes into play during a specific boss encounter, where the solution does not necessarily logically 
 flow. Through persistence, constant Codec calls to Otacon, or through a desperate search of online 
 guides, you'll eventually find the solution, but wish that the challenge was in the fight, rather 
 than finding a convoluted weak point. This is the weakness of the second half of the game, which 
 is heavier on boss fights and plot, rather than intense battlefield situations. For fans of Snake's 
 saga, this will not be a problem -- for fans of the excellent gameplay that Metal Gear Solid 4 provides, 
 it's a bit of a let down.
  
  Inevitably, you'll stumble into a cut-scene or two, which is where the bulk of the story unfolds. 
 The game represents a wide swath of genres, from action, comedy, drama, romance, science fiction -- Metal 
 Gear Solid 4 has it all. In terms of pure cinematic quality, Metal Gear Solid 4 arguably has no 
 equal in games. In terms of narrative quality, there can be some points of contention. Both melodramatic 
 and insanely hard to follow at times due to the intricacy of the story that is being told, (especially 
 to franchise rookies) the plot may turn off those that can't suspend disbelief. Characters will 
 commit acts that shatter reason, even within the context of an already "out there" storyline. Still, 
 I could not help but to be thoroughly engaged in the way it was presented.
  
  The melodrama and the plot belie the realism that Metal Gear Solid 4 can provide. From snow covered 
 areas under white out conditions that considerably hampers your vision, to the emotion that characters 
 show in their face, Metal Gear Solid 4 presents a believable world. The intensity that you feel 
 in your gut while you're sneaking past enemy troops, or the shiver that goes up your spine when 
 you're spotted is very real. The landscapes, the sound of two competing factions barking orders 
 at their fellow troops, the guns firing -- all these components add to the gameplay in ways that 
 are immeasurable. 
  
  That's really what Metal Gear Solid 4's essence was about: the intensity of the fight. There are 
 story elements that will please the hardcore MGS nuts and there are deeper, real-world themes explored 
 here (though very beneath the surface, and it will vary from player to player what they get out 
 of it) but the engaging cut-scenes are not what made Metal Gear Solid 4. It was fear. Fear of getting 
 spotted. Fear of having to fight. Fear of failure. That intense, gut feeling powered the game throughout, 
 and the story and well crafted cut-scenes round out an excellent game. Fan of previous Metal Gear 
 games or not, Metal Gear Solid 4 deserves to be played. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: g3noc1d3r
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 16, 2008 2:31 pm PT
Review:  Ever since the 3rd installment made its way and we all beat it there has only been news and trailers 
 for the 4th installment. And so it is finally here and what can i say is that it is everything 
 it was going to be and more. The visuals show off tons of the playstation3s power but stated by 
 creator hideo kojima that they were not able to bring out the graphics or ideals of the game they 
 wanted but to me that seems almost impossible with how good the graphics are. You start out in 
 the middle eastern area then move to others that you will very much enjoy alot it may be linear 
 but is very good on what your looking at. The gameplay got aboost aswell with a resident evil 4 
 like aiming view added which is very welcome. The game also has a mini robot like metal gear u 
 can use to shock people and look around but the best part is the octocamo which u can use to blend 
 in with any area which is also very welcome comparing to the 3rd installments camo system. The 
 campain of it is very long but one thing that spreads through it are its 90 minute cutscenes which 
 are very good and state of the art overall. Then the multilayer of it metal gear online is also 
 just as good blending all the great elements of all the top shooters then bringing out the metalgear 
 feell to it. There are many great game types and customizations and overall metalgear solid 4 is 
 one of the best games i have played this year and i very recomend it to u who have a ps3 and others 
 to go get a ps3 it is that good. And i think it deserves great comments and ideals now go play 
 u will have fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mrpear
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 16, 2008 2:23 pm PT
Review:  I'm just going to cut to the chase and avoid all the fluff because I want to go back to playing 
 it my second time through. It's THAT good. 
  
  Graphics: Some of the best graphics you will see in a while. The incredible thing is that the cutscenes 
 aren't pre-rendered CGs, they're actually real-time. The amount of detail put into the character's 
 faces and clothing will leave you speechless. And through the heat of the battle, I never once 
 experienced a hiccup in the frame rate or funny clipping instances with Snake and a wall that wasn't 
 created properly. 
  
  Story: Without giving away too much, the story unfolds for all the Metal Gear fans out there, finally 
 revealing much of the questions you were left with when Sons of Liberty ended and answering questions 
 you didn't think you had until they were answered. Deep, clear, moving. Solid story.
  
  Sound: Some of the best video musical scores you'll ever hear, drawing your emotions even further 
 into the character and plot development all the while giving your heart a little rattle on the 
 battlefield. TIght sound. Also the integration of the IPOD is just too funny. 
  
  Gameplay: Intuitive controls make this game easy to play if it's your first time in action games 
 or if you're a seasoned pro. With so many different options with just how to aim and shoot (auto 
 aim, over the shoulder, first person) , it caters to just about anyone. You're also given a myriad 
 of weapons, gadgets, and items to use throughout the game, easily getting you to spend a good cummulative 
 hour on just the item and weapon menus. The added feature of weapon customization is also a neat 
 way of spicing things up or just enhancing your battlefield profficiency. So whether you're on 
 your belly, on your back, on one knee, or up on two feet, you'll have no problem hitting your targets 
 square between the eyes. 
  
  Replay Value: Tremendously high... not only are there an obscene amount of unlockables and weapons 
 to collect, there are also different emblems to acheive, proudly displaying your sneaky or not 
 so sneaky talents in the game. Not to mention there's a free online game included: Metal Gear Online, 
 which is sure to give you at least a few weeks of solid entertainment since it's based on the near 
 flawless control scheme and backdrop of the singleplayer mode. 
  
  All in all... best game I've ever played. And being a seasoned gamer, that says a lot. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MRfRESh14
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 16, 2008 1:51 pm PT
Review:  the wait made us gamers all hyped up and it made be wanted it more and more. its changed the game 
 history by many ways. Its also made us gamers changed our thoughts about game what we want. the 
 kojima company are the best creators alive. They made made the best game ever since metal gear 
 solid 1 and still today. Now to talk about metal gear solid 4 the game its self is beautiful graphics, 
 the story line, and the game its self metal gear solid 4. the graphics as we all know its best 
 of the best. the story line fits so perfect. It makes think we your going through it. Now the game 
 its not easy and its not the world hardest game. this game can be compared to any other game it 
 will be on top. can i have 1 person tell me is snake the man from assassin creed? the probably 
 the most confusing part of this game and thats something i want to know can somebody answer that 
 for me. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MattUK07
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 16, 2008 1:45 pm PT
Review:  If you have not played Metal gear solid before then you probably will not understand what its all 
 about.
  Believe me its the most complex yet brilliant story ever made in a video game.
  Well one of them any how.
  Anyway MGS4 puts you once again in the hands of Solid Snake.
  A 
 clone soldier whoms DNA has corrupted his body and made him much older than he really is.
  And so he is once again reassigned to complete yet another mission. 
  His final mission before 
 his time is up.
  His objective is to kill Liquid Ocelot 
  His evil clone brother who plans to takeover the World.
  And so Snake must use stealth tactics 
 to infiltrate each place his mission brings him to using an Octacamo suit which enalbles him to 
 change camouflage to whatever he touches whether it a texture or colour.
  He can also once again use a variety of weapons which are ever expanding including an M4, stun 
 knife, AK47, Desert Eagle, P90, RPG rocket launcher plus loads more. But the not only that but 
 Snake can now even customise each gun by buying parts from an arms dealer. To do this the player 
 just needs to collect guns off dead bodies and complete small objectives such as destroying enemies 
 etc.
  This new feature to the MGS saga is a great way to show off the new game.
  The graphics are amazing.
  The Cutscenes are very long and total up to a full 2 hours yet will 
 have you watching and listening to every second. Not only that but you can actually pause the cutscenes, 
 so if you fancy a cup of tea theres no problem there.
  The story like I said at the beginning is very complicated but very good indeed. 
  There are 
 also alot more items added which include the MKll remote control mini robot, a drum can- which 
 replaces the card board box. And the Solid eye which detects items and weapons, shows the enemies 
 life guage and can also be used as a scope.
  There are also other unique abilities like an I-pod to listen to songs you collect and unlock, 
 playboy magazines lol, play dead ability, FPS view mode- very handy and some other things but i'll 
 let you find them out for yourselfs
  Theres also Metal gear online added with the game which is supposed to be very good like the campaign.
 
  My overall rating is 10/10 for the best PS3 game so far and an excellect end to the story and 
 brilliant gameplay which makes this MGS the best so far and possibly the game of the year. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PMonkey
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 16, 2008 1:14 pm PT
Review:  I must start by saying i loved this games storyline to pieces. It truly is a work of genius with 
 an excellent story backed up by some loving attention to detail that truely blew me away. I was 
 hocked from the moment the disc was inserted and only got frustrated when facing Vamp and Screaming 
 Mantis (kicked myself both times when i figured them out) .
  
  The weapons are nicely presented with excellent audio files when fired and i felt they were well 
 balanced although i did get annoyed that after every cut-scene the game saw fit too change weapon 
 setup. A minor annoyance i know but really should have not left unchecked.
  
  The levels felt well designed with only the occasional A. I glitches when standing still for so 
 long over there recently stunned/killed buddies. Maybe they thought they would come alive if poked 
 enough i don't know but a bit too much time was given to shoot them while they decided that maybe 
 just maybe the reason the friend was sleeping with the fishes was still near by. 
  
  This is easily forgiven though and im sure could be easily fixed with a patch in the future just 
 to add that bit more realism and difficulty to the game.
  
  Also the constant reinstalling of levels each time you replay them is just annoying. There should 
 be an option to do a complete install as well as a level by level install and strikes me as a bit 
 of an oversight.
  
  This all said they only thing that lets the game down is the length of the single player campaign 
 if you dont include the cutscenes and codec conversations. I still want to actually time the action 
 minus the cut scene to get an exact time but from the rough timing of the sequences on subsequent 
 playthroughs i reckon there is only about 7 hours of gameplay.
  This in my book is seriously to short for a game but is clearly a sign of the time when more thought 
 seems to put into the multi-player than single.
  
  I have yet to play the game online and i am sure it will play very well with how the single player 
 campaign runs so i cannot comment on that at this time but for the length of time put into the 
 game couldnt they have added just a little more actually action and maybe a little less on videos?
 
  
  I short this game is well worth buying but make sure you have a lot of time to spare when a video 
 sequence is ready to start as one of the lasted over 30 mins! So come prepared have caffeine on 
 stand by for late night gaming when you just cant put the game down until that video sequence finishes... 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Keir21
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 16, 2008 12:56 pm PT
Review:  First of all ill admit MGS was my first 15 rated game. First game with guns. First game to wow 
 me. To top it all off MGS4 has become my favorite game of all time and don't call me biased because 
 i wasn't actually a massive fan of MGS3 it was a great game but it just didn't appeal to me, in 
 my review for it i gave it what i think it deserved, a 9. If your new to the series don't steer 
 clear from this game just make sure you get up to date first, trust me its worth it.
  
  Lets start with the proportion of the game because thats what people seem to be complaining about. 
 Yes the game is largely made of cut scenes but for some thats just not a bad thing. The story focuses 
 around Solid Snake AKA Old Snake who must stop the world from falling to the feet of the patriots. 
 Thats all i will say to avoid giving any major spoilers, however i must say the plot is a dramatic 
 and emotional journey especially to fans. The game felt short to me but keep in mind playing this 
 game was more or less the only thing i was doing in a 16 hour period. There are 4 acts in this 
 game and for someone taking there time would complete this game in about 20 hours+
  
  The game play has been improved from previous games so if your a gamer who couldn't give a damn 
 about story lines and have detested this game due to its complicated control scheme you may feel 
 like having another go at it. The gun play is solid and so is the sneaking, this time around you 
 will even get the option to go out guns blazing or use a more tactical approach.
  
  The series gold is also its curse with the massive cut scenes which may put most gamers off. However 
 if your willing to get into the plot Metal Gear Solid 4 is one of the best games of all time and 
 shall be remembered for years to come.
  
  Summary: Without a doubt the best game in the series and possibly one of the best games ever made. 
 With solid game play and a plot that could make you cry MGS4 is the game of this gen.
  
  Graphics: Outstanding, you will be left in total awe and shall praise every detail from the middle 
 east setting to other countries all around the globe. The character models are incredible and some 
 of the most amazing i have ever seen. The game pushes the PS3's processing powers to the max!
 
  
  Sound: Again amazing from the brilliant sound track to the solid voice acting. This helps build 
 drama and excitement into the entire game. Uncompressed sound FTW!
  
  Game play: Extremely addictive if a little out of proportion however metal gear online is there 
 to help and with a lot of replay value you can't go wrong.
  
  Story: Best in video gaming history.... period.
  
  Lasting Appeal: With loads of extra content 
 to get on a separate play through and a whole multi player mode makes MGS4 one of the most addictive 
 games of this age.
  
  Overall: Your not going to find a better game than this, this generation. It surpasses all previous 
 titles and leaves other games in the dust.
  
  Score: 10/10 (MY FIRST EVER! yes its that good) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: danteskov
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 16, 2008 12:45 pm PT
Review:  The game flashes out the PS3 power, and also uses all its capabilities, I can't believe the amount 
 of polish implemented in this game, because when playing this game you think, why can't other developers 
 deliver a game with this quality? This game exceeds in gameplay and storytelling far more than 
 its hype for the game. This game can easily mark the introduction for new players to the series 
 because of its excellent gameplay and production values.
  
  This is the game worth buying a PlayStation 3, a game that came with the objective of being cutting 
 edge and to involve the player on a beautifully created world. 
  
  Make use of Snake's arsenal to beat the ambitious Liquid Snake in its quest to control humankind's 
 future. Enjoy Hollywood quality sound and story as well as an incredibly accomplished gameplay 
 experience. MGS4 is not a game is a total experience you are bound to enjoy, veteran and newcomers 
 to the franchise.
  
  Keep playing MGS!!! ENJOY THE BEST GAME EVER 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ali147
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 16, 2008 11:48 am PT
Review:  well metal gear solid 4, 1st of all has a great sequal to all the other games tieing in quite nicely. 
 
  its got great controls, i like the triangle but whilst holding L1 to but the gun in 1st person shooting 
 helps alot,
  there something called the octo suite or something which if you hold triangle snapes suit mimics 
 the floor like a charmeleon making him invisible.
  great story i love this game it needs a 10 guys!
  there are lots of cut scenes which really get 
 you into the mode,
  also you can tell that konjami has spent a lot of time onmetal gear online" which is amazing 
 you get one free character if you want any more you have to by them they are customisable from 
 face to clothes to how he talks, its great!!!!!!!
  the online games are very good, everything you want from this game i doubt you can get a better 
 game in this genre take so beating,
  the graphics are also wicked very realistic,
  well thanks for reading please give me feedback 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: kart0007k
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 16, 2008 11:46 am PT
Review:  Graphics, sound, story, gameplay, and presentation are few things that make few games one of the 
 best ever. In the life of the current gen I realize that GTA IV and MGS 4 are those games that 
 define the gaming indutry. Games like MGS4 make me feel proud of being a gamer and a PS3 owner 
 (I also have a 360, so don't think I am a fanboy) .
  
  Graphics - best I have ever seen, everyhting has a complete detail and all the cutscenes are in 
 game so you can zoom in or out to find the flaws.
  
  Sound - great soundtrack, great environment sound and how the sound is used to track your enemies. 
 
  
  Story - one of the best every written for a game. Only problem is that it gets little too dramatic, 
 but the ending is worth the wait. The ending is so long that it makes third lord of the rings ending 
 look like a pixar short animated series. 
  
  Gameplay - I have to admitt that I was one of the few who hated the previous games and its gameplay, 
 but kojima changed everything. Sure he took some pages out of Sam Fisher saga, but here in this 
 game it makes more sense. 
  
  Overall the presentation was the best, only part that needed some work done was boss battles, except 
 two, which needed some thinking. But I will put this game little higher than GTA IV. Also please 
 note that I did not review the online game, because I have yet to try it, but when the single player 
 campagin is worth 10/10, than whole package is definetly a must buy.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Shadyhot
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 16, 2008 11:41 am PT
Review:  Firstly, this game took time to develop and release and the time taken is realized in it's quality. 
 Konami even took into account the "gamer's" well being and optimized load times in a manner that 
 allows for just enough time to stretch, smoke, use the restroom, or grab a quick bite. Aside from 
 that the text offers you to take a break depending on play time. 
  The controls are spot on and there are many ways for the gamer to approach the environment. Every 
 aspect of the game is interactive. With a sufficient sound system, rubble from nearby buildings 
 being decimated can be heard crumbling around you in every direction. Firefights can be calculated 
 not only by ensuing gun-fire but by the cries and reactions of soldiers. Days become nights as 
 you engage in intense and lengthy battles. Pause in adequate cover to analyze the threat level 
 and equip the appropriate gear for the task at hand. This game has it all. Throughout battles, 
 a story is unraveled before you that rivals any drama/action movie to date. Konami and Kojima have 
 created prefection, an interactive bliss so to speak. MGS delivers true next-gen gameplay coupled 
 with a full motion feature that will remain emblazoned in the minds of any gamers who choose to 
 engage it's offerings. This is all generously bundled with online play that will keep you hooked 
 and culminate your online interactive skillset for years to come. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: midianite47
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 16, 2008 11:34 am PT
Review:  I have been playing the Metal Gear series since its debut in the late 80's; and while I thought 
 it was an amazing game then, never did I expect the story of Solid Snake to evolve so well and 
 end so perfectly.
  
  This tale of Solid Snake pits him on a global hunt for Ocelot and to put an end to the Patriots 
 who sit in the background to control information and war like a game with marionettes - and as 
 a side note, if you don't know who, or should I generally say what "the Patriots" is, then you 
 definitely need to at least play through Metal Gear Solid 1-3; the original two Metal Gear games 
 are helpful to the storyline, but not as direly required as the Playstation's "Solid" series.
 
  
  While I absolutely loved this game, its only downfall is that the story does require a relatively 
 good knowledge of the story in the past games, remembering numerous characters, events, locales, 
 and conspiracies; so those that are not as familiar with the stories will still get a great tale 
 and a great game to play, but the same effect won't be there. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: akiwak
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 16, 2008 10:56 am PT
Review:  This game has been getting lots of attention from different varying sources. That has only helped 
 this game because really not much adverstising has gone into it. Lots of games out there have lots 
 of advertising on TV and on other products as well but MGS4 I have yet to see a commercial, drink, 
 or other type of advertisement for it. Most of it was done ingame and unless you read about the 
 ingame advertising you would never even know which products were being advertised.
  
  Lets talk about the game. One constant thing that this franchise has constantly done is to deliver 
 on an awesome Movie Experience that you can control and be a part of. With MGS4 it delivers this 
 in Spades. The best part of this game is the control you have over Solid Snake. Playing the lead 
 character has always involved lots of control over your character and being able to do many things. 
 In MGS4 there are different ways for you to experience the game. You can play the entire game in 
 FPS mode, hide/seek mode, or using CQC ( Close Quarter Combat) . Granted that if you chose to limit 
 yourself to only one of those ways it can be a tough experience. It's when you mix it up between 
 the three that makes this game great. 
  I believe the gameplay is good enough to attract new players but for fans of the series this is 
 truly a Masterpiece.
  The stoy line answers all questions and leaves none behind. For those of you who may not like the 
 story or the length of the cutscenes I can only recommend cutting a few short. Your conversations 
 with Drebin can all be cut out initially so it doesnt affect the story and cuts down some cutscene 
 time.
  I highly recommend a surround sound system because the sound is another beautiful part of this 
 game. The amount of diffferent types of sounds different things make really makes this game stand 
 out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tixilix72
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 16, 2008 10:54 am PT
Review:  Since I had a Playstation, 1,2 and now 3, I have always been a huge fan of MGS. In fact MGS has 
 been one of the main reason to own a Playstation. Hideo Kojima's creatvity is amazing. In MGS 4 
 you find the same attention to detail as in the past episods, as well as the amazing cinematics, 
 good gameplay and sense of humour. Although some people and critics are complaining about the lengthy 
 cutscenes, it has always been part of the MGS spirit. MGS is more than a game, it is a game and 
 a movie. So many people have tried to copy the MGS stealth game experience, in fact we can all 
 thank Hideo Kojima's talent which has significantly raise the bar and entice competition. But back 
 to the game itself. MGS 4's real improvement is the possibility of using an amazing array of weapons 
 and gadgets, and in some part of the game, you can go stealthly or gun blazing, and collect points 
 to customise even more your weapons, really cool. Some of the cutscenes are just fabulous. I don't 
 want to spoil the experience for players who haven't started, but the scenes involving the new 
 "Ninja" Raiden are awesome. Yet again, Hideo Kojima strikes the bull's eye with this last instalment 
 and once again raise the bar! Well done Hideo Kojima and thank you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Keffin69
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 16, 2008 10:23 am PT
Review:  Metal Gear Solid 4 is the last game of the Metal Gear series. The storyline is just brilliant. 
 Don't want to give any spoilers away in this review but old Metal Gear fans will particually love 
 going back to some familiar places. Unfortunately, you don't get to play as Raiden but he will 
 appear in the game in many cutscenes. The graphics are superb and the cutscenes are like Hollywood 
 Blockbuster movie scenes. They might be quite lengthy but metal gear fans will already know this 
 from previous games. Snake will also see flashbacks during cutscenes reminding him of the past. 
 There is some comedic cutscenes which you will love also. The multiplayer online is also amazing. 
 This game will certainly keep you playing for years. What's also a good feature is there's an Apple 
 iPod in your inventory which holds Metal Gear music which is quite cool. Overall, I give this game 
 10/10 and is up there for game of the year. A MUST BUY for all PS3 users. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DeadlyOnez
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 16, 2008 10:03 am PT
Review:  Picking up this game when it hit midnight was enough to excite anyone gamer but I on the other 
 hand was not satisfied till I actually played the game all the way thru...
  
  During the game there was enough plot twisted that it would impressive even a soup writer. Seeing 
 snake for the first time in about 10 years and 2 console after mgs (remember we only played with 
 solid snake "FULLY" in the first mgs) made me choke a bit. The graphic was none of which I have 
 ever seen in gaming by far and here someone that played crisis, The score was as beautiful as the 
 first mgs, the voice acting was a little bit over the top but was precise enough to deliver the 
 same emotion players come to know from a mgs installment.
  
  I have no complaints of the game only wishing that the game was longer and the end was different
 
  
  Spoiler!!
  
  the whole Big Boss death really made me upset. I enjoy the fact that him and Snake reconciled but 
 to die right after really shocked me.
  
  I'm hoping that konami decide to start of the series again in a all new installment 
  
  here 
 praying for Mg?5..
  
  WTH was the deal with Meryl and that whole marriage ordeal..
  
  I hate to know that Snake going out in the most horrible way possible. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cookiemonster77
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 16, 2008 9:55 am PT
Review:  
  
  I remember the first time playing metal gear for PS1 and I kept dying over and over and I came 
 so close to bringing the game back to the store. And then I realized that you actually had to hide 
 to survive in the game. Then something happened I became so hooked in the plot and cinematics the 
 game quickly became an addiction. This Metal gear gives you that same feeling X 1000! and so perfectly 
 blends Movie cinematics with gameplay.
  This game closes all loose ends and blends all the games so completely and wonderfully! Don't get 
 me wrong the acting at times is a bit over dramatic but it wouldn't be metal gear with out it! 
 I was so worried that with all the hype that the game would go the way of Raiden!! But they took 
 there time with this one and I'm so happy that it was the PS3 engine that was used, just looks 
 absolutely amazing. Way to go out with a bang! BRAVO!!!!! 
 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: THE_BRUTALIZER
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 16, 2008 9:50 am PT
Review:  I first heard about mgs4 here on gamespot. It looked like an overrated version of Splinter Cell 
 or something similar like that. But when you compare the amazing customazation, tactical, weaponry, 
 and technological features of this game, not to forget the extremely amazing visuals, with Splinter 
 Cell, its like comparing a fresh Domino's pizza to a Kashi fruit bar. You simply cannot believe 
 the satisfaction this game will bring. I was having fun even in the virtual reality training when 
 I first started the game.
  
  For example, you have an IPod that you can use in the game. Right now the songs are crappy, but 
 they can send you more songs via the extra screen when they make some.
  Also, your camoflauge will blend in with whatever you lean or lay on. Not only does it trick the 
 enemy, it looks awesome.
  
  I havent even tried online play yet. I am too addicted to the story mode, but, as i have heard, 
 its a squad-based shooter..... it might be something like rainbow 6 vegas online. 
  
  There are so many features that this game can offer, you cannot comprehend it into a paragraph. 
 So buy the game. Dont bother renting it, chances are it wont even be available. BUY IT. Wal mart 
 has the best price for it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Shacks210
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 16, 2008 9:47 am PT
Review:  Metal Gear Solid 4: Guns of the Patriots will go down in history as one of the few epic games to 
 come our way that will touch you deep inside.
  
  MGS4 is the most stunning game to hit a gaming system as of this day. The game is so gorgeous and 
 outstanding. It really shows you what perfection really is in a video game. Everything about MGS4 
 is so far above par that it seems unbelievable that it could have been done. You will be in awe 
 while playing, listening, watch and fighting through this game. You will not want your first play 
 through to end, ever. Though you will be able to walk away with ease after beating this game. The 
 narrative story telling and gameplay is so smooth and nice, that it will all just fit together 
 without a second thought.
  
  The story sequences and cut scenes are quite long and lengthy, but any Metal Gear fan will tell 
 you, as long as it is interesting it is worth the watch. Not only is the story line of MGS4 great 
 and keeps you wanting more, but the graphics and character animation are so beautiful and amazing. 
 For those who are not all into story or are new to Metal Gear might find the cinematics drawn out 
 and/or boring. In fact you will be spending a good amount of time just watching this game, though 
 you can skip by it all and just get down to the playing. Doing this will leave you totally lost 
 and not knowing what is going on. Not to mention the visuals that you will be missing out on As 
 great as the prerendered cinematics look, it is even more grand seeing these scenes flow and transition 
 into gameplay without any type of pausing or loading. Like seeing an enemy walking right toward 
 you and put you in its shadow ready to crush you into the ground that you just watched in a scene 
 seconds before smash through buildings to get to you. The environments are so rich with textures 
 and feel so full and lush. They never change during any story sequences which will leave you with 
 your mouth hung open in grand amazement. This is exactly the kind of stuff you do not want to miss 
 by pausing the game and clicking on "skip".
  
  With MGS4 the story telling is so detailed you really can come into it without knowing anything 
 about Metal Gear and come out with a pretty good idea of what all has happen. I will say though 
 that with some parts of the game it was nice having played all the other games before hand. At 
 some points even giving me goosebumps. gameplay without any type of pausing or loading. Talking 
 too much about the plot can end up spoiling some thing for those who have not yet played though, 
 or finished the game yet.
  
  You play as Solid Snake, the legend and hero most will know from the past Metal Gear games. He 
 is now aging, and doing so quite fast, more so then any normal person. now playing as such an old 
 man has its perks, he is still going quite strong, though dealing with hurting and stiffness. He 
 is still skilled as ever in many fights ways. This is Snakes final mission, and as the game goes 
 on reaching higher with dramatic story telling. Snake seems to fall apart a little more each time 
 leaving the tension of the game high. Some new plot holes open, while some old ones finally close 
 off giving answers to some question MGS fans have always wanted to know. Some friends from the 
 past show up, long with a couple enemies, even a few real shockers to say the least, holding as 
 many twists and surprises as it can handle without becoming too much. Sometimes these come off 
 as over dramatic, but still rightfully so as it is a MGS game after all, subtlety isn't one of 
 Metal Gears strong points.
  
  The gameplay is quite the same for hardcore MGS fans, but is touched up and is smoother and cleaned 
 up. I found the gameplay mechanics to be the best of any Metal Gear game so far. For example I 
 found the close quarters combat much more easier to deal with compared to Metal Gear Solid 3, which 
 I had a very hard time with. Now it comes off almost second nature for me, after playing around 
 with it for awhile. I found the shooting mechanics to be the best makeover in the game, so mush 
 nicer and easy to move around while aiming at someone, and not having to go into first person mod 
 just to get a nice clean head shot off. The number of guns in this game are unreal to say the least, 
 for once instead of picking up weapons throughout the game, this time you actually buy whatever 
 you want, though I am sure you will be playing awhile before collecting them all. Also the feel 
 of the weapons are so perfect and easy to handle. You can go it like I do with over the shoulder 
 or go into the first person mode, either way have their advantages. All weapons are fully customizable 
 which for me is a big deal in any game that makes for switching stuff around much fun.
  
  Now all the weapons are great and all, if you are into suicide missions that won't get you far 
 at all. You need to be on the defense too. The game offers many of great things for you to use 
 to get around without being noticed. The most talked about and obvious one would be the OctoCamo 
 suit, which takes on the look of anything you are laying down on or hugged up against. It is very 
 good for getting around in wide open areas if done right, but also it looks really cool while playing 
 the game. Something finally better than the Predator suit from the other MGS games.
  
  No matter if you like to go it stealth, or if you are more of a head on battle it out kind of person, 
 you have plenty of times that you are forced into one or the other. Keeping you a bit on your toes 
 you might say. Sometimes you will be a fight that will keep your heart racing, other times you 
 will be crawling on the ground with a number of guards walking all around you as you tighten your 
 grip on the controller thinking that at any second they might step on you and everything is blown. 
 It is quite the nice mixture so you don't get too comfortable playing just one way. Now the games 
 AI is quite smart too, so that is something else to look out for. Some ways of hiding maybe be 
 better then others depending on the situation and environment. If you are by some bushes and beside 
 to hide in the rusty can or box, be prepared to be noticed. If you are in a firefight, the games 
 AI's will try to flank you, draw you out of hiding and dodge you in many ways. Somethings you will 
 want to be very careful of.
  
  The Boss fights for the most part are great and do hold the water, mostly if you compare them to 
 the weaker one of Metal Gear Solid 2. Don't get me wrong they will keep you roped in that is for 
 sure. They are easy for the most part, but some do take a few tries to get through the battle. 
 It is clear you will be facing off with the Beauty and the Beast unit, though the characters seems 
 quite empty and don't have much to them, learning little about them.
  
  In all, Metal Gear Solid 4: Guns of the Patriots is the most epic game there is. The story is amazing. 
 The graphics, cut scenes and gameplay look so beautiful and full of life, more then anything I 
 have witnessed. Everything about it has set new standards for gaming. If you only need one reason 
 to buy a PS3, make it this game, you will not be disappointed what so ever.
  
  Thank you Hideo Kojima, your visions and storytelling are topnotch and you can now put this series 
 to bed. It has now been fulfilled. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: yankeesfan53
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 16, 2008 9:38 am PT
Review:  Over the course of 20 years, Hideo Kojima has given us multiples reasons to play the metal gear 
 series. And Metal Gear Solid 4: Guns Of The Patriots doesn't fail to disappoint.
  
  In Kojima's finest piece yet, you play as Solid Snake, this time aged due to the virus inside of 
 his body. His rival? Liquid Ocelot, the merger of Ocelot and Liquid Snake, Snake's brother. And, 
 as usual, many different twists and turns and allusions to previous games.
  
  As a Metal Gear veteran, I know mostly everything there is to know about the main storyline. Kojima 
 is not new to making his storyline difficult to follow at times but if one pays attention, you 
 are rewarded greatly with an engrossing storyline that is not surpassed by anything.
  
  If there was one reason to buy a PS3, this would be it. But don't take my word for it. Just read 
 the other reviews to see why this is quite possibly the best game ever created. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: versiononev1
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 16, 2008 8:55 am PT
Review:  If your looking for a new game don't miss out on metal gear solid 4 on the ps3, and if you haven't 
 got a ps3 this is a definete reason to buy one, i've completed the game 5 times now playing it 
 for 3 days straight it one that you want to keep on playing time and time again, keeps you on the 
 edge of your seat and get you really involved in the action, kojima has true created a masterpiece, 
 and a great follow up from the ps2 metal gear solid titles, from the original on the playstation, 
 to the follow up of sons of liberty then snake eater, it truly puts the rank of to metal gear solid 
 4 on the ps3 as legendary, the ps3 is perfect for the game as it let the game go to its full potential 
 with its eight core processor, it allows the game the freedom to show how good it actually is, 
 the game is was released on the 12th of june, and also comes in a limited edition package, with 
 extras 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Flawie
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 16, 2008 8:46 am PT
Review:  Where do one begin to review this game? I dont know where to begin and where to end. You could 
 write a whole book only about the society references, the military opinions, the future prophecies 
 and thoughts about modern warfare, the deep dives into the human psyche and how its affected by 
 war and cruelities or all the smart popculture or modern day jokes that are perfecly implemented 
 between the lines. You could analyze the references to christian religion and write alot about 
 movie and game omages like Godzilla, Titanic, King Kong, Call of Duty 4 or Assassins Creed but 
 somehow I have to take this review down to ground level and write something that can actually be 
 fit into a review. I would really want to break down and analyze every member of the fantastic, 
 deep and psychological Beauty and the Beast unit that brings a level of psychological pain to the 
 game that you will really feel creeping down your spine before the game is over. I could go on 
 forever about the end of the game and how all the threads are tied together and how the final cutscenes 
 are the most emotional and stunningly beautiful cutscenes ever created. Kojima is really bringing 
 it to a whole new level with this game. It has SO much to say about so many important things its 
 impossible to call it "only a game". This is modern philosophy you didnt think anyone in the world, 
 game creator or bookwriter, could possibly do this good.
  
  But lets start with something easy. MGS 4 is the technically most impressive game I have seen in 
 my long life of gaming. It even surpasses many CG movies I have seen in terms of quality. In many 
 of the games cutscenes I find myself really dropping my jaw at how stunning it looks. I couldnt 
 help but thinking about old , superserious CG projects like the first Final Fantasy CG movie and 
 how Metal Gear Solid 4 surpasses them. The polygoncount and the resolution of textures are simply 
 insane. This is assisted by Yoji Shinkawas impressive artstyle. He has surpassed anything before 
 it in terms of graphical design with this game. Character/Armor/Enemy designs feel so unique, so 
 realistic, yet so very artful. The Beauty and the Beast unit is the pinnacly of this design with 
 their impressive, twisted warsuits. All and all MGS4 is a marvel to behold and it makes anything 
 called "Next Gen" before it feel "Last Gen". The same goes for the sound wich is uncompressed and 
 designed so that you feel immersed in the experience like no other game. Music is picked both from 
 previous MGS titles and composed exlusively for the game and they blend together to create a musical 
 score as unforgettable as the story.
  
  The controls and camera in MGS4 has been vastly improved over the old games. The super convoluted 
 camera and controls held the old games back alot and it has been adressed. They draw alot of influences 
 from the best controlling games out there and when you have played a while you realize that the 
 coversystem and controls probably is the best ones you have ever controlled. You can now also lie 
 on your back and shoot once you are knocked down and peek around corners without holding 14 buttons.
 
  
  Another issue from the old games that has been fixed is the fact that it no longer feels like you 
 are cheating the game if you are running and gunning. Both stealth and shooter gameplay are equally 
 fun and equally rewarding in their own ways. It never feels like you should be shooting when you 
 are stealthy and it never feels like you really should be hiding if you chose to go John Rambo 
 on the enemy. Another huge change to the MGS formula is the fact that you can now buy weapons, 
 ammo and upgrades at any time during the game from a menu. You collect weapons from fallen soldiers 
 on the battlefield that you then trade in for points in a weapon shop where you buy guns and ammo. 
 So you can constantly adapt and change your arsenal of weapons to fit any given situation and you 
 never have to run out of stuff you really need. This does not mean, however, that is feels unessesary 
 to sneak since you have so much ammo. If you WANT to play it like that you can but you can also 
 spend you money on stuff like silencers so that you never run out of those. The weapon modding 
 system is incredibly deep and rewarding and makes it superfun to experiment with different mods 
 to see the results out on the battlefield.
  
  This system also combines with the dynamic battlefield that the game now takes place in. The world 
 exist without your involvement. When you enter a battlefield you are not a part of the equation. 
 There are no "enemies" waiting for you to appear. PMC and local militia (and sometimes a third 
 faction) are waging war out there and you can remain completely anonymous if you so chose. If you 
 are careful you can make it through a stage with both factions completely unaware that someone 
 else was there and they will continue to take each other out. But if you so chose you can help 
 the militia out and gain their trust. This way you can stick to their advancing groups of soldiers 
 and go through the stage as one of them, taking cover behind their advancing wehicles and getting 
 supplies from their hideout. As if this wasnt enough when it comes to how you want to play the 
 game there are often a huge amount of ways to advance through a level. You can run down the street, 
 go through the backalleys, crawl under buildings, go through them (on several floors) , take the 
 ladders and gain some advantages on the roofs and take huge detours to avoid alot of it altogether. 
 This is a game you will play through many times to experience all the different ways you can play 
 it.
  
  And unlike older MGS games you are no longer stuck on mostly one location for the entire game. 
 The contrast between locations from the opening scene to the end of the last chapter is really 
 extreme. You will see alot of enviroments before the game is over and many of them offer diffferent 
 challenges and different ways to approach the leveldesign and when you are done you feel you have 
 seen and done alot. The same goes for what you are actually doing. There is more variation to the 
 actual playing than in many other games. You are no longer only walking along by foot. There are 
 other sequences and gaming elements put into this game that you woldnt think could fit into a game 
 of this kind but they are there and they feel so right and offer so much to constantly keep you 
 entertained. One of these sequences in particular blurs the line between cutscene and gameplay 
 so much I actually had to check several times that I was actually controlling it. This scene animated 
 so fluidly and so much stuff is going on everywhere that you feel like when you are actually doing 
 something it is scripted, but it isnt. This game evolves storytelling in games and washes away 
 the line between cutscenes and gameplay in a way that will go down in gaming history.
  
  If you are still reading you will have noticed that it sounds like I am exaggerating but I am not. 
 When you review games its easy to get caught up in the moment but right now I am not, and I am 
 going to continue to sound exaggerated because lets talk about characters and story.
  The depth of characters, their mocap actors and their voice actors are state of the art. Voices 
 are sooo well acted and dialogues in the game has a depth to them that can really make an impact 
 on you as a player. Not only that but cutscenes are extremely well directed. The way the story 
 is told and the way cutscenes are directed surpass most blockbuster hollywood productions. Something 
 that we thought would never happen. Something that games has always struggled to do. MGS4 manages 
 to do it. There are cutscenes in this game that I thought I wouldnt see in a game for another 10 
 years and when all is said and done it wraps up to one of the best stories I have witnessed. A 
 story I cannot talk anything about. Anything I say about the story past the first Act can be considered 
 a huge spoiler. And I really dont want to describe the story with the first act because its really 
 nothing more than a warmup for the real story. Lets just say that alot of characters will be involved 
 and alot of things will happen that will completely blow your mind and make you feel joy, suspense, 
 action, sorrow and compassion. Especially when it comes to Solid Snake and how his last mission 
 unfolds. It turns out its much deeper and alot more complex than I thought. Kojima has gone to 
 great lenghts to make you feel for Snake. There are alof of scenes made purely to make you feel 
 for him and how hard it is for him to interact with a world outside of the war. Its such a deep 
 and emotional portrait. As far as answering all the questions that the series has brought up over 
 the years they make a great job of answering them. But dont get me wrong, this isnt Disney, nor 
 is it Metal Gear Light. The story is very thick, complicated and takes alot of thinking. And when 
 its over you will be confused until you thnk alot about it and go and read up on it. I was very 
 confused when the game was over and I was even more confused during many of the cutscenes that 
 explains everything. Its not an easy ending or an easily digested story, but is an ending and a 
 very worthy one. There is also alot, and I mean alot, of nostalgia and omages to previous titles. 
 Most of them I cannot talk about without starting to spoil stuff so I will just leave it at that. 
 If you have played the other 3 games before this you will be thrown into a very deep pool of nostalgia 
 that will eventually make you very aware of what has happened with games since the first MGS was 
 released and it will make you think hard about how much time has passed and how much older you 
 have become since the late 90s.
  
  This really brings me back to the beginning again and how I want to start diving into psychological 
 profiles of individual characters and how some of the bossfights really made me feel very emotional. 
 At one point I actually didnt want to finish the boss off. I paused the game and wandered around 
 the house for a while to digest the bombardment of feelings that had just been thrown at me in 
 a bossfight so intense it went beyond the barrier of being just a game. The game breaks the barrier 
 between entertainment mediums and blurs the line on how much emotions and deep characters portraits 
 a game can tell. As I said in the beginning there is really no way to review this game without 
 writing a book. Because thats how much detail that has gone into every aspect of this game. Not 
 one single thing in the game has been made without a prupose, a deeper thought and the intention 
 of delivering something special. The ambition has been taken to new heights in every aspect of 
 the presentation and the current generation of gaming just got knocked down a notch compared to 
 this masterpiece of a game. 
  
  I know I have forgotten to write about a dozen things in this review and I also know that I have 
 intentionally left out alot because it really boils down to that you need to play this game and 
 experience it for yourself. Becasue no matter how much I try to describe this game there is really 
 no way to really get it through just how intense of an experience this is. I have probably played 
 games around 17 years of my life and not once have I played a game worth 10.0. I have given alot 
 of games high scores but no game is perfect. The perfect game cannot be made. The game that completely 
 and utterly leaves you speechless and that becomes better and better as you play it without any 
 setbacks. Well, the rules have changed. MGS4 was the best game I had ever played after only completing 
 3 of the 5 acts. After that it got even better. I want to give this game 11.0/10.0. There is no 
 way to get it all to fit into one single review, no way. So just play it. Now! When you are done 
 you will lose interest in any other game that will be released this year. It cant be this good 
 after all... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Josh-Suvern
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 16, 2008 8:30 am PT
Review:  Easily the greatest game i have played on the Playstation 3 and the greatest in the metal gear 
 solid series. For those of you that have not played the previous games, then i'd advise you do 
 before playing MGS4, else you'll find yourself a little lost. It answers all questions you may 
 have after playing them. And if your gonna go back and play them , id advise going in order of 
 the series, not the actual games, this means starting with MGS3 on Playstation 2 instead of MGS1 
 on Playstation 1. This game made me want to play them all again just to go back and see the entire 
 Metal Gear Story, because i have to be honest.. this isnt the easiest story to understand but tit 
 certainly is an amaizing one. And although it is sad to think that this is the end of Metal Gear 
 Solid.... they could not have made a better game to leave behind. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jroony96
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 16, 2008 8:29 am PT
Review:  There is no doubt that MGS4 is an awesome game that I think is better than the rest. The graphics 
 are awesome, it is like playing a movie and the story is pretty good. There are some problems that 
 if it was any other game, gamespot would have not given it a ten. The main problem I have with 
 this game is the AI, it is actually terrible! For one: If you are sitting in a barrel, the enemy 
 is not going to just be running and run into the barrel. The enemy would either just run around 
 the barrel or stop and inspect it, not blindly run into it. The second thing about the AI: If there 
 are two guys standing side be side and you shoot the one of them with a loud gun, the other still 
 just stands there waiting to be killed. All the enemies are aware of themselves and sometimes you 
 but not anything else. But, even with the crappy AI, this game is still one of the best of the 
 year, but a perfect 10? I don't think so. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: abdool
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 12, 2008 1:42 am PT
Review:  MGS4 is the best Metal Gear in the whole series, combining the previous MGS games in one. The game 
 play is great, the story is very dramatic and you are going to love the environment. The new levels 
 are great, especially the battlefield in the Middle East. It is easy to blend in the environment 
 thanks to the new sneaking suit. You'll have a new set of weapons that can be modified.
  
  The only thing I don't like about the game is the voice of liquid, I hoped Cam Clarke was still 
 voice acting liquid, but overall you'll remember this game for a long time.
  
  For beginners, don't bother playing the game unless you've played the previous MGS games cause 
 you'll be lost in the storyline and the game play or the least you can do is to listen to someone 
 who played them to understand the story. But it is recommended to play them. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Taurus2g1
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 16, 2008 7:02 am PT
Review:  I already beat the game and stayed up for about 3-5 more hours to go through it again. Plus, the 
 storyline is amazing. Because of this game I'm going to finish playing MGS1 for certain details. 
 I'm not going to say much about it but MGS4 definitely clear up a lot of questions. It'll make 
 you ask new 1s but they will get answered too. This game won't make any since unless you know the 
 background story of Metal Gear Solid. I suggest you read up on the first nintendo versions (two 
 games done by kojima, one was done by another person and didn't fit the story) , read or play the 
 playstation 1 version, and play the two on the playstation2. This is actually the sixth sequel 
 of Metal Gear Solid done by Kojima. If you want an order to play the games to stay in sequence, 
 then you will play MGS 3 first. That will start the story with Snakes first mission. Next, MGS 
 1 and 2 on the NES. Then, MGS on the regular playstation. After that, MGS 2 on the playstation 
 2. Lastly, but definitely not least, MGS4 on the playstation 3. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ManBearPig14
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 16, 2008 6:34 am PT
Review:  MGS4 is one of the best games I have ever played, and the best PS3 exclusive by far. Snake's getting 
 old but he has a s**t load of new tricks up his sleeves. I think it was a bit short but that's 
 probably because cut-scenes cut into the gameplay. The cutscenes are amazing though, and although 
 they take about 50% of the entire game, they're worth watching and i don't recommend skipping them. 
 Sometimes, you put your controller down for over an hour and it feels like you're watching a DVD, 
 except for when L1 pops up in the corner. Die hard fans, and most people really, won't mind watching 
 the cutscenes but some impatient players just want to play. The gameplay itself, of course, is 
 brilliant and the boss fights are spectacular. The story has so many twists and turns it will have 
 fans dribbling all over their sixaxis. I nearly had a stroke when I saw the last scene. I would 
 give this game 9.5 because people playing MGS for the first time might find the story confusing, 
 but for big time fans, such as myself, this is perfect. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pigsybum
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 16, 2008 6:27 am PT
Review:  The highly anticipated MGS4 is here, but does it live up to it's hype? Just for a short intro, 
 i have not played mgs1-3. MGS4 is the second mgs i played, my first was MGS portable ops and that 
 was awful.
  
  This game as everyone should know now, half of the game is made up of cutscenes, some of which 
 lasts more than an hour. I have clocked in an exact 17hours to complete it on solid normal. Sometimes 
 i just wish the cutscenes would seperate itselves more, and have more gameplay time. At 17hours 
 it's impressive but i felt i wanted more even after completing it.
  
  The MGO included is very basic, you can only create a charactor, anymore, you're charged. Same 
 goes for extra things ur interested in, all of them requires payment, which i'm not very willing 
 to. MGO wise, i felt it's a notch down from MGS4, the loading times are sometimes there for no 
 reason, like going to the menus, it loads, go to game, it loads again. Alright the good part is, 
 it's actually quite fun, there's those basic gameplay modes expected here. Matches restarts fast, 
 unlike some games where u take u into the menu, then into the game.
  
  Graphics:
  From the cutscenes to the gameplay, it's very impressive. Didn't experience any slow-downs at all, 
 i would say impressive graphics at a steady framerate. And with supported 1080p, i have to say 
 it's graphics are actually a notch higher than most. 
  Another thing seldom seem is the split screen, not multiplayer but the things going around snake, 
 say example the fight with vamp, Raiden is on the right side to show u how he killed vamp, but 
 most of the time, u would only focus on ur part since it's some fighting going on, it would be 
 great to review those moment but it isn't available.
  
  Gameplay:
  Action-tactical is what describes it although konami has it's own naming. Play tactical or going 
 all out, it's ur decision, but by playing sneaking, it will increase ur gameplay time since most 
 of the time ur crouching or lying. 
  A new additional here is the camo-suit, it chances color to the surface it touches, further camouflaging 
 snake. 
  AI is pretty good, but sometimes i was thinking there's just too much enemies around the map, so 
 long ur under arrest tons of enemies would hunt for u until u camou at some corner and wait for 
 the alert to go off.
  Tons of different types of gameplay alone the way, like taking a turret and shooting bad guys on 
 "eye have you" truck, getting to control RAX and some hand to hand combat. CQC is great but a little 
 complicated to actually use it, in the game i don't think theres any portion that requires it as 
 well. Well a bad part in CQC is that u sometimes are playing with ur luck, even with sneaking, 
 the enemies sometimes would notice u, sometimes don't, which i find a flaw being inconsistant.
 
  Small details like making noise would easily alert enemies, i find it pretty responsive here and 
 it lets u know how sensitive things are, around.
  Another thing i have to write here is when u get knocked, sometimes u lay down shooting, sometimes 
 u stand up shooting, the X usage here is pretty messy.
  
  Sound: 
  When you start the game, you'll see the dolby digital advertisement, obviously it would give u 
 an idea of how great the audio is. Bass is just-right, gun sounds great, and the voice acting wasn't 
 bad at all. Even during cutscenes, ur camera is sometimes facing the back of the speaker making 
 voice come out all around the 5.1 speakers.
  
  MGS4 is great, fun and an experience never done before, but sometimes it's cutscenes are too long. 
 Never the less it's something u shouldn't miss out if you own a ps3, but so far i wouldn't really 
 give my vote for GOTY ps3 to MGS, simply because it's an excellent game but it's flaws are still 
 there. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dantinho
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 16, 2008 6:19 am PT
Review:  This game has been long awaited by many MGS fans including myself, the hype was massive and so 
 was the waiting, but its finally here and in stocks, it even comes in a nice black slip case.
 
  
  Metal Gear Solid is a game focused around War, and the secrets of War. Solid Snake the main character, 
 now called Old Snake has been the loved hero of the past games minus MGS3, this is his last mission, 
 which made MGS4 so explosive in the wait. Theorys, guess work and even folk law surrounded the 
 story and how the mastermind Hideo Kojima was going to wrap it up, but after playing through it 
 twice just to fully understand it, I think he's done it all in the right way.
  
  Firstly the gameplay, It stays true to the MGS series, It feels like a classic MGS games but also 
 has enough to impress once again, new features of the gameplay will include a psyche meter and 
 a threat ring, both of which are rather useless as the ring will only look bad and theres no option 
 to turn it off and the psyche meter which in both of my playthroughs I never had to pay much attension 
 too, but what makes it okay is the thought thats gone into how to deal with it, for example listening 
 to your in game Ipod or calling Rose (a battlefield counsiler) , eating or even reading naughty 
 magazines will lower the meter, everything you'd expect Kojima to think of. Other things include 
 the new way of hiding yourself, Octocamo, In MGS4 there isn't as many places to hide and getting 
 past enemies can be challenging, so you do have to use the camo very well, plus new features like 
 playing dead, slow crawling and hiding in a steel can, can help. There is an endless amount of 
 weapons to satisfie any players needs, from the big guns to just blow things up or from the silent 
 James Bond type weapons for the stealth player, as well as a host of other bits and pieces for 
 effective action. Other features to note would be the Solid Eye which is MGS4's answer to the goggles 
 from the last games, they have all been fitted into a Solid Eye system which is a nice feature 
 along with the MkII, which although its a very stupid concept that this little machine will follow 
 you through the whole game in stealth, it does come in handy, it can scout areas and even zap enemies.
 
  
  The story is something which has been the main attraction of the Metal Gear games, a complex evolving 
 story which is twisted and sometimes hard to understand, a story any writer would be proud to have 
 wrote. MGS4 is no different, it changes like the wind and is still as complicated as ever, the 
 game is set into 5 Acts in different countrys, which works very well, except Act 3 which feels 
 very short for what it is. You'll meet alot of characters most of them, returning characters from 
 the older games, you'll have all your questions answered and it does wrap up all unfinished buisness 
 you had with the other games. MGS is also very famous for its lenghty cutscenes, which in my opinion 
 is a very nice feature, it explains the story and are very detailed and impressive to watch, but 
 at least Kojima has put a pause and skip feature into each one, because they will play for what 
 seems like hours, you've been warned.
  
  Metal Gear Solid 4 is a master piece like Kojima's other games have proved to be, and it should 
 be remembered for lifetimes to come. Although its hard to see where the series is going to go now 
 Kojima has stepped down, there isn't any other expierence like the Metal Gear expierence.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: bigLLL
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 16, 2008 6:01 am PT
Review:  This is the first game that has totally amazed me and goes to show you what the ps3 can do, everything 
 about it was top notch from graphics to the story it was a game made for the MGS fans but all gamers 
 alike should not miss this one it has so much to offer, and not only is the single player stellar 
 but it has a great multiplayer to enjoy, Must buy game. 
  
  if you don't have a ps3 but have been waiting for the right time to get one, now is the time.
 
  
  Graphics sound and story is all a 10 there are some parts of mgs4 which I can't believe is even 
 possible this gen of consoles
  
  There are 5 acts in the game which took me about 22 hours to complete there are lots of easter 
 eggs in the game and how you complete the game can unlock new things, you will be wanting to play 
 mgs4 more than once before there is so many ways you can play from run and gun, FPS or pure stealth. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: deadalus91
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 25, 2008 8:35 am PT
Review:  Where to start, this game has so much to offer and so little problems.
  This game surpasses any game that Konami has made and maybe ever will make, he has put all the 
 other Developers to shame if he can make a game this epic and elite why do others fail to even 
 come close to this game.
  From the beginning to the end and there is so much amazing things and twists in this game from 
 returning back to previous destinations and reaccuring character with amazing animation and voice 
 talent.
  Even Snake's movements are consistent with his age and attitude, you can decide to stealth things 
 about or run in all guns blazing leaving a pool of bloody corpses in your path.
  Not to mention the new RPG elements have been added by purchasing or upgrading new weapons and 
 equipment.
  This game will keep you going for quite a bit of time. Having a good 60 or so weapons at your disposal 
 will definetly make it a blast with certain healing items that will realisticly heal Snake, plus 
 his new Ocotcamo which can blend in to anything makes Snake a mean stealthing machine/
  Add all the above up and give it an amazing look and grpahical changes you have an advanced online 
 mode which will keep you coming back for me, it may just never end along with Konami promising 
 new maps and gamemodes with most of them going to free you have Metal Gear Solid 
  I could keep on going however i have other things to do, see you all online! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sithgamer
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 16, 2008 1:13 am PT
Review:  Ok, an hour and a half? i mean i can see like 30 minutes max on a cutscene but jeeze. You gotta 
 be kidding me. I really love the game play and the great story line to go along with it, i just 
 wish i had more of a part in that story. and a word of advice, DO NOT play on Liquid Easy... seriously. 
 that is waaaay to easy and i would not advise it to anyone who has enough respect of themselves 
 as gamers. but overall it is a fun game and i hope to play it again... not on liquid easy, that 
 was just insanely too easy. i mean the foes die in one shot. not cool. i bought a ps3 just for 
 this game, pretty much and i am happy with my purchase. now to try out the multiplayer, haven't 
 gotten around to that one. i just wanna play all the metal gears before i loose this lust to learn 
 more of the story line. I played Twin Snakes for the GC and that was really fun. But it seems like 
 i'm missing something. i don't know, and to whoever got one of my reviews deleted... um that is 
 childish and i don't think i've ever flamed any game blatently. so yeah. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sooshy
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 16, 2008 12:14 am PT
Review:  Every once in a while, a game comes along that makes you actually feel sorry for people who don't 
 play games. You know they'd appreciate the utter beauty of what's happening on screen, but sense 
 they don't play games, they miss out. Sucks to be them, and in MGS4's case, it really sucks to 
 be them.
  
  You'd be hard pressed to find a game with better writing and general direction than MGS4. When 
 the cut scenes are playing, it feels like you're watching a film. You can tell game designer and 
 director Hideo Kojima put thought into every camera angle and every step the character takes. He 
 might as well have directed a full-length feature film. Perhaps what is most impressive about this 
 game is also what might turn some people away, though. Upon completion, I couldn't help but ask 
 myself, "Was it really necessary for me to play this game?" That's not a knock on its quality, 
 it just means that all this thought went into making these absolutely beautiful cinematics, and 
 the actual gameplay portions bog the game down. It's not that the gameplay isn't fun, but you literally 
 play to get to the next cut scene.
  
  In an entertainment medium that is looked at as being nothing but orcs killing elves and criminals 
 running over hookers, it feels so good to have something like MGS4 in our corner. It's mature, 
 it's beautiful, the story sticks with you, and it has a lot to say. Games are officially one step 
 closer to being taken seriously.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: yoshiehsan
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 16, 2008 12:09 am PT
Review:  Not much fan of consoles. I am a PC gamer and not a fanboy of 360 nor PS3. They have their ups 
 and downsides. I have looked at the ps3 for a while and thought it was good. I decided to wait 
 for the time when the good games come out. I saw this game and was unsure at first so i rented 
 it. What i found was a very good game. It could have had more but i dont see what is really bad 
 about the game. As i played the game i was thinking, it reminds me of another game. Not sure which. 
 Multiplayer was great fun. It was pretty tough. I saw some really competitive people and reminded 
 me of the pc version of COD4. Well just the people anyway. Wish they could make it for PC so i 
 can play with friends. This game is overall worth checking out. I dont know why gamespot gave this 
 a 10. Its not that good, but its good. I give a 9.3. It is a nice game. I am not into consoles, 
 so this suprised me a bit. I have seen better and i have seen worse. If you are a bored ps3 gamer 
 then you will find countless hours trying to figure out how to make yourself better than the other 
 person. Remember this is my opinion. You have yours and I have mine. Thank you for reading this.
 
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: unknown2007
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 15, 2008 11:56 pm PT
Review:  for anyone that experiences the MGS series and followed the s/l.. this is what gaming should be 
 about.. IMO MGS4 has just revolutionized the gaming industry. in most games you get bored after 
 playing and doing the same stuff over and over again... Not MGS4. the game keeps you entertained 
 to the very end. the s/l is compelling. riveting emotions.. the characters had deph... which is rare 
 in today's games. but i especially liked the realtime gameplay. aswell as the constant action cutscenes. 
 everything was perfect. i just wished other game  out their 
 take noticed to MGS4. if you wanna make it BIG. give us great writing,. is that to much to ask? 
 of course gameplay is important too. but remember. killing is killing.. it's the s/l that captivates 
 us when we finish it... so kudos to kojima and his staff for giving the MGS4 fans amazing gameplay. 
 and fantastic storytelling.. you ROCK man. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Darryl_Green
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 16, 2008 6:49 am PT
Review:  Story 10/10
  Well folks this is it. The story of legendary video game hero Solid Snake draws to its close and 
 MGS4 does so in incredible fashion. MGS4 is deffinately a technical feat that no game before it 
 has accomplished and MGS4 doesn't just supass its predacessors it completely tramples all over 
 them and leaves takes a piss on them for good measure. Without giving too much away of the story 
 I'll just give you a quick brief about what's going on. A rapidly aging Solid Snake is once again 
 called by into action to take down his brother and arch-nemesis Liquid Snake once and for all to 
 prevent his plan of total world domination. The stroy sounds simple and straight-forward but it 
 isn't and like all the MGS games before it's filled with plenty of twists, turns, and little bit 
 of philosophy about life, war, and mankind. Although the saying obviously goes for this game the 
 best for last not only is this story the best MGS story by far but one of the best in video game 
 history that will be remembered by the many fans of the series and finally brings everything full 
 circle in the series. Well i'm not going to go back into the story any further so lets talk about 
 the new gameplay.
  
  Gameplay 5/5
  Gameplay from the previous MGS games has been cleaned up plenty and streamlined to appease MGS 
 fans and maintream gamers alike. For starters, those of you whom were all tired of aiming automatically 
 in previous games in 3rd person view with your weapons a new over the shoulder view has been introduced; 
 inspired by games such as Resident Evil 4 and Gears of War. The new over the shoulder view allows 
 players to shoot from that perspective and also allows to switch between left and right angles, 
 but the auto aim funchtion can still be used by simply pressng the square button. The first person 
 aim function has been cleaned up as well for you to get even more precise shots off at the enemy. 
 CQC from MGS3 and MGS: PO has been revamped and cleaned up allowing easier execution of techniques 
 and adds in few new ones as well for example the judo choke which looks wrong in so many ways. 
 Also returning is the use of turrents and gun emplacements from MGS3 which can be found in some 
 areas throughout the game and are fun to put to use on the enemy. The set piece battles in the 
 game are excellently implemented and each one is better than the last including on-rail segements 
 that feels so close to something out the action flicks while still providing incredible adrinaline 
 pumping fun it puts most other games out there to shame. Enemy AI has been improved vastly since 
 the previous games which provide challenging enemies to face. Boss fights are also damn good fun, 
 the Beauty & the Beast Unit provide stimulating and lenghty boss fights that require a little more 
 thought than the previous games.
  
  Graphics and Sound Design 5/5
  Not only does the gameplay of MGS4 standout the graphics and sound design is incredible. Obviously 
 if you have seen the trailers for MGS4 you can say that levels of production in this game are incredible 
 never before has a game resembled a film so incredibly. The sound desing in the game is terrific 
 each sound in the game is realistic and distintc enough for players to tell what is going on around 
 them especially with the addtion of 5.1 Dolby Digigtal Sourround Sound which makes players even 
 further aware of their enviornment while playing. Voice acting is deffinately great from Snake's 
 even hasher voice to the Beauty and Beast unit's dual voices it all sounds great. 
  
  Multiplayer 4.95/5
  Online mode from MGS3 and MGS: PO returns in the form of MGO: Metal Gear 
 Online. Metal Gear Online takes the core gameplay of MGS4 and allows players to fight out battles 
 up to which 16 player can join. Although it is fun to mow down your enemies this is deffinately 
 an online game that will require you to most times to utlize teamwork and stealth. There are 5 
 modes of gameplay to choose from there's Deathmatch, Team Deathmatch, Base, Rescue, Capture, and 
 Snaeaking. Although each mode is fun to play the real star is the Sneaking mode. The sneaking mode 
 plays as a team deathmatch plus hunting down the lone players playing as Solid Snake and Metal 
 Gear Mk. II who try to take dog tags from other players and wins if they complete this objective. 
 Unfortunately the only downside to MGO is the limited amoutn of maps that come with the game
  
  Overall 10/10
  To sum things up MGS4 is an explosive way to end the story of Solid Snake 
 and will make you want to replay the story again and again. The addition of Metal Gear Online offers 
 up plenty of replay value to the game not to mention with addtional content already on the way. 
 To those of you who didnt like the long winded cut-scenes of th previous games you will feel the 
 same about MGS4, but if you're looking for satisfying, entertaining gameplay this is deffinately 
 the game for you. For the ones who look past just running and gunning and look for a story along 
 with their game for a truly satisfying experience then you will want to purchase this game. MGS4 
 marks the last time we will see Snake in any MGS game and deffinately puts itself on the list of 
 possible game of the year material. MGS4 is deffiantely one of the best games I've ever played 
 and I'm sure others who played or are about to purchase the game will say the same, so if you're 
 looking for a great way to kick off the summer then deffinately get MGS4 this is a game that will 
 leave many gamers very satisfied at the end of the day.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: natester_300
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 15, 2008 11:13 pm PT
Review:  I've been waiting 4 Years for this game. And let me tell you it was worth every second of waiting. 
 When I got MGS4 with a Free strategy guide from Circuitcity i could not wait to get home. This 
 game had allot of hype and some games dont live up to the hype but MGS4 did and exceeded the hype 
 too.
  
  I don't need to go over things like sound, gameplay, etc because all of it was so perfect. From 
 beginning to end this game will keep you hooked and if you buy a PS3 just for this game you will 
 not be disappointed or regret doing so.
  
  MGS4 has a great story and brings everything to a close on MGS4 being the last of the series. And 
 to be honest it also has some of the best graphics I have ever seen as well. So over all I think 
 MGS4 is a must buy... and if you dont have a PS3 buy it just for this game (Thats how good it is) ! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: resn8
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 15, 2008 10:15 pm PT
Review:  An instant classic is born for the PS3. MGS4 shines. This is the best overall game I have ever 
 played. Kojima has spun magic here and has created an enthralling universe that pulls the player 
 into the flow of the story. The storyline works perfectly to drive the player to learn the strategy, 
 techniques, and technology of covert tactical warfare. Omg, the 1080p in-game graphics fulfills 
 the promise of HD gaming. The cutscenes are breathtaking in their level of detail and animation. 
 They also do a good job of telling the story and filling in the MGS background. This is my first 
 MGS game, and I felt the game gave me a good handle on the MGS universe. The sound design also 
 is another high note, creating an emotional environment that ties storyline with the frenzy and 
 horror of high tech warfare. Treat yourself to this game and get ready for the wall-to-wall entertainment. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hazelnutman
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 15, 2008 9:32 pm PT
Review:  Finishing Metal Gear Solid 4 was an overwhelming experience for me. It's flawless in meshing story 
 and game-play together  something that the series had been superb at doing, but has now perfected. 
 This game should not be passed up, unless you hate good games.
  
  
  
  Graphics  10/10:
  Just because this game looked good in previews YEARS ago, doesn't mean that 
 it's good to today's standards, right? You couldn't be more wrong. Metal Gear Solid 4 is a landmark 
 in visual presentation. There are almost NO pop-ins, barely any blurry textures, and all at a consistent 
 frame-rate. I was playing on an SDTV, and it still looked stunning. I was in constant fear that 
 my PS3 would EXPLODE from the amount of things it was rendering, but it held together very nicely.
 
  
  
  
  Game-play  10/10:
  Metal Gear Solid used to be (in my eyes) about 75% stealth, 25% action. In MGS4, I would say it's 
 now 60% stealth, 40% action. Of course, you could go a hundred percent stealth, save for some action 
 and boss sequences, but given the number of options for weapons, battle moves, and such, it's hard 
 to avoid stealth.
  
  Stealth is still the primal focus of the game, as you are urged to avoid conflict against an almost 
 unlimited number of baddies. The controls are also tweaked to allow slighter movements in order 
 to achieve the stealth you want.
  
  A new game-play mechanic is the octo-camo. On default settings, your suit will blend into the ground/wall 
 you are pressed up against. This means easy camouflage for patient people. 
  
  If you're not the stealthy type, there's always the option to gun everything in sight. A weapons 
 wholesaler named Drebin will supply you with a huge barrage of weapons, ammo, and customizations 
 for the price of what's called "Drebin Points." Any doubles of guns you find automatically get 
 cashed in as Drebin points. Essentially, you get Drebin points for each kill because almost every 
 enemy will drop a valuable weapon. Unfortunately, the weapons you find will be "ID Tagged". This 
 means that since the gun doesn't belong to you, it will lock and not work. This is also where Drebin 
 comes in to "launder" the guns to be useful to you.
  
  The shooting mechanics are very well tuned, and the draw distance is so great, you could actually 
 pick off enemies from afar with a pistol if your aim is good enough. There is an optional lock 
 on system, but the game seems more "free" without it.
  
  You may have heard of the "psyche" and "stress meters". Essentially, when your stress meter goes 
 up from firing your gun a lot, being near explosions, etc, your psyche will go down. You end up 
 ignoring these meters for the lower difficulties, as they are nothing more than a nuisance next 
 to your always-viewed life meter. Nothing in MGS4 stays constant, which brings about a perfect 
 pace. Just when you start to have the SLIGHTEST feeling of "jeez, I wish I'd do something else", 
 the game changes pace with other game styles which I shouldn't spoil here.
  
  Since I can't definitively talk about the battles you will have due to the changing pace of things, 
 I can however tell you that the boss fights are EPIC. I cannot stress how awesome the game is.
 
  
  Any negatives? Well, the triangle button is used for most 
  of your actions, which leads to accidently pressing it for something you didn't want to do. But 
 mainly, it's the players' fault for not paying attention. The difficulty is perfect with amazing 
 environments.
  
  Not enough can be said. It's just too hard to describe all of the joys of MGS4.
  
  One note: 
 Try to play with a DualShock 3. The game is soooo much better with it.
  
  
  
  Sound  10/10:
  I don't have a sound system, but the game still sounded like heaven. Every explosion 
 is crazy. Every line of dialogue is solid gold. The voice acting actually matches with the mouth 
 synching (a first for MGS games) and the music is top notch. You will have access to an iPod which 
 will enable you to find and pick up old MGS music to listen on the go. This brings back many nostalgic 
 memories which will bring forth many emotions.
  I look for sound-effects, voice acting, and music when it comes to sound. Metal Gear Solid 4 surpasses 
 my expectations for those categories.
  
  
  
  Value  10/10:
  Why the hell wouldn't you want to play this? When you finish the incredibly lengthy main story, 
 you can play it again for the hundreds of easter-eggs and secrets. Finished with that? There's 
 a full fledged multiplayer game called Metal Gear Online which is (no pun intended) solid. The 
 game is pretty balanced and would do great even without being packaged with MGS4. You should be 
 paying Konami more for this game, but for 60 bucks, what are you waiting for?
  
  
  
  Story  "an amazing conclusion to this amazing series"
  Every character, every opened piece of 
 plot, every theme is revisited in this game. Kojima may have said that you would understand the 
 game without prior knowledge, but it's clear that this game's plot was mainly for the fans of the 
 series. There are so many magical moments of nostalgia that it will haunt you for days to come.
 
  Story too complicated? SUCK IT UP. I don't think this counts as a negative at all. More like a 
 positive thing if you ask me. I love Metal Gear Solid as the melodramatic piece of art it is. I 
 love how the story gives you every emotion it has. It is a truly magical story, but only for fans.
 
  
  
  
  CONCLUSION:
  We are beasts created by man. Unless the light is put out, the shadows cannot be erased. So long 
 as there is light, erasing shadows will do no good.
  -Ocelot
  
  
  Graphics - 10/10
  Game-play - 10/10
  Sound - 10/10
  Value - 10/10
  Story - "an amazing conclusion to this amazing 
 series"
  OVERALL  10/10 (not an average) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chainbladeONps3
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 15, 2008 9:28 pm PT
Review:  ill tell you why
  
  This is a must for all ps3 owners
  a classic in the making
  
  its good all around game
  throwing in enough seroius, sad, action, and ironic comedy at you
 
  the cut scenes might be long but you wont care
  
  theres enough things to do 
  you can even interact in alot of scenes
  
  the gameplay:
  ok heres what i think
  
  DONT 
 PLAY RUN AND GUN!!!
  its really boring when you play it run an gun
  
  just play it as a stealth sneak game as much as you can
  theres enough destruction to come to 
 people who dont like to wait
  
  im not giving this game a 10 because its the best game ever
  im giving it a 10 for its soul
 
  
  this game with drag you in by the hair and throw you down into a pit
  
  this game will make you work
  
  this game will make you almost cry (guilty)
  
  i was wrong 
 thinking this game would suck
  i was wrong indeed
  
  it sweeped me of my feet punched me in the face and said
  "THIS GAME IS GOOD YOU MOTHER****ER"
 
  
  and the game was right
  
  
  it has alot of funny moments 
  some of them playstation based yes
  
  it has alot of goodies
  ALOT OF EM
  
  just get 
 it and you will find and see the goodies
  you really have to experience it for yourself
  
  
  
  
  so dont pretend its call of duty 4
  pretend its stunning sneak game
  
  you 
 miss out on alot in you play it rough
  
  
  
  
  go get the game
  
  also,
  you ever notice that the reveiws on this game that are 1/10
  have gears of war icons HAHAHA JEALOUS!!!
 
  
  -chainblade 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Wiggyman_basic
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 15, 2008 9:24 pm PT
Review:  Metal Gear Solid 4 is an epic ride from start to finish combining brilliant stealth gameplay and 
 fast paced shooting. All the characters many loved and some hated have returned from a short break 
 or a long hiatus for one. All the loose ends are tied up and even a few twists exist that no one 
 could have expected to see. The fine weaving of gameplay and storytelling makes the action seamless 
 and friendly to those who don't like abrupt ends in the action. The graphics and sound are done 
 exquisitely as always with Gregson-Williams providing the score for the action and obviously Konami 
 did their damnedest to make sure this game look spectacular. MGS4 is not an experience that I will 
 soon forget and whole heartedly recommend it to anyone familiar or new to the series who owns a 
 PS3 and let's all hope that this is not the absolute end to Solid Snake's adventures. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thorholmnilsen
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 15, 2008 8:51 pm PT
Review:  I'm going to be brief:
  
  
  Finally got the time to sit down and play through what I was hoping would be the best game this 
 year...
  
  
  I have only one thing to say: I was wrong..
  
  Metal Gear Solid 4 must be the best game i've played my whole life!
  I am stunned by the sweet 
 graphics and the awesome gameplay, there is no way I will leave my house for the next week, nothing 
 can pull me away from my ps3 now... This was the perfect ending for Solid Snake, I actually cried 
 when i saw the epic ending, only because I found this was the ending of not just a brilliant game, 
 but an era. 
  
  The next week is dedicated to Solid Snake, and the wonderful Metal Gear Online. I cannot describe 
 how much i have enjoyed this game, and if you haven't bought i yet, i assure you, this is worth 
 the money. No doubt!
  
  
  
  Thank you Mr. Kojima.
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: ederleal
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 15, 2008 8:51 pm PT
Review:  *The review is about the story mode only!
  
  This is the first time that I've played a game feeling that I'm part of a movie. In Metal Gear 
 Solid 4: Guns of the Patriots, it feels like you're watching an excellent movie but here you can 
 decide what's going to happen. The cut scenes are very long but hey, if you're after a good story, 
 this is the perfect game for you. You can also interact with the scenes and watch flashbacks or 
 switch to 1st person sometimes. When the cut scene is over, it puts you straight back in the game 
 without loading screens and in a very smooth way, ACTION!
  
  Snake is aging rapidly and sometimes makes you wonder if he'll be able to make it to the end. Backaches 
 are gonna be an issue to deal with, the stress and psyche are just as important as his health on 
 the battlefield. Stealth is the main thing in the MGS series but if you choose to, you'll be able 
 to have intense fire fights. There are several different weapons and you can also customize them, 
 same with Snake's camos. You'll collect guns and find out that you can't use 'em because they are 
 ID locked, which means: You can't pull the trigger. Luckily, you'll also meet a gun launderer called 
 Drebin who will unlock them for you, of course it costs money, he'll also sell guns and you can 
 access his shop at any time, but I'm gonna stop here, I don't wanna ruin the story.
  
  BOSS fights! Yes, haven't had such cool fights since Zelda: Ocarina of Time. It's been a long time. 
 Again, you'll have different ways to drop them down and the rewards you get will vary depending 
 on that. In other games, after you beat the boss, the mission is normally over, in MGS4 though, 
 most of the times, you still have more to do after beating the boss.
  
  The gameplay is fantastic, it also allows you to switch from 3rd to 1st person view for a better 
 aim. Once you manage the controls, everything you can do in game will be pretty amazing, the versatility 
 is great so the game never gets boring. Throughout the story you'll find yourself hunting, hiding, 
 fighting, controlling a giant beast and plus!
  
  Achievements are a big thing in MGS4 too. That'll make you want to beat the game more than only 
 once, so many players will try to finish the games with no kills, that's right and maybe no alerts 
 or continues, a sneaky snake!
  
  The quotes can be a little repetitive at times during the game, but it's nothing annoying. The 
 bad thing is when the game ends, because you always gonna want some more. Then again you can always 
 do the whole thing again using a different strategy and unlocking different items. Plus, the multiplayer 
 which looks pretty good and I'm gonna talk more about that on my second review.
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: BBGUN06
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 15, 2008 8:26 pm PT
Review:  when i first got this, i played it non stop until my eyes bleeded (not really) But when i beat 
 it, I realized that Sanke is done, and it is hard to imagine the gaming universe without him, I 
 know that everyone that has played any metal gear, and anyone that plays them all like myself, 
 you kinda get hooked on to snake, i know I am, i cant stop playing it, cause i dont want it to 
 be over with. It kinda hurts if you know what i mean. To the review, This game has never sucked 
 me in to the story since kingdomm hearts 1 and 2, the story is compelling and makes you want more. 
 yes there is load times, installation times, but that is besides the fact. It is by far the best 
 single player story i have ever played. The series was fantastic, and snake...... there isnt enough 
 words to describe him. He is a gaming legend and deserves alot of credit. If you are still reading 
 this, then you know what i mean. Without Snake... we wouldnt have games like splinter cell. All 
 im saying is the game is over and i cant believe it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: WTA2k5
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 15, 2008 8:22 pm PT
Review:  I've given four games a 10/10 score before. Now, I have never thought that any game is perfect, 
 but the four thus far that I've given that score are simply leagues beyond any other games. At 
 long last, Snake's final mission has arrived, and this is truly the only completely, 100% perfect 
 game I've ever played. Guns of The Patriots is a thrilling, cinematic, and downright badass adventure 
 of a lifetime. The legendary character of Solid Snake gets the epic, and intense final mission 
 that he deserves.
  
  With accelerated aging caused by FoxDie (or one supposes) Snake isn't his former self. He is less 
 capable than he used to be, and his end is nigh. But, when the opportunity arises to finish Liquid 
 once and for all, Snake soldiers up for one last time. The last thing I'd want to do is spoil any 
 of this amazing story for you, but let me just say that every aspect of the story, every unanswered 
 question, and every long-forgotten character is covered in Guns of The Patriots. Any fan of the 
 MGS series that has played through each game will be beyond delighted with number 4.
  
  Usually I'd include info about a game's cinematics in the story section, but in the case of Metal 
 Gear Solid 4, the cut-scenes deserve their own paragraph. With some cutscenes clocking in at about 
 40 minutes you can expect some epic scenes. Every cinematic is enjoyable, and well-directed. If 
 you enjoy watching amazingly done, high budget action movies, don't even think about skipping MGS4's 
 cinematics.
  
  Metal Gear Solid 4 has the stealth-action formula mastered. Whether you want to confront a group 
 of guards guns-blazing, or quietly sneak passed them, you'll have plenty of tools, and lots of 
 fun.
  
  On the stealth side of things, Konami has followed the "if it ain't broke, don't fix it rule", 
 most of the stealth gameplay you've already seen before, but that is far from a bad thing. But, 
 new to the table is the much-appreciated ability to crouch (acting as an intermediary between running 
 and crawling) , and of course, the OctoCamo, which will automatically blend you into your immediate 
 surroundings. The stealth aspect of Metal Gear Solid 4 is as superb as it's always been, but the 
 new additions really rocket the system into perfection.
  
  Much like the stealth gameplay, when you have to ditch the sneaking and take up your guns, you'll 
 be extremely satisfied. Improved shooting mechanics will allow you to aim over the shoulder, or 
 FPS **** Thanks to a new black market store, one can customize their guns, and buy new ones on 
 the fly. The amazing thing is that even though it's so easy to become armed to the teeth, it is 
 perfectly balanced with the stealth mechanics. Metal Gear Solid games have never been about straight 
 up blasting, and that's no different here. The difference is that when you do have some shooting 
 to do, it'll be damn fun.
  
  The boss fights are beyond epic. Thanks to a group of villains on par with The Sorrow, The Pain, 
 The Fury, The Fear, and The End, the Beauty and the Beast Unit. I don't want to spoil them for 
 you, but they make for some truly jaw-dropping boss encounters. Without naming names, I'll give 
 you an example of one of them (if you don't want to run the risk of reading any spoilers whatsoever, 
 then skip to the next paragraph) . This boss plays out like a hide and seek game taken to the next 
 level. She sports the same OctoCamo gear that snake has, so she can blend into almost anything. 
 So the player has to move through a building trying to find her. There are some really surprising, 
 and freaky moments because she'll often seemingly pop out of nowhere if you don't pay attention. 
 And the fights only get better from there.
  
  Metal Gear Solid 4 is the best looking console. Period. The cut-scenes are jaw-dropping, but what 
 will make your jaw further drop to the floor is the fact that these beautiful cut-scenes will transition 
 seamlessly into gameplay, no loading times, no change in engine; nothing. I think everyone knew 
 that Metal Gear Solid 4 would be impressive in terms of gameplay and story, but players are in 
 for a pleasant surprise when it comes to the graphics.
  
  Like the graphics, the sound is absolutely perfect. With epic music, the ridiculous (but enjoyable) 
 voice-overs, and great sound quality, Metal Gear Solid 4 rounds out its production values to make 
 them nothing less than perfect. Oh, and it's almost a crime not to play this game in surround sound.
 
  
  Metal Gear Solid 4 will last you a long time. The singleplayer game will run you about 18 hours 
 or so, and you could spend tons of time on the excellent multiplayer. But, most importantly Guns 
 of The Patriots is so masterful that you'll probably replay it. A lot.
  
  Metal Gear Solid 4 is perfect. Not only is it the best game of the series (yes even better than 
 Sons of Liberty) , it's quite possibly the best game ever created. With an incredible story, jaw-dropping 
 cut-scenes, perfected gameplay, flawless production values, and high replayability, Metal Gear 
 Solid 4 can't be missed. I really can't it enough, Metal Gear Solid 4 is a masterpiece. Buy it.
 
  
  "I'm not the hero, never was, never will be"
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Cperez22
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 15, 2008 8:04 pm PT
Review:  I love the series so you all know I'll love this game but the original metal gear solid was always 
 my favorite, until know:
  
  This game is above and beyond the best thing out there 
  Perfect gamePlay, story, graphics, variety...
  Boss battles are incredible
  Your choice: Sneek 
 around or run and gun.
  lots of unlockables add to the replayability
  plus an online mode!
  This game is addictive it has consumed my life since the day I started 
 it... and I love it!!!
  Only gripe I have is that they did away with the healing and eating that was introduced in MGS3, 
 I kinda miss it...
  I love the fact that the game isn't limited to one location, were globtrotting hear and in a cool 
 jet that serves as base of operations.
  All the cast is back even a few surprises.
  The game has it all fact is I'm going back go play some more. 
  
  If you've never played MGS 
 this game will convert you!
  
  To sum it all up:
  PERFECT! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Skiggy80
Rating: 8
Date: Jun 15, 2008 7:51 pm PT
Review:  This game is good, period. A 10??? I dont think so. Online?? Whats this crap about having to go 
 through the long troubles of signing up? Do I have to pay?? I havent even dabbled with the online 
 aspect of this game. Everything is the same. The people screaming when Snake die, like they did 
 in ALL the other MGS's. I like the aiming better. If you really ask me, I think this got waaay 
 too much hype for what it came out to be. I mean, to me its Splinter Cell with a different environment 
 a different toys. The sneaky game play has been done before and again I just dont think its nearly 
 what I thought it would be. Dont get me wrong, I like the game! I am not going to mess around witht 
 eh online that much. I have better online games to play like GTA4 and Halo 3 but the campaign is 
 a decent game, I would recommend it to anyone, especially if you own a PS3. Its the only damn game 
 I own on that system and will probably be like that for a long time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: HaroStrile
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 31, 2008 8:21 pm PT
Review:  From the moment I started this game, I knew I was in for a completely new experience than the old 
 Metal Gear Solid games. The commercials that play at the beginning intrigued me, and the following 
 cinematic was equivalent of some movies with the best cinematography in existence. The graphics 
 for this game had me in a state of awe, even more-so when I learned that all this was created using 
 in-game graphics. Following 3 masterpieces, Metal Gear Solid 4 does nothing to disappoint, and 
 even makes the original three games look less than spectacular despite their great gameplay, graphics, 
 and story.
  
  The gameplay of Metal Gear 4 has completely redesigned the Metal Gear formula, and perfects it. 
 Sneaking around has never been easier with Snake's new tricks. One of the most notable additions 
 is Snake's ability to play dead. When lying down on Snake's back, press and hold the triangle button 
 and Snake will halt all movements, and unless they enemies are searching for you, they will walk 
 right past you without a glance back. 
  
  The graphics in this game are nothing short of amazing. Watching the cut scenes have me believing 
 that this is a movie at times. (This is not only because of the graphics, but partly due to the 
 awe-inspiring story.) These scenes, as I mentioned in the introduction, are rendered completely 
 using in-game graphics. So not only was I amazed at how good this game looked, but at how amazing 
 these scenes looked while using the same graphics that I was seeing while controlling Snake on 
 the battlefield.
  
  The sound in Metal Gear 4 never ceases to amaze me. Between the sound of explosions and the voices 
 of characters conversing, this is Kojima's strong suit. He casted perfect voice-actors, especially 
 David Hayter as Snake. The supporting characters are believable, which is more than you can ask 
 of a lot of games that are being made anymore. The sounds in this game really keep you on edge 
 throughout the game. From the 'mooing' of Gekko, to the constant firing and explosions on the battlefield, 
 Kojima shows his mastery of sound quality.
  
  Overall, this game is worth every penny of the $60 price. The cut scenes, although very, very long, 
 keep the story going and keep plot twists coming throughout the game. Through this entire game, 
 there was not one point where I found myself frustrated without fault of my own. This game is Sony's 
 killer app and has more than enough gameplay to keep even the most avid gamer satisfied, and the 
 story can satisfy any person looking for a great story. This game is a must-own for all PS3 owners, 
 and probably has already sold quite a few PS3's itself. For those of you who complain about the 
 length of the cut scenes, leave the Metal Gear forum and go play your games that don't require 
 any thought. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kjaf
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 15, 2008 6:06 pm PT
Review:  Metal Gear Solid 4: Guns of the Patriots Review: 10 By Kyle Fetterman Hideo Kojima's Metal Gear 
 Solid 4: Guns of the Patriots has had expectations out of this world. Fans expected this game not 
 just to be good, but to be in the category as one of the greatest games of all time. Some people 
 believed that the staggering PS3 relied on the support of Metal Gear Solid 4 to catch up to its 
 competition. Now that the game has finally been released after countless delays I can safely say 
 that Metal Gear Solid 4 has fulfilled all of those expectations, and will be a game that will define 
 story telling in video games, the PS3s power, and it will define this generation of video games 
 as a whole. As you start the game you find yourself amidst a war torn battlefield somewhere in 
 the Middle East. Our hero Solid Snake now known as Old Snake has aged greatly since his last appearance 
 in Metal Gear Solid 2: Sons of Liberty. The world now is in a state of turmoil. Private Military 
 Companies (PMC) whose soldiers are injected with nano machines to enhance their combat ability 
 engage in battle for whoever pays the best price. It just happens that five of the largest PMC 
 corporations are controlled by the man himself Liquid Ocelot. Snakes mission is to find and kill 
 Liquid before he can launch an insurrection with the PMC troops. Liquids last known location is 
 in the Middle East, which is why we find our hero here at the start of our journey. The first thing 
 you notice when you play the game is the graphics. Metal Gear Solid 4 is perhaps the best looking 
 game of all time. There is no pause between cut scenes and real-time, and trying to find the differences 
 between the two is impossible. With the amazing cut scenes and stunning graphics it feels as if 
 you are playing through a movie deciding which course of action is best for the lead role to take. 
 The game truly shows how powerful the PS3 is, and future games will be judged graphically to this 
 game for years to come. Old MGS players will find the game play in MGS4 very similar to past MGS 
 games, but there are still some differences that make this the most fun and intuitive game in the 
 MGS series. The aiming system has been enhanced greatly and just run and gunning through the game 
 is now a viable option. The CQC has also been enhanced and you will find right at home when you 
 surprise an enemy from behind grabbing his neck and finishing him off. One of the coolest things 
 that they added to the game is the Octo Camo suite. This takes the Camouflage system from MGS3, 
 but improves on it greatly. The Octo suite allows you to change the color of your suite to the 
 surrounding area by just sitting still for a few seconds. It never gets old when you morph to the 
 color of the wall that you are standing by. This game caters to all players, if you want to be 
 the ultimate stealth player you can play this game using the Octo suite to its fullest cabalities, 
 while players that want to kill anything in sight will be able to use 70 different weapons to their 
 fullest enjoyment. With all of its cut scenes the game is 20+ hours long, and once you finish it 
 you will want to pop this game back into your PS3 for another go. The different objectives for 
 getting emblems, which are awarded to you after you beat the game, will make you want to play this 
 game over and over again. Also Metal Gear Online which offers an extremely fun online option will 
 take all your time as you battle it out with friends in the world of Metal Gear. Trying to find 
 something negative about this game is almost impossible. If you are someone that doesn't like deep 
 storytelling and long cut scenes you might be overwhelmed at first with MGS4, but once you get 
 use to it you will find a story for the ages and you will be sucked into it and will not be released 
 till the game is over. Every aspect of MGS4 is as perfect as can be, and will be remembered for 
 years to come. Snake can now go off into the sunset as a hero. Everyone expects great things from 
 the legendary game developer Hideo Kojima, but his game Metal Gear Solid 4 has fulfilled and past 
 every expectation laid out for him and it. This is one of the very few games that will be remembered 
 10 to 20 years down the road, and will be the crowning achievement for Hideo Kojima. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jvmva
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 15, 2008 5:33 pm PT
Review:  This game is the best in the series. The graphics are absolutely stunning. The cut scenes are longer 
 but the interactive and flashbacks are nice touch. It is also filled with rich details. You can 
 zoom in during the cut scenes and see the details. You get the felling of watching a Hollywood 
 action blockbuster, with nice twists. Background music is best. It can't get any better.
  
  There are also installation between each act of the game. During which the snake smokes and you 
 can actually see the size of the cigarette decreases. It also displays warnings like injury to 
 health due to prolong gaming, cigarette etc.
  
  Game has both shooting and stealth game play. In some sequences you can just run and gun, but some 
 part you have to stealth. Its a nice mixture. There are variety of weapons in the game. 
  
  Overall this game provides everything what any MGS fans would expect from this game!!!
  
  That 
 is my perfect review for the game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RedEyeNinjai
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 15, 2008 8:00 pm PT
Review:  this last master peace of this series was brilliantly done! I mean the story line is amazing so 
 far the suite and the Mk. 2 that little robot is help full. I use it a lot whith its shock cabl 
 and it saves me ammo. also the suite the simple fact that it changes whin your still. it beats 
 doing it manually and not forgetting the online play thats more challenging than the game because 
 you got all this talent that have played the metal gear series and most have beten them all up 
 and tell now hell some might be already done with guns and patriots but if some one were to ask 
 me what hot game is out right now I would tell them that got to buy this one the storyline is amazing 
 so far and online couldn't be any better. I hope most fans think the same way I do and i know that 
 most will have there opion. i whish they could keep this series going but I guess all greatness 
 must stand down but it will be remaberd. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: riiaku
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jun 15, 2008 4:54 pm PT
Review:  The gameplay mechanics were good, but not original, nothing new compared to other shooters. However, 
 the graphics were amazing on my HD TV. Connected it to my dads 1080p marantz project and was absolutely 
 stunning. Definitely have to give them props for that. However the sound needs major improvement. 
 Was using Energy veritas 5.1 system and it still didn't sound that great. The gun sounds were generic. 
 Nothing to write home about so to speak. In fact, I often left myself wondering what were they 
 thinking? For a game like this seriously, if your going to have a good story then at least develop 
 the aural ambiance or environment around you so it gives a feeling that this is an epic story using 
 sound. Walking past your teammates while he has diarrhea and him farting isn't what I would call 
 environmental sounds. 
  
  The story seemed kind of dry, bad acting as you would expect from a game, and a somewhat lame story. 
 The story from the grand theft auto series is much better. The fact that the GTA series used actual 
 actors made it fun and more enjoyable. The people in this game seemed kind of dull and not memorable. 
 Snake? Yikes could they have come up with a less goofier name. (anybody remember Snake Plisken 
 from, Escape From New York, wow how original of the character development) . These guys took the 
 time to really make their character unique (notice the cynicism) . The fact that Snake can carry 
 10 guns at once when he only has room for probably 3 on his body makes the game worse. Where is 
 he storing these weapons? If your going to make this game dramatic and over the top then at least 
 try to apply some common sense on the character. I'm glad I returned this game, cause I got Rainbow 
 Six Vegas 2 and Call of Duty 4 for PC, and got Burnout paradise for ps3. 
  
  There are lots of things they need to work on. For one, better acting would be nice. Second, better 
 sound quality. Third, redo the entire story. Four, kill off snake and come up with something unique. 
 Fifth, Work on the amount of guns he carries. Sixth, actually show the guns he carries on his body. 
 Yikes I just realized if I don't stop I'll end up writing a book. So I'll stop here. If you liked 
 super cheesy movies like Armageddon then buy this game. However if you think that Stanley Kubrick 
 and Quentin Tarantino make ridiculously good movies then please stay away from this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: urfcaptain
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 15, 2008 4:48 pm PT
Review:  This game was absolutely amazing. If you've played the rest of the series, you simply HAVE to play 
 this one. This was the most fun i've had playing a video game in a while. I'd have to say that 
 this is an overall better game than GTA 4, which was also amazing, but MGS4 has everything you 
 could possibly expect or want from a video game, and more. It has a better story than anything 
 you'll see at the movies this year, and absolutely brilliant gameplay and awe-inspiring graphics. 
 Kojima got this one not just right, but perfect... and even though i haven't had much time with 
 it beause the single player takes so long, the multiplayer is pretty damn good too... Different 
 modes make it easy to keep coming back for more, but you might not even play the multiplayer because 
 you'll be going through the single-player over and over and over. Perfect is really the only word 
 to describe this game... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bigc072005
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 15, 2008 4:42 pm PT
Review:  to all the gay kids giving it 7's and 8's because of the controls... shoot yourself... its okay if 
 u give it an 8 cuz u arent into it... everybody has different tastes but for that reason you really 
 need to stop gaming if u score based on controls... MGS4 cutscenes are gorgeous.... the gameplay 
 is amazing and the stuff you can do... from buying guns to using the remote controlled robot to 
 scope stuff out... is awesome... the online could be better but id give it an 8 easy it just takes 
 some getting used to... but MGS4 is def a GOTY contender and possibly winner... thank you hideo kojima 
 for making another classic game... keep doing what you do best... and to all u gamers that dont have 
 a ps3 yet... guys seriously...08 is the year to get one.. its only $50 more then a 360 for the 40gb... wtf 
 needs BC... i never use it... but dont just get it for mgs4 just get it for the fact that PS3 is 
 going to own 08-12... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lhbchen
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 15, 2008 4:37 pm PT
Review:  Yes, I've picked [Underappreciated] . And it's not a mistake. Even a "10" can't describe MGS4's 
 superiority.
  
  I once thought no game this gen can be better than Uncharted overall except beating it with length.
 
  
  I was wrong!
  
  Visually, MGS4 is as superb as Uncharted if it's not better. I somehow believe MGS4 is more polished 
 and the details of the environment are overwhelming.
  
  Audio. Well, the best cast in the industry, unsurpassable and detailed sound effect and beautiful 
 melodies. Although I love Uncharted, I still have to say it got murdered by MGS4.
  
  Gameplay, MGS4 has much more freedom and choices in weapon varieties, gaming styles and in-game 
 gadgets.
  
  Story. I've got to say both games are fantastic, but MGS4 as the last episode of Snake's adventure, 
 it's naturally deeper. Length, it's an easy math. 10+ is less than 20+.
  
  So you see, I thought Uncharted was well deserved a 9.5+ while MGS4 could be that much better than 
 Uncharted. I would say a scale of 10 out of 10 is not enough any more for MGS4. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gowthamspa
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 15, 2008 4:24 pm PT
Review:  This game is the best in the series. The graphics are absolutely stunning. The cut scenes are longer 
 but the interactive and flashbacks are nice touch. It is also filled with rich details. You can 
 zoom in during the cut scenes and see the details. You get the felling of watching a Hollywood 
 action blockbuster, with nice twists. Background music is best. It can't get any better.
  
  There are also installation between each act of the game. During which the snake smokes and you 
 can actually see the size of the cigarette decreases. It also displays warnings like injury to 
 health due to prolong gaming, cigarette etc.
  
  Game has both shooting and stealth game play. In some sequences you can just run and gun, but some 
 part you have to stealth. Its a nice mixture. There are variety of weapons in the game. 
  
  Overall this game provides everything what any MGS fans would expect from this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: eikira
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 15, 2008 4:09 pm PT
Review:  well what can i say. since mgs2 i never played a game till the very end with fun and joy. mgs4 
 is a masterpiece. like otacon says snake is the shi (-a) t =D.
  i think a 9.5 is fair enough.
  sometimes the gameplay itself sucked. like aiming in right direction.
 
  
  the only real bad thing is for somebody who never played one of the previus parts he will understand 
 like nothing.
  
  the coolest thing was as snake returns to shadow moses and you play the crapy graphic mgs1 style 
 =D that was so funny.
  also very very funny was the part with psycho mantis where the controller doesnt rumble HAHAHA.
 
  
  just great.
  
  i also think a 10 is not realistic. no game was perfect, is not perfect and will never be perfect. 
 the day a game rich the level perfect no more videogames after that are needet.
  
  anyway i think konami did a damn good job.
  it was fun.
  
  and i think i will play it again 
 till the end like i did with mgs1 and mgs2 many times just to find some other easter eggs. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: solomons1
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 15, 2008 4:07 pm PT
Review:  This has to be one of the best games since the birth of metal gear solid on the playstation. With 
 superb graphical action and enough weapons, items and new customisable parts to throw a stick at, 
 this game deserves the title of number one game to own of all time so far. The story lives up to 
 the metal gear name and with amazing cinematic events unravelling before my own eyes i found it 
 truly difficult to actually put the controller down. The installation of the seperate parts in 
 the game cuts down loading screens by a maximum effort and although i absolutely fanatically enjoy 
 the whole of the metal gear solid saga (except vr missions) this could be even better than the 
 original metal gear on the playstation, which, as much as a lot of people would either agree with 
 me or disagree in it being difficult, it is true. THIS IS THE GAME TO PLAY!!
  
  All that is left to say is this game is a 10 and it will be very very difficult to top. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: geonelone
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 15, 2008 3:53 pm PT
Review:  20+hours done playing,,, though i just finished it for the sake of seeing everything, but to complete 
 all items... i'll play again w/o alerts now!!!, but the thing is, it's okay for a game to have 
 good cinematics but not that too HEAVY.... man, it's like almost an hour of briefing etc... some 
 cut scenes are all talks... cut scenes like raiden vs vamp is good, tons of action, but when the 
 story telling comes... im kinda like to sleep.... yah i know u can skip it, but what will happen 
 if you do?, nothing bad?, actually you will miss the details of the game and story, how the twist 
 and turns happen... 
  
  BUTBUTBUT!!! it's totally awesome game!! best in the series, (only wish they make the story telling 
 a lot shorter and brief...) , one more thing.... theres some comedy part... like when there at shadow 
 moses... otacon ask you to change disc... dang!!! memories of MGS1!!!, and then.... mantis! that 
 psycho wanna read a memory card.... and got confused coz' its ps3... nah just watch that scene... 
 some non-sense part of the game....
  
  raiden... heh... thought he'll be playable though.... end of the series.... so long SNAKE!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: F00tballguy2002
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 15, 2008 3:17 pm PT
Review:  Before I bought the game, I was asking around the forum whether or not I should buy it, because 
 in my past experience all the MGS games that I've played were pretty short, and I was hesitant 
 about spending $60 on another MSG game that you can beat in 2 days. 
  
  It turned out to be true, MGS is a game you can beat in 2 days. But every penny of that $60 is 
 well spent. 
  
  Graphics - This game has AMAZING graphics. It looks amazing even on a regular 480p SDTV (since 
 that's all I have. I bet it looks stunning on a 1080i) . The game runs smoothly, no performance 
 or frame rate issues whatsoever.
  
  Sound - Amazing Dolby 3D sound. Even if you don't have surround sound speakers, the sound and music 
 are still amazing. Especially at the end when your fighting Liquid Ocelot on top of the Haven.
 
  
  Story - Story is very well composed. It fills in all the blanks left by the previous MGS games, 
 and there was nothing out of place. All the dots can be connected together. It's addictive and 
 makes you want to keep on going. I bought this game on June 12th at around 8 PM. I played until 
 4 PM non stop the next morning. The story makes you want to keep playing to find out what happens 
 next. 
  
  Snake - They made Snake amazing in this game. The players will be drawn in and feel sympathetic 
 for Snake. Snake is portrayed old man with a worn out body. Yet he is still willing to put himself 
 through such hell in order to complete his mission, even though he knew he would have nothing to 
 gain by it personally, the only thing he'd gain is closure - finishing the job that he started. 
 He is the perfect soldier with a mentally that's harder than anything on earth, and an Iron Will. 
 Throughout the game, Snake said "We still have a job to do" a few times, even though he knew he 
 only had 3 months to live.
  
  Amazing.
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: freakyzeeky1986
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 15, 2008 1:30 pm PT
Review:  OMG, what can I say about this game that hasn't been said already? This game just screams high 
 production values, and the story is really, really good... it's too good, better than most Hollywood 
 movies these days!
  
  There is even an Apple iPod in-game, and soon you can upload your own music to the game, so you 
 can do all the sneaking while listening to Hilary Duff music all you want to your hearts content. 
 :P
  There's even a PS3 and a PSP in the game, and Snake controls the MK. II with a Sixaxis... yeah, 
 Kojima has made it REAL CLEAR that this masterpiece is PS3 exclusive! 
  
  All I can say is WOW, this game has risen the bar when it comes to video game storytelling, and 
 is the best Metal Gear Solid game in the series... easily.
  I don't want to spoil the game for you, just play it... though I'd recommend playing all the other 
 MGS games before starting this one for maximum effect. :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: siLVURcross
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 15, 2008 1:19 pm PT
Review:  Metal Gear Solid 4 is enough reason to buy a PS3. I'm just going to say that right now.
  
  It not only pushes the capabilities of the PS3, but brings a beautiful and wonderful ending for 
 the story of Snake. 
  
  For those unknown to the story, it starts off simple, you are Solid Snake, clone of a legendary 
 hero and villain to the 8-bit Metal Gear games, Big Boss. Your rapid aging is due to the cause 
 of your clonage. 
  
  In this game, the story follows Old Snake as he battles out with his twin brother Liquid Snake, 
 now known as Liquid Ocelot in order to prevent enslavement of the world.
  
  Honestly, I wish I could say more, but saying anything else will only ruin the story. You will 
 see old and familiar faces, new people, engaging boss battles and brilliantly made levels that 
 simply wow you.
  
  Though the game can get quite long, it is worth it. This game is worth the 60 bucks and amazes 
 you how great the PS3 truly is. Simply an astounding game, I'm lost for words. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: benthegamesguru
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 16, 2008 4:37 am PT
Review:  Ive been waiting for this game for 3 years since it was first announced and now its finally here 
 and ive finished it i feel a slight sadness. Its true this is the best metal gear and definitly 
 surpasses its predessecors but now the series is done and dusted im alredi missing it. Everything 
 about the game is awe inspiring. The graphics, the newly thought out control system, the gameplay 
 and ofcourse the story is just amazing.
  
  Im not going to go into all the plot details because tht would be nuts but the metal gear plot 
 is both brilliant and crazy at the same time. Its so thick and complicated tht even i got confused 
 during the previous 3 games and this one is no different. In essence it is a metal gear game despite 
 its 2 arguably contradictory opening acts. Basically the new control system is more suited to a 
 third person shooter... very un-metal gear like and the emphasis on weaponry and customisation practically 
 seduces players not to use stealth but to blast your way through. And what is amzing about the 
 game is tht it is a stealth game but it is also equally a just as good shooter. Stealth ofcourse 
 is still the key element to mgs4 but a little less emphasis has been put on it to suit the more 
 contempory gamer. Stealth is still equally as good as the last 3 but improved thanks to the new 
 controls and items so if you're an mgs fan and worried tht stealth isnt the case anymore it is... just 
 theres another way to go. You can ofcourse do what i did and combine the 2 but some parts of the 
 game to force every player to return to mgs4s roots and go stealth. 
  
  The graphics are top draw and the best i have seen next to Gears of war. The graphics are the most 
 realistic though and gritty. The small details included is what stands it apart. There was one 
 section where you are traversing a cold and snowy landscape (no spoiler intended) and you can literally 
 see the snow caught inbetween snakes moustache and the frost starting to cover the solid-eye. The 
 cutscenes are typically amazing, the best ive probably seen in a game... well the best yes. 
  
  Problems for me; well there are not many and thts not me being biase. The plot can be over 
 complicated. I struggled with parts i have to admit. The voice acting can also be a bit corny (Otacon 
 particulalry) . The game can also feel more like a movie than a game and clearly the developers 
 and kojima intended to create this blockbuster effect. The last act in particular, act 5 is atleast 
 70% cutscene and this can be frustrating as the only times you get to play is in little segments 
 either side of cutscenes. However, i cant really complain because the final effect is truly epic.
 
  
  There is a slight disappointment kind of effect once you have finished partly because the game 
 is finally over and ultimatly the series. I can see why the game might not live to some peoples 
 expectations... it did live to mine tho and thts why i can safely say this game is one of my favourite 
 games of all time and my favourite metal gear. There are sad moments, there are truly epic moments 
 and nostalgic moments which truly are awesome (a return to somewhere special) and ofcourse some 
 truly jaw-dropping moments when revelations occur. The game overall is simply outstanding from 
 the story to the kickass action/stealth gameplay. The sense of closure is immense and im glad they 
 made raiden so cool, they made me a fan of him anyway ;D. I cant deny the game a perfect 10 because 
 its has left a profound effect on me and set the standard of how future playstation 3 (yes it is 
 ps3 exclusive people) games should be made. As for me -im off for my second playthrough XD 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Heromoua
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 18, 2008 6:37 pm PT
Review:  I remember playing the very first Metal Gear Solid back in 1999. Only 9 years old indeed at the 
 time, but the game was impressive at the time with high production values, voice work, and a gameplay 
 mechanic that would stain my gaming memories forever. When MGS2 arrived, we wondered if real time 
 graphics reached its peak at that arrival. Then came MGS3, which set a new standard in the MGS 
 series, with stunning visual and yet again amazing voice work still in tact since MGS1 as well 
 as keeping the good old gaming mechanic, that eventually evolved with Subsistence with the 3rd 
 person camera view as well as adding on the classic MG and MG2 games to fully recap the entire 
 story up to the point of MGS3. Now 10 years since the dawn of Metal Gear "Solid" to us spoiled 
 kids introduced to the Playstation, we are given the very game to had truly revolutionized next 
 gen gaming. Metal Gear Solid 4 entered the battlefield of next gen giving players very promising 
 results and fulfilled the many high expectations that many games had failed within the past year 
 or so.
  
  Trailers showed stunning visuals in the past 2 years, as well as the gameplay we hoped to revolutionize 
 MGS forever... now, for any normal game a trailer would indeed show its goods, but when it comes 
 time of release the games tend to fall before us. Assassin's Creed, GTA4, COD4, all failed to meet 
 my expectations from trailers. What did I find about MGS4? I indeed found even more than the expectations 
 of the trailers. You come to realize that the final product of the game looks even better than 
 what is shown in the trailers, as well as just how more dynamic the gameplay is than just previous 
 trailers and gameplay videos. So we come to conclude that YES, the game went beyond even my expectations, 
 and it's not many games that can pull that off.
  
  The game is very story driven, including massive cutscenes and a 3 minute install time in between 
 acts. You'll question if that's a bad thing... surprisingly, it just isn't. The amount of fun that 
 you get even through insane amounts of replays and the extremely high scaled production values 
 also make this a block buster hit you don't want to miss. I won't go much into the story, but if 
 you are a hardcore MGS fan, this is the game where all ends are tied... or untied again? New comers 
 might be lost a bit? But judging by how the story is told within the codec conversations and cutscenes, 
 one who hasn't played MGS should at least still get a good run through on whatha hell is going 
 on. And yes, that means you do not have to be a MGS fan to enjoy MGS4.
  
  Graphically, nothing comes close to MGS4, its art style to realism is above your average game, 
 not revealing almost a single flat texture, backed with very balanced lighting that's not too overdone 
 such as in Gears of War, Call of Duty 4, or Halo 3. This game tends to not hide a single flaw, 
 and amazingly displays. One could argue that Crysis looks better than MGS4, but from a perspective 
 of detail, I believe MGS4 takes the win on that. Stunning visuals will include dust, sand, or even 
 snow that would cover the screen, as well as the character models and even death animations of 
 soldiers. The sound is also amazing, and in fact the best sounding game ever to hit a video game 
 console. Ryan Payton once said that the sounds within the game were made of literally PURE AUDIO 
 rather than just mp3 format files. Well, I have no other way to describe just how extremely good 
 the sound is, so that's going to be one you are gonna have to figure out by playing it; of course 
 in 5.1 that is. The next gen rumble that they talk about? Yes, it is actually here, and unlike 
 a normal rumble you'd get out of a Wiimote, Dual Shock 2, or 360 controller, you'll totally realize 
 it here. From every jumping, crash, explosion, walking through rubble, click of a gun, firing of 
 a gun, cqcing some fool, doing a dive roll... etc, you feel the DS3 rumble, in a fashionable way 
 that makes you understand the situation. If explosions are near by, the rumble will go crazy, if 
 a gun clicks from reloads, you'll feel the rumble go accordingly to the click. If you are on a 
 vehicle during the vehicle sections, the controller will continuously rumble lightly, unless if 
 you hit a bump or crash into something. IF.. you fire a weak weapons like a pistol, your controller 
 rumbles lightly accordingly, if you fire a rifle... you'll feel the impact of that as well. It's 
 all there, and this is THE game to get your DS3's worth.
  
  That was the rundown on the visuals and graphics, and I'll say again, you'll never see a more realistic 
 battlefield (s) . In war games, battlefields are over exaggerated in straight forward and linear 
 gameplay, and are always shown in rubbish, rundown, and bland city environments as seen in practically 
 any war game ever to come out, along with uninspiring preset events and just constant killing and 
 boring "bomb this place/rescue this man" objectives. MGS4 isn't like that, and being a game based 
 upon war and based on WHITE PEOPLE... these JAPANESE developers had done a better job with this 
 type of work and possibly beaten the American/European devs at their own game/genre with MGS4. 
 In MGS4, you rather see a more beautiful side of war, and the mass possibilities to approach a 
 battlefield in your own way not just with comrades, but rather a lone soldier and with the stealth 
 of a Sniper Elite.
  
  Gameplay... one would compare it to Gears of War, another would compare it to COD4 with its FPS 
 mode, and another would compare it to Resident Evil 4, and some would just compare it to its predecessors. 
 Hearing all of these, how would you describe MGS4? Well, you have to ask yourself that. It's how 
 you want to play it people. You might be the one who loves to gun people down, or you might be 
 the realistic guy and play the game in FPS mode... or you might want to stay true to MGS and just 
 sneak the whole time. Play it the way you want people! The gadgets, the insane 70 plus amount of 
 weapons, and the different gameplay schemes, all compiled into one package to give you the different 
 possibilities to play the game in which ever way you want, makes MGS4 a hell of a game to play 
 especially if you enjoy a certain of the many genres of action. The game is played mainly in 3rd 
 person mode, and you can use the option of auto aim, over the shoulder aim, or even fps mode, in 
 which you could actually preset to. You are given many moves to do, and that includes CQC combat, 
 in which you can grab a hold of enemies and through them, hold them up with your weapon, choke 
 them, slit their throats, break their necks... and again, many possibilities. You are also able 
 to take advantage of Snake's Octo Camo, which is part of his sneaking suit that can take the camouflage 
 of just about EVERY object in the game. FPS mode can work finely, but that sense of speek won't 
 be there, but rather most of the movement takes play in 3rd person, and having the 1st person as 
 your primary source for aiming. But that scheme works, and FPS fans should be delighted to have 
 that feature to access to.
  
  Overall, I'm not even completed with this review, but I'm pretty sure you've all gotten a very 
 good idea of what the game is like. There's Metal Gear Online in the package as well, and it has 
 the same awesome gameplay that's delivered in MGS4, and you can take Snake's skills online to battle 
 other players. This is the game of this year people, and don't mistake the cutscene graphics as 
 pre-rendered either, haha, there's enough content to prove its cutscenes to display in realtime. 
 Of the two masterpieces in this life time of video games being Legend of Zelda Ocarina of Time 
 and Final Fantasy VII, both had been equally praised. And now, Metal Gear Solid 4 can join those 
 two, earning its right to be part of the three best video games ever created... well, in my opinions 
 anyways, LOL. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xxDarkuraixx
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 15, 2008 12:12 pm PT
Review:  Metal gear Solid 4: Guns of Patriots is by far the BEST game I have yet to play. When I finally 
 completed the game with 23 hours and 12 minutes of gameplay, I wish there could have been more. 
 The music was amazing, the fight scenes, twisted story, and the weird scenes is what a Metal Gear 
 game should have, and this one did.
  
  The Bad: Long Cut Scenes.
  The Good: Everything Else.
  
  What I have always admired about Metal Gear ever since I was 
 a kid was that each one of the series had at least 2 parts where something freaky and funny happened.
 
  
  *********SPOILERS FROM THE SERIES***************
  
  MGS1: Psycho Mantis reading your memory card and moving your controller
  MGS2-SoL: The Ending 
 with the Colonel going crazy and the map freaking out
  MGS3-SE: The Sorrow. To this day, I am still in WTF mode.
  MGS4-GoP: Screaming Mantis, the ending 
 with the furnace (Brilliant!) and the other BB corps
  
  *********ENDING OF 
  
  
  
  
  
  I have played many great 
 games in my day, WoW, SSB, GTA, Halo, and none have moved me like this game has. MGS4 was such 
 a masterpiece, I wanted to cry. I am not kidding, I hum the MGS4 love theme to this day, and if 
 this game cost 400$, I still would have bought it. As for the deal with the bad reviews, you can 
 NOT play this game and enjoy it to my extent unlss you have played at least Sons of Liberty. You 
 will get lost in the story if you have not, and you probably will wonder wtf is going on. Either 
 way, pick up this game. Do it, now. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: HellsHighway1
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 15, 2008 12:11 pm PT
Review:  GTA 4 is little crap in front of METAL GEAR SOLID 4.
  
  Metal Gear Solid 4 offers you an 100 hours of gameplay because the long codec speeches, and long 
 cutscenes.
  
  MGS4 is the best game in the world, better than GTA 4 because of graphics, sound, story.... I mean 
 EVERYTHING!!! GTA series never have a good story, never have a good graphics ( only GTA 4 maked 
 a little change in graphics ) , here are missions in all GTA series: Drive there, kill them, drive 
 home.... that is not right thing... MGS4 is better because you can choose what tipe of gameplay 
 you want... You can use you camouflage suit and blend in and pass enemy undetected or you can run 
 into with gun blazing... you can choose another way to go to your mission, or you can go around 
 back of enemy and kill them silently with knife... and I love Snakes new camouflage suit, and solid 
 eye... I love every Snakes gadget. AND ON TOP OF THAT I LOVE MGS SERIES!!!!!!!
  AND HIDEO KOJIMA WHO IS BEHIND MGS SERIES!!!!!!!!!!!!!!
  
  And that is because is MGS4 and 
 all MGS games are best!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ooginator
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 15, 2008 11:45 am PT
Review:  some will disagree with the above comment and had i not had the experience i also would, but as 
 a GTA fanatic myself i find it hard to admit this. 
  MGS 4 is a game that has everything to it : 
  The graphics are the best i have ever seen 
  
 The audio is stunning : whether a huge explosion or a gentle whisper 
  The gameplay is so good that i find it hard to it put into words
  but as a person who has rarely 
 played 1 2 or 3 i find myself 
  stunned as to how this level of genius is achieved 
  The story itself i had to catch up with but when i did i was shocked at the twists and turns provided.
 
  So to summarise this unsurprising short review MGS4 IS the best game this year (at least so far) 
 and is, at least in my opinion, the best game EVER.
  If you miss this game then it is the biggest mistake of your life. 
  Now with that said i'm going 
 back to MGS
  - Ooginator 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 417alum
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 15, 2008 11:28 am PT
Review:  Wow, where do I start... Metal Gear Solid 4, a PS3 seller that has nothing but "great" written 
 all over it. This game is what gamers dream for. The story is very interlined with the cutscenes 
 and cinema, it puts you right into the action -- even before you get there! The controls for this 
 game are one of a kind. You start out with a few weapons, and get to use drebin points to unlock 
 certain special weapons that the PMC or Militia might use that normally you couldn't. As soon as 
 you start this game, and until you stop, you will find the most detailed plot in any storyline 
 ever. The most detailed graphics ranging from the wind blowing up dust in your face, to the reactions 
 of certain objects in the environment all throughout the story. Without spoiling the plot for you 
 guys, let me just say that this game is NOT overhyped and that it is easily a game that redefines 
 the genre of gaming for true tactical fans. Stealth is key, and you really have to stay that way 
 at all times. So if you're into run & gun COD4, I would not recommend this game to you. Otherwise, 
 great story, great plot, great graphics, great online -- this game has that magic touch that makes 
 it one of a kind & oh so hard to not play. Metal Gear Online is really fun too! You get to play 
 8 on 8 man tactical team combat with headsets, text chat, lobbies, auto matchmaking, custom games, 
 Downloadable Content, & more. So if you're on the edge of buying this game, Buy It! It is so worth 
 it. Easily the best PS3 game to date. 10/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: josef8
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 15, 2008 11:16 am PT
Review:  First i just want to say dont look over ign reader reviews they suck... the game was criticized 
 before it was abailabe to public... jeez thats stupid..
  
  Game plays as it should... flawlessly. Graphics=AMAZING, gameplay=AMAZING, story line=AMAZING. Gears 
 of War 2 better be able to compete... but i dunno... this game is off the hook.
  The Game picks up right where it left off, with a few twists and turns (but i will not let them 
 out) . the thing that blew me away were the controls and the fully customizable weapons (far superior 
 than COD4, and a zillion time more than gears of war) not to knock gears, but it's nothing compared 
 to this. From the opening sequence to the middle of the game it is so fluid (most likely due to 
 the 4 some odd gigs loaded to the system) but well worth it... it pays of the smoothness and fluidity 
 of the game is unmatchable to any other 3rd person shooter. If you're a beginner or advance gamer, 
 or even if you have never played the MGS games before... you will with out a doubt be awed when 
 you play this game. (it stopped my COD4 fetish asashaa) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SolidSnake0084
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 15, 2008 10:55 am PT
Review:  As of right now, MGS4 is branded one of my top favorite games of all times, i am a rly big fan 
 of the mgs series. I know if u've played an MGS game then you'll like this one as well. It has 
 an awesome story line and very entertaining game play. If you never have played an MGS game then 
 the story might be confusing for you but id still recommend this game. One thing that ive always 
 enjoyed about the mgs series is the boss fights. Each boss has there own unique abilities that 
 may require u to use some kind of stradegy to beat them. For example in MGS 1 the boss Pycho Mantis, 
 u have to actually put ur controller into the second slot because he reads what buttoms you hit 
 if your in the first controller slot. MGS4 has boss fights like that but different. In this Metal 
 Gear game there are so many ways to take out an enemy its not even funny. Unless it makes you laugh 
 then yeah it does haha. Im not very good at giving reviews for games but i think for those of you 
 who have not played this yet should give it a shot and see what they think. Sides a whole lot of 
 movies in this game it is really fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cipherace2008
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 15, 2008 10:17 am PT
Review:  Well, Metal Gear Solid 4 Guns Of The Patriots has finally arrived to the PLAYSTATION 3 System!!! 
 I never played the previous Metal Gear Solid games but thanks to the ratings, this game cuaght 
 my attention. The cutscenes are long but incredible the way old snake is progressing through the 
 story. If your a new player to the mgs series then the controls would be a little confusin but 
 as time go's by as youre playing, then the controls should be a peace of cake for you. I thought 
 the story was going to be confusing as i never played the previous mgs games, but its not that 
 bad after all. Of course there are some characters that have known Old Snake for a while now and 
 I dont how they met. But what i like about this game is that, every time you see a new character, 
 it shows you there name. That's a pretty cool feature that konami threw in there for us fans. Anyway 
 if your reading this article and maybe thinking of getting MGS4. Then GO GET IT!! You wont regret 
 it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Readd1
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 15, 2008 9:55 am PT
Review:  Metal Gear Solid 4 is the game which many (if not all) PS3 owners have been waiting for and is 
 probably the most important exclusive for Sony so far. It was hoped it would showcase the full 
 potential of the system and I can safely say it has definately acheived this without a doubt. 
 
  Upon starting the game on the afternoon of launch day, the single player begins with a mandatory 
 installation which may seem dull, but it is accompanied by a next-gen Old Snake smoking his way 
 through a cigarette which is beutifully created. The light from the cigarette shine realistically 
 off his very human-looking skin and the smoke flows brilliantly through the air. Note this is before 
 the game has even begun, the graphics are even better in the game, with Snake's Octocamo adapting 
 seamlessly to the detailed textures surrounding him.
  Of course it wouldn't be Metal Gear Solid without a gripping story and MGS4 contains one of the 
 most gripping and confusing stories of any game out at the moment. The characters are as believeable 
 as ever, and the bad guys just as easy to hate as in previous incarnations (especially Liquid Ocelot!!!) . 
 The boss battles are still here also and are as epic as ever, with one long awaited fight which 
 i will not spoil in this review!
  Multiplayer is also included, and although only a small selection of customisation is available 
 with the disc, more is available on the PSN. Only play is fun and definately good graphically but 
 I didn't warm to it the same way as many others have (probably because I am not too good at it) . 
 Overall, MGS4 is an amazing end to Solid Snake's story and is, in my opinion, the best game out 
 for PS3 which showcases what the system is capable of. It sets a new bar for all PS3 games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: robobie
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 15, 2008 9:08 am PT
Review:  Metal Gear Solid 4. The game every PS3 owner has been waiting for since the day it was announced 
 is finally here. Does it live up to the hype. Yes. It lives up to the hype in every way possible. 
 Everything you could want out of this game is in it. I have spent hours searching for something 
 to complain about with this game but I can't. There is nothing bad about this game. Some may complain 
 about the cut-scenes being too long but you can easily skip them. Metal Gear Solid 4 the greatest 
 stealth game ever released if not the best game ever to be released.
  
  The graphics in this game are top notch. It is one of the best looking games I have ever seen. 
 There are no bugs or glitches to my knowledge. Characters and levels look great. Cut scenes also 
 look amazing. The attention to detail in this game is superb. 
  
  The story is the best I have ever played through. I have not played any of the other Metal Gear 
 Solids so I do not know how the story takes off from previous games. But the game has a superb 
 story. I will not give any spoilers but there are a few surprises throughout the game. The story 
 is so good you could turn this game into a movie and it would win plenty of Oscars. 
  
  The controls are very easy to use. L1 and R1 are used for shooting. L2 and R2 are used to bring 
 up your weapon and item menus. Triangle is used for actions while X is used for kneeling and lying 
 down. Circle is for reloading while analogs are used for moving and looking around. Basic and easy 
 to use.
  
  Boss battles are great and unique. They are not simple button mashing battles. You will have to 
 use brain power to beat all of the bosses. My favorite boss in the game has to be raging raven 
 because she is so cool. There are many different types of enemies that span from ordinary soldiers 
 to huge machines known as Gekos that are very hard to defeat.
  
  The amount of guns and ways you can customise them is crazy. You can pick any gun and customise 
 it to suit your needs. Tkae an M4. You can stick a grenade launcher, a light, a scope, a laser 
 sight, a silencer and a handle on the one gun. There are also many gadgets that can be used to 
 stay out of sight, defeat enemies and basically help you saty alive. The coolest has to be the 
 octocamo suit which blends snake into his surroundings.
  
  Snake is the only playable character but you can get many masks toput over your face such ase raiden, 
 otacon and a younger looking snake.
  
  If you own a PS3, you owe it to yourself to buy this game. Even if you are not into stealth-action 
 games or you never followed the series you need this game. Metal Gear Solid 4 is the defining title 
 for the PS3. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MusashiSensi
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 15, 2008 8:35 am PT
Review:  First of all, I'm a huge fan of the Metal Gear series & you should expect a truthful review from 
 me because I'm not a fanboy & I don't go giving games a high score because of the hype. Now that 
 the little intro is out of the way lets get to reviewing this game.
  
  STORY- You're once again placed in the role of Solid Snake and his fight against Liquid Oncelot/The 
 Patriots. Set in 2014, five years after the "Big Shell Incident" (the events of the Plant chapter 
 from Metal Gear Solid 2) , Metal Gear Solid 4 portrays a world where the restriction of military 
 intervention on foreign soil has been eased, fueling the need for private military companies (PMCs) 
 to fight proxy wars for business purposes. Nanotechnology has become prominent, both to enhance 
 the capabilities and enforce the loyalty of mercenaries. The nanomachine system that PMCs use is 
 called "Sons of the Patriots" or "SOP". The five largest of these PMCs (Praying Mantis, Otselotovaya 
 Khvatka, Werewolf, Pieuvre Armement and Raven Sword) are owned by a single mother company named 
 Outer Haven, which is operated by Liquid Ocelot. Amassing an army whose manpower rivals that of 
 the United States, Liquid prepares to launch an armed insurrection by taking control of SOP. With 
 the world once again in crisis, a rapidly aging and disillusioned Solid Snake is deployed into 
 the Middle East by Roy Campbell to terminate Liquid. Guns of the Patriots takes place in five locations: 
 the Middle East, South America, Eastern Europe, [15] Shadow Moses Island, and Outer Haven.
  
  
  GAMEPLAY- The gameplay is strictly espionage, you can go in all ramboish, but where's the 
 fun in that? You'll be sneaking and also camouflaging in with your surrounding to hide/sneak up 
 on your enemies. The guns you get are also heavy hitters as you upgrade them/get new ones from 
 drebbin you'll be taking out enemies with no problems at all. The game makes you think alot about 
 what to do rather than giving you the option of just running in and going on a killing spree without 
 getting into a jam. You'll also be checking in with otacon & rose over the codecs to inform you 
 of missions or to help you when you're stuck in that dark corner. The mission briefings are very 
 informative as it feels like you're watching an episode of a metal gear anime. (Lol) 
  
  
  GRAPHICS- Well, I'm playing on a 60 inch 1080p HDTV & the graphics on my end are very well 
 done. During some of the scenes where full on emotions are shown i. e. Crying... the graphics play 
 out VERY WELL. The cut scenes are beautiful and the details shown in your surrounding and on your 
 characters are WELL DONE. 
  
  
  MUSIC- The music is great! I've always thought metal gear solid's music was always done very well 
 and this one didn't let me down. 
  
  
  FINAL NOTE- Look if you're a fan of the series or even if you are not a fan, but have played the 
 games of the series prior to this one, you'll be very drawn in and satisfied by what Kojima did 
 for Metal Gear Solid 4. Even my girl was into it saying things like "If something happens to _____I 
 wont watch you play anymore". Also, The ending was well done (No spoilers) The ending was done 
 for true fans to the series. I took the ending of this series as a "Thank You" from Hideo Kojima 
 and in return most of us will shout back "YOU'RE WELCOME". 
::::::

::::::
UserName: solidsnakehd
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 15, 2008 8:34 am PT
Review:  It is the second time that i write a review about mgs4 and i cant understand why gamespot deleted 
 my review. Hideo Kojima is my love. He always make me amazing with this serie. More than 40 hours 
 time mgs4 wants for beating. It was amazing and the best game that i played in my life after mgs2. i 
 have all unit of mgs serie include mgs 1, mgs2, mgs3, mgs tts, mgs po, mg acid 1,2. but mgs4 has no bug, no 
 problem from any aspect. I always interested in bosses of mgs speciality vamp and crying wolf. About 
 story i must say that mgs 4 is the best that i have played and i think for ever is. from first demo 
 in E3 i found out that gamespot must tale it 10. it seems it is the first time that gamespot couldnt 
 take a weak point from a game. Im sure mgs4 is the best game of all time. Oh what about its sale 
 in world.1.3 million unit in one day. Im sure mgs4 is not the last one and hope for mgs 5. bye 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bellsmye1
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 15, 2008 7:42 am PT
Review:  Its here! I thought GTA 4 was going to keep me occupied for the duration of the wait for this, 
 but seeing as in my opinion, it was a massive dissapointment, the wait was made to be infinitly 
 longer. But here I am writing the review for the completed game ( I spent a lot of time on it) , 
 and I can honestly say that im still totally gobsmacked. My PS3 has played second fiddle to my 
 360 for a while now but PS3 has officially been given its killer app. Its worth buying a PS3 to 
 experience this game. Seriously. Next to Ocarina of Time, it my favourite gaming experience. From 
 the word go I was mesmerised. The interview with David Hayter at the beginning was an amusing little 
 touch aswell. The opening sequence feels like a big budget movie with the credits rolling while 
 Snakes gritty voice narrates and sets the scene. The graphics in this game are incredible and there 
 are lots of awesome little details that a lot of people will miss. The cutscenes are FANTASTIC. 
 They are very dramatic and in some cases, heartbreaking. And lets get this straight, I hated Raiden 
 in MGS 2. In this he is badass. Wait till you see him in the gekko cutscene. Wow. The bosses are 
 as interesting as they have always been, and Ocelot is, in my opinion, one of the most fascinating 
 characters ever devised. The twists will have you oohhing and aaahhhing throughout the duration 
 of the story... words cant express how fantastic this game is... just buy it. To Mr Kojima... I 
 salute you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: -Raiden-
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 15, 2008 6:36 am PT
Review:  mean, the option of playing the game in First Person is so good that i cant emigne better!
  
  MGS 4 Is Already One Of The Best Games Ever Made, I Will Buy This Game 100% sure, And With 
 The Metal Gear Online
  
  The online play will be with more the 16 actors!! 16 is huge in a mgs game!
  It Make It Even 
 Bigger & Better, A Must Buy For Metal Gear Fans And A Good Reason! Grafic is nearly perfect, and 
 its look like a film!
  
  The films in MGS are mate perfectly, its so good, that i konami will make a game soon! ITs so nice!
 
  
  The sound is perfect, nothing less!
  
  Game appeal is perfect, you can play this at so many levels, that its worth playing 10 times og 
 20 times!
  
  MGS 4 is simply a game that you have to experience for yourself. Because the one thing that can 
 certainly be said, prohibited topics or not, is that Metal Gear Solid 4: Guns of the Patriots ! 
 
  
  
  Simply the best MGS game ever:.)
  
  And i think it would be the game of year! Only GTA 4 can fight with Metal gear solid 4!
  
  
 Buy it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Zard256
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 15, 2008 6:16 am PT
Review:  When the game was up coming I was always wondering how they used up 50 gigs of data and a cell 
 worth of processing on one game because I remember reading reviews where Hideo stated something 
 along the lines of "We ran out of space." And running out of space on the most powerful gaming 
 system out there. I knew I was in for one impressive ride. I love the return to old areas and old 
 friends/enemies. The whole game just ties into itself so beautifully. There is actually nothing 
 I can complain about. The installations arn't long. The longest one is the first one 8 minutes 
 about, everyone after that is roughly 3 minutes. So it's really no biggie. This is the only game 
 in creation I would actually give a perfect score too and call a masterpiece. Another important 
 thing I feel I should mention is WORLDWIDE RELEASE and it wasn't a lie. Every time that comes up 
 it always fails out, SSBB for example another game I love to pieces but I wouldn't give it a perfect 
 score, It'd 9+ though. :P If you own a PS3 you it to the system if nothing else to buy and at least 
 play through this game once, it's the pinnacle of what the machine can offer, so sit down, take 
 a drink and enjoy the 10-15 hour ride because if your anything like me once the plot started I 
 couldn't put the game down and I was lost for almost two full days. In a word, Masterpiece. 
  
  Enjoy =) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nathan-Hale
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 15, 2008 6:12 am PT
Review:  Metal Gear Solid 4 is by far yet one of the best games i have played so far, in my opinion this 
 game is the true gaming experience for a gamer. With some long cut-scenes making a tremendous touching 
 storyline and a wonderful individual game play, And is the best stealth shooter out there right 
 now ( and hopefully forever.) The astonishing graphics and intelligent AI will make you feel like 
 this game is just pure real.
  
  However if you've played other MGS games and thought that the cut-scenes were just a waste of time 
 you probably will think the same in the beginning of this game. But however, as you move on you 
 wont be able to skip a cut-scene due to the amazing storyline and dramatically ties up the storyline 
 from all the other 3 games in the 4th one. The hype for this game is truly real. This game is a 
 must get! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: stonecoldjake
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 15, 2008 6:07 am PT
Review:  In the past few years, even though im still impressed with lots of games that came out, none have 
 made me stay up all night , just like the good old ps1, n64, ps2, and original xbox days and enjoy 
 every minute of it like mgs4 has.
  this game has stunning graphics, not the best ever but very very close. Yes the cutscenes are there 
 but most have been either breathtaking or just good. The story is sound, mostly focusing on age 
 and the futre of war and the characters are awsome. and of course snake is still the badass he 
 forever is the only thing i find annoying is sunny and her danm eggs. gameplay wise, traditional 
 metal gear with new flavours. A gears of war over the shoulders point of view you can change too 
 is the biggest addition. the otocam suit is fantastic and all i can think is when other games will 
 nick and impliment an otocam style suit because its so fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ynfive
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 15, 2008 6:02 am PT
Review:  I NEVER ever... EVER give a ten rating to a game. This has been the first game that in my opinion 
 over the last two decades of my video game addiction that has been deserving of being called a 
 "perfect" game. But note that this being a perfect game for me partly entails the fact that I have 
 been a fan of the Metal Gear series since its PSone debut, but also recognizes the fact this game 
 is consistent and polished uniformly to every detail of a single vision. If on Gamespot's old rating 
 system this will get a 9.8. The sole reason is that I know not every gamer out there can really 
 sit through and absorb all the intertwined plots and Kojimaism philosophies that the Metal Gear 
 series puts forward.
  
  If you need the Gears of War styled constant action this game will provide... but only in the first 
 half of the game. Any new gamer to this franchise will find it too muddled with cinematics that 
 may be too obfucacious that any normal attention span will be lost.
  
  To those who just never liked MGS' style of heavy dialogue and story will absolutely care even 
 less for this game aside from some rare [to date in game history] marked points of innovative and 
 diverse yet streamlined gameplay.
  
  To those who have been a fan of this series you will eat it up and love every minute of it. If 
 Kojima-san had announced that this is the last official mission of the Metal Gear storyline, he 
 has this game answering every question, fulfilling every qualm, and fixes anything that may have 
 ever felt broken in previous games.
  
  Normally in a review I like to visit every detail in graphics and gameplay... getting into the 
 details of why this is that and how this plays and whatnot. I cannot this time however. As crazy 
 and over-the-top this game can be at times, it shows that following the design vision of one crazy 
 and over-the-top individual can make for an awesome game over the market safe corporate focused 
 tested games that plague this industry.
  
  At the ending credits I was left speechless and in awe... Gripping the controller in a PTSD caused 
 by elatedness. To date in a game I think I never almost shed a tear as much as this one affair. 
 Final Fantasy games have come close, but now seem trite and silly to the story presented here. 
 The fact Solid Snake is rapidly aging throughout the game is pressing. Thanks to some returning 
 past characters half the cast are old fogies. There's this sense that the way things are eventually 
 pass and fade, and that these things of the past are on their last dying breath to protect humanity 
 from a free-will sucking world order that may be immortal.
  
  Everything in this game feels just right for what the expectations of a Metal Gear Solid game should 
 be. So really the only thing making people like or dislike this game is just a pure preference 
 for or against this series. Fans will love it [except for those annoying diehard nitpicky ones] , 
 and if you never liked it in the first place you STILL won't like it. You get what you get, but 
 at least you know you get EXACTLY what you expect to get. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Cyphus07
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 15, 2008 5:53 am PT
Review:  I haven't ever played any of the previous installments of MSG but I must say this is a wonderful 
 game. Gameplay, graphics, sound, story telling... are all very well produced. 
  
  I do have a few dislikes and I'm sure there are a few who would agree...
  
  Long story telling... 
 /snore - I just want to play the game, lets skip those cutscenes and get to the action! 
  
  This is a wonderful game, everything about it screams PS3 PS3 PS3! I was looking forward to receiving 
 my copy and it was worth the wait. 
  
  The gameplay is a bit awkward to me since i've played COD4 almost exclusively for the past month 
 or two. Shows the difference between run and gun and stealth play. For instance, pausing the game 
 to select weapons or health patches, etc (reminds me of ninja gaiden) . Thats a small personal dislike 
 that certainly doesn't apply to many others, i'm sure. 
  
  I gave this title a 10 despite my dislike of long story scenes and awkward gameplay because i'm 
 nitpicking a little there and overall this game is just amazing. 
  
  If you have not gotten this game and like ninja gaiden (action/graphics) and cod4  
 I think you will love this game. I was very pleased to see MSG4 has a multiplayer, i hope that 
 many many of you play so when I log on... i don't have to wait to join a match. 
  
  Go out and get this game, chances are you will enjoy it.
  
  
  Oh... what is with the dancing 
 sequence advertisements at the very beginning 1-800-ugly gone? Did i miss something not having 
 played the first few titles in this series? 
  
  I was so lost watching that....
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: trmather
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 15, 2008 5:39 am PT
Review:  I think it's saying something about this game that it's the first 'next-gen' game I've had that 
 hasn't dissapointed me immediately.
  
  I had an Xbox 360, and yes, even Gears of War was slightly dissapointing at first to me, I felt 
 the covering aspects weren't great. Then I got a PS3, and games like Motorstorm and Resistance 
 were good for launch titles, but bad overall.
  
  Call of Duty 4 managed to dissapoint at first with seemingly poor graphics (the textures are still 
 bad) and an annoying storyline (that got much better) . Grand Theft Auto IV was the biggest gaming 
 dissapointment of my life. The control scheme was terrible, the character extremely clumsy, the 
 combat just plain bad. The graphics were poor, and the environment was just dull. I couldn't relate 
 to Niko, and felt the whole thing was lacking in character, or fun (and the fun aspect is the biggest 
 dissapointment of the lot for a GTA game) .
  
  So in the weeks preceding MGS4, I wasn't sure what to think. Every PS2 franchise that I have enjoyed, 
 GTA, Pro Evo, etc, hasn't translated well to this generation in my eyes, so would Metal Gear do 
 the same?.....
  
  .... would it hell!
  
  The control scheme is wonderful. They've made it a tad more complicated than previous games in 
 the series, but it's still intuitive and absolutely fine to use.
  
  The graphics are brilliant, minus a few low quality textures, but they're ignored because everything 
 else looks so brilliant.
  
  The characters are, as ever great to get to know, they have a message to send out during the game, 
 and you find yourself really immersed in their plight. Not to mention the females in this game 
 (minus little Sunny, and I suppose Big Mama) are absolutely gorgeous in virtual terms.
  
  But the main thing, that Metal Gear games have always delivered on, is the storyline, and this 
 one can be summed up by using the word 'epic'
  
  So many twists and turns, you never do trully realise what Naomi's intentions were. You pull for 
 Snake all the time, hoping and praying he'll make it through the trials and tribulations of this 
 game, and then being simply amazed when he manages to. I didn't want to say to people that they 
 need to play the other games to play this one, and technically you don't, but you won't appreciate 
 it anywhere near as much if you don't (and besides, the older games are brilliant in their own 
 right anyway) . Plus the fact, you won't get the massive twist at the end...
  
  The bosses are great to fight, the locations are great, and the whole game is such an immensely 
 fulfilling experience to play through. If you never play this game, regardless of whether you don't 
 like the series, and you're missing out.
  
  I have no problems in saying it's the best game I've ever played, and it deserves the highest ratings 
 possible.
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sugarcane_Spear
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 15, 2008 5:22 am PT
Review:  This game is like a dream game, there will never ever be a game such as this one even in millions 
 of years, not even the future could have a game like MGS4, the story, the characters, gameplay, hell 
 even the enemies are just perfect, awesome soundtrack, end of the series (too bad) , you never expect 
 what happens next in this game, everything is just full of surprises and chilling moments, what else 
 could you add up to a game which is even better than any other movie story, even after your done 
 with the game you could play it over and over again, your money for this game is really really worth 
 it and even the online is absolutely amazing, even if it doesn't have an online game its still a 
 masterpiece, the graphics is the best that any other game could have, when you 1st install the game 
 you keep watching Snake smoking which wouldn't let you get bored of it, when your done with the 
 game you can play it over with alternate costumes and unlockable items which would make it wonderful 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Cursedhopes
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 15, 2008 4:56 am PT
Review:  I'll come right and say it, I've been a fan of the Metal Gear Solid series since it's debut on 
 Sony's first PlayStation back in 1998. I've eagerly awaited each new entry in the series like a 
 rabid hyena eyeing a lion's leftovers. But, I'll be the first to admit the series had not produced 
 a perfect entry, until now. 
  
  Of course this all my opinion. If you're among the many that can't stomach watching cut scenes 
 of being handed heavy doses of philosophy with your games then this entry in the seminal series 
 won't change your mind. However, if you're looking for something as devine to experience as it 
 is to play, then you would be making a mistake to pass this game up. 
  
  Metal Gear Solid 4: Guns of the Patriots, by some miracle, manages to tie up the loose ends the 
 series has collected over the previous three games and manages to raise the bar so high that when 
 you're finished you'll wonder how its possible for so much awesome to be packed into one game.
 
  
  It's something has to be experienced, writing about it does absolutely no good. Suffice it to say 
 that for the first time, a video game has been able to stir emotions thought by the many to be 
 for more "artful" entertainment mediums. 
  
  With glorious action set peices, amazing graphics and gameplay, some of the best cutscenes the 
 business has ever seen, a truly harrowing event in the final act capped of by the most artistically 
 amazing boss battle ever, Metal Gear Solid 4 manages to not only deliver on the hype, but blow 
 it away. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: coold_steam
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 15, 2008 4:48 am PT
Review:  I have been waiting for this game since i bought my ps3 2 years ago ,i played all the previous 
 parts and they all heart taking ,but this one im not sure about its great but sometime while you 
 are playing you wonder why did they do this or why they didnt do that ,for example the long lasting 
 movie sence are killing the game plus you forget what you were up to ,you will start to feel a 
 gap in this game which prevent you from enjoying the story .
  now the most important thing ,this game contain so much items ever made for an action game and 
 its confusing ,sometimes i wonder if im going to use all of these devices.
  Nevertheless its great game great graphics and gameplay if u get use to the complicity's of the 
 items in this game .
  i hope you enjoy playing MGS4 it worth playing but it need time more practice and you will feel 
 it although i hate the long movie sence. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: foxxfella2000
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 15, 2008 4:43 am PT
Review:  Just finished the game here is my review. From a fans perspective, an honest approach. No spoliers 
 
  
  Let me begin by saying if you have been playing and enjoying the MGS series since the Playstation 
 days there is no reason for you to wait to pick this game up. MGS 4 brilliantly resolves the Metal 
 Gear Solid saga. What does this mean for newcomers to the series? It means you will need to have 
 played any or all of the previous games in the series to fully understand why this game is so great. 
 It also means that you will be a little less forgiving to some of the game play mechanics flaws 
 in this game then the veterans will of this series. 
  
  
  MGS Vets will be pleased to know that the game play has evolved nicely and feels great and more 
 fluid . A word from the wise; Be sure to change all the camera speed options to the max in the 
 options to get a more fluid and enjoyable experience, as this helps with gun play.
  Also This old snake has a few tricks up his sleeves for example if you are blasted on your back 
 from a grenade attack you can remain on your back and fire back a grenade round yourself from one 
 of your modified weapons you make in this game. Octocamo improves the camo system from MGS 3 and 
 you will find it enjoyable.
  
  Let me be frank concerning the gameplay, the gameplay has its problems. Vets may find the game 
 on Big Boss Hard (The games hardest difficulty) to be too easy and forgiving. You can take a lot 
 of damage from enemy PMC soldiers before you die and there is always an ample supply of rations 
 to be had making this game the easiest Metal Gear Solid. Also not impressive is the PMC A. I. Sometimes 
 you can stand in close distance in front of them and get a clean head shot. Also there is a fair 
 amount of firefights and it would have been nice if they implemented a decent cover system like 
 Uncharted or Gears of Wars. That being said fans of the series will easily forgive these shortcomings 
 because there are many jaw dropping set pieces that will leave you twitching for more.
  
  The biggest shortcoming is the total length. I finsished this game on Big Boss Hard and it took 
 me just under 19 hours to beat and according to "The Making Of" Documentry there is a total of 
 8 hours of cinematics. This means there is roughly 9 hours of gameplay. Fans may find it more forgiving 
 and acctualy the type of game most fans could ever want but casual fans to the series may find 
 this a bit insulting. However if you like the gameplay so much then play Metal Gear Online which 
 is included for free!
  
  Sound wise this is the best sound score in my opinion, my favorite is the menu song entitled "Old 
 Snake" . The Spanish styled guitar playing is awesome on this track. MGS 4 has over 8 hours of 
 cut scenes on the worlds only bluray dualayerd game and the voice acting is the best performance 
 you will see in a video game. In fact let me go further and say this is the best game ever made 
 in terms of cinematic presentation. .
  
  This game in my opinion is a milestone in gaming just like Final Fantasy 7. Final Fantasy 7 did 
 not have revolutionary gameplay or even great gameplay but it push the envelope in terms of story 
 telling in a videogame, it pushed the art to new heights. MGS 4 is the equivalent of FF7 this console 
 generation because while it doesn't bring revolutionary gameplay, it pushes storytelling further 
 than a Hollywood blockbuster. Most Movies are 2 hours, MGS4 has 8 hours worth of cut scenes. Anybody 
 will appreciate the hardwork that went into this. MGS 4 is well worth the money and newcomers should 
 experience the MGS essential collection on PS2 to fully appreciate this masterpiece.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: plaintruth123
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 15, 2008 4:26 am PT
Review:  Having played the game for the first few moments, I was stunned by the great detail in the CGI 
 and Live gameplay. The music and background sounds make you feel immersed in the gameplay.
  
  Hideo Kojima has truly thought out the story well, and by looking at the differences from the 
 previous versions, there is no wonder why MGS4 was delayed. This game is truly different from earlies 
 releases. You have to be truly stealthy in order not to get caught by the militia men and PMC soldiers 
 who themselves are fighting a war between each other.
  
  You start off in a warzone in the middle-east. Guns are now ID Locked, so you have to use a stun-knife, 
 until otacon provides you with an Operator and Silencer.
  
  In thise game, the stages are more bigger, there are less places to hide and more enemies than 
 ever. The only way to survive is to be truly stealthy. You are able to BUY weapons from a blackmarket 
 gun dealer and unlock ID Locked guns and even sell guns you dont use. You can buy lasers, eye cams 
 etc.
  
  My favorite new feature is the camouflage which adapts to your enviroment, which is particularly 
 useful when evading enemies. There is so much happening in this game, it's difficult to list all 
 of them.
  
  Now if I tell you more I will spoil it for you. See for yourself why everyone who is buying this 
 game is rating it 10/10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JJChalupa2000
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 15, 2008 4:00 am PT
Review:  Metal Gear Solid, a game that is dear to many gamers hearts, gave a presentation that stunned the 
 gaming community. MGS4 is no less. It is by far the best in the series, closing the gaps in all 
 of its many sub-plots, and delivering an experience that I personally have not felt in a game since 
 MGS or Final Fantasy 7. 
  The game takes you on not only a physical journey, but an emotional and psychological journey with 
 Snake, the series protagonist. It creates a flawless blend of cinematic story telling and integrated 
 gameplay mechanics. If you have never played a Metal Gear before, then it may be hard to fully 
 understand the story, and although the game would stand well even without the story, The story 
 is undeniably one of the best video game stories ever told. Snake is such a motivated and powerful 
 character. This can be said with many of the supporting cast as well. So basically, if you can't 
 stand watching long cutscenes, this may not be the game for you. If you love a gripping story with 
 your games, you will lose yourself in MGS4. 
  Aside from the story, the gameplay is fresh and exciting. It feels so incredible to watch your 
 friends play through the game in a completely different way that you did. And it is equally incredible 
 that when you play, the controls feel very natural, in addition to having many options. 
  The only compliant I can have, which does not change my score, is that I really hate load screens. 
 They are small, but they take you out of the experience. Overall the game delivers an unprecedented 
 experience that all gamers should enjoy. I do not think I will play a game this great in a long 
 time. Kojima, you are my hero. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheGibsonSG
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 15, 2008 3:56 am PT
Review:  Firstly let me say that this game is the best game I have ever played. Never before had I felt 
 the anticipation that I did for this game. Not only has it lived up to my expectations, but it 
 has easily surpassed them. 
  The thing that disappoints me is that GTA IV got a 10Since not only was that game definitely not 
 a 10, but it undermines the perfect scores that this game has deservedly achieved.
  
  This game deserves every single bit of praise it has received. Kojima has managed impossibly to 
 tie up every thread created, and has done it in style. I never wanted this game to end; since I 
 would have happily played this game for the rest of my life. But I was completely satisfied with 
 the ending. At no point in the game did it feel cheap, or that they struggled to find a way to 
 end it. 
  Metal Gear Solid 4 is without a shadow of a doubt the best looking game ever made, its nearest 
 rival is Uncharted, but MGS4 leaves even that game in the dust. I saw no low-res textures in the 
 game, on my third play through I tried to find anal nitpicks, but I failed.
  
  The voice acting is fantastic, and David Hayter gives one of his finest performances, as well as 
 every supporting character being equally believable.
  The humour is still totally Metal Gear, and lots of comments about the PS3 are shamelessly put 
 into the game. Some people will laugh, some people will cry at the humour I did a bit of both.
 
  
  The online process however is not as good as it perhaps could have been. While it's great that 
 parts of Metal Gear Online are in the game, the online registration process is clunky and needlessly 
 complex. If I hadn't had a PS3 keyboard I would have shot myself in the head before I got halfway 
 through.
  
  Thankyou for reading my review.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: HakuShinkan
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 15, 2008 2:08 am PT
Review:  A game comes out that blows you away.
  You play the game, and you just can't seem to believe there's one gamer, one person out there that'll 
 see or play or experience in any other way that game, and will not recognize it's greatness.
  
  Well, there are always those who will not make an effort to even hear the sound, watch the 
 graphics, look at the art in the game or the effort put in it. Those people are NOT the ones you 
 should listen to, but to your heart.
  
  Now that we're done judging the world, we'll move on to the actual review.
  
  Metal Gear Solid 
 4.
  For 4 years we've been waiting for the fourth installment of the franchise that re-invented gaming 
 each time it came out to the market.
  
  Who would have believed true cinematic quality could ever be found in a VIDEO GAME? Well, apparently 
 some of us do, and luckily - one of us is up there making games. His name is Hideo Kojima, a man 
 with a vision, and the determination and ability to bring that vision to life.
  
  And MGS4 does just that. It's a vision brought to life using the highest level of technical traits 
 possible to date, including graphics, sound, art, and interactiveness. 
  
  It's an experience you will never forget. It's no longer a video game, nor a movie. It's a VR experience.
 
  
  This game is a must-play to anyone who played the previous ones.
  To those who did not - if you like gaming, you cannot afford to miss this one, or any previous 
 one. Play through MG1, MG2 and then MGS1 through 2, 3 and finally - play MGS4, the best one, and 
 probably the best game to date.
  
  You owe it to yourself, as video game fans and gamers. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jbernhard99
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 15, 2008 1:47 am PT
Review:  I have never played a Metal Gear game before MGS4 -- and let me just tell you that I spent most 
 of my Saturday immersed in the breathtaking story. It truly feels like you are the star of a movie; 
 it's the first time with any gaming experience where I've felt like I am an organic part of an 
 actual cinematic experience. Great storytelling, stunning visuals and sound, incredible firefights, 
 downright petrifying enemies and bosses, and enough grit and gore and spatter on the camera lens 
 to leave any hardcore gamer satisfied. This game is an unbelievalbe ride (so far) . I am only 4 
 or 5 missions into this thing, and I can see what it portends: a visceral, mind-blowing gaming 
 experience that finally, at long last, achieves the goal of all media: complete immersion.
  
  There are so many fascinating applications in this game: the way you switch, equip and upgrade 
 weapons, purchasing ammo and other toys, the interface of items you have on your person. All of 
 it is so interesting and seems very fresh.
  
  A couple of quibbles: When I am carrying a machine gun or rifle, the cut scene shows the character 
 carrying a knife or a handgun. Also, the HUD (map, health points, etc.) is this strange yellow 
 shade which is a little hard to see. Also, the cutscenes are a little plodding and the pacing could 
 have picked up. But you could also argue that a faster paced story would detract from the moody, 
 dramatic tension that oozes from the screen.
  
  All in all a brilliant, satisfying, incredible experience. By far the best of the best PS3 games. 
 Imagine Call of Duty 4 combined with Oblivion combined with Assassin's Creed combined with Crysis 
 combined with the Bourne Identity and you get an idea what this game feels like. 
  
  Wonderful. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TrueIori
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 15, 2008 12:16 am PT
Review:  If you a gamer period forget the "hahahah see 360 fanboy u cant play this" and bs the people with 
 no life muster up to make themselves feel better at night. 
  
  This game should be played by all and i mean ALL gamers, the storytelling in this game is just 
 awesome that all i can say. The game play is the perfection of all the other metal gears b4 this 
 one, their some minor issues but nothing that can take away ffrom the over all experience. The 
 boss fights are just as great as all the previous metal gears so u wont be disappointed , the game 
 has a perfect balance to satisfy your inner ninja or rambo by making to players choose the route 
 to take to complete the task at hand.
  
  Simply one of the best game of all time, forget the fanboys from both sides and as a gamer do yourself 
 a favor and play this game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chronicman7
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 15, 2008 12:11 am PT
Review:  Graphics- ok start with the good. Character detail is arguably the best thats ever been seen. Real 
 time cut seens are a treat to watch and blend beautifuly into gameplay. However the background 
 textures seem a step down from the characters. youll find some pretty bland textures but most look 
 pretty decent. The last act looks amazing in a futuristic setting. 9.5/10
  
  story- epic for starters. if you have been a part of the metal gear universe this will be a satisfying 
 conclusion to an amazing yet extremelly complicated story. If you havent, this game is gonna be 
 a little harder to get into and the lenghty cut scenes may bore you to death. Even as an experienced 
 metal gear player some scenes seemed way to long, especially the mission briefings which break 
 up the action quite a bit at times. 9/10
  
  gameplay- the gameply is extremelly satisfying no matter which route you choose to take. ive played 
 through this game both in a stealthy non-lethal way and also shooting everything that walks. Both 
 are fun and will leave you wanting more. And thats about the only problem... you WILL want way 
 more. The game seems kinda short and when you add the lengthy cut scenes at times it feels more 
 like a movie. It took me abouut 16 hours the first play through which means about 10 hours of actual 
 gaming. 10/10
  
  online- havent played to much so far but is very satisfying at times. Deathmatch and team deathmatch 
 arent all that good relative to some of the other shooters out there but the sneaking type is pretty 
 cool. The whole metal gear online is kinda a hassle and makes me think why they just didnt put 
 online in the regular sense. 8/10
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: bandarman
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 18, 2008 8:30 am PT
Review:  Its hard to review such a game like MGS. When GTA4 came out a lot of people cried out loud that 
 its missing most of the features that were part of San Andreas, some even went thus far to say 
 that GTA SA was better than GTA4. In the case of MGS; MGS4 blows off all the MGS games right off 
 the chart!
  Fantastic presentation, exciting gameplay and just right difficulty make this game as enjoyable 
 as the previous editions, but this comes with something more: OctoCamo suit (for camouflage, but 
 visually stunning) , MG Mk II (the best thing that could be added for the last spin) , and amazing 
 graphics!
  I don't know much about the online play as I have not tried it yet, but this game just rocks. Why 
 people say that the cut-scenes are too long, but they are just as enthralling as the rest of the 
 game!
  If you want to experience something more than just smashing buttons or hiding all the time waiting 
 for the opportune moment (ordinary stealth games) , then take this for a spin; you won't be disappointed! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: master207
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 14, 2008 11:36 pm PT
Review:  Again, this game will draw you into it. Its amazing how the game acutally makes you feel like its 
 real. But, thats not all this game is. The story is amazing there is no better story out there 
 even though with most of it you will need to know the story of the other games. The gameplay just 
 is amazing moving from kills to to sneaking constanly thinking of a new way to get past this area. 
 Its also hilarious on the hand to hand gameplay. The graphics just show what the system can do. 
 This game will give you hours of game time, many easter eggs, lots of comedy, seriously good story, 
 and amzing plot twists are common in this game. You will love this game if you like great games 
 with a good story line with great gameplay wonderful characters even knew characters are great. 
 If you have have played all the othe games this will remind you alot of this. This is not a game 
 to pass by if you dont have it you need to get it soon. Now i think you understand why this is 
 a 10/10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KAV32
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 14, 2008 11:18 pm PT
Review:  This game was well worth the wait. It has everything you would hope for in a Metal Gear Solid game. 
 Every single question was answered. The experience, the emotion, the energy, the trill! This game 
 will leave you wanting for more. Even after completing the storyline playing it back is well worth 
 it. Downloads are available for textures and tracks, more to come as well.
  
  Plus, the online experience is great on MGO (Metal Gear Online) . Expect to see updates of the online 
 experience in the near future. More maps, customizations, characters, and game modes.
  
  Future games will follow in MGS4 examples. This title is sure to inspire other games various methods. 
 Expect this game to win Game of the Year, more or less of the All-Time! This game is a definite 
 must buy! A Legendary Experience! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: drmfreak2
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 14, 2008 10:49 pm PT
Review:  The moment the game starts you are immersed in total action. Unlike other metal gears where stealth 
 was mandatory, Metal Gear Solid 4 totally rethinks gameplay giving the player full control of how 
 to finish each objective. Whether hiding in the shadows using the trust octocamo or gunning down 
 every soldier like a true war hero one will soon realize that this is no ordinary shooter.
  There are five acts in the game totaling to about 25 hours of gameplay. Many of you will or have 
 realized that between each act there is a download that must take place which takes only about 
 3 minutes. Many might find this frustrating and pointless but it allows you to take a break and 
 stretch, maybe even get a bite to eat before starting the next act. Download time or not the story 
 alone will keep you coming back for more yearning to know what will happen to snake in each of 
 his missions.
  The gameplay is top notch thanks to an accurate and tightened control system. The weapons are accurate, 
 where you aim is where you are going to fire (some games fire all over the place is what I'm trying 
 to get across) . Some of the CQC moves might take awhile to get down but once learned they are easy 
 to master, from holding people up to tossing their sorry asses down to the ground. And if they 
 toss you down to the ground no worries once on your back you can aim an fire at will, which comes 
 in handy from time to time.
  The boss battles are difficult but not to difficult that makes it seem impossible. Let me put it 
 this way, you'll enjoy beating the bosses. After each boss you learn more about their back story 
 and how they became what they are. It's the first game since Final Fantasy 7 where I actually sympathized 
 with the enemies. You'll know what I mean when you beat the game (don't want to spoil anything) .
 
  The fact is that this game is the best in it's series and probably it's genre. If you haven't 
 picked up a copy for yourself then go to whatever store you go to and purchase this game immediately. 
 If you already own the game then stop reading this review and go play one of the greatest games 
 ever. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MGSFan92
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 14, 2008 9:52 pm PT
Review:  Very few times have a game surprised me with how well they can balance everything out. One was 
 Metroid Prime. Two was Resident Evil 4. Three was The Elder Scrolls IV: Oblivion. Finally, four 
 was Half Life. But now, I have been surprised yet again. With Metal Gear Solid 4. Undeniably, one 
 of the greatest games the Playstation 3 has to offer, if not the best.
  
  Gameplay- This games plays as smoothly as a baby wrapped in a silk blanket. Unlike many other stealth 
 games, MGS4 gives you the option of sneaking around your foes, or shooting them down like cattle. 
 New to the series is to search around every corner and crawl-space with even having to move one 
 of Snake's precious muscles. That is with the Metal Gear Mk. II. This little fella can run around 
 the battlefield, even when all of the PMC's are having a huge firefight in between him, and still 
 attack them from the front. How you ask? Well, the MGM. II has cloaking capabilities, and a stun 
 whip. Which turns out to be VERY handy.
  
  Graphics- This game is almost perfect in this regard. Everything looks absolutely stunning and 
 lifelike, from the rain to the snow, to the dust hovering above city streets. This game manages 
 to pull off some very life-like visuals, with little to no lag (so far I have witnessed none, and 
 I've beaten the game!) . The character animations are near-perfect. The water animations are near-perfect. 
 The visuals are NEAR-PERFECT! The only thing that fails to impress is the fire. Resident Evil 4 
 contained more realistic fire. But that is hardly noticeable half of the time.
  
  Sound- The game sounds absolutely amazing. The whole game is in Dolby Digital. Everything from 
 a PMC ordering commands to an RPG sending off a rocket sounds as close-to-real as you can possibly 
 get. The voice actor's have done an amazing job, with prop's going out to Jennifer Hale, and David 
 Hayter. The only voice that I wasn't too fond of was Liquid Ocelot's, it sounded cheap, and very 
 clich antagonist.
  
  I know that you may not really take this review into consideration, because I'm spewing out the 
 same thing everyone else is. But to be honest, this game made me break my vow, and it has since 
 become my favorite game ever. A title previously held by Resident Evil 4 and Metroid Prime. I told 
 myself 3 years ago that no game will ever take the place of those two, and this game managed to 
 totally shatter my views of what a perfect game should be, and then some. Get out of your house 
 now, and buy this game. No seriously, BUY IT NOW!
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: moej88
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 14, 2008 9:23 pm PT
Review:  If we look back at how Metal Gear Solid started and what Konami have produced on June 12/2008 we 
 will notice a phenomenal improvement in innovation, game play, experience, and story. 
  
  Guns of the Patriots has alot to offer in terms of an action game, and a movie experience. The 
 graphics are stunning and the sound is amazing. 
  The game offers alot of innovation from the past games in terms of customizing your guns, and using 
 new technology to aid in your mission. The game also offers online game play, and the game modes 
 are really well done with no lag and an amazing game play experience. 
  
  The story is put together in such a good way that the player would enjoy watching the cut scenes 
 and would enjoy re-playing the game over and over again because there is so much to discover. 
 
  
  The cover system, shooting system, and movement system are amazingly done and the player would 
 not find it hard to navigate through the game. 
  
  In my opinion MGS4 is by far most the best game I have ever played. 
  Amazing presentation of 
 graphics and sound, accommodated by amazing game play and story.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Daveiops
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 14, 2008 9:23 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay... Story.... Action.
  
  Yea MGS4 has got it all.. The conclusion 2 Solid Snakes stories is a perfect rap. The game play 
 n story sucks u in 2 d point u almost feel like ur actually the one in it...
  Not going by what others say is the way to enjoy this game. Camera angles which weren't properly 
 done in the previous takes, well MGS4 has d best camera yet and it definitely plays well with the 
 game... Boss fights are nice and long altho u will need patience 2 beat them unless ur a quick 
 thinker ;) ...
  It would have being wonderful if Raiden was a playable character but otherwise the roles he played 
 were very enjoyable and dis I forget the cutscenes? The are the best ever.. Altho very long at 
 times, the draw u in as though u were watching a full length movie.
  The Fight with Liquid was the most enjoyable fight ever :D
  Ending was nice n sad, nearly cried 
 ha ha...
  
  All - In - All = The Greatest Game Ever Made. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nastya0391
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 14, 2008 8:41 pm PT
Review:  Sin i bougth the console more thatn a year ago. I remebre the critics tyhat i went for spending 
 a lot of money for it. Even thougth i have great games (ex. resistance and guitar hero) for the 
 console and a couple of HIGH-Def movies. I can say now that this is a great game and exploids the 
 capacity of the PS3. And that the games that wil came wil be compared to THIS GAME.
  
  Even that this is my frist Metal Gear Game. I have to say that the controls are easy to remember, 
 and that in order to avance you have to keep cover, and try not to show is a twist form other games 
 that you have to kill adversaries. So this my not be liked by many but for me is a great change. 
 The looks of the game are expectacular. And i have not see at the time be any frame delay or freezing 
 (i experienced some in Iron Man) . 
  
  The game play also is also challenging and rewards exploration (not many game do it) . And if you 
 take your time to see all the cinematics it also rewards you.
  
  So in short this is the game that defines the PS3 - Lots of enemies, independent AI controled. 
 Cinematic like characters-7.5 Surround sound, full 50gb Blue-ray usage . Full HD-Game Play (no 
 Fezzing) . And donot forget the rublle (thaks dualshock3) .A great adition to the library. OF Any 
 PS3 player.
  
  Therefore discard bad critics (of 7 or less -most comes from x360 users) . This is the game to have. 
 And is an exclusive of PS3.
  
  Kisses. Happy play 
::::::

::::::
UserName: louguystalker
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 17, 2008 2:39 pm PT
Review:  There are people who thing Metal gear is a bad game and all dialouge. But, they never finised one 
 of the games and never played it on nes. The MGS fans no the secret though. MGS has always provided 
 twists and surprised in the storylines as well as humor and awesome boos battles. If the people 
 who did not like MGS would try to at least finish one of the games, they would see that the characters 
 in the story are not just characters, they are people thay u will come to love! For example, Pschco 
 mantis, Big Boss, sniper wolf, and etc. I know that the 360 owners always dis the MGS series but, I 
 am a 360 owner and MGS is the only adventure game i like. I cant play games if they are not online 
 compatiable except for (MGS) . Having the only only adds to the experince. Its a twist of ghost recon 
 and counter strike. Finally, the best part of the game is indeed the story especially towards the 
 end! Without spoiling anthing, the fight with liquid ocelot is truely amazing and i cried during 
 the fight i was so excited.
  With all of that said, MGS is not perfect. The story could have been simple but the screwed with 
 it alot. The story could have been longer. There is tons of unnesseccary talking. Sometimes i try 
 to make sense of things like (what is GW and DW) but if u look to deep into it u will drive urself 
 crazy. Its a good touch that they mentiond GW in sons of liberty but still, Y not make the story 
 more simple. This is why Hideo Kojimo annyoys me. He has great talent with story but i think if he 
 cut down with all of the cut scenes and focus more on gameplay fun, this game would have been perfect. All 
 in all, if u didnt like MGS 1, dont even bother renting this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Fadesofblack
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 14, 2008 8:20 pm PT
Review:  What can I say about Metal Gear Solid 4 that hasn't been said already. 
  
  The graphics? The greatest visuals I've ever seen from any machine PC and Console alike. Most of 
 the time it borders on photo-realistic. 
  
  The story? Well if you've played any of the other Metal Gear games and enjoyed them this story 
 is right up your alley. In one word: Breathtaking. Hideo Kojima is a true genius when it comes 
 to crafting incredible storylines. 
  
  The gameplay? Well it plays differently from other Metal Gear games but that's not to say it's 
 bad. In fact the things they changed I'm quite happy they did. Never before has sneaking and gunplay 
 been so clean and fluid in a Metal Gear game. In my opinion flawless. 
  
  Anyone who owns a Playstation 3 you absolutely owe it to yourself to play this game I can't praise 
 it enough it's just that damn good. 
  
  And if you don't own a Playstation 3 this is a reason to get one. Even for only this game it will 
 be money well spent. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: maxtor
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 14, 2008 8:14 pm PT
Review:  BEST GAME EVER 
::::::

::::::
UserName: orbitsrule
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 14, 2008 7:05 pm PT
Review:  MGS4 really defines what next-gen really is to everyone. The atmosphere in the game really makes 
 you feel like your really in the game. From explosions yards away from you, to people being hit 
 around by overpowering machines. Now the controls are much more easier than the others in the series (FINALLY 
 RUMBLE FEATURE IS BACK!!! WOOOOOOH) . Even the cut scenes that make the story aren't boring anymore (even 
 thought I love all the cut scenes =D) . Including online!? OMG!!! But lastly... the bosses in these 
 installment are unforgettable. They literally are Beauty & The Beast, especially Raging Raven lol..... 
 dayum.... (play the game to know what I mean!!)
  
  Right away in the beginning of the game, the enviroment around you is extreme. (I won't go into 
 details for the people who haven't played this yet :D)
  Through all the comotion you have to get to the other side of town, and so many obstacles are in 
 your way. In order to get there safetly, without getting "seriously injured," you have to sneak 
 your way there. Even though the game seems like it's lost it's hiding/sneaking touch, it's still 
 there !!
  
  Hideo really made things easier. Learning from his mistakes and perfecting them to make it easier 
 on the player. He improved the camo option so you wont have to press start and going to this and 
 that to pick what camo you want. He also made the cover option easier so you wont have to hold 
 so many buttons just so you can shoot. So many features have been added or been perfected to make 
 the game fun and easy.
  
  The cutscenes pretty much sums up the story of Snake and everyone around him. Even sometimes the 
 things people say and what they do around you and make you break a smile or laugh, even if your 
 being shot at ! lol :P
  
  Online... I never thought I would actually think this game would actually would take it to that 
 level! The only thing that I would say that made me mad in this game was that you actually have 
 to use your money to buy things for your character! Grrrrrrrr..... (your first character is free 
 for people panicking !! lol)
  
  
  So pretty much... this game has everything, in every way possible that I can think of a perfect 
 game. You'll pick up on the story sooner or later if you haven't played the recent ones. 
  
  Don't think if you should buy this game, just get it.
  
  O and btw, for people who dont 
 know, you can choose what difficulty you want... I know people who wouldn't buy the game just cuz 
 they didnt know they could make it easy lol...
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: faqqer
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 14, 2008 6:34 pm PT
Review:  Mgs4 is the best game ive ever played in the ps3 .i always hated the last mgs games cuz of the 
 gameplay but this mgs is the best in everything. So buy it with eye closed. yeah and one more thing... i 
 just finished it. Time play is 18:44:40. i never played the previous mgs games cuz of the rough 
 conditions they leave u in. but this mgs game is just perfect like long story and lots of cool cut-scenes 
 and various of weapons and many many more. such as unlockables and hidden weapons and items plus 
 songs too. With a cool song collection comes with the in-game ipod that can play songs and some 
 podcasts anyway i never gave the ipod much attention. And u can practice using ur saved in-game 
 weapons and items or with the basic equipment . Or if u wanna try ur luck with people like u ... u 
 can always go online. Oh and u can download extra stuff like a new song or a new camo patteren 
 u can do in extras. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: alhazim
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 14, 2008 5:00 pm PT
Review:  the metal gaer solide 4 is beautiful game ever and this game its true score 10.0 on gamespot yes 
 thats it that right tis the metal gear solid 4 guns of the patriots and exclusively on the plastation3 
 on console of sony thats great too and you well make this days is great lovely days for me , I 
 love this game from first game in the series and last game in the series , metal gear solid its 
 long story for me from first time for me its defficlty but now I can do it on metal gear solid 
 4 guns of the patriots speacily on graphics the playstation3 , I love it the metal gear solid 4 
 guns of the patriots in this game is character name solid snake and smae time solid snake old on 
 the same character thats why it buy this game from the store to day not tomorrow you know why ? 
 because to well not disappire from the store 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jicsto86
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 28, 2008 4:21 am PT
Review:  Snake's final chapter turns out to be a technical splendor in both gaming and story-telling. When 
 Solid Snake first made his debut on the PSX in Metal Gear Solid, the 'Tactical Espionage Action' 
 in the game's title was well justified, and it is even more-so in the fourth installment in the 
 series. In other words, the definitive stealh action game just got better.
  
  The game opens six years in the future, a time where war is no longer as it used to be; fought 
 by politicians and nations with opposing ideologies. Instead, military groups are in constant battle 
 across the globe, with the world ruled by a war economy. These groups, referred to as PMCs, have 
 no national or patriotic allegiances, instead all they have is a contract from the highest bidder. 
 Snake is called out of semi-retirement in order to fulfill one last mission, with Col. Campbell 
 and Otacon in support. His mission: eliminate Liquid.
  
  Liquid, who at this point in the story is now an arm taking control of Revolver Ocelot's body, 
 has managed to amass a group of PMCs for his control as well as the Beauty and the Beast Corps, 
 which consists of four mechanically-enhanced female killers. They all posses torturous pasts and 
 are made to think that eliminating Solid Snake will release them from their pain.
  
  However, detracting from the story, the actual gameplay is much similar to that of previous installments 
 with some improvements here and some expansions there. The control set-up is greatly improved, 
 especially for CQC; where once sneaking up on a guard and knocking them out (or snapping their 
 neck) was a cumbersome affair, the new system does a good job of simplifying the process.
  
  The weapons system is a great deal more expansive this time around too. Just about any enemy 
 can be killed and their weapon collected, however, you can't simply use any weapon you find. This 
 is due to the ID system encoded into the weapons and specific people's nano-machines, meaning you 
 can only use weapons assigned to yourself. That is, unless you contact Drebin and get them laundered. 
 Drebin is a mysterious gun-launderer who offers his service to anyone willing to pay. The amount 
 of weapons, explosives, accessories and after-market modifications available from Drebin is more 
 than enough to keep you occupied and I'm sure most players will go through the game without using 
 at least half of the weapons. The Drebin Shop, as it's called, is accessible at any period during 
 gameplay, meaning if you run out of ammo mid-fight, you can simply buy some more and continue shooting 
 - provided, of course, you have enough Drebin Points to purchase said ammunition. Drebin Points 
 are acquired by various means, from selling weapons to taking out certain enemies, with bonuses 
 given for certain aspects of your playing through stages of the game. It is a very good system, 
 but I must say it does make combat seem a bit too easy when you effectively don't have to conserve 
 ammo.
  
  This is not to say the stealth element has been overlooked at all. The OctoCamo suit which Snake 
 wears is a bit of an elaborate system akin to the camouflage system in MGS3. Instead of choosing 
 certain suits to wear, Snake's outfit can take the appearance of any surface he presses himself 
 against, with the pattern being able to be saved and recalled at any time. There is also a percentage 
 counter in the top corner displaying how effectively Snake is hidden. This, along with the Solid 
 Eye, allows for players to sneak their way through the game instead of shooting. The Solid Eye 
 system is basically a tactical viewer, a scope, a night-vision and radar system rolled into one, 
 so it will come in fairly useful!
  
  For the stealthy player, there is also the inclusion of a small model of Metal Gear Rex, which 
 Otacon calls the Mk II. It is a small surveillance device, through which Otacon communicates and 
 follows Snake around. Snake is able to take control of the Mk II and send it on a reconnaissance 
 mission to determine potential threats along his chosen path of infiltration. With its ability 
 to turn invisible, the Mk II can become another very useful tactical tool. Even with these devices, 
 the stealth approach does have it difficulties however, one being the greatly improved enemy AI. 
 Soldiers are no longer drones walking the same path over and over all the while not interacting 
 with their environments. They effectively check possible hiding places around the area, even an 
 isolated box will not go unnoticed!
  
  Without revealing any of the plot twists and turns, I can safely say Kojima has done an incredible 
 job implementing a compelling story within the framework of Metal Gear without compromising the 
 gameplay. In fact, the two compliment each other incredibly well. The cut-scenes are admittedly 
 a little heavy and can seem a bit prolonged at times, but the majority are as engaging as any film. 
 Anyone familiar with the series, will know to expect impressive visuals and Metal Gear Solid 4 
 doesn't disappoint. Both the CGI and game playing environment are rendered extremely well and they 
 merge into each other very naturally.
  
  Concerning the plot elements from previous games, there are several holes and loose ends to say 
 the least, and MGS4 does a stellar job of clearing the majority, if not all, of this up. So, with 
 a solid (no pun intended) story, excellent gameplay, and some of the best visuals witnessed in 
 a computer game, Metal Gear Solid 4 has lived up to and surpassed the hype and will be a classic, 
 long remembered in the gaming community. If you're a PS3 owner go out and buy it now, if you don't 
 own a PS3, there's no bigger reason to get one! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sykomyko
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 14, 2008 4:39 pm PT
Review:  MGS4 is what all the next gen hype was all about! The game play is unbelievable, everything you 
 expect from the MGS series but on steroids! MGS4 has a whole new arsenal of weapons and gadgets 
 including a new stealth suit which has a chameleon effect that changes to your surroundings. You 
 have gun dealers who sell, upgrade and unlock weapons you can purchase by collecting weapons from 
 the dead and automatically sells the weapons that you already have in your inventory. The cut scenes 
 are long, but are better than most of the movies I've seen this year. The loading times are a bit 
 long, seems to be around 3 minutes to load every level. I want to beat the game before playing 
 online, so you'll have get that review else where. Even with the long load times, and haven't played 
 online yet, MGS4 has been one of the best games I've played in years. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SethSOMT
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 14, 2008 2:36 pm PT
Review:  I have never played a game that is as beautiul as this one right here. You may even question the 
 fabric of reality because of its sheer power. The sound effects also tie in perfectly. The game's 
 cut-sequences could be used in a movie. Not to mention the story, which is promising, considering 
 the previous games in the series. Did I even mention the awsome game play? The action in thhe game 
 is mixed between in-game play and movie scenes. In addition, MGS4 is by far the most non-linear 
 game in the series. You now have the capability to choose how you want to complete an attack, or 
 even take on a boss. In addition to the additon already made, the gadgets in this game nember higher 
 than any game yet. Imagine having all the gadgets of a Racket and Clank game, combinded with the 
 utilities of Link from the Lenend of Zelda. That makes about 3/4 of the total tools you get in 
 MGS4. The only magor problem with this game is that you can only use one gadget at at time. Aside 
 from that, this is a major step in gaming history. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: blancobo
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 14, 2008 2:09 pm PT
Review:  If you are a true fan of the Metal Gear series, if you have played at least the PS, and PS2 games... 
 you will not be disappointed with this new series installment. If you are a new comer, you will 
 love what this game is capable of achieving, not only technically, but visually, and in gameplay. 
 The MGS Series are well known for their cut scenes, beautiful, and loaded with storyline details. 
 GoP presents cut scenes made with the game engine, providing real time cut scenes with the same 
 crisp resolution as the game does.
  The control scheme was modified in order to make it more intuitive. This does not mean that it 
 is easy, if the only games you have ever played are the MGS in the PS, and PS2; you will note the 
 difference. Yet if you are a typical gamer you will note the improvements made in order to make 
 the controls more responsive and intuitive. The final result is a hands down 100% success. MGS 
 IS the first PS3 game that really uses the Cell Processor to its full advantage. I have not seen 
 any other game out there with the resolution, definition and beauty GoP has. I am trying not to 
 give anything up on the game, yet all I can definitively say is that if you are series fan... this 
 game is the BEST, just like every other game has improved from its previous version. Know that 
 you will not be disappointed if you add this game to your library, nor that this game has quality 
 production values like no other. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: marc002
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 14, 2008 12:45 pm PT
Review:  What I liked right from the start were the new combat mechanics that Kojima Productions have implemented 
 in the game. Previous MGS games were great at what they did, that is sneaking around. Attempting 
 to play them as action games however quickly met with problems. The cameras didn't work well for 
 that kind of play, and the game engine wasn't suited to all-out gun fights. You would just die 
 too quickly, or if you lived through them, and by all means it was not impossible to live through 
 them, it was just too combersome to execute. However, MGS4 lets you go in with all guns blazing 
 as much as you want, and it works perfectly. You sneak around in clasic 3rd person mode with a 
 fully fuctional camera, but then press the L1 button to zoom into over the shoulder to shoot your 
 guns, alla Gears of War.
  
  However, what the team and Kojima did that is even better, is that in doing so they did not lose 
 the essence of MGS. The game still very much feels like Metal Gear. You can sneak around just as 
 effectively -- if not much better -- than in previous instalments. Basically, the game always throws 
 it at you two ways. You can choose to sneak past your enemies or you can choose to blast them all 
 to bits. Being able to blast everything alla Gears of War might seem to render stealth a little 
 moot, but from what i've seen so far, sneaking around is still a viable option. It lets you avoid 
 some major enemy reincorcements that no amount of gun blazing could overcome -- it depends on the 
 situation, and you have to judge that yourself. And enemies which you surprise or stickup seem 
 more likely to drop better items than if you just mow them down and scavenge their bodies. Either 
 way, the game is as much fun one way or the other.
  
  Beyond that, the game impresses you right off the bat in the first 10 minutes or less of play. 
 Right from the start, these huge Gecko Gears drop out of the sky, shred everything in sight to 
 pieces, and then you gotta sneak past them. Here, too, is a perfect example of why sneaking around 
 is still worth it, haha. What this means is that right from the start MGS4 sets itself to be an 
 impressive ride. Anybody who remembers the first 10 minutes of God of War 1 and the huge Hydras 
 will know what I mean. The game sucks you in right away with undeniable coolness.
  
  Other reasons why this game is incredible are the visuals. It looks fantastic! Intagration between 
 videos and gameplay is basically unoticeable. And the artistic direction in the game is great: 
 lizard-like Gecko tanks, prive military companies taking over the world, worldwide nanomachine 
 networks controlling perception, feeling, cognition, etc. The Frog Squad is cool, and the Mk2 Gear 
 is the coolest sidekick ever.
  
  Just get the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Cloud310
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 14, 2008 12:29 pm PT
Review:  This game pwns. The story-line is like WOW!.... wait... what no way! Kojima did it again with a 
 masterpiece of a game. I love how you revisit the past and live the horrors of it. Of course when 
 your done playing the awesome story, there's always metal gear online that packs a punch of adrenaline 
 to your face. You can never be bored with this game, play it over and over. Graphics are intense 
 and controls have changed a bit from the predecessors, but all for the best. The feel of the game 
 is smooth makes you not want to put the controller down. If you haven't got your copy of MGS4 get 
 it. Even if you haven't played the games in the metal gear universe this still is a good choice. 
 All in all the story won't confuse you it explains everything and makes an interesting movie to 
 watch while playing. You will laugh, cry, yell, run around in circles until your heart pops. This 
 game is that good. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gameboy2k
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 14, 2008 11:15 am PT
Review:  Yes. It's here. The game is finally here. Was it hyped up? How does it feel? Well, I'll try to 
 answer the questions the best way I can.
  
  First and foremost, Metal Gear is an experience. If you're use to the run and gun of COD4 or halo 
 3, you wont like this game. It's a stealth/thinking game. It utilizes the full dual layer of the 
 Blu-ray disk. The game pushed the ps3's power, with great success. You're given choices, and a 
 boatload of options. You can fire weapons or use stealth and get by the enemy. This is the premise 
 of the game. Thus far, I've logged in 6 hours... and have to say..... the cutscenes are done just 
 right. they give you a break from the action, and trust me... you'll need it! 
  
  The levels are huge. Yes, this game might be linear (meaning you cant go back to a specific region) 
 but you can explore maps and pick up as many weapons, items you can get. The stealth options is 
 awesome. Imagine.... hiding on the ground... sneaking up on someone..... robbing them... using 
 them as a human shield... etc etc... Well done indeed.
  
  Again, you have to think in this game. If you dont like games this way, dont pick this up. You 
 have to plan strategies. 
  
  Weapons: Dang. Alot. You may not use them all. I just finished the first act and realized that 
 I had an option of too many weapons. I didnt even use them all. You can buy weapons throughout 
 the game. (at any time in any situation) . Also, you have a little helper robot who has invisible 
 stealth which can explore areas before you storm into them. Very handy indeed. 
  
  This game thinks of different items, conditions, health, psyche, and the like. The game is definitely 
 revolutionary. Words alone cant describe this. Just try it. If you're skeptical, rent it. You wont 
 be sorry. 
  
  This game is a true masterpiece. Everything you've ever learned in all your videogame years will 
 be utilized in this game. For the critics who say there are too many cutscenes..... I think they're 
 just right. I'd put the game up there with Crysis. But, then again, that's just me. No other console 
 game is as big as this. And, unless Xbox gets a blu-ray drive, they will never have a game this 
 big, unless they include 10 disks. (chuckle) . I love my xbox, btw. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cometkd
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 14, 2008 10:53 am PT
Review:  Okay, 
  Well here goes. I had to take a break to write this review on MGS4 let alone a personal day from 
 work ("Ha-Ha") So i am going to make this quick. I am really impressed with the game 4 years to 
 put this type of story together, and the rest is history! I think that there is not even going 
 to be a game this year or maybe even next year that wil touch this game. Sales does not mean a 
 thing to this one because it is an exclusive look at what the game offers, and shows to the series. 
 I am not trying to be mean but i am glad xbox will not get in on this cause this game deserves 
 to stay on Sony only forever and it will cause there are things (engine that i know xbox does have) I 
 am not being mean i am just glad that each system has an exclusive and we got this one! Okay i 
 gtg play some more MGS4! =) 
  
  Go Browns! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mat1177
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 14, 2008 10:28 am PT
Review:  this game is definitely the most anticipating, inspiring, innovative game i have ever played in 
 my whole life with the ps3. the game is just so damn amazing that everyone should get a ps3 for 
 this game. the graphics are even better then uncharted drake's fortune or gears of war which those 
 two were the best graphic games ever made for consoles. this game has so amazing details, physics, 
 environment, artificial intelligence, characters, story, plot, gameplay, guns, customization and 
 it keeps going on and on baby. this game is one of the most biggest reasons why ps3 beats xbox 
 360 in my humble opinion. this game has the best story i have ever played, best multiplayer, best 
 graphics and all that combined shows why it TOTALLY deserves a 10/10. this game wasnt even hyped 
 to death like those xbox 360 games and yet look what it got. i love this game so much and i will 
 be enjoying it for a long time. but im also sad that ther wont be another metal gear solid
  thanks for reading 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Zaknefien
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 14, 2008 10:14 am PT
Review:  This game is truly the shining hope for the PS3, From the moment you put in the disc to the heartfelt 
 ending scene its a non-stop action packed adventure, Even though Snake is showing his age and its 
 his last hurrah, and this is the final game i still cant help but feel overwhelmed with everything 
 about this game. without spoiling much for the rest of you if you haven't beaten it yet ill skip 
 the details, The graphics even on a low end Television still look amazing, the Cut scenes you almost 
 swear are real actors not CG, The new combat and stealth system is gorgeous and very well done, 
 and just like a Classic MGS game there are Twists a plenty but it all wraps up very nice in the 
 end, into a nice pristine package. Once completing the game your taken to a slightly revamped ranking 
 system and its not disappointing, This game is worth the 60-80$ and if you dont have a PS3 then 
 you should get one ASAP because this game is one thats going down in legend.
  
  If anyone cares: My play time and Ranking
  Total Play time: 30:33:33 (Beat on June 14, 11:27 
 PM 2008)
  Rank Obtained: Eagle 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zenkenshin
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 14, 2008 9:42 am PT
Review:  From the introduction screen, to the many extras and bonuses you have to look out for, to the attention 
 to detail in the effects and AI, this game is a remarkable achievement by Hideo Kojima and Company. 
 The interface and combat options both for Close-Quarters Combat and weapon's use is noticeably 
 improved and fine-tuned to make everything easier to control and monitor, while the AI and level 
 difficulty is right where it should be (based partly upon your decision of difficulty levels at 
 the beginning.)
  
  Although the controls and interface have improved to the point where you almost forget you're even 
 using it, there is still a learning curve to pickup everything Snake and his item technology is 
 capable of. Luckily, there is an extra Virtual Range added to assist you if you want to improve, 
 but realistically Snake is well and fine with what it teaches you how to do within the first Act. 
 In order to master all his CQC and tech abilities though, you'll definitely want to spend some 
 time outside of the main story to practice in the VR.
  
  I rated this only a 9 because I see how some people can get a little exhausted by the long-winded 
 story and frequent cut-scenes - however true to the MGS series it may be. Personally, I feel the 
 story adds a depth and background to each mission and level purpose that the game wouldn't be the 
 same without. However, if you're looking for a straight-action game and less dialogue, the frequency 
 of the interruptions might get a little distracting. If you're a veteran to the Metal Gear series, 
 you'll know exactly what to expect from these scenes and you won't be disappointed. This is by 
 far, in my opinion, the best of series and the best display of PS3 capability to date. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jimmyjit
Rating: 8
Date: Jun 14, 2008 9:35 am PT
Review:  It's a fun game, no doubt. But take out the silly direahea scenes, the stupid monkey which belongs 
 in the "The Fifth Element". The snycronized gun drawing from bad guys which was stolen fromA 
 chorus line", and this game would be better. I understand it's from Japan and this type of humor 
 is acceptable. But the game looks really amazing. The PMC's look like the real thing if you have 
 actually been in a warzone. They are hesitant to shoot at you which gives you an advantage. I did 
 not like the Drebin Character, he belongs inThe Fifth Element" along with his pet monkey which 
 again, an option to kill the monkey would have given this game an a+. The enviorments look amazing. 
 From the Middle East - looks great. Not being able to jump everywhere at anytime is weak. But there 
 are some really amazing detail to everything in the game. The Night vision option is horrible, 
 I'd like to see someone disagree with me on that. Overall, Cutscenes look amazing but are a tab 
 bit long here and there. Online play is a lot of fun, once you get used to the controls it's great. 
 But signing in to make an account can take as long as baking a turkey in the oven, or having an 
 interview on a background check from a Govt. employee. If Drebin was from the Ukraine and had an 
 Hortiza Vodka problem along with two slim Russian models I'd give the game a ten, but for now... 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: peetowser
Rating: 9.8
Date: Jun 15, 2008 2:54 pm PT
Review:  Playing this game feels like falling in love for the first time again...
  
  
  You know it's not going to be perfect, but it's also everything you hoped it was and so much more...
 
  
  Also, there's a lot more heartbreak involved than you expected at first... I don't believe I've 
 ever loved any video game character like I love Snake.
  
  You do deserve to play this epic production if you ever thought of yourself as a real gamer, someone 
 who loves video games whatever the hardware it is running on 
  
  (i seem to be excluding a lot of people with that statement but it is on purpose ; how can one 
 love only white women when he says he loves all women? Same with people only talking about PC, 
 Wii, XBox or PS3 games, how can they really love gaming deep down if they make a distinction between 
 that?) .
  
  This one is a monumental undertaking, especially the "95% of the time" real-time live rendered 
 cut-scenes.
  
  You can zoom-in in around 98% of the cut-scenes at your leisure to look for clues, hidden winks 
 and interact by pressing "up" on the D-pad ; which is analog-pressure sensitive allowing you various 
 zooming levels you can then aim with the right-analog stick.
  
  You can even press up and down on the d-pad like a tv remote in the beginning cutscenes which are 
 meant to be mock-up tv channels starring the various PMCs and other TV ads and shows.
  
  Everything in this jewel is geared towards making a video game something even deeper and better. 
 Something creepingly real. Something that draws you in and keep you there. 
  
  So many things and cool details could be spoiled by me reviewing it that it would be a crime to 
 let some of the greatest storytelling effort of our era be wasted by you guys reading reviews and 
 previews...
  
  Two things irk me so far, the game re-installs for about two minutes at the beginning of a new 
 chapter and the first act's stages are too short compared to the jungle level. Yes, like in MGS3, 
 you got about the same jungle level this time around too. If only they made the first act as long 
 as the jungle act...
  
  That was the only two things that annoyed me, but like I said, it's like with your first true love, 
 you overlook those things because it's so wonderful to be with her.
  
  Please stop reading reviews and go play this game now, don't let all the cool stuff be wasted.
 
  
  You have to witness the last mission of Solid Snake for yourself.
  
  
  It is an experience that is both a clever and awesome game but it also makes a point to exceed 
 what any movie could do as far as entertainment... The plot rivals any saga/serie ever created 
 on any medium, it gives us pretty much every answers and corrects past silly plot flaws in a way 
 that you cannot help but to finally be happy someone can put his best character/storyline to rest 
 without wishing he would have wrote it differently... Of course there's open door for future chapters, 
 but we get the feeling Snake can finally retire on top of his glory after this one. 
  
  He probably will even be more reverred than ever before after he is gone, like every precious character 
 ; whether he truly walked this earth or merely roamed through our collective imaginations as a 
 story we all love to hear get retold...
  
  At some point in the game, someone explains to Snake that Big Boss was used, meant to become some 
 kind of messiah, a symbol other soldiers could be inspired from, almost like a religion... 
  
  Coming from someone like Kojima, who is litterally hounded by fans after he created a character 
 so beloved that some people became so protective about that character that they would threaten 
 to kill its creator... you have to wonder if there's any humor and irony in that inclusion in the 
 very game that caused his torments... or if he simply is trying to reach to some of them...
  
  
  This game has it all as far as I am concerned. It has action, it has tension, it has soul 
 and it has the eternal shadow vs. light battle, only this time the only way to erase the shadow 
 is to snuff out the light...
  
  I'm glad to be lucky enough to have grown playing every "true" Metal Gear game since the NES, it 
 sure was satisfying to see how far we have come in 20 years, as a society, and how that reflected 
 in the games we now play. It also was satisfying to have followed a character that never let me 
 down and always had something more to give. Snake is the greatest video game hero, period. 
  
  After getting through the game, I just wanna restart a new game again and try the online mode 
 now... I can't get bored watching those 1080p and I keep finding new paths in each level sections 
 to progress better and quieter...
  
  Maybe this game isn't perfect, but it is the best game available on any system today, and it also 
 made June 12th 2008 a very important date in our era : the day where movies will forever be known 
 as outclassed as far as being on top of the entertainment business, they used to own the best story-telling 
 tools, but now they just cannot compete with efforts like MGS4... 
  
  The movie industry will keep losing money to the video game industry ; this game just gave copycat 
 developpers ideas for another 10 years...
  
  
  Buy, rent or steal a PS3... Play it in a closet if you are an XBox fanboy, I don't care, real gamers 
 need to play this game. 
  
  
  This is your best excuse to try and see what a PS3 can do, so make sure to grab a 1080p display 
 and play MGS4 for a couple of days.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: aznkhaos
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 14, 2008 8:49 am PT
Review:  Great, my local game retail store called me at 10 am to tell me my pre-ordered copy was here. 11 
 am I was there to be told that I was the first one to get a copy at that story. Absolute bliss. 
 I run home, game in hand. I popped it in and watched Old Snake smoking a cigarette, while I ate 
 some instant noodles. 
  
  First things first. I only reached the middle of act 2. And so far the game is gold. If you want 
 to be unspoiled, I suggest you stop reading any player reviews. And go buy this game if you are 
 still haven't done so.
  
  Epic cut scenes, epic action, weapon customization, online multiplayer, and short loading screens 
 make Metal Gear Solid 4: Guns of the Patriots, a true example of what our console can do.
  
  For one, I haven't gotten that far in the Single Player yet, but so far, the cut scenes are 
 great! They are a bit long if you aren't used to MGS series but they're perfect and ties all the 
 loose ends of previous games. If you are lost and haven't played any of the previous games, you 
 need to go look the cut scenes up at least. If you can, play the other games before this. You'll 
 understand the plot a lot better.
  
  The action parts of this game are engaging. There will be a battle between militia and PMCs. And 
 you have two choices. Either you avoid the battle and continue on your way, or you can help one 
 of the sides of the war. PMCs will give you items and militia men will help you clear a way into 
 the PMC base. I myself like to get Drebin Points for my guns and ammo, so i decided to kill off 
 the PMC. To be honest, helping out either side won't give you too much of an advantage. It's either 
 some help or items. If you're playing stealthy, just sneak through to avoid that pesky Alert.
 
  
  Ah now the weapon customization. I really like to customize weapons. In CoD4 it was included and 
 I loved it. it really gives that feeling that, that gun is yours. I was really happy to see the 
 crysis-ish weapon customization in the start menu. To purchase weapons or parts. You'll need to 
 encounter Drebin in the storyline. Then you'll be able to purchase anything from his store though 
 the Drebin Tab in the start menu.
  
  Online multiplayer is quite something. Although it isn't the best online game out there. It still 
 pulls you in. The team work aspect of this game works well if you're in a clan. Sadly i haven't 
 joined one and have yet to see any clans as of yet. But this game shows great potential for great 
 team-based battles. 
  
  If there is one thing I hate about a game, it's the loading screens. Sure it gives you a bathroom 
 break or food break but at times it will drive you nuts! Thankfully, MGS4 have very short loading 
 screens, thank to the hefty installation. 8 minutes well wasted :)
  
  In the end, my opinion doesn't differ much from the rest of the player reviews but i simply wish 
 to contribute and show my appreciation of this game. 10/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Solid_Max13
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 14, 2008 8:49 am PT
Review:  I will give no spoilers away in this review but all i can say is MGS4 will go down in history as 
 one of the best games ever made. The detail and graphics and sound of this game not to mention 
 the story that follows! Everything is just incredibly done.
  
  The story goes as follows Snake is sent on one last mission to assassinate and kill Liquid Ocelot. 
 Liquid is planning to unleash a new strike to kill the patriots, and Snake being the only one that 
 can stop him is sent in, but has aged quite vigorously due to the Cloning process from which he 
 was created.
  
  Everyone from Otacon to Mei Ling, Naomi Hunter, Colonel Campbell, Raiden, Rosemary, Eva anyone who's 
 anyone from the first three games is basically back in this game with all the twists and surprises!
 
  
  The game play takes a bit of time to get used to but afterwards you get the hang of it. You get 
 a million items and guns to work with and can upgrade most of your guns as well, and don't forget 
 to trade in that old cardboard box for a new drum can! Along with all the new items and weapons 
 you also get one of the coolest things in the MGS series, the Octocam. The Octocam acts as a stealth 
 camouflage to any surrounding he outs himself up against making him almost invisible to his enemy's. 
 
  
  Speaking of enemy's theres quite a few in this game with the good round of MGS bosses that will 
 not be forgotten. The enemy AI react to almost everything including shooting and searching they're 
 a lot smarter this time. For instance one time i was camouflaged and the enemy's came up to Snake 
 feeling the air before kicking me to get up. Not only that but when i was helping the rebels using 
 an un-silenced weapon enemy s would spot me and send there troops towards me.
  
  On top of an excellent Single player campaign theres also MGO which is incredible as it's own, 
 not exactly fast paced but well paced enough to have fun with. Including to upgrade your mans tactics 
 and clothes and weapons.
  
  All of this in one package an epic single player campaign and and an amazing multiplayer campaign, 
 all that's left to say is if you loved the Metal gear Series you will absolutely love this game 
 as well. And if you haven't bought this game, get out now and buy it, and last but not least if 
 you don't have a PS3 this is a reason to buy one!
  
  10/10
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: wilquina
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 14, 2008 8:23 am PT
Review:  I'm a very huge fan of the game, and actually... it's impossible to describe it, i'm out of words... it 
 is the BEST game i've EVER played in my fu ----- life!!! it's incredible, monsruous, a masterpiece, 
 is just perfect! You can do almost anything you want, become friend and ally with the enemy (only 
 militia) , you've got the best and most innovative stealth suit ever seen in a game, one of the 
 most complexs storylines, a vast variety of weapons and accesories, undescriptable graphics and 
 sound.... the game is just GODLIKE! And what about MGO?... the best online-strategy-shooting game 
 in the world! You can create your own character, play with anyone you want, train yourself with 
 veterans and find lots of gaming friends! I think Hideo and his team made an exellent job, it was 
 worth waiting.....!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CasinoOutlaw247
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 14, 2008 8:16 am PT
Review:  Yes, I purchase Metal Gear Solid 4: GOTP the day it came out. The wait has been long and thus far 
 well worth the wait. There is not a whole lot I am going to reveal just for the simple fact that 
 I don't want to give ANYTHING away to somebody that hasn't played this game yet. I have to say 
 the intro to the game is my favorite so far. You have heard alot about Solid Snake's new CAMO well 
 you'll get a taste of that as part of the intro and believe me when I tell you it's cool.
  
  Let me just go ahead and get this out of the way: for those who rate this game lower than a 
 "10" or say "rent first" obviously don't know what they are talking about or haven't played the 
 game. DON'T LISTEN! the game is a METAL GEAR game and that means that if you enjoyed the classic 
 from the beginning then you WILL enjoy this. The quality of this product is truly overwhelming. 
 You can tell that Hideo Kojima and team really put alot of effort and passion into the game. Konami 
 has always been about quality so this should come as no suprise to those who enjoy their games 
 (which I have been for the past 10-20 years) RUN don't WALK to your nearest game outlet and PURCHASE 
 this game.
  
  The graphics blew me away! I mean it is on par with Sega Dreamcast's Shenmue. The amount of detail 
 is staggering! the game really makes you feel that you are in the desolate heat of the Middle East 
 (and I've been there) and it was right on the money. Facial expressions of characters really shine 
 through as you can tell when Snake is in pain or amused at something said. Graphics in this game 
 are really great.
  
  The music is really fitting for this title. As a matter of fact the music is so good that it had 
 me on edge for a couple of scenes in the game. Very appropriate for the action going on the music 
 goes hand in hand with it. 
  
  The game is so full of suprises and I discover them at almost every turn. Like I said I'll reveal 
 nothing that will give anything about this game away. Sure I said the game takes place (so far) 
 in the Middle East but, hey it should be no shock right?
  
  I am giving this game a 10 as I did with Grand Theft Auto IV (PS3) . They have alot in common with 
 me: I didn't finish either before writing a review. I played just enough of the game to know that 
 the rest of the game will blow me away. I was dead correct on Grand Theft Auto IV so it leads me 
 to believe that MGS4: GOTP will be the same. So, for those of you you haven't played a Metal Gear 
 game go out and get the Metal Gear Solid Essentials (PS2) which includes Metal Gear Solid (PS1) , 
 Metal Gear Solid 2: The Sons Of Liberty (PS2) , and Metal Gear Solid 3: Snake Eater. Then, after 
 finishing those classics, play Metal Gear Solid 4: Guns Of The Patriots (PS3) and you can tell 
 me what I just told you and for those who didn't obviously don't know the real deal when they play 
 it. I've played Metal Gear since the Nintendo 8-Bit. So, I DO know what I'm talking about. Go and 
 play these masterpieces and I am sure you will agree. This game will be a GAME OF THE YEAR contender. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: korichy
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 14, 2008 7:25 am PT
Review:  I have never written a review before but Metal Gear 4 deserve it. I' ll try to go straigh to the 
 point. The game has exellents animations without suffering from frame rates problems. There are 
 few instances in which some textures will look kind of blurry, but man there is one out of 1,000 
 crispy nice looking textures. The story is very compeling, reviving every single character in the 
 past Metal Gear games. The Gameplay it's out of this world. The best part is when you are sneaking 
 and all of the sudden the local milita shows up and start shooting the PMCs and you can choose 
 to blend with them lend them a hand or sneak your way out of it, it just feels great. It's not 
 only sneaking and shooting, but there is also some little puzzels, if we can say it that way, to 
 solve like while on the second chapter you have to follow footprints with you solid eye and enemies 
 are aware that you are following them. I haven't finished the game but I felt the need of writing 
 this to see if I can inspire someone to pick up the game. All I wrote can be summarise in fewer 
 words THIS GAME IS AWESOME. Metal Gear Solid 4 truelly is the best game I have played in years. 
 See ya folks and hope you get it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xXrebel666Xx
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 14, 2008 7:11 am PT
Review:  So eloquent and perfect in every aspect, this is the art of gaming. This is why you put up with 
 360 fanboys for years. MGS4 put simply redefines gaming, some may consider it not a game, but that's 
 perfectly acceptable, MGS4 is flawless in every means. The graphics are phenomenal, the gameplay 
 is exceptional, the online is splendid, if you've been hanging out for one title, this is it.
 
  
  Everyone is entitled to their own opinion, and mine is that this is the most incredible video game 
 ever created. I have frequently been dissapointed by games that were meant to be exceptional, such 
 as GTA4, halo 3, GoW, but MGS4 absolutely crushes them and comes out leaps and bounds ahead in 
 every aspect.
  
  No game will ever be the same.
  
  RIP Old Snake, gaming will miss you, bud.
  
  If you own a PS3, buy this game.
  
  If you 
 don't own one, then buy one and follow the last command. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 4NGoods
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 14, 2008 6:30 am PT
Review:  The only thing i feel could use improvement is the time you spend playing vs. the time you spend 
 watching. Its a good thing for us that the story is immersive otherwise this would be an unbearable 
 experience. I've played to the point of shadow moses island and so far it's a great game but it's 
 my personal opinion that snake eaters was a better game thus far. maybe my opinion of the game 
 will change toward the end but as it stands now i prefer the third. Big Boss FTW!!! 
  When i first started playing, it threw me off that kojima finally made the enter key X instead 
 of O. It really didnt take that long to adapt to the new control scheme as it fits in well with 
 the new mechanics of the game. I love the magnitude of weapons and level of customization you have. 
 Its a good touch and adds a level to depth to the game. Just wish there was another way to earn 
 DP, such as total kills or more DP per stealth kill or etc... 
  Storywise, this game delivers. It does a fantastic job of tying in the storylines of the previous 
 games and answers a few questions i wasnt too sure of. I hate spoilers so i wont say too much.
 
  Bottomline is that if you own a ps3 the you need to get this game now! Thats right, i'm talking 
 to YOU!!! get off the computer and run to you nearest retailer and get this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shanokano
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 14, 2008 6:00 am PT
Review:  Just like what GameSpot's first line in their review said "Metal Gear Solid 4: Guns of the Patriots 
 is the most technically stunning video game ever made."
  
  Well in fact everybody should know when developers or reviewers mean by best ever... well they 
 should... 
  
  And with some common sense people won't compare this to a PC game like Crysis which has unmatched 
 graphics and physics right now.... When the writers say MGS4 is the most tech stunning game ever 
 it just means by console standards and should not be compared to a PC exclusive.
  
  I'm going to start off with the most advance, stunning, breathe taking cut scenes in MGS4;
  
 
  1. The first 1 is where Raiden first shows off and fights Vamp. Man, that scene was so beautiful 
 it was like watching a classic Japanese martial arts movie combine with a classic John Woo movie.
 
  
  2. Old Snake and Eva (Big Momma= Snakes mother) escort the body of Big Boss. Man this scene was 
 also a classic... it had everything, it was like watching a real life action movie. The car chases, 
 explosions, shooting was all part of a great scene that will go down in time as one of the greatest 
 action/stealth cut scenes in video game history! 
  
  Well, i'm not gonna talk to much about the rest because everything else is almost perfect.... the 
 only thing else i'm gonna say about MGS4 is that it has 2 flaws;
  
  1. Being a PS3 exclusive which has a hard drive combing with a Blu-ray discs should prevent this 
 game from having all those annoying loading times. From act one theirs a loading time of 10mins, 
 then act 2 has 8mins, act 3 has 3mins..... and so forth......
  
  2. Snake should have more hand to hand combat skills moves along with a better cover system.
 
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: wolfetones91
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 14, 2008 5:46 am PT
Review:  Ok im going to keep this short and sweet. MGS4 takes the biscuit. The game-play is true to the 
 series while also introducing several new elements. The cinematics are unreal and blend seamlessly 
 with the action. Fans of the series meet many old characters and this game offers a fitting conclusion 
 to what has been a revolutionary sage. The graphics are crisp and well detailed and do not differ 
 completely from the cut-scenes. The game also has the quirky humor that exists in all MGS games. 
 For example the statue at the start (You have to see this!) . The camo system is nice and once u 
 beat the first boss your camo will improve slightly. The diversnesss of the game-play will appeal 
 to many gamers and this is simply a must-have game! Get MGS4 now !!! Because this game really makes 
 use of the blu-ray capabalities of the PS3.
  Thanks for reading,
  Sen 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Satanmar
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 14, 2008 5:03 am PT
Review:  Well, just finished Metal Gear Sold 4 and to be honest not totally sure what to do with myself. 
 What an amazing achievement from Mr Hideo Kojima and his Production team. Its a very special game 
 that may very possibly be the greatest game of all time. Why you ask? well MGS4 is the series perfection. 
 Many areas of the game have been reworked, fixed or even totally removed but all in all it ends 
 up being a much more refined action packed.... somewhat Westernized experience if you will. I will 
 not get into the storyline to deep as thats the whole fun of MGS4 and the storyline is one of the 
 greatest stories.... ever? When you consider how complicated the MGS story as been then you will 
 trully appriate how well Kojima and Co have wrapped much of it up. All I'll say is that your in 
 for one of the greatest experiences ever.
  
  MGS4 is one of those games that both while your playing and once you've finished it, you realise 
 what a special game it is. Not just because its MGS, but also because it is a great example of 
 why gaming is so beloved by billions of people around the world. Its the perfect example of why 
 the medium of gaming as far surpassed the Movie industry and why you should be proud to have experienced 
 such a game. Lets get one thing straight, MGS4 was super anticpated, I personally believe probably 
 more then GTA4 and it wasn't just better then I expected, it far surpassed my expectation to show 
 how games can trully touch those that play them. I decided to play through the MGS series again 
 to experience that storyline again. Playing MGS: Twin Snakes, MGS2: Sons of Liberty, MGS3: Snake 
 Eater and MGS Port Ops. While playing through those games I realised that every newer installment 
 got better and better as the series grew, and MGS4 is no different.
  
  If you have a love for the MGS Series, then your in for an emotional rollercoaster, theres a lot 
 of cutscenes in this game with some being quite long but those cutscenes have become a classic 
 trademark of the series and are so well done that even Hollywood should take note. If your not 
 one for the soppy emotional stuff then you have been warned because MGS4 is full of it. Understandably 
 tho and it is often done beautifully. Again as I said I wouldn't give any of the story away so 
 I will keep that experiene for you to look forwad to. But all I'll happily say is that there are 
 some trully touching moments throughout the game that fans will enjoy as much of the MGS story 
 is wrapped up. I hate to keep repeating myself but games like this go down in history, there the 
 Half Life, the Final Fantasy 7 and even the Metal Gear Solid of today. This game is the true vision 
 Hideo Kojima had for the series and with the power of the PS3 (compared to the PS2) there are some 
 trully spectacular advances. Graphically the game looks amazing, I remembering reading Kojima moaning 
 about the graphic limitations of the PS3 but you couldn't tell, because textures look amazing characters 
 have a belief about them and that all helps to draw you into the MGS4 experience. Everything from 
 the big details to the small are done with care and with a nice sized HDTV it is easilly one of 
 the best looking games on any console. 
  
  Gameplay wise, well quite a bit as changed. Remember the often clumsy slow gun firing action of 
 the old MGS's, well thats gone and in its place is a much more (again, somehwhat Westernized) action 
 orientated offering. With the over the shoulder look and faster loading and movement of Snake. 
 Personally one of my favourite changes is in stance, the crouch stance is very welcome and its 
 amazing this hasn't been in a MGS before because it suits the game perfectly. Also changed are 
 the general controls of the game, a nice new touch (despite being small) is that now the X button 
 on the PS3 controller is the SELECT button, fans will know that in past MGS's the O button as been 
 the SELECT choice, a small but clear sign of the changes made to the game. This actually lends 
 me to a point I want to make, despite the amazing past games of MGS I trully feel that in MGS4 
 Kojima as finally found perfection in the series. Now Kojima may feel that he wants to leave things 
 at that, and I could understand that..... but I don't feel that this will be the last Metal Gear 
 game. One other worthy mention is the Octocamo suit, a fantastic new addition to the game that 
 never gets old. The boss battles with the beasts are some of the best you'll ever experience in 
 any game, not just the best in the series. Battles that Snake will get involved in are surprisingly 
 intense. 
  
  Now on to other details, as expected the voicework is superb around the board, special mention 
 goes to David Hayter who as done an amazing job with Solid Snake all through the series and deserves 
 a lot of the credit for the fans love of the character. Also Christopher Randolph as Octacon is 
 worthy of mention, he does an amazing job in MGS4. Its some of the best voice acting I've heard 
 in any game. Also its nice to note that the lip sycning in the game now matches the English version 
 rather then the old style of the Japanese Lip Syncing covered over by English Voice overs. Everything 
 about it works perfectly. I could talk endlessly about whats great about MGS4, but its also important 
 to mention that it does have a loading screen problem, there are quite a few loading screen which 
 are mostly short and yes you will also have to make about 3 installations, but they offer a break 
 from the game to rest and are often very short.... some might hate this but there not to bad and 
 you would be the biggest of fools not to play MGS4 just for that reason..... there are so many 
 cinematic moments that will go down in gaming history. Every gamer should play this game, don't 
 own a PS3 then beg your parents for one, I'm not fanboy, I love both the 360 and PS3 but its about 
 time PS3 got something special and this is it. Don't miss out on this experience because MGS4: 
 Guns of the Patriots is one of the greatest games ever made...... if not THE greatest!
  
  OVERALL:
  Trully amazing story superbly wrapped up by Hideo and Co (Bungie could learn a thing 
 or two about endings from these guys and gals) , with superb action orientated gameplay and a true 
 visional and sound cinematic experience you won't find anywhere else. A Must have for anybody.
 
  
  PROS:
  - Fantastic Story which somehow wraps up a lot of the MGS stories.
  - Visional and Sound Cinematic experience, better then anything Hollywood could offer.
  - Fans 
 will find it a touching experience.
  - Gameplay and experience as been westernized which works superbly well.
  - Superb Voice acting.
 
  - Amazing Visuals.
  
  CONS:
  - Loading Screens and Installation may frustrate some.
  - Some emotional scenes may turn some off, tho fans will enjoy seeing an end to some of the most 
 beloved characters anywhere.
  
  I trully hope Metal Gear will return somehow.
  
  I give Metal Gear Solid 4: Guns of the Patriots a 10/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dlt0028
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 14, 2008 4:29 am PT
Review:  This game is by far the best game put out so far on the PS3. The cinematics and gameplay really 
 are first class. Snake's looking a little rough these days due to rapid age accelleration, but 
 he still kicks ass. Taking down choppers with RPG's, blending in with the scenary, buying from 
 arms dealers, using mortars to blow up junk, what else can you ask for? I expected a great game 
 and this over-exceeded my expectations. This is definately going to be a system seller for Sony. 
 I thought Uncharted was a great game visually, but this game makes Uncharted look silly. I always 
 rent before buying just because of the way the industry is (think HAZE) , but you cant go wrong 
 with buying this game. It really gets you into the game, its not just stupid AI and kill, kill, 
 kill. There's a strategy thats often left to sneaking around and stealth. Take levels slow, and 
 you can finish without ever being detected by the enemy. However, you cant ignore all the fancy, 
 bad ass weapons available. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: killip
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 14, 2008 4:04 am PT
Review:  After thinking MGS couldn't possibly get any better than it already has, Hideo goes and shoots 
 me down again. This game is to date one of the best games i have ever played. It takes place 9 
 years of the events of MGS2 and you play as Solid snake, given a mission to eliminate Liquid snake 
 aka ocelot. Thats the genreal story without giving anything away. One of the most amazing things 
 (and a curse to some people) is the story. It left me jaw dropped. Twists and turns round every 
 corner and not just little twists either, there bomb shells. And by the time you finish the game 
 all of the other 3 games start making sence. Having said that if you arent big on MGS games chances 
 are you wont know what the hell is going on. The cutscenes are alos monstrous as well some cutscenes 
 even go near the hour mark. But when theres that much story to tie together you can't really knock 
 it. Graphics: Best graphics i've ever seen. enough said.
  
  Sound: all the original voice actors are back from past MGS games and the music score is a beauty 
 to say the least. Amazing.
  
  Gameplay: uses a free camera this time (like subsistance) and you get an camo suit that changes 
 colour depending on what yur lying against. Amazing additions to the game that make it feel completly 
 diffrent to other MGS games.
  
  **** box: Im gona look at this from a non hardcore fans point. The cutscenes are realllllly really 
 long. And if you havent followed the game you wont know whats going on. That its the last MGS :' (. 
 That it has to end :'''' (
  
  Overall: Finally a game that lives up to its hype. This one (if not) the best game ive ever played 
 in my life. The story is totally amazing the gameplay has been stripped and given even better treatment. 
 Its like a celebration of the entire Metal gear games and for any fan of the series it brings a 
 tear to your eye. If you don't play this game you might as well not be a gamer. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DarkGothic
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 14, 2008 2:55 am PT
Review:  Not have more nothing to talk.
  Buy now the definitive game of your mortal little life and jump!!
  
  
  I don't care if the 
 gameplay in the past titles didn't appeal to you, I don't care if long cutscenes scare you, and 
 I don't care if you're broke. 
  Metal Gear Solid 4: Guns of the Patriots is the best reason to own a PlayStation 3 thus far. 
 
  
  I've played every Metal Gear Solid game since the series won me over in 1998, and I can tell you 
 that I have never felt as connected to Snake as I did in this game. 
  
  This game is emotional, powerful, fun, beautiful, deep, engaging, and just about every other positive 
 adjective you could assign it. Metal Gear Solid 4 pulls you in and doesn't let you go until the 
 final, final credits roll. 
  
  I'm sad to see Snake go, but he couldn't have asked for a better sendoff. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: deesnutts25
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 14, 2008 2:25 am PT
Review:  WOW, i though GTA4 looked good, but this just like blew it away. Something i never expected in 
 this game was to be taken back in time to the 1st MGS in the series and play a small portion. The 
 memories that brought back let me tell you. Then after the fun little mini game there you are, 
 back on the island this time with the PS3 handling everything. Not to mention the fight between 
 Raiden and Vamp, come on how much better does it get?
  
  As i started walking around and looking i thought to myself, I guess this what Kojima wanted to 
 do with the first one, but couldn't due to pusing the limits of the first PS1, but not this time 
 he got to do it his way and they way it truely should have been.
  
  All in all Iv've only spent 10 hours playing this game and i'm sure i'm probably not even half 
 way done yet, but so far I'm just amazed at how far games have come in my lifetime.
  
  This game was defenatly a good reason to buy a PS3. Now I'm not as mad for my friends jacking my 
 360 and selling it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: god13g
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 14, 2008 1:38 am PT
Review:  i love this game its just freakin amazing WOW!!! its kojimas baby/masterpice
  the game contains the mgs4 game and the mgo but to play mgo u need a konami id and a gamer id which 
 u can get from this id. konami. net
  
  ok now 1st the gameplay:10/10
  the gameplay is everything u want from an mgs game the new amazing CQC which can make u do from 
 a humanshield to a weapon disarming
  and the shooting better then ever were u can shoot over the shoulder mode or the autoaim and the 
 same old firstperson mode but now u can almost play the whole game in firstpersonmode.
  
  ok now the story (spoiler free) :10/10
  the story is going to gather all the mgs universe and 
 remind u with the flashbacks well thats all coz i dont wanna spoile anything for u.
  
  ok graphics and audio 10/10
  the graphics are very good like its reminds me that the new gen 
 is here: D
  and the audio is amazing just get ur self big headphones with 5.1 output or the new 7.1 which i 
 never saw.
  
  so overall the game is 10/10 and its going to get ur mind a test for fast moving and slow temp 
 waiting. its the only reson i bought a ps3 and i bought the ps3 as soon as the ps3 is released. 
 so if u didnt get ur copy then go get it its kojimas baby^^ hope my review waz good and helped 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: raed28
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 14, 2008 1:32 am PT
Review:  metal gear solid 4 is the best game you can ever play. when you feel watch a film from holywood 
 and in the same time you play that it is mean it a great game you have. metal gear solid is the 
 reason to buy Playstation 3. Snake is come back and what kind of came back. is there game deserve 
 to get more than 10, it would be a metal gear solid4 which is the best in the series of metal gear 
 solid. there are many people i know them buy playsitation 3 for only metal gear solid4. the graphic 
 is awsome. I am sure when you ask any gamers about the best story in the history games, he is going 
 to tell you with out doubt it is metal gear solid. The Metal gear solid series story let's you 
 want to finesh the game as soon as possible to know what will happen in the ends of the game which 
 rarely happen in the other games. Metal gear solid online is great as stealth and action, it is 
 great when you play with your frind which excced the time and the life for the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Wilbz1
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 14, 2008 1:05 am PT
Review:  *SPOILER-FREE*
  
  Gameplay: 10/10
  If you're played the previous MGS series, the controls are relatively the same with some minor 
 changes. Snake is fairly easy to control. Unlike MGS1/2/3, Snake can now move while in First-Person-View 
 Aim Mode (Includes Sniper Aim) . In MGS4 you will need to press Triangle when close to the wall 
 to lean against it instead of auto-lean when pressing against the wall. The enemy difficulty is 
 just right, though easier than previous MGS series. With scope attached to your gun, headshots 
 become easy especially when you spray with an automatic gun. 
  In short, gameplay surpasses that of the previous series and is enjoyable.
  
  Storyline: 9.5/10
 
  The ending of MGS4 is definitely one to look forward to. The storyline itself lives up to the 
 MGS reputation. That being said, why 9.5/10? Bottomline is, the storyline is far too long to be 
 squeezed even in 20 hours. If this is the storyline, I would have hoped for a 2 Blu-Ray Discs MGS 
 game so they would go into more depth or at least building up atmosphere. 
  Yes this MGS series answers most, if not all, questions questioned from the previous series. But 
 there are too many questions to answer. Some are hastily answered. Some emotional scenes don't 
 feel as emotional because the time to build up the emotions is too short. 
  In short, the storyline itself is flawless but require more time to build up for the mood.
  
 
  Sound: 9/10
  Don't get me wrong. The music, Love Theme, is superb. 
  But it needs more! There are so many cutscenes with no music background at all. The music MGS4 
 has to offer is magnificant but it needs more for the cutscenes. MGS4 has awesome music but needs 
 more.
  
  *Note*
  Now I've read people complaining about the insanely length of cutscenes. Kojima once stated in 
 an interview that MGS4 will have something that no other games have achieved or will be really 
 hard to achieve. That "something" is the feeling of watching a movie while playing a game. This 
 game has a movie-game feeling to it. 50% cutscenes, 50% gameplay. There are several cutscenes that 
 are more than 30 minutes long. The longest one I can remember spans for an whole hour.
  Personally I enjoyed it a lot because it feels like you're playing in a movie rather than a game, 
 but taste may vary among gamers.
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: zxssded
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 14, 2008 1:04 am PT
Review:  Well i actually didnt know about this game til 3 weeks before its realse. before that i though 
 splinter cell is still the best, and i still do, but MGS4 i have to say beats all the splinter 
 cell games by alot, but though i still stand by the splinter cell title without shame. (: 3 weeks 
 before the release of the game, i rented all the MGS's, i always do that, and tried to find out 
 more about what this game was about. i was a bit turned off by the first 2 becasue you couldnt 
 really do anything if the enemy came up to you, unlike splinter cell, but still teh story is amazing, 
 and MGS3 was great because of it houmor of the cardboard box and the fact you can change your clothes 
 to suit the enviroment to hide.
  
  Good: Graphics are amazing, simply amazing, love it how it switches from cut scene to gameplay 
 without any load times!!! Amazing story, near Amazing gunfights, the coolest bosses ever created, 
 *maybe a spoiler* the scientist that gets captured always has her shirt undone so much you can 
 see... a lot... even with a jacket on and the story is, with all cut scenes, atleast 30 - 40 hours 
 without stopping and looking about and stuff, enough said.
  
  Bad: Well theres not much you still can do if the enemy is right in front of you. auto-aim is not 
 really very useful, *not sure if this is a spoiler* the monkey gets hell annoying, Single player 
 finishes
  
  *SPOILER* THE SINGLE PLAYER ENDED!!!! WHAT!!!!! *SPOILER*
  
  well basically the game is great, looks great, is great. if there were meele attack, that would 
 make life a lot easier, but the game is already balanced in difficulty so not a big issue, just 
 me playing too much splinter cell, and also jsut wanna clarafiy, does Snake use his knife at all? 
 and do you really use it much anyway? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Russ32233
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 15, 2008 4:35 pm PT
Review:  Since this was revealed all that time ago i have been desperately been wanting this game. First 
 a quick couple of flaws for me, the loading: i know its necessary but it seems that your waiting 
 for it to load for half the game in total. Not being able to watch the cut scenes (if you can i 
 don't know how) which means i now just have to play it all again to watch the ending sequence as 
 i fell asleep lol. Also the fact that there is only 2 ways to acquire the stealth and bandanna, 
 for the stealth (i don't know for sure that this is correct it is what I've heard) to complete 
 the game without raising the alert! Which for me as a casual player is just not going to happen 
 as i enjoy playing these games but I'm not that good at them, or you can the long way and save 
 them points up and buy it in Drebins shop for 5,000,000 yes five million Drebin points. The bandanna 
 is pretty much the same except you aren't allowed to kill anyone in the game even the bosses so 
 you will be using the tranquilizer weapons a lot, or buy it from Drebin for the same price as the 
 stealth. Other than that it is a really good game they went all out on the graphics and the story 
 and the fight with Vamp took me about 500 rounds of ammo before realizing how to do it (use the 
 tranq pistol then when he finally falls down as he gets up grab him using cqc and the syringe to 
 take him out as it were) and then getting to use Metal Gear Rex to bust out of shadow moses what 
 a nice touch that was. The nice little touch i found was also when you go to Europe (maybe Russia 
 i can't remember) and dressed as a civilian you need to follow the resistance man to his base where 
 you meet someone from the past. So all in all it does wind up the stories and i do hope that one 
 day there will be another one although there wont be a Snake but maybe a new lead? Not Raiden though 
 due to the story... but i cant tell you about that in case you ain't seen that bit plus we've been 
 there done that. But the team are talented so if they want to make another one I'm sure they will 
 do it just fine. Maybe someone completely new? Now its Sunday the 15th of June and i have completed 
 it 4 or 5 times now but just cant get enough of it, my favourite acts are 1 and 4 the opening and 
 Shadow Moses. The Shadow Moses level is great because you do start remembering all the little bits 
 you loved about MGS1 and also you can see just how much the graphics have improved in I'm thinking 
 10 years or so and the snow is so heavy you can not see 5 feet in front of your face you nearly 
 walk into a GEKO and the music that starts playing and the flashbacks and memories of voices and 
 all of that just makes a great level... oh and who can forget you get to drive a Metal Gear!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LatusItani
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 13, 2008 11:18 pm PT
Review:  I was the second person out of the store Wednesday night at midnight. I really felt out of place, 
 waiting in line to buy a game that I had very little experience with. I had seen the other three 
 games played by friends and I knew some of the backstory except for the bulk of #3 which is what 
 I found the most interesting.
  Anyway, got it home, threw it in, waited 8 mins to install while reading the instruction manual 
 the whole time. Lots of interesting but well thought out controls were described and I got into 
 it. Started in the virtual gun range. Practiced some CQC, fired a few rounds; everything felt very 
 well polished and second nature on the controller.
  
  Step ahead some 20 hours of play and two days:
  
  I'm completely speechless. There is only 
 one other game that made me tear up, literally almost shed a tear. A man tear d*** it! The voice 
 acting and the unrivaled motion capture mixed with the highest quality graphics and sound on a 
 console left me enthralled. 
  There was no boring repetition, every level I went through had a different feel, a new tactic to 
 use or abuse and something new to watch out for. Every boss defeated gave you a new weapon or ability 
 to use, not uncommon but it also pushed you forward in the storyline which, despite being half 
 the game (not unusual for the MGS series) , was excellent.
  Kojima brings his peaceful outpourings to this game as well. Hidden in the deep plot is a message 
 of peace, something unusual in a game of this setting.
  
  Ok, down to the grit, if you are looking for JUST what I think of the game itself, look here!
 
  
  Graphics: Technically proficient, makes great use of the power of the PS3. The stealth effects 
 of snake's suit, the MG. Mk II, and one of the bosses was very well developed, looked like it belonged. 
 Character animations looked smooth and well done. There are a few small graphical hitches in textures 
 and you can see polygons in some characters but, as I will tell in a moment, thats usually not 
 what you are looking at. Framerate is easily 30+ most of the game. 9/10
  
  Story: If you read my ramblings above you will know the following; the story is one of the strongest 
 features this game has. Its engrossing but sometimes gets a little long for the amount of playing 
 you are doing. This is broken up by button prompts to generate flashbacks of an important point 
 in the game's chronology or about a certain character or to look into the game world through Snake's 
 eyes. The mission briefings give you the opportunity to move around inside them as they are playing 
 out through the "eye" of the MG. MK II. This gives you an opportunity to pick up items you wouldn't 
 have otherwise like a camera or extended battery life for some items. 10/10
  
  Sound: Not much to say here, it was very nice to listen to. The gunshots actually sounded authentic 
 and vibrated as they should, the character movements were annunciated by clean sounds. Voices were 
 clear and without interference, vehicles (accompanied by the rumble feature) gave the sound work 
 a quality all its own.
  10/10 
  
  Gameplay: Clean and well coded. There were only a few confusing moments when I couldn't get a CQC 
 move to execute right but practice made perfect and that was cleared right up. There was never 
 a short stock of ammo but, then again, you didn't have to use it if you didn't have to. Customization 
 features for the guns were limited but the number of weapons that you had to customize made that 
 a moot point. Most guns could be equipped with a silencer, laser pointer, red dot sight and flash 
 light. The sneaking was the most well done and at most times the most fun part of the whole experience. 
 Your suit, while able to blend into the walls, did have it's limits. If you weren't in an out of 
 the way place while you were hidden then your cover was blown with a well placed kick from an enemy. 
 The cardboard box makes its return with the introduction of its brother, the drum can. I never 
 got a chance to use it myself but the drum can is able to perform a neat rolling attack. There 
 is so much more I can go into but that would take too long. 10/10
  
  Etc: The only thing I can say about anything else is that it was well thought out. There is a MGS4 
 network that allows you to download new music for your in game iPod or new camo for the suit. There 
 is something that must be said about Metal Gear Online, though. I haven't played it much but there 
 is a little bit of latency between your shots and hits which can lead to some frustrating deaths 
 or misses. Registration is also a hassle but once you are in there is a whole array of custom features 
 for your soldier. The modes are also well done. DM, TDM, CTF, base defense are all there plus a 
 few new ones you will have to discover for yourself.
  9/10
  
  Ok, thats my last word. I will probably play more MGO as time goes on. Thats it for me, pce. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MajorGamer531
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 13, 2008 11:07 pm PT
Review:  First off, I was never really heavy into the Metal Gear Series before, but I have experienced it 
 before. Just like its predecessors, MTS4 has plenty of lengthy story developing cuts, and the gameplay 
 isn't always fast-paced. So, if you are looking for a quick gun and run, this is not it.
  
  This game combines a fantastically developed story with an action-game using mechanics from previous 
 metal gears and action games as well as high quality cinematics that transition in and out of battles 
 fluidly and seemingly effortlessly. Graphically this game is visually stunning and highly detailed. 
 The game displays versatility, you can progress through in area many different ways and directions, 
 you can rely on stealth or you can Rambo your way through or you can even combine the two starting 
 off in stealth and progressing to Rambo either because you are forced to or because you can't find 
 the right way through stealthily. The boss battles are all well designed; they are not overly difficult 
 but they do keep you on your toes. All and all I would have to say this game has the BEST singleplayer 
 experience in the New Gen of games.
  
  The multiplayer is somewhat shaky and the sign-up process is annoying. The game still plays out 
 pretty well when you get in the game and is enough to keep your Metal Gear multiplayer craving 
 satisfied, but it isn't near as impressive as the singleplayer. This is the only reason I did not 
 give the game a 10. Sorry for all you metal gear fans, but 10s only come from me when a game is 
 flawless and the multiplayer is a flaw. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lyricistvipa
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jun 13, 2008 10:48 pm PT
Review:  This game is entertaining, compelling and nicely done. It honestly has earned the right to be the 
 markee title of the PS3. This game is so good that I almost fell to the dark powers of that which 
 is Sony, and purchased a PS3, or at least borrow one for a really long time. The in game graphics 
 are very good, but it being a next- gen game, we shouldn't be too impressed. What's really good 
 in this game is the storytelling and how everything comes together. People thought GTA's storytelling 
 was good, try taking a ridiculous number games from a series, portray them in different times with 
 different people, and make it all make sense. That's something that was achieve is MGS4 and should 
 be applauded. The gameplay, as always, seems steep at first, but drives the player to become more 
 complex and professional in their murderous, operative-ness ( not a real word) style. Some people 
 may say this game needed more but that's very easy to say AFTER THE FACT. I thoroughly enjoyed 
 playing this game and think that you'll do the same. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: beaniiman
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 13, 2008 9:42 pm PT
Review:  Played quite a bit and think it is excellent in general as well as being a perfect mgs game. That 
 said, I think it is better than gta4 but that doesn't justify it getting a 10. Has a few flaws, 
 although not many. Its really entertaining.
  
  One thing nobody talks about is the ability to use a bluetooth headset with the single player game. 
 That I think really brings you into the game.
  
  Its a great game and well worth playing. Everything is there if this is the kind of game you are 
 into. It certainly makes that ps3/blue-ray player look a little more enticing. Oh, and for the 
 record, Donkey Kong is the best game ever :P
  
  And now comes the bogus filler for my 800 character review.
  It's pretty.
  It's fun.
  It's 
 Interesting.
  It's MGS
  
  P. S. Please remember that MGS 1 was not the first "Metal Gear" game. Also note that those metal 
 gear acid games for the psp are real fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xialon
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jun 22, 2008 12:20 pm PT
Review:  As soon as the game started I was quite disappointed by the graphics. Crysis easly has better and 
 more detailed graphcis then MGS4. Though the graphics are slightly better then that of Call of 
 Duty 4. Furthermore, there were several physics issues as well. Some bodies would be stuck on a 
 wall or legs will not correctly follow the rest of the body movements when it is either picked 
 up or blown up. The cut scenes are of good quality but are quite lenghty. I am pretty sure the 
 script writers could have told the story in a shorter version. Cut scenes that last about 10 minutes 
 long are a bit too much. Also, the lip sync is off. Typically the face would not move with the 
 mouth when someone would be talking and the mouth would not correctly match the words being said. 
 I found that to be irratating. The Middle Eastern soilders sounded like pure Americans. Either 
 these mercenaries came straight from Brooklyn or the Middle Eastern accent has taken a whole new 
 format. Drebin's store was a pain because of the monkey sounds going on in the background. Once 
 or twice is okay but doing it over and over again? Come on. The interface is hard to understand 
 at first, it is hard to control some items or features while using the interface. The maps were 
 a bit linear in that there were not many places to check out while progressing through the street 
 battles.
  
  However, the story is quite engrossing and interesting. It pretty much feels like you are watching 
 and playing in a movie the entire time. Gameplay is original and interesting. A player can have 
 a couple of ways of approaching the game. The lack of loading screens is very pleasing. Variety 
 of bosses and fighting keeps the player interested throughout the game. 
  
  I don't think people should hand out 10 out of 10 scores to games. No game is perfect nor flawless. 
 Though I have two questions. Why did GTA 4 and MGS4 both get the same score? Does that mean that 
 both these games are equally amazing? Personally I don't think so. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 2av3n
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jun 13, 2008 8:49 pm PT
Review:  While the game has it's entertaining moments, the final piece in the Metal Gear Series should've 
 been made into a video game with a touch of cut-scene, rather than a motion picture with a touch 
 of buttons. After waiting a very long time, and expecting a ground-breaking title for the Playstation 
 3, I was terribiy disappointed with the way this last piece of story-telling was executed. Waiting 
 for buttons to appear at the corner of the screen is not a brilliant way of captivating the viewer's 
 attention with repetitive and redundant conversations.
  
  I never had a chance to check out multi-player so I have no comments in that regard, but based 
 on the little time I had to actually play the game, it was entertaining, and is the best exclusively 
 PS3 product, however is certainly second to Grand Theft Auto IV, due to it's clever and entertaining 
 dialogue that thankfully lasts no longer than 2-minutes at a time. This review is not meant as 
 a comparison between the two, but since the brilliance of Kevin has recognized this piece of filmography 
 as perfection, then it obviously should be noted that another game provided much more entertainment 
 value and longevity without having to fall asleep at the couch for a chance to play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Hashim19
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 13, 2008 8:43 pm PT
Review:  The ability to take a video game and change it into a piece of artwork is a very rare thing. Very 
 few games have ever been considered "works of art." Final Fantasy 7 was one of them. Other people 
 have their own opinions on other games that should be "perfect." However, this game is in fact 
 a work of art. The story and plot of this movie video game is moving, intriguing, inspiring, and 
 beautiful to boot. The gameplay is addictive, fun, and more importantly challenging. This game 
 has massive replayability and I personally can't wait to spend more and more time trying to perfect 
 this game. The music was amazing, the AI was surprisingly good. The story was flawless and I don't 
 think there are enough good things that I can say about this game. I have played all the Metal 
 Gear Games... even the ones before the Metal Gear Solid series... and this is definitely one of 
 the best. Overall, in my opinion it is in fact the best in the series. I still love the first one 
 and the third one was very fun but this one surpasses them all. There is quite a lot to absorb 
 in this game and it is somewhat complex. However, if you put the time into it, it quickly becomes 
 one of the best games I have ever played. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RazerOfHellVII
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 13, 2008 8:42 pm PT
Review:  Wow it really is the best game ever, where do i start? First of all there are plenty of different 
 difficulties that you can choose from. I started out with normal and it took me 16 hours to beat.... you 
 think that it's a easy game... you're totally wrong i just was addicted to it. I haven't even started 
 online yet. But obvoisuly you play as Old Snake, who has suffered from nanomachines and has had 
 rapid aging problems, but i bet alot of you already know this. There are 5 Acts and i believe that 
 they are: Act 1Liquid Sun, Act 2 Solid Sun, Act 3 Night Sun, Act 4 Twin Suns, Act 5 Naked Sun. 
 I don't believe that Act 3 is right so i can't promise you that one but i do believe every other 
 one is right. There are also plenty of other characters such as: Raiden, Rosemary, Otacon, Naomi, 
 Little Johny ( you'll find out who he is if you play the game) , Drebin, Colonel, Zero, Big Boss, 
 Liquid, Meryl, Akiba, Ed, Johnny, SNAKE!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! There is an online mode, where you have 
 to create your character and voice and you can customize him as well. Alot of people think that 
 it costs money to play online, but it doesn't, it cost money to create more than one guy. The first 
 guy you create is free but if you want any others, you have to buy registration slots. I'm sorry 
 but i dont know how much those slots cost. Well i'll just rap up my review here by saying that 
 this game is the best.... HANDS DOWN!! And if you're an action freak, or romance or just love great 
 games...... then this is the PERFECT game for you!!!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Born4this
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 13, 2008 8:38 pm PT
Review:  The ability to take a video game and change it into a piece of artwork is a very rare thing. Very 
 few games have ever been considered "works of art." Final Fantasy 7 was one of them. Other people 
 have their own opinions on other games that should be "perfect." However, this game is in fact 
 a work of art. The story and plot of this movie video game is moving, intriguing, inspiring, and 
 beautiful to boot. The gameplay is addictive, fun, and more importantly challenging. This game 
 has massive replayability and I personally can't wait to spend more and more time trying to perfect 
 this game. The music was amazing, the AI was surprisingly good. The story was flawless and I don't 
 think there are enough good things that I can say about this game. I have played all the Metal 
 Gear Games... even the ones before the Metal Gear Solid series... and this is definitely one of 
 the best. Overall, in my opinion it is in fact the best in the series. I still love the first one 
 and the third one was very fun but this one surpasses them all. There is quite a lot to absorb 
 in this game and it is somewhat complex. However, if you put the time into it, it quickly becomes 
 one of the best games I have ever played. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kokidkane
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 13, 2008 8:21 pm PT
Review:  This game looks amazing, Its fun action that you can choose how you wish to play. I think the score 
 and presentation are the best yet from a game. I love this freakin game if you have or dont have 
 a ps3 this one is smokin hot. You wont be sad you got it!!! Never played a better game! Its funny 
 to see the low scores from users and then you look at there other scores and it shows what a fan 
 boy they are and they dont even own a ps3 for the review scores they give. There is so much fun 
 to be had online or off I think they did a great job with this game and it runs awsome. I have 
 a great tv and it shows every detail in the game and they took some time to make this game shine 
 with an amazing packed in real life feel with other tricks to the camera and screen that bring 
 you in the world of metal gear. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GeeverTidus
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 13, 2008 6:59 pm PT
Review:  Legends die hard and deserve a heroic story that lives on when they are gone. Metal Gear Solid 
 4 is such an ending for the legendary warrior Solid Snake. Not only does it sum up the full franchise 
 of Metal Gear, its depth and its complexity, coupled with its technical prowess, make it one of 
 the best games of the year and, indeed, one of the best games ever made. Get some well earned rest, 
 Snake. You've earned it. We salute you.
  
  You see, the legendary soldier is suffering from accelerated aging due to cellular degeneration. 
 This is much more harmful than his multiple pack-a-day smoking addiction, making him physically 
 older than his years and hampering his movements every so often. To accomplish his toughest mission 
 yet, Solid Snake will need to pull a couple of new tricks from his camouflaged sleeves. Fortunately, 
 there are plenty of them to go around in Metal Gear Solid 4, which is easily the deepest and most 
 expansive title in the series.
  
  This game is emotional, powerful, fun, beautiful, deep, engaging, and just about every other positive 
 adjective you could assign it. Metal Gear Solid 4 pulls you in and doesn't let you go until the 
 final, final credits roll. 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: GDCalibur
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 13, 2008 6:13 pm PT
Review:  I don't know where to start so I'll just start off saying this game is simply amazing. Like I said 
 in title , I honestly didn't think they could really improve on MGS from the first to the third 
 installment. But they did. 
  
  Firstly the visuals of the game are top notch. MGS4 takes full of advantage of what the PS3 is 
 capable of. It looks even better on HD big screen too. The environment that you traverse through 
 is full and not without detail , from the plants to the trenches you crawl through. The cities 
 you fight in working your way through are done in such great detail that you lose yourself in the 
 game as soon as you play. Little details from debris flying by as a gust of wind blows by to the 
 explosions. Really theres just so much detail in this game. You really have to play it to understand 
 the lengths they went through to give you the best looking game out there.
  
  The gameplay is pretty much the same from what you played in MGS3 Snake Eater. With little twinks 
 to improve on a great system. For instance your camo-suit, automatically adjusts to whatever your 
 leaned up against , or crawling through. The CQC (Close Quarter Combat) , is improved as well. With 
 plenty of more options when you grab an opponent. From choking them out , to stealing their weapon 
 , etc. You can also jump into first person when firing you weapons , which comes in handy when 
 you need to get those tough shots off. The new twist with this game is that you can upgrade your 
 weapons thats you find on the battlefield. From upgrading the scope , laser sights , grip , etc. 
 Pretty much you can make your favorite weapon into the perfect one. On top of that you can now 
 buy weapons , ammo , grenades , magazines. From a arms dealer that you can access pretty much at 
 all times. This adds to a nice customization to the game.
  
  As with all MGS games. The Musical score is great. Done by none other than Harry Gregson-Williams 
 who did the previous games. As for the voice work. It's top notch. Pretty much all the same voices 
 from the previous games. The most important of course David Hayter repraises his role as Solid 
 Snake. As with the previous MGS games there are tons of cut scenes in the game. But thats not a 
 bad thing at all, the game has a great blend of cut scenes and action. Which adds to great story-telling.
 
  
  All in all. This game is probably one of the best games I've ever played. MGS4 has great gameplay 
 , intriguing storyline , amazing visuals , superb music/voice. Theres really no downfall to the 
 game. Only thing I could say really is the installing part of the game. But even then its not even 
 a downfall , cause theres really no bad load times. Really I'm just sad the game ends.
  
  So if your a fan of the MGS series you need to buy this game. Any fan of Action/adventure should 
 check this game out. Honestly anyone with a PS3 needs this game. So go out and get it! If you don't 
 have a PS3 get one for this game!
  
  10/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sweettooth2k2
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 13, 2008 6:09 pm PT
Review:  I have already played this game at least 10 hours since the midnight release, staying up all night 
 Wednesday, and masterpiece is almost an understatement. Every second is enthralling and nerve racking, 
 and the cutscenes are gorgeous. This might be the first game in a LONG time (other than COD4 since 
 it was soooo short) that I actually complete front to back, only time will tell. I can't wait to 
 go play it right now! I wish you could pick multiple "Classifications" down at the bottom of this 
 screen, because so many things describe how great this game is. Masterpiece, instant classic, all 
 its cracked up to be, worth the wait, you get my drift. Buy it. Now. If you don't have a PS3, buy 
 it as well. Some people might be a little turned off by the amount of cutscenes, but honestly as 
 nerve racking as some of your sneaking will be, I am often relieved that I get a break... my stress 
 bar tends to stay with Snake. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Colts_Rock
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 13, 2008 6:02 pm PT
Review:  This is a must get game for everyone. There are so many different ways to play it. There are so 
 many different things to do. The graphics/visuals are the best i've ever seen. The story is great. 
 There are many weapons, items, and weapon customizations. You can also unlock these things. Metal 
 Gear Online is a lot of fun also. You love the humor put into this game, also. GET THIS GAME, I 
 GUARANTEE YOU WILL LOVE IT. I obviously gave this game a 10/10. This is my GOTY and probably many 
 GOTY's, trust me. This game has so many different ways to play it and things to do that you get 
 attached to it and keep wanting more. The battle scenes are great. The environments are awesome. 
 GET THIS GAME PERIOD. TRUST ME ON THIS ONE PLEASE. If you already have this game you probably understand 
 my overuse of capitals. 
  
  Presentation: 10
  
  Graphics/Visuals: 10
  
  Sound: 10
  
  Gameplay: 10
  
  Everything Else: 10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: camarozl1
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 13, 2008 5:47 pm PT
Review:  for the hardcore gamer this is a masterpiece and we will always remember one of the greatest heroes 
 in video game history, for the casual gamer who likes a well told story will find this game entertaining, 
 this game is all the hype and beyond, i bought my ps3 because i always played the playstation, 
 i come from atari's time and when i played metal gear for the first time on the NES i though it 
 was if not the best game on its time, and now i'm playing MGS 4 and i'm every bit satisfy, for 
 those who have a PS3 this is the game you bought you shiny black box, and for those who dont have 
 a PS3, save some money and buy the PS3 and the game and you will not be disappointed, enough said 
 seach the review anywhere and you will see that this game is worth 63.00 dollars or even the 97.00 
 dollars for the special edition 
::::::

::::::
UserName: benleslie5
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 13, 2008 5:47 pm PT
Review:  It's hard to say farewell to certain things in life or to let go of somthing you care about but 
 Metal Gear Solid 4 is defindently somthing that you would want to say just wow. 
  Kojima has been delaying it for years but it was worth the wait not just graphics or gameplay it's 
 the story that counts and Solid Snakes final chapter and mission to stop Liquid once and for all.
 
  Few years after Metal Gear Solid 2, Liquid trys to gain power and taking over the world fighting 
 over PMC. You will meet old friends and new friends to help you. It had a great intro to begin 
 with in the middle east where things got crazy and encounting Beauty and the Beast which were the 
 4 deadly bosses you'll fight but I'll try not to post any spoilers. Octacon does help you out during 
 the game and giving you some hints and info. If your in Octacon's plane during the long cutscenes 
 you can control a robotic drone called Metal Gear MK2 instead of the old codec system, you can 
 wheel around the robot and pick itmes and find easter eggs during the cutscenes.
  
  Gameplay= If you played most Metal Gear Solid games you'll get into it stright away and you'll 
 finally know all the answers that were never in the other games including the meaning of Foxdie. 
 Playing as Snake feels sort of like Resident Evil with the whole gun shooting thing and you can 
 buy and upgrade your weapons from a man called Drebbin and a smokeing monkey who acts crazy for 
 a drink. Some funny and memorable things such as hiding in cardboard box, now you can hide in a 
 Barrel and you can roll to knock other enimies over but you'll throw up if you do that. The boss 
 fights are very memorable there is one boss you'll encounter and you'll freak out if you remeber 
 what you did on the last games to lose is to find and to find is to lose. Your health bar is different 
 from Snake Eater you can no longer eat animals expect Rataions and Noodles. There is a four bar 
 thing under your health bar called stress, if your stress gets low in battle and your trying to 
 heal yourself your health will be low to restore so you'll need to take syringes. Some old weapons 
 you'll use Eyepatch which has night vision, you can control Metal Gear MK2 almost where during 
 the game where you can knock out enimes and wheel around if the area is safe. 
  
  Graphics and Sound= They look twice as better then Grand Theft Auto 4 which is true they do look 
 clear and feel more like of an Amine/Action film with stunning cutscenes. You can't say no to those 
 kind of graphics to what your seeing for a PS3 game honestly the enviroment and almost everything 
 the game looks really well done and well set out. You'll be wrapped in the game making you feel 
 your part of that world and to its story altogetor. Loads of music you'll reconise from last Metal 
 Gear Solid games and you can carry an IPOD and you can listen to your own music any where listening 
 to Konami music such as Zone of the Enders or Lunar Knights but there are more tracks to listen 
 to but you would need to find through out the game. There is a Konami radio station on your IPOD 
 telling you about the world we live and how you can listen to music while playing. You can also 
 download on the game as well.
  
  Overall= A game that should never be forgotten honstly you will be hooked on Metal Gear Solid 4 
 for hours pending on how it will take yu to beat the game. There is Online as well where you can 
 battle other players online on the PS3 Networlk with many multiplayer modes such as Death matches 
 or Team matches, its an online battle to see who is the real Solid Snake is, new maps as well if 
 you've have played the Beta version back in April/May you'll know the controls. Sooner or later 
 there will be new upgrades to get on the PS shop or on Metal Gear Solid 4 where you can use Drebbins 
 points to buy IPOD tracks or camoflauces. I really enjoyed playing Metal Gear Solid over the past 
 few days if I havn't played MGS 1,2,3 and Portable Ops I wouldn't have got into the series if my 
 Xbox have no crash but Metal Gear Solid has gotten trhough to me and for many years to come the 
 series will never be forgotten alot of fans are going to miss Metal Gear Solid series but what 
 will Kojima do next? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ahmedmk
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 13, 2008 5:22 pm PT
Review:  A thing about me is , i do not believe that there is a perfect game ... because people can learn 
 from other people mistakes so that means games r in evolution .
  
  we remember how was the 1st metal gear solid in ps1 , and we can now see how it became . if this 
 is not a masterpiece , than I'm sorry ill never understand what masterpiece means .
  
  A fact about this game is ... it IS the best metal gear solid ever .
  a fact about this game 
 , it is FUN
  a fact about this game , it has one of the best storytelling .
  a fact about this game , it has the best graphic ever on a next-gen console 
  
  is this enough 
 so we can say this game is a masterpiece ??? what do we need more to have a masterpiece ... there 
 is no perfect game because each game has a share of its problems and disappointments . but does 
 that means it can never be a masterpiece ? . 
  
  This is not a review of the game , this is JUST to tell you that 
  METAL GEAR SOLID 4 is a masterpiece 
 and deserve to be the best game of the year . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Philosoma
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 13, 2008 5:05 pm PT
Review:  Everything in this game is incredibly done; cinematics, gameplay, weapons, music, graphics, voice 
 acting, boss fights, customization, multi-player, etc.
  
  If you own a PS3 you really should do yourself a favor and play this game. If you are a fan of 
 the Metal Gear Solid series, you should get this game immediately. 
  
  From http://en. wikipedia. org/wiki/Metal_Gear_Solid_4:_Guns_of_the_Patriots
  
  "Set in 2014, 
 five years after the "Big Shell Incident" (the events of the Plant chapter from Metal Gear Solid 
 2) , Metal Gear Solid 4 portrays a world where the restriction of military intervention on foreign 
 soil has been eased, fueling the need for private military companies (PMCs) to fight proxy wars 
 for business purposes. Nanotechnology has become prominent, both to enhance the capabilities and 
 enforce the loyalty of mercenaries. 
  
  The nanos that are in the PMCs are called "Sons of the Patriots" or "SOP". The five largest of 
 these PMCs (Praying Mantis, Otselotovaya Khvatka, Werewolf, Pieuvre Armement and Raven Sword) are 
 owned by a single mother company named Outer Haven, which is operated by Liquid Ocelot. Amassing 
 an army whose manpower rivals that of the United States, Liquid prepares to launch an armed insurrection 
 by taking control of SOP. 
  
  With the world once again in crisis, a rapidly aging and disillusioned Solid Snake is deployed 
 into the Middle East by Roy Campbell to terminate Liquid. Guns of the Patriots takes place in five 
 locations, including the Middle East, South America and Eastern Europe."
  
  Yeah that's right, it's a huge game. I'm only 14 hours into it but I'm still in the Middle East. 
 The Drebin system is really cool and kind of similar to the Merchant in RE4 but only in convention. 
 Drebin points are awesome and it is a really nice way to reward the players who want to have powerful 
 weapons early on in the game through hard work and fighting. My first play through, I'm going to 
 go all out on the Drebin system, but second time through I'll play using it only to upgrade my 
 weapons in stealthier fashion and play stealthy. 
  
  MGS4 feels like an important game for the industry, and many believe that it is. It sets the bar 
 on so many levels and it's good to see that such care was taken in making the end of Snake's saga 
 come to a dramatic end. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DarksjeiK
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 13, 2008 4:54 pm PT
Review:  Some entertainment experiences can't be reviewed in the traditional sense of the word. 
  It's just impossible because they are always greater than the sum of their parts. For instance, 
 how do you review a great song? How do you review movieclassics like Jaws. Yes the shark looked 
 fake even then but damn it if that movie didn't have you on the edge of your seat when that great 
 white plastic bastard hit the small boat in the final scene. 
  
  I would very much like to review Metal Gear Solid 4 : Guns of the Patriots for you, but the truth 
 is that I can't. I can tell you about graphics, about sound, about gameplay, but I can't make you 
 feel how this game gets in your system and stays there for a while after you've watched the credits 
 roll.
  
  All I can pass on below is how I feel about the game.
  
  I'm 34 years old and have been a gamer and movie fanatic for most of my life..
  I remember watching 
 Rocky Balboa knock down Apollo Creed and feeling all the excitement and joy reserved only for a 
 young kid without a worry in the world.
  I remember John Rambo hanging from a cliff being shot at from a helicopter as he pummeled down 
 through trees hitting all those branches on the way down.
  I also remember visiting London and buying a limited edition of a game called "Metal Gear Solid" 
 for my Sony Playstation. I remember that game very well. The Metal Gear Rex, Revolver Ocelot , 
 The heartbreaking Sniper Wolf scene... everything 
  
  In the past year or so I've said goodbye to a lot of those childhood entertainment icons... Rocky 
 and Rambo. Even the man with the hat gave a final salute.
  
  Now with the conclusion of the Metal Gear story it seems another icon rides off into the sunset. 
 And what a sunset it is... 
  
  If you're that young kid without a care in the world I talked about earlier and all of the above 
 doesn't make one bit of sense to you don't worry. You'll get it someday. Just make sure you play 
 this game anyway.
  
  If you DO get what I'm rambling on about and you've played a Metal Gear game before, preferably 
 the original.
  
  Play this game, there's really not much more to say than that, get a PS3 if you haven't got one 
 already and play that sucker today, you won't be disappointed
  
  
  Thank you Hideo Kojima and goodbye Old Snake...
  
  
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: mateusprado
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 13, 2008 4:47 pm PT
Review:  Im a Brazilian fan!! Snake is very, very famous in BRAZIL and MGS4 is a PERFECT GAME. Its a great 
 game since MSX, Snes, PSOne, PS2 and now PS3 with incredible history and graphics. 
  
  And Hideo indeed is a perfect director. Heeeeeey XBOX'gamers... Snake is back!!! 
  
  Its more 
 a joke, but I really recommend : If you have a 360 system, congratulations... play Ninja Gaiden 
 2, but start to join money and buy a PS3, MGS4 compensate the purchase. I believe that a few games 
 obtain this level of quality.
  
  From Belo Horizonte, Brazil, Mateus Prado (22)
  
  In Portuguese:
  
  Snake  muito famoso no Brasil e vai ficar muito mais neste novo episdio, 
 Hideo Kojima provou ser o diretor perfeito. 
  
  Se vc tem um X360 parabens! Jogue Ninja Gaiden 2 mas junte grana para comprar um PS3, MGS4 valera 
 a compra!! Os graficos so o melhor do PS3 vale muito conferir. O enredo impressiona e encanta 
 at novos na serie MGS. Enfim EXPERIMENTA! EXPERIMENTA!
  
  Mateus Prado (22) BH-MG
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: BoobyUnger
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 13, 2008 3:47 pm PT
Review:  I absolutely love this game to death, I do not care about the long cutscenes because they make 
 me feel immersed in the game and a part of it. In no way is the game comparible to others because 
 its in a class of its own above all else.
  
  Pros: it has the north american fps and 3ps you can either be stealthy or as gun blazing as possible. 
 You get to choose who you help if you want to. Guns are fully modifiable which is my favorite part. 
 There are no basic soldiers that take a full clip to kill like most games. feels more realistic 
 to me. For the time they took to make the game this does need to get goty.
  Im glad there is multiplayer. The way the cutscenes and the game flow is very nice not to long 
 of wait times considering how much data is on the disk.
  it reminds me of a very long movie that you get to determin who lives or dies
  
  Cons: takes 
 time to switch between multiplayer and single player
  and that the single player actually has to end man i just love it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: downsider
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 15, 2008 1:18 pm PT
Review:  Time for my full review of this mind blowing, ass kicking game which is easily the best game out 
 for the Playstation 3.
  
  I dont need to say much other then the story is just 100% flawless. It sums up pretty much everything 
 from past Metal Gear Solid games. But it's not just the story, its the gameplay.
  
  Gameplay has been greatly improved. With so many ways to take down an enemy (if you want to that 
 is) so many weapons and items, custumizable guns and improved CQC (Close Quarters Combat) you will 
 play this game over and over and over again.
  
  Graphics... well i mean lets get seruous here, it's easily one of the best looking games out right 
 now. There are some textures that do look a bit bland but the overall look of the game is amazing. 
 From when you are fighting your way through the Middle East with dust and debris all over, buildings 
 in the distance being destroyed and the smoke is all thats left. The game looks amazing and there 
 is no argument about it.
  
  The sound is also very great, voice acting is, just like all the others, flawless aswel. Even the 
 guns or soldiers crying out in the distance. The sound is just amazing what more must i tell you 
 without spoiling anything? 
  
  There have been some folks bashing the game becouse its more like a movie then a game. Well sorry 
 if your the type who just wants to go around and kill things for no reason. All Metal Gear Solid 
 games have been like this, this one just takes it to a whole new level. 
  
  With that said the cutscenes are gorgeous. 
  
  You need patience for this game. If your the 
 kind of gamer who just likes to storm into a room and shoot everything in sight, this is just not 
 for you. If your into a game with a powerful story that involves Fiction and Non-Fiction, you will 
 love this game. The characters in the game feel real and at times you endup feeling sorry for them, 
 or later relize why they did this or why they did that. The game is just so powerful in its own 
 right and must be played by any Metal Gear fan or someone who is getting into this great series 
 for the first time.
  
  Not much else can be said other then Amazing.
  
  -------------------
  
  There is also MGO ( Metal Gear Online ) just as fun as the Single-Player 
 was the Multi-Player is just as addicting. For more info on this just type in Metal Gear Online 
 and look it up. Comes with MGS4 and its a great esacape for when your done with the game.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: halo1hater
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 23, 2008 7:20 am PT
Review:  First off the graphics, F***ING AMAZING!!! the environments are beautifally detailed and huge.
 
  The AI  take cover, occasionally flank you. 
  You HAVE to know what the f*** you're doing. you cant just run & gun 24/7, No you have to plan 
 it out.
  The boss fights are fun & challenging, and for all of you who loved the camo in snake eater, its 
 much better in this one.
  theres a new camera angle to..... yes! it's much like re4 its a shoulder view, its effective and 
 makes gun fights much easier.
  into the gun fights, their Great. the new shooting mechanics make it much funner.
  and yes like 
 all the other mgs's, theirs a s*** load of cut scenes.
  its like a james bond movie in your own house. but personally james bond sucks. (the movies at 
 least.)
  the realism is so amazing, old fart snake must deal with aching backs, old bones, & terrible flatchuous 
 problems. no no im just kidding. 
  you can distract guards with some magazines, but I never do this. WHAT?! YOU THINK IM GONNA SHARE 
 MY MENS MAGAZINE WITH THE ENEMY?!?!
  HELL NO!!!!
  if you dont want to stealth it, shoot away, you can take the suppressor's off of your weapons any 
 time.
  
  well... i could type more but as you can tell, it would go on for pages and pages.
  overall my 
 rating is......1? no....7.5? no..........9.9? getting there but, no. 
  10? YES!! why?
  graphcis 10/10
  gameplay 10/10
  tilt 10/10
  value 10/10
  sound 10/10
  AI 10/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ADJ209
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 14, 2008 3:27 pm PT
Review:  This game is one for the fans of the series, personally i would not recommend it for the casual 
 gamer as it does not allow you to realise how intricate and complex the story is. That being said 
 the game is about 60/40 gameplay: cutscenes, that really shouldn't bother you since the cutscenes 
 manage to engage you consistently throughout.
  
  Firstly the story, ive gotta tell you. As good as games (or maybe movies even get) , this is the 
 best. Hands down. You have to play the game to understand there are so many twists and turns, some 
 may not go down with hardcore nitpicking gamers but all the loose ends (from previous games) are 
 tied up and the ending will make you very satisfied, if you have played at least 2 games of the 
 series that is. 
  
  Every cutscene is beautifully animated, the detail is outstanding and the action will really keep 
 you on your toes. And the entire time durng the whole game youll realise that the framerate remains 
 consistently steady.
  
  The combat in this game is amazing, the weapon system and drebin points provide so many possibilties 
 of killing or simply messing around with your enemies, over 70+ weapons including special weapons 
 such as a certain mind controlling doll.. Also unlockable weapon and ammo mods make the game have 
 a lot more replayability.
  
  Buy this game.
  You will not regret it, its worth way more than $60.
  Easily one of the best games i have ever 
 played ( a strong competitior for final fantasy X..) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: psn_Jaimzl
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 28, 2008 10:20 pm PT
Review:  After months of waiting, I finally recieved my copy of Metal Gear Solid 4: Guns of the Patriots. 
 At first, I had never thought too much of the Metal Gear Solid series, and my only reason for buying 
 this game was to have a little downtime from Call of Duty 4. But in a weird turn of events, I couldn't 
 put it down..... AT ALL! In other words, this game is NOT AT ALL strictly made for MGS or Stealth 
 Action Fans. Sure, the BEST way to play is by using stealth like all the other games in the series, 
 but the thing is, you don't have to. For example, in the beginnig of the game, you're thrown into 
 a battlefield which is being fought between Middle-Eastern rebels, and a numerous amount of mercenaries. 
 In this opening sequence, you are advised to just let the two sides fight their fight, but........ 
 if you're like me and just can't stand 10 seconds without shooting somebody, you can aid either 
 the rebels or the Private Military Corporations OR you can just blows the brains out of both sides 
 and become public enemy number 1! This sense of freedom and choice really reflects upon how much 
 developer Hideo Kojima wanted to open a new crowd to the MGS series.
  
  Metal Gear Solid 4 is made to immerse you into the world of Solid Snake, and has an amazing soundtrack 
 and stunning visuals to suck you in. The graphics, especially on an HD-TV, are just tooo good to 
 be real. Every wrinkle on Snake's skin is perfect, every shadow and lighting effect just looks 
 unbelievable, and of course, the women are...... well you finish that sentence for yourself. Even 
 during the cutscenes, the camera is completely movable and it's as if Konami is DARING you to find 
 a fault in their game. In addition, the orchestral tunes give a sense of ambience and suspence 
 every second you're playing Metal Gear Solid 4. The Latin guitr riff played during Snake's long 
 periods of daydreaming about the past also is a nice touch that gives the game and Snake seem much 
 more sorrow mood. Overall the sound design and graphics are both excellent, and surpass its competition.
 
  
  Sure, the graphics are great, and the sound is..... well really good, but what really makes Metal 
 Gear Solid awesom-er than all the other Action games on the market is its story and gameplay. The 
 story takes you all-around the globe in hunt for Mr. Super Badass Liquid Ocelat/Snake and the new 
 environments in every level keep the game fresh everytime. Also, because this is Snake's last and 
 final mission, many unanswered questions are finally... well answered! Every wanted to find out 
 what REALLY happend to Raiden, or why Snake rapidly aged in about the same amount of time it would 
 take a 9-year old to complete this game? Well Metal Gear Solid 4: Guns of the Patriots answers 
 all these problems! To add to the great story, Konami had to make sure that the game was still 
 fun, while being exciting and intene every waking moment gamers play it. And in the process, they 
 were able to keep a very solid gameplay style, but one that still has its faults. In fact, the 
 ONLY (and I seriously mean ONLY) major problems I had with this game was the complicated controls, 
 which aren't explained in the actual game =l WHAT THE HECK! But to compensate, there is a shooting 
 range where you can practice your melee and ranged combat. As well you can use the select button 
 to look at the controls.
  
  All in all, every PS3 owner SHOULD at least give Metal Gear Solid 4 a rental for its mind-blowing 
 visuals, heart-stopping sound design, and just plain AWESOME story telling and if not, just buy 
 it right now.... and I seriously mean.... RIGHT NOW! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Rhonen84
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 13, 2008 2:49 pm PT
Review:  When I bought my PS3 this game was one of the titles i was anticipating. I am a fan of the Metal 
 Gear series, MGS3 was great and this sequal definetly lived up to the epic series. Amazing game, 
 MGS series has never let down and MGS4 is no exemption. Graphics are great and the environment 
 is perfect. Improved gun combat, and the very handy ability to auto camouflage to anything surface 
 you can lean on. Great character development and storyline, as in all previous chapters. MGS4 keeps 
 the classical feel of all Metal Gear games but with better environment and more intence combat. 
 Either you go in shooting the place up or stealth it through, game dynamics are perfect and fit 
 both combat styles. MGS4 has the common feel of the MGS series but still give it a newer feel. 
 Great game, did not let down in anyway, storyline wise (still haven't done any online ^^ ) . MGS4 
 pulls out all the stops and is dressed to impress. A must have for the PS3. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: menippean
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 13, 2008 2:44 pm PT
Review:  This game isn't perfect. The controls are cumbersome, especially if you are used to the older Metal 
 Gear games. Combat, so much more important in this one, takes awhile to master, in both CQC and 
 with firearms. And while it is nice to have control of the camera, it is also frustrating (why 
 can't it just center on it's own?) .
  
  But this is the best looking and sounding game ever. On the visual side, I was amazed by the amount 
 of detail. And it's a treat for the ears, especially if you have a surround-sound system. Who cares 
 if it has so many cut scenes? They look and sound better than most movies (although the dialogue 
 gets sketchy at times) . 
  
  I love the Drebin system. I always hate worrying about how much ammo I have, and now I can just 
 buy some. It may not make much sense in realistic terms, but neither does finding a box of ammo 
 hidden in the bottom of a pond (ala Metal Gear 3) . The Mk. II and the Solid Eye are also handy 
 touches.
  
  So even if the story is a total mystery, get this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RWF
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 13, 2008 2:41 pm PT
Review:  A bunch of people will say a lot of crap about this game, like how the controls are crappy, the 
 graphics are not good and a whole bunch of none-sense. If you are a fan of Metal Gear, you will 
 know it will take time to master the controls, that's a point of this game. It will be easier to 
 master it if you played the rest of Metal Gears. The graphics are impressive. No other game has 
 graphics like this. This game is in its own league and can only be compared with the MGS's before 
 it. You still can't because they are from different time periods. True MGS fans will accept this 
 game for what it is without complaining like a little wous. This is one the best games ever and 
 only a few will criticize on how the game is laid out. MGS4 is worth the wait and I will continue 
 to play this game for years to come. And that's how a great game should be classified. So if you 
 think this game sucks, you know what to do. Go suck a lemon and stop bi*ching about something that 
 is excellent. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bugkill1sf
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 13, 2008 2:36 pm PT
Review:  I have to agree. This game is simply amazing and the best compliment that I can give it is that 
 it is a proper finale for such a great series. Kojima has put together a absolute masterpiece and 
 I can honestly say that the game has lived up to the enormous hype. 
  
  The big thing is that the game satisfies both the stealth gamer and the ones that at times would 
 like to blast their way through tough situations (and not be penalized for doing it) . My biggest 
 love is the customization of weapons and when you look at all the weapons at your disposal, It 
 makes you wonder what the hell is wrong with many FPS military style shooters (UBIsoft and Infinity 
 Ward, please take note) . 
  
  The customization of your weapons is better than COD 4 and RB6: Vegas (both 1 and 2) and that is 
 a shame. You would expect this level of emphasis in a FPS, but it took Metal Gear Solid (a tactical 
 stealth game) to pull it off. I absolutely love this game and MGO being included is icing on the 
 cake. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: salehhesham
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 13, 2008 2:10 pm PT
Review:  Metal Gear Solid 4 is a brilliant and huge and beautiful game , in every aspect in the game you 
 will learn and enjoy , With a game like this , You should keep your hero in a top notch to accomplish 
 what you have to do , MGS4 is full of options and lets you feel that you are apart of a big and 
 huge mission that requires all your senses to be alerted ,with an advanced gameplay and control 
 you will exprience a simple and deep control which takes to the world of the game.
  The story is very well written , and intrdouces a deep scenario and special characters which help 
 you understanding the whole thing , another thing I have to mention , the new "Codec" system is 
 very helpful and stylish it gives you the ability to know what's next ...
  Every PS3 owner have to own this stunning project .. and the most exciting thing about this game 
 is it shows the real horse power of the console , Yes Ps3 has alot to offer and a developer like 
 Hideo Kojima makes me proud that I have PS3 and finally ... get out and buy this game and enjoy 
 something you will remember for years . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JMAN320
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 13, 2008 2:08 pm PT
Review:  Just fantastic! This is the first mgs game I ever played and i could tell from looking at it that 
 there was alot of work made in this game. In the begin i really wasn't sure what was going on, 
 but it all made sense by reaching the middle part of the game. There were alot of cutscenes but 
 it added to the amazing story! What happens to Snake?
  BUY THE GAME AND FIGURE IT OUT
  Gameplay is different for everyone. Im american so most of the time I was not stealthy. Pretty 
 much the whole time i was killing people. But if you want to stealthy go ahead and do that. Something 
 new to me was boss battles. Some of them you had to think a little, but mostly shoot. Whats great 
 about MGS is that you can go in first person. Its very cool switching to first and third person.
 
  Weapons were great in mgs4. There are over 70 weapons! Plus they can be customizable. Ooooo cool
 
  
  Also Metal gear online is great. Its really fun playing as snake or the Mk. II. Or you can do your 
 casual team deathmatch , deathmatch or any other normal modes.
  
  The theme song is really sick too. A unique feature is the ipod. You can play the game listening 
 to all your favorite mgs songs!
  
  gameplay 10/10
  graphics 10/10
  Sound 10/10
  story 10/10
  
  Every playstation owner should buy this! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: liamabob
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 13, 2008 2:06 pm PT
Review:  Upon starting arguably the most anticipated game of 2008, you'll be welcomed with an installation 
 screen boasting an incredibly detailed bust of this tale's protagonist, calmly smoking cigarette 
 after cigarette, coupled with the various health warnings that usually take up space in the manual, 
 or the back of the case. After the initial install, which takes approximately 8 minutes, you're 
 thrown into the first of many amazingly directed cutscenes. The seemingly slow start does a great 
 job at setting the scene for a non-stop thrill-ride experience, burrowing ever deeper into the 
 story of the MGS universe. 
  
  Along the way, you'll be treated with the chance to remind yourself of the back story of the Metal 
 Gear Solid saga, with button-presses during cutscenes triggering flashbacks, and given that MGS4 
 has such a legendary series behind it, this game does a brilliant job at evoking a sense of nostalgia 
 that no other modern game, of my knowledge, has managed to accomplish.
  
  In an attempt to keep this review spoiler-free, I'll keep the name of a 'certain key location' 
 from Snake's past under wraps, but going back there is, undoubtedly, one of the best things that 
 could happen to long-time fans of the series. 
  
  Fans of the series that were longing for all the loose ends to be tied up will not be disappointed. 
 The game is, however, not without it's usual accompaniment of plot twists, and even in this game 
 alone, manages to create more loose ends, and tie them up by the time the experience comes to an 
 end. Every surviving character from previous games of the series is brought back to have their 
 story fulfilled, and new characters, such as the new members of Rat Patrol and the Beauty and the 
 Beast unit, make for a truly memorable, immersive, video gaming experience. 
  
  The gameplay has had a few changes applied to it, which may take some getting used to for veterans 
 of the series, but shouldn't prove to be an obstacle, as the story will be sure to make you persist 
 through the campaign. 
  
  Shooting can now be taken care of via an 'over-the-shoulder' camera, similar to Resident Evil 4, 
 Gears of War, or Dark Sector, or by aiming down the sights of the various weapons of the huge arsenal 
 made available to you by either collecting them from the battlefield, or by your friendly neighbourhood 
 gun launderer, Drebin. His shop can be accessed at any time via the pause menu, and offers items 
 such as ammo, playboy magazines, new weapons, weapon upgrades and customisation, and the unlocking 
 of ID-Tagged weapons that you find on the battlefield. 
  
  The OctoCamo system is a new addition that avoids the fuss of the camouflage menus of MGS3. OctoCamo 
 adapts to the environment that you are in. If you lie still, or are flattened still against a wall 
 or object, the camouflage will adjust to the texture that you are against, making it possible to 
 sometimes hide in plain view. 
  
  You are also reminded to pay attention to the new Psyche and Stress guages. These both have an 
 impact on how you perform during combat. If your stress rises to 100%, you will experience a 'Combat 
 High', which, while benefitting for a period of time, has a negative impact on your abilities as 
 soon as your stress drops again, resulting in shaky hands while aiming. 
  
  Graphically, this is one groundbreaking game. I found myself constantly thinking; "There is a game 
 that can finally take the graphics crown from Uncharted: Drake's Fortune.". The cutscenes often 
 end with them blending seamlessly back into gameplay, reminding you of just how stunning the game 
 engine behind this incredible title is. The lighting, while over the top and 'movie-like', takes 
 a more realistic stance than that of other game engines such as the Unreal Engine, and often fooled 
 me into thinking that some of the scenes were acted out by real people. 
  
  The sound effects in this title are easily on a higher level than any other game out there. The 
 voice acting puts many movies to shame, with the game's actors putting on a moving, emotive performance. 
 The sound effects are best heard through a surround sound system, as they are nothing short of 
 spectacular. 
  
  Closing Comments: 
  
  This game is simply a perfectly executed package, and a true testament to the potential of the 
 PlayStation 3's hardware, and the creative genius of Hideo Kojima and his team. As much as I hate 
 to see this series come to an end, after seeing the battle waged by Snake in his final chapter, 
 I believe Snake has earned his rest, and recieved a fitting sendoff in what I believe is the best 
 videogame of all time. 
  
  Farewell, Solid Snake. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Expo_Smacko
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 13, 2008 2:03 pm PT
Review:  Wow, this game simply amazing. I am sure that this game beats all games for the PS3. Metal Gear 
 solid has been around for years, its sad that this is the last tittle of the whole genre. 
  
  Don't feel to bad for that though. This game holds up to be one of the best Metal Gear Solid 
 games created. The graphics are simply stunning. There are not many if any glitches, or graphical 
 errors at all in the game. Sometimes when a lot of things are blowing up you get kinda laggy but 
 that is fine.
  
  The shooting aspect of this game is awesome. This is mainly a stealth game, but you can go all 
 out and shoot everything if you wish :)
  
  Old Snake may be old but he still has the moves and the grooves to take down his opponents.
  
 
  The one thing that I simply loved in all the Metal Gear's was the cinematic. They simply do an 
 AMAZING job with it. The detail in the characters, is jaw dropping and sets a new standard for 
 gaming.
  
  If you have a PS3 I would recommend that you go get this game :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bjhean
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 13, 2008 1:58 pm PT
Review:  It's June 11 and in the middle of the day. I check the store where I made my order and I see that 
 the game has been shipped. I'm very happy. I made the order for this game at the same time I ordered 
 my Playstation 3 console along with Killzone 2 (I guess I'll have to wait a couple of month more 
 for this game !!) . The date for that was July 30th 2007.
  
  I've had my eyes on this game a couple of years now. I first got my eyes on it back in 2005 when 
 I came across the Teaser Movie from E3 that year, so it's been a little bit over three years. And 
 I guarantee you, it's been worth the wait. I'm a big fan of the Metal Gear Solid-series and I have 
 loved it ever since I first played the demo of the first Metal Gear Solid game for the Playstaion 
 back in 1999. I remember I loved it the very second I first played it.
  
  Now it's time for the fourth game in this series (only including the Solid-games) and I must say 
 I have never been this hyped about a game ever before. I've never wanted a game this much with 
 any other game, so this is a pretty awesome feeling I'm having right now. Since a couple of month 
 back, I have followed every single news (well, almost) regarding this game. I've watched tons of 
 videos, screens, read information and so on. But not too much for spoilers and such. I wanted to 
 get to know as little as possible but also get to know what's up. So I just had to pick the right 
 information to read.
  
  I got the game on release day, June 12 2008. A day to remember ;) - I wrapped up the cardboard 
 paper it was shipped in and snapped a couple of shots of the game still in plastic, before I started 
 playing. About the installation time, I read a couple of weeks before I got it that it would take 
 a long time to install the game, but I don't think it took that long. Well, it took about 8 minutes 
 while watching Snake smoking his cigarettes (I think he smoked up like three cigs and started on 
 is fourth before is was done) and reading some text about different warnings and how you should 
 care about your game disc.
  
  Then it was time to start up the game play. I selected Solid Normal for difficulty for my first 
 playthrough of Metal Gear Solid 4. I must say, it took me some time to get familiar with the controls 
 but I learned them very quickly. This new controller system is only thumbs up, it couldn't get 
 any better. I love it!
  
  You first start up in the Middle East on the hunt for Liquid Ocelot. Later on you meet up with 
 the Rat Patrol. Meryls crew. The first encounter with the Frogs is just awesome, I like this scene 
 a lot. It's intense and has all that action you want. You don't stand still in the same area all 
 the time, but you move down a couple of floors and in different rooms. Really great. Furthermore, 
 is Vamp really immortal? Well, you'll get to know if he is or isn't. Some parts of the chapter 
 where you are in South America brings back memories from MGS3, you are located in the woods so 
 I think most of the people will draw that comparison. By the way, what happened to Raiden? He really 
 kicks some ass ;)
  
  I must say this is not a repetative game. It's always something new that happens and you can do 
 different things every playthrough, do different things and you'll end up with a different gameplay. 
 Like if you help the militia troops or rebels from the PMC's. They will attack you if you're not 
 friends with them. For me this is the best game I've ever played and a rank of the Metal Gear Solid 
 games, this is at the top with MGS2 as second and MGS as third. I can only agree with alot of other 
 reviewers and magz, MGS4 is a perfect 10. Once again I have to say I love the controller system. 
 It's the best that could happen to this series along with the free camera (first revealed in MGS3: 
 Subsistance) . Second is the story that ties up all loose ends in a great way. Though I think there 
 is some out there that still have questions. There always is. Also, the graphics, sound effects/music 
 and the cinematic experience that you always get in the Metal Gear Solid games is outstanding.
 
  
  All you can do is Love it!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Hydrolex
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 13, 2008 1:58 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay - There are many things to do in this game. You can customize your guns, add silencer, 
 laser, scope, and ...
  
  Graphics - The most beautiful graphics on consoles. This is the first game I play that I cannot 
 really see jaggies. Graphics are clear and neat.
  
  Uncharted and MGS4 have the best graphics and they are both PS3 exclusives. So you know PS3 has 
 the power to do awesome graphics.
  
  If you havn't played the other MGS games, it's ok you can still enjoy this. I havn't play the other 
 MGS games but I absolutely love this game and I'll down pay MGS5 when Konami announces.
  
  The musics in this game make you feel better to enjoy this game. The sound effects are very good. 
 These 3 games have the best voice acting so far ( In My Opinion )
  
  GTA IV
  Uncharted
  MGS4
  
  This game is a system seller. If you don't have a PS3, I recommend you buy one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: socomsniper226
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 13, 2008 1:56 pm PT
Review:  Gta iv is a game for people who just love sex.. Metal gear is a game for people who love vivid 
 story telling, And great gameplay and graphics. Grand theft auto is a game with terrible voice 
 acting. Who the heck wants to play as a guy who can't speak english. the driving is still terrible 
 in gta. The gameplay is terrible.. I hate that slow paced shooting. The guns look bad, Not to forget 
 worse than earlier titles from rockstar.
  The reason I'm saying this is because people, most of the time compare mgs to gta, I know.. stupid 
 huh? .. The guy you play as in metal gear is and always has been solid snake, a secret operative.
 
  I don't want to spoil the story for you, because It would ruin the entire game.
  as it always does.
  So I'll talk about the gameplay. The shooting mechanics have been revamped, 
 and are, I think better. The camouflage they put in this time is awesome. Blending in with the 
 environment while the guy walks right by you. Or standing as the other statue once was. It makes 
 me want to piss my pants, it's so exciting. Yes I know, disgusting. 
  The boss fights in this game are so much better than last time. The graphics are the best I've 
 seen on the ps3, Better than gears of war.
  this truly is the best game on the ps3. If you don't agree, then you simply haven't played it... 
 Overall:
  graphics: 10/10
  tilt: 10/10
  value: 10/10
  gameplay: 10/10
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Radicalry00
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 13, 2008 1:50 pm PT
Review:  Finished this today. Never finished a game so quick; It only came out officially yesterday (But 
 I got it Wednesday) .
  
  It's quite simply the best action game I have ever played. I'd go as far to say it was a masterpiece. 
 Attention to detail is amazing and the story is superb despite it being incredibly complex. It 
 wraps up all the unanswered questions which existed in the previous installments and is just such 
 an emmersive experience. Really enjoyed it and it surpassed all my expectations. (Being a MGS fan 
 since MGS1, they were HIGH)
  
  Konami's masterful utilization of awesomely crafted visuals combined with astounding audio makes 
 for one of the greatest cinematic experiences of my lifetime. As a massive Cinema fan, this is 
 an amazing achievement in my eyes.
  
  In short - This is the most advanced game so far IMO and it defines the new era of next gen gaming. 
 This is what PS3 owners have been waiting for.
  
  10/10 - Believe the hype, it brings an whole new meaning to next the gen action genre.
  
  And 
 now I've got the online mode to look forward to! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mohitmukheja
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 30, 2008 1:50 pm PT
Review:  MGS 4 is the reason why i went to walmart and bought a 42 inch LCD tv and ps3. i have played all 
 mgs series games in the past and i am a huge fan. the only reason why i didnt buy xbox 360 is coz 
 mgs doesnt come on xbox.. call me what ever but i am a die hard fan and a baised person for ps3. 
 
  enough.. now about the game - 
  first of all i want to tell u that i will not spill any beans.. i want u to enjoy the game. so 
 i will just tell u how i feel about the gam ein general.
  
  when u will insert the cd and after updating u install the game.. u will get ur first shock of 
 life...
  yes sir.. u will see the awesome power of ps3 graphics and snake smoking cig... he looks so real 
 that i took pics if him... anyways...
  the graphics of the game are very very great and i will say among the very few to games till date 
 and u will not be disaapointed
  gameplay - i have to say that mgs team has done a great job. u will find the controls very friendly 
 and easy to use. snake can do new things like roll over etc.. that u might have seen in the video 
 so far.. and lot other stuff too.
  i like the way they have simplified the shooting. dont think that they have spoiled the fun. no 
 way.
  game cinematics is what every mgs fan loves and that u will get a lot. the best part is that there 
 is no loading for the cinematics. while u are playing the game the cinematics will start and as 
 soon as they end u will find urself in the same location where the cinematic ended. which means 
 that the graphics of the cinematics are no diff then the actual game play.
  so far u would have seen many promo videos of mgs.. to give u an idea the videos that u all saw 
 are all actual game play graphics. so u can imagine how wonderful the game looks like.
  now sounds - amazing effects. i will recommend to get some good USB head sets or surround sound 
 and u will be blown away. 
  
  what to say more - 
  all i can say about this game is that this game is one of those few perfect games u will ever play. 
 although i am a big fan still i am not making things up. u will find all these things in the game 
 and will be happy to play it.
  
  if u know what word "enjoymeans literally, then thats what u will get. i suggest play this game 
 not just to complete it but enjoy it. enjoy the sound, enjoy the cut scenes, enjoy the new old 
 snake, and enjoy the whole mgs4 is totallity. 
  this game is not meant to be completed, this game is meant to be played slowly , enjoying every 
 bit of the effort that has been put in the developing. 
  
  no doubt i spent like 1500 dollars on ps3 and lcd tv, but when i saw the snake on the installation 
 screen, i got all my money back and u will also feel the same.
  snake is back , snake is better, snake kicks ass as usual.
  
  so far i have not completed the 
 game, so i will come back to give the full detail, but again i dont want to tell u the surprizes. 
 as already said. enjoy the game the way it is meant to be.
  happy gaming and take care. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PeterTimpa
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 15, 2008 12:41 am PT
Review:  The Metal Gear series has always been my favorite series of any game. Kojima is always impresses 
 me I think he cant ever do anything better and yet some how or another he does. Ever since this 
 game was announced about four years ago like many of you I could hardly wait to play the next installment 
 of Metal Gear. 
  Right from the get go the story like all Metal Gears grabs you and wont let go. The opening scene 
 is simply awesome. The fluid motion from cut scene to game play is unmatched by anything I have 
 ever seen before. The controls feel great everything is an improvement upon the other games. There 
 are so many new abilities Snake has that it might be a bit overwhelming in fact it took me a while 
 to pull off everything you can actually do in this game. 
  Before I posted my review I wanted to beat the game and that is just what I finished doing. I dont 
 want to spoil anything. This game has everything and you must play it for yourself. The bar has 
 been raised again and again by Kojima.
  All I can say is some parts of the game will leave you speechless there were several times where 
 my jaw dropped and stayed like that until the cut scene was over. 
  Boss battles are epic once again, and the story plot is better than most Hollywood movies I have 
 seen lately. Graphics and physics are unbelievable. 
  Thank you Snake Thank You Kojima
  This is one game we will never ever forget. Best game on PS3 needs to GOTY 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gord_mose
Rating: 8
Date: Jun 13, 2008 1:14 pm PT
Review:  Reviews tell of a MGS that is largely devoid of its plodding, clumsy past, but it ain't so. Metal 
 Gear Solid 4 is as slow, clumsy, and ugly as in previous incarnations. And when I say ugly I don't 
 mean the basic game engine; the HUD and other screens look like something from the PS2, not like 
 anything in a next-gen game.
  
  At least the in-game movies are stunning. They are drop dead gorgeous, well acted, stirring, and 
 gritty. While I can't say I really like Old Snake, the protagonist, I do feel sorry for him, and 
 I have to say I admire his ability to kick butt.
  
  But all the stylish, glitzy movies don't get you past a game that is fundamentally similar to what 
 I played in MGS 2 several years back. No chances taken, no lessens learned. And if i hadn't played 
 Drake's Fortune, which has the best 3rd person shooter action available, or even GTA IV, which 
 does a respectable job, then maybe MGS 4 would be worth my time.
  
  As it stands I'm selling it while it's hot and will rent or buy it again when it's cheap. Next! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rex_kwon_do
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 14, 2008 8:25 pm PT
Review:  After months of waiting, I finally recieved my copy of Metal Gear Solid 4: Guns of the Patriots. 
 At first, I had never thought too much of the Metal Gear Solid series, and my only reason for buying 
 this game was to have a little downtime from Call of Duty 4. But in a weird turn of events, I couldn't 
 put it down..... AT ALL! In other words, this game is NOT AT ALL strictly made for MGS or Stealth 
 Action Fans. Sure, the BEST way to play is by using stealth like all the other games in the series, 
 but the thing is, you don't have to. For example, in the beginnig of the game, you're thrown into 
 a battlefield which is being fought between Middle-Eastern rebels, and a numerous amount of mercenaries. 
 In this opening sequence, you are advised to just let the two sides fight their fight, but........ 
 if you're like me and just can't stand 10 seconds without shooting somebody, you can aid either 
 the rebels or the Private Military Corporations OR you can just blows the brains out of both sides 
 and become public enemy number 1! This sense of freedom and choice really reflects upon how much 
 developer Hideo Kojima wanted to open a new crowd to the MGS series.
  
  Metal Gear Solid 4 is made to immerse you into the world of Solid Snake, and has an amazing soundtrack 
 and stunning visuals to suck you in. The graphics, especially on an HD-TV, are just tooo good to 
 be real. Every wrinkle on Snake's skin is perfect, every shadow and lighting effect just looks 
 unbelievable, and of course, the women are...... well you finish that sentence for yourself. Even 
 during the cutscenes, the camera is completely movable and it's as if Konami is DARING you to find 
 a fault in their game. In addition, the orchestral tunes give a sense of ambience and suspence 
 every second you're playing Metal Gear Solid 4. The Latin guitr riff played during Snake's long 
 periods of daydreaming about the past also is a nice touch that gives the game and Snake seem much 
 more sorrow mood. Overall the sound design and graphics are both excellent, and surpass its competition.
 
  
  Sure, the graphics are great, and the sound is..... well really good, but what really makes Metal 
 Gear Solid awesom-er than all the other Action games on the market is its story and gameplay. The 
 story takes you all-around the globe in hunt for Mr. Super Badass Liquid Ocelat/Snake and the new 
 environments in every level keep the game fresh everytime. Also, because this is Snake's last and 
 final mission, many unanswered questions are finally... well answered! Every wanted to find out 
 what REALLY happend to Raiden, or why Snake rapidly aged in about the same amount of time it would 
 take a 9-year old to complete this game? Well Metal Gear Solid 4: Guns of the Patriots answers 
 all these problems! To add to the great story, Konami had to make sure that the game was still 
 fun, while being exciting and intene every waking moment gamers play it. And in the process, they 
 were able to keep a very solid gameplay style, but one that still has its faults. In fact, the 
 ONLY (and I seriously mean ONLY) major problems I had with this game was the complicated controls, 
 which aren't explained in the actual game =l WHAT THE HECK! But to compensate, there is a shooting 
 range where you can practice your melee and ranged combat.
  
  All in all, every PS3 owner SHOULD at least give Metal Gear Solid 4 a rental for its mind-blowing 
 visuals, heart-stopping sound design, and just plain AWESOME story telling and if not, just buy 
 it right now.... and I seriously mean.... RIGHT NOW!
  
  -Rex 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FalconG1
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 13, 2008 12:03 pm PT
Review:  Metal Gear Solid 4 is undescribebly good. This is my favroite stealth game of all time. With its 
 insane kick-ass graphics and putting you in a unique setting its just really awesome. This game 
 is also so addictive and will keep you so hooked you just cant put down the controller its really 
 fun. My favroite thing they added was the new camo suit that lets you blend in with just about 
 all your surroundings.
  
  The voice acting is also amazingly good and makes you feel like your watching a movie since it 
 has such long cut scenes. The game just really makes you feel alive and like your there.
  
  The graphics are definetly some of the best for the ps3 if not they may be the best. All the textures 
 and everything are just so sharp looking and it still keeps a good framerate its really just like 
 crysis for the ps3 graphicly in my opinion.
  
  Sneaking up on the people and preforming stealth kills is alot of fun and seems to never get old. 
 and gunplay is also very smooth and feels really good.
  
  Overall this is a really good stealth-action game that you have to pick up
  
  The Good:
  
 Amazing graphics* cool camo suit* sneak killing is freakin awesome* places you go are really cool*very 
 good way to close up the series.
  
  The Bad:
  I dont know anything bad about the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: javo10227
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 13, 2008 11:53 am PT
Review:  awesome!!!! this is by far the best metal gear game, graphics are amazing, sound is amazing, but 
 thats not all, this game is FUN!!! its also very openly, the story is awesome. The suspense keeps 
 you waiting for whats next to come. Its all this parts together that make this game a masterrpiece. 
 It amazing. don't wait and stop readin go buy this truly piece of electronic art masterpiece for 
 u will be dazzled and amazed with. also if u can, try to get the limited edition, i mean it wil 
 only cost u like 10 bucks more, and its worth it. this game is awesome with all that stuff previously 
 said, but have i mentioned tht its also online???? YES ONLINE, NEEED TO SAY MORE???? MGS ONLINE!!!!!! so 
 go buy it now, this is an experience u don't want to miss, ur sock will get rocked off and u won't 
 be dissapointed. ok so go now ok, because chances r if don't hurry they will sell out and u will 
 never be able to find one ok, so yeah go now come on. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: marvdog187
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 13, 2008 11:45 am PT
Review:  it was well worth it, even the delay they gave us last year, cant be mad at them for that since 
 they did a good ass job. and people if u never played a mgs game please dont buy this one because 
 there is a chance that u might not like it. and like all the other ones it do come with alot of 
 movie scenes. go to ur local gamestop and buy that special pack they have it comes with all the 
 previous ones 1,2 and 3 and then buy the new one. and if u like those buy the new one. mgs fans 
 only like good reviews, please dont put down our game. thats how we do it. mann gamespot is retarded 
 for amking a minium of 800 words. so now im about to say anything i wish that the controller would 
 rumble more like when ur playing warhawk ( best game on the ps3 believe it or not if you dont believe 
 me go to gamebattles. com and look at the team roster and see how many teams there are compared 
 to all the other games 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Doctor-Pepper
Rating: 7
Date: Jun 13, 2008 11:35 am PT
Review:  It was a sunny day. My creditcard is empty but i still charge 65 euro, hoping to get that one game 
 that makes me proud that i have PS3. 
  Playstation 3 is my first console and its the first time that i'm playing MGS. It starts off with 
 movie cinematics and continues with ingame pre-renders. Ok thats cool, i was hoping for Blizzard 
 style blowing away cinematics, but this works too.
  
  SPOILER
  #
  The game starts with an ambush. You would expect AI to spread and find a safe hideout, but all 
 they do is to run in the middle of the street towards snipers and machineguns. Everyone dies around 
 you but those bullets seem not have any effect on Snake.
  Action is followed by cinematics with Snake defeating stronger, faster and bigger enemies that 
 are invincible to bullets (atleast if those are non Snake bullets)
  #
  
  Cutscenes are decent. The real letdown are game mechanics. 
  I am escaping from crossfire and 
 want to hide behind the wall that is 0.5 meter high. The only problem is that i have to run around 
 it to get to the other side! Apparently its 2 much of a challenge for snake to jump over. All he 
 can do is crouch. Basically you'll crouch and stand against the wall. Thats it. Those are the only 
 stealth skills. Stealth like Hitman? Obstacle system as in Asassins Creed? Forget it. All you'll 
 do is crouching and taking cover against the wall. And im not exaggerating.
  
  The real frustration is animation and combat at early levels. It take 10 bullets to kill an only 
 1 button click in meele combat.
  Camera doesnt cover enought angle, its hard to use it manually. Blood looks nothing like blood. 
 Every AI action is so obviously triggered when you step into a certain region. It just doesnt feel 
 natural. Voice acting can be ackword and some scene are boring and uninteresting.
  
  The good:
  Zoomed in graphics are very decent. I like the movie concept. There are many kewl 
 and usefull items.
  
  The game gets much better once you understand how it has to be played. Many people are blinded 
 by the name and prequel success. I wouldnt recommend the game if its your first time playing MGS. 
 You will be better of with Call of Duty 4 or GTA4.
  Clearly, the game has its problems and issues but from a sound of other MGS fans, its the best 
 one in the MGS series 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Verithan
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 13, 2008 11:24 am PT
Review:  The end of the Metal Gear Solid series ends on a high note. With an engaging story, real characters, 
 and impressive cinematic cut scenes, this is a must for anyone who enjoys playing games. I had 
 never played the Metal Gears until I recently purchased the Essential Collection, and that just 
 set the stage for this exciting conclusion. I was once a skeptic, however the story was captivating 
 and turned me into a huge fan of the series. I picked this game up on the morning of the launch 
 and haven't put it down since. If you get the game, make sure you call in sick because the story 
 will keep you on your couch for all of the game play and movies. The ability to pause the cut scenes 
 is a useful addition for when nature calls in the middle of a cut scene. Konami and Kojima have 
 revolutionized the way games should be made.
  
  It was a satisfying end to a great saga. Long Live Snake. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tiggerboy
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 13, 2008 10:08 am PT
Review:  Bear with me, I haven't reviewed a game in a while......
  
  When I first popped in this game, I had low expectations. I heard that this game would take 30-45 
 mins. to install, that there were way to many cutscenes and so on. Well its a good thing that I 
 don't trust ANYONES opinions but my own.
  
  So I start the install and am immediately introduced to Snake smoking a cigarette. The details 
 are astounding. Besides the quirky *warnings* and Snake enjoying a smoke, the best thing here is 
 that the install takes only 8 minutes, which it was actually only about 7. 
  
  So the game installs and suddenly I am in this game, and its awesome. The graphics are sweet, with 
 little to no clipping, the audio quality is superb on my surround sound, and the controller setup 
 works surprisingly well. I LOVE the fact that there are so many customization options, such as 
 what color snakes gear is, what the select button does, and many others that really make the game 
 feel more personal.
  
  People were right about the cutscenes, there are plenty, but they work. I like playing a game more 
 than watching it, but the cutscenes in this game are done so well that you want to watch them. 
 There was a bit where there was a cutscene, I jump down an elevator shaft, then there was another 
 cutscene. Why not just one continuous cutscene? I could have lived without that 5 seconds of gameplay.... 
 Anyways, they are very entertaining to a serious gamer that likes a good story, although if you 
 are unaware of the Metal Gear series you might be a bit lost. You can go on the internet and find 
 a quick "cliff notes" of the series and brush up your knowledge and I promise that you will enjoy 
 it more. I know cause I did that....... I mean when there are 3 story robots that are shooting, 
 stomping, and mooing like cows, one can become confused!
  
  The gameplay is great, but sometimes can feel cut-off from a cutscene, but the other 99% of the 
 time it all works out. It did take me a while to get into the "tactical" mood rather than the "run 
 and gun" mood I have been in for so long. The AI is pretty dumb, on both sides of the battlefield. 
 There were a few times that I was hiding behind a wall shooting at baddies, and the friendly AI 
 stands right in front of me, or even comes up to me and tells me to move so that they can have 
 my position! Where's the "I was here first" button?!?
  
  There are tons of weapons and other items that you can use, but the best is the Playboy magazine. 
 Yes pervs, you can look through it, though its all PG. 
  
  I have not beat the game, but so far I am enjoying it very much! It IS by far the best game for 
 the PS3. Of course there are a few things that I find hinder the game from being "perfect". For 
 one, the aiming control for weapons can confuse and frustrate. You can hide behind a column and 
 look out and shoot, but you can't hide behind a low wall and shoot over, whats up with that??? 
 Also, there are very few checkpoints throughout the levels, even to where you will play the game 
 for a good length of time (for me it was like 45 mins. to an hour) and then make one costly mistake, 
 and suddenly have to do all that playing all over again. This can discourage players that have 
 short attention spans.
  
  Have not tried it online, so I will leave that to another review..... 
  
  Other than that, 
 this game is almost perfect. I feel that its more perfect in its genre than GTA IV is in its. I 
 would actually give this game like a 9.7 if I could, but I guess a 9.5 will have to do. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: brianlawrence28
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 13, 2008 10:04 am PT
Review:  Probably the best Metal Gear Solid Game i have played.. i have been waiting for a really long time 
 for this game to come out! i got it at midnight thursday but havent really played it that much.. 
 i really dont mind the cut scenes either there actually pretty intertaining. The graphics are amazing 
 the game play is fun, alot better than the previous metal gear titles.. you actually have more 
 freedom walking around in the game... i have only played up to act two. There is a very good storyline 
 to the game.. This game is addicting thats all i gotta say! this is the only ps3 game im proabably 
 gonna have other than that i usually buy games for the 360! So if you havent picked up this game 
 and you have a ps3 you have some kind of problem.. if you havent played previous mgs games you 
 probably wouldnt want to play this.. it would be quit confusing.. its a must play! get it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ma77ias
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 13, 2008 9:59 am PT
Review:  hello live in argentina (i am Argentinian) and I could not play this great title but I continue 
 the saga from the Metal Gear Solid 1 and I look forward to playing soon. it looks like this game 
 is excellent. I am not going to talk about the game but on whether those who criticize what they 
 are in their right. but being the end of this great history of this snake to my well-style film 
 that Mr Kojima given to him by one of the strengths of the game is his story (all are his strong 
 point jaja) and to be the great end this could not be less. This game is for those who follow the 
 saga. BY WHEREOF, which only played at MGS2 just will not understand much and you will not like 
 the dialogues (which many of us are in love) . 
  Over a fan xbox 360 criticizes this game that represents the playstation and that this evil if 
 we are going to see, only 360 have to have halo and playstation final fantasy, god of war, great 
 tourism, and Metal Gear Solid ah and I lack the very good KINDOMG HEARTS. 
  everyone can choose consoles that they like but if they call themselves gamers or just like games 
 when it comes to criticize criticize but do not speak or tamper with the saga if we do not know. 
 a greeting and enjoy this masterpiece jeje. sorry if something was not read well. 
  
  on the 9.50 that is not what I played and if indeed deserves a 10 is what I would put when you 
 play. no more words to enjoy
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mohsen-MHNS
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 13, 2008 9:27 am PT
Review:  It is about 5 years ago, since we last saw Snake in the so called flashback game, Metal gear Solid 
 3. Now Konami has made another MGS game, that I know many have been waiting for, ever since the 
 first promise about the new game's outbreak, and what a game.
  
  Konami has always been brilliant with their control of graphic, and MGS4 is no exception. From 
 the very start you are been thrown into a brutal battle between the Hostile group PMC's, and a 
 rebel group. The graphic is so intense, that you almost feel the atmosphere and the flying bullet 
 around Snake. 
  
  The connection between story and gamelenght, is one of the best parts of the game. MGS4 Is one 
 of the longest games, I have ever tried, and i have tried a lot, and still it keeps me going with 
 a wonderful story, which both includes fantastic film sequences and real sneaking action.
  
  There many familyer faces from the early MGS games, which all have a greater role in this last 
 adventure of Snake. If you enjoyed the former MGS games, your gonna love this, cause this certanly 
 is the greatest of all the games, and a worthy end of Solidsnake. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kiire18
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 13, 2008 9:25 am PT
Review:  When we saw a massive love on GTA IV launch, how about now, as Im very confident that MGS4 has 
 much more content, better visuals, awesome story twists, innovative gameplay, and many other elements 
 which makes it easily game of the year contender and not only that, but i also belive its truly 
 the next gen game for PlayStation 3, a game what we all have been waiting for. Exclusive AAA game 
 is a sytem seller. 
  
  As i have kept myself informed all the time with this game progress, theres really no point to 
 say anything, it just ends up to be a massive spoiler. Developer Kojima is a patriot himself, keeping 
 this awesome game exclusively for Playstation, and you have to admit it, ps3 had an rocky road, 
 you know, didnt sell well etc, and because of that rocky road thing, i really dont see why one 
 developer who wants to make profit, dont want to make this game as multiplaform, but NO, Kojima 
 didnt want to just make money, but to bring out something incredible. really hands down, total 
 respect.
  
  
  This game is most likely 10/10. It dosent mean that its perfect, what it means, is that it does 
 something what even GTA IV couldnt achive (and here, I have to admit it, I felt into GTA IVs hype 
 when i reviewed this huge car jacking game, i gave it very high score, and now atleast i have learned 
 from my mistake, btw it's a very good lesson for all of us) . Anyway, MGS4 truly deserves max score, 
 it refreshes the whole thing what includes these words "virtual electronic entertainment". It has 
 such massive content, bringing to us unprecedented expirence, it recreates everything what means 
 gameplay. Hell, when a game reminds to me the era of games like "Double Dragon", "Contra", ofcourse 
 "Mario", and now even most creative title what i have ever seen "LBP" (which also comes out this 
 year) , something what very few games succeeds to do, maybe we can even count them on one hand, 
 then it means its just pure classic. This is the reason why game like this should get 10/10, only 
 when a videogame meets these aforementioned standards!! Nowadays we simple have to put high requirments 
 for games, or else any other average game like timeshift can get high scores only because of hype. 
 Btw GTA IV isn't average its just overhyped, more likely 9,5 or 9/10. I just want to say that, 
 this time, i wont feel shame because of giving max score. its worth its hype!!
  
  OT: keep your eye on LittleBigPlanet. This year is going to be epic
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: hue14
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 13, 2008 9:02 am PT
Review:  Some aspects of the longly anticipated Metal Gear Solid 4: Guns of the Patriots are just damn too 
 cool. Some of the cutscenes are just so dang extremely freaking awesome. Watching a 30 minute bliss 
 of some of my favorite video game icons, such as Solid Snake. Due to an aging process disclosed 
 in the game, Snake has aged into an old man, known as, generically, Old Snake. I will not say his 
 final mission, because I am promising to keep this review as spoiler free as possible. Some of 
 the new cool features are dang too awesome. Otacon, for example, is a man helping Old Snake on 
 his final mission by giving him the Otacon Camouflaged device. At anytime, you can toggle this 
 to change colors into the environment you are in. You can than shake the controller to return to 
 normal. Another new cool feature is to play as the robots. You can go around assisting Snake by 
 shocking enemies as playing as a robotic character looking similar to Nintendo's R. O. B. Back to 
 the main track of the game. The graphics are flawless, the story is great, and a new thing that 
 has been added to MGS4 is something nobody could resist. Humor. For example Snake is puffing on 
 a cigarette when Otacon's monkey sneaks by and takes it and Snake threaten to shoot the poor little 
 primate. Anyway, the gameplay is beautifully designed, and the controls are great.
  
  To wrap up the series, and this review. Metal Gear Solid 4: Guns of the Patriots is a game you 
 should play, no matter who you are. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: HAMODA
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 13, 2008 8:57 am PT
Review:  Game plays as it should... flawlessly. Graphics=AMAZING, gameplay=AMAZING, story line=AMAZING. Gears 
 of War 2 better be able to compete... but i dunno... this game is off the hook. 
  The Game picks up right where it left off, with a few twists and turns (but i will not let them 
 out) . the thing that blew me away were the controls and the fully customizable weapons (far superior 
 than COD4, and a zillion time more than gears of war) not to knock gears, but it's nothing compared 
 to this. From the opening sequence to the middle of the game it is so fluid (most likely due to 
 the 4 some odd gigs loaded to the system) but well worth it... it pays of the smoothness and fluidity 
 of the game is unmatchable to any other 3rd person shooter. If you're a beginner or advance gamer, 
 or even if you have never played the MGS games before... you will with out a doubt be awed when 
 you play this game. (it stopped my COD4 fetish AHAHhaa) 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: XboxLiveking
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 13, 2008 8:54 am PT
Review:  This is the first time I have really gotten into a metal gear game, and I must say it's been great 
 so far. I am not to familiar with the MGS games but I feel as though it doesnt matter. This is 
 a great game for the MGS Heads, and the 1 timer like myself to the series. I have enjoyed playing 
 the game. It took me like 4 hours to complete the first mission. That means that with 5 Stages 
 and 4 hours a piece, thats like 20 hours of game play. That is sweet. Overall I feel that this 
 is the best game out right now. Look out Gears of War, you have some new Competition on the market 
 now and it is hear to stay. I am only in the second level of this game, and it is pretty challanging. 
 I like the idea of staying stelth, but being able to go toe to toe with the enemy if need be. The 
 game looks great is HD as well. The sound is amazing and the game play is off the hook. What more 
 can I say like Jay Z, it a great game with a great story, and exceptional masterpiece in the gaming 
 world. Long live MGS4 Long live MGS4. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Shadeofgood
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 13, 2008 8:37 am PT
Review:  MGS4 is truly unbelievable. I was a little skeptical with the graphics, and even when I first started 
 the game, with the first opening, I didn't think it was that much. But when you actually start 
 to play the game and go through the levels, you begin to see this game is much better than it appears.
 
  
  - Graphics, I owned Gears of War, Uncharted, UT3, and I have to say that the way that this game 
 moves and play, it is on another level. I haven't played Crysis and I would love to compare both. 
 Drake is a very impressive looking game, but this game is far more detailed with the effects in 
 the environment, the dust, the dirt that blast on the screen, and the movement of the characters. 
 You see every wrinkle on Snakes Face, highly detailed, not just in the cutscenes, but in actual 
 gameplay. My only thing is there are times when the Graphics shoot to unbelievable levels and there 
 are other times when it seems mediocre (still good) . I suppose that is what Hideo meant when he 
 was displeased with the graphics because it isn't always consistent.. It is very apparent when 
 you do the Virtual Practice Round in the beginning. Snakes body doesnt fit with certain back . 
 Nevertheless, it's high points exceed anything I have saw so far. On the box it says it can support 
 1080P, but my TV can unfortunately do up to 1080I, but I prefer 720P and that does an excellent 
 job.
  
  - Sound. I have it hooked to my Denon 7.1 Receiver which receives up to a HDMI 1.1 connection. 
 I had a small problem trying to decode the Dolby Digital, but when I finally got it, I was might 
 impressed. With the surround sound speakers, it actually makes you feel that you are in the middle 
 of a war. You not only hear gunshots coming from the Center and Front speakers, but the surround 
 speakers sometimes make you wonder if there is someone else in your house. I actually paused the 
 game to try to identify these deceptively real sounds to find out it was the game. The music so 
 far is excellent and the IPOD is nice, I enjoy the fact it includes most of the MGS music from 
 the 21 year and you can play it at anytime during the game.
  I dont believe that this game gives out 7.1 surround, nor does it support TrueHD for those audiophiles 
 that want to know
  
  I haven't did the entire game yet, but I am extremely excited with what I saw and end up playing 
 longer than I wanted yesterday. I am playing on the second to hardest difficulty and it does present 
 a good challenge. A couple of good shots and you are dead, I love those type of challenges. I say 
 don't cheat yourself and play on easy, enjoy the experience on the harder difficulties. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: johnmetcalf
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 13, 2008 8:16 am PT
Review:  Some of you may disagree with me but i thik most of you won't but if you have a PS3 this is the 
 must have game for it. If you are staddling the fence between a PS3 and a 360 this game will add 
 some serious weight to the PS3 direction (PS3 fanboys can stop cheering I have all three consoles 
 and I'm giving an objective opinon I'm not being a fanboy) 
  
  OK now to business MGS4 is graphically one of the most beautiful games I have ever seen the people 
 look very life like the facial feature are very proportionate and the animation is exactly how 
 I would expect a person to move I haven't seen any clipping any kind of graphical flaws with the 
 characters in the game. The scenery is very detailed from the patterns on the floors to the textures 
 on the walls. The only problem I an pick up was power lines look a little jaggy but that's being 
 nit picky. 
  
  Graphics atistic 10.0
  Graphics thechnical 9.9 (darn power lines)
  
  The games sound and voice acting is polished and the voices match up very nicely with the lip movement. 
 The sound affects are outstanding. The only thing that could have been left out is the overuse 
 ot sound that gets made when a player drops an item. It's fine if its someone I take out but not 
 for players who are getting taken out that is not in the close vacinity. Still getting nit picky
 
  
  Sound 9.9
  
  The game plays extremely well with with the control being very sharp and responsive. The hardest 
 part for me is converting over from MGS1 and MGS2 control scheme to this one but that is not an 
 issue of the game. 
  Gameplay = 9.2
  
  Lastly the story so far in just awe inspiring. I find myself looking forward to the next cut scene 
 to further see how the story progresses. The Metal Gear story in alot of ways is far better than 
 some of the summer blockbusters in the theatres. If the story continues to be this good all the 
 way till the end of the game I'll have to stand up and cheer.
  
  Story = 10+
  
  All in all MGS4 is just a wonderful game and I feel a possible contender for game of the year. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: callofduty4gamr
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 13, 2008 8:06 am PT
Review:  Metal Gear Solid 4: Guns of The Patriots could be the best game ever created in this decade. MGS4 
 showed previous moments in a little flashback which i thought was one of the cool features to it. 
 When i got to Act 4 and it was awesome i was so happy because you got to go back to shadow moses 
 island. I also loved how much they put into work of making shadow moses look almost identical to 
 the MGS1 shadow moses. One cool feature during Act 4 was all of the little bits and pieces reminding 
 snake of what had happened here with people from number 1 saying lines that showed snake what had 
 happened here to remind him again. In the end i feel that the cutscenes were very descriptive and 
 very action packed. 
  One last thing is that i like how they brought back the main characters in MGS1 and updated there 
 personality's to the finest they could be. This game is a must for all ps3 owners because it is 
 the ps3's greatest game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: icevampiredrago
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 13, 2008 8:03 am PT
Review:  The game play is easy to handle, you can do as much as anything you want, almost... The graphics 
 are outstanding, with a storyline detailed that is important to understand to play, this game really 
 sucks you in. There are missions where you don't want to draw attention on you, being a shadow 
 is possible and a great asset; and there are tools to help you do it: the MK II, this little robot 
 can do almost everything that touches recon, and the solid eye, that helps you see the world the 
 way it is... The map in 3D is marvelous and helps you a lot to locate your objective and a way 
 to get to it.
  You have acces to almost every weapon throughout the game going from the tranquilizer pistol to 
 silenced guns, big blast lauchers, and fast shooting machine-gun! You can get to your objective 
 the way you like to, but be ready for consequences if you play loud.
  
  There is only one thing to say: Bravo! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gino_sino
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 13, 2008 7:47 am PT
Review:  "Metal Gear Solid 4: Guns of the Patriots is the final chapter in the saga of Solid Snake which 
 sends him around the world in pursuit of his arch nemesis, Liquid Ocelot. Armed with new gadgets 
 and abilities, Solid Snake must shift the tides of war into his favor, using the chaos of the battlefield 
 to infiltrate deep into enemy territory. In his globetrotting final mission, Snake must sneak deep 
 into enemy locations in the Middle East, South America, and other corners of the earth to foil 
 Liquid Ocelot's plans for total world domination."
  - Komami
  
  Metal Gear Solid 4 doesn't just set the bar, it obliterates it. It is the first PS3 game to date 
 to actually use the PS3's cell processor to the maximum potential. The cinematic scenes may be 
 long, but the game won't be what it is without it. Now that the Dual Shock 3 has made its arrival, 
 this game has simply become a masterpiece. Metal Gear Solid 4 - Gun of the Patriots is by far the 
 best game in the series, as well as on the PS3. Now that all unanswered questions from previous 
 Metal Gear Solid titles have come to an end, Hideo Kojima has done it again. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lizardking006
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 13, 2008 6:37 am PT
Review:  Metal Gear Solid 4 Guns of the Patriots need i say more hell yeah this game is so damn beautiful 
 it is sickening but thats alright cause this game freakin rocks ok for old metal gear fans who 
 has played the whole series is really in store for the greatest of the metal gear franchise it 
 has everything from the old MG i mean its bring back so many old characters into the mix im just 
 absolutely amazed hideo kojima really went and done it this time this game answers all the questions 
 we ever had about the franchise this game is the ragin climax voice acting absolutely superior 
 gameplay just as well storyline i bow to its just absolute in every way this is the MGS ive always 
 asked for i mean everything ive ever wanted out of the franchise is right here it is perfection 
 this game is a 10 and thats that. for new comers, and for fans of the franchise since the 1st one 
 i dont even have to say it enjoy one of the Greatest games of all time 
::::::

::::::
UserName: agent-mann
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 13, 2008 6:24 am PT
Review:  Game plays as it should... flawlessly. Graphics=AMAZING, gameplay=AMAZING, story line=AMAZING. Gears 
 of War 2 better be able to compete... but i dunno... this game is off the hook. 
  The Game picks up right where it left off, with a few twists and turns (but i will not let them 
 out) . the thing that blew me away were the controls and the fully customizable weapons (far superior 
 than COD4, and a zillion time more than gears of war) not to knock gears, but it's nothing compared 
 to this. From the opening sequence to the middle of the game it is so fluid (most likely due to 
 the 4 some odd gigs loaded to the system) but well worth it... it pays of the smoothness and fluidity 
 of the game is unmatchable to any other 3rd person shooter. If you're a beginner or advance gamer, 
 or even if you have never played the MGS games before... you will with out a doubt be awed when 
 you play this game. (it stopped my COD4 fetish AHAHhaa) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: OnlyCommonSense
Rating: 7
Date: Jun 13, 2008 5:04 am PT
Review:  If you can look past the hype and the over enthusiastic claims that this is the "best game ever 
 ever ever" you see this "game" for what it really is an exercise in excess.
  
  Everything you remember from the previous Metal Gear games is back, bigger and well bigger anyway.
 
  
  The excitement generated by its long drawn out development process is bigger, the expectation that 
 this game will be the saviour of the PS3 is bigger, the cut scenes are still huge and detrimental 
 to the actual playing bigger, but not better.
  
  If you enjoyed previous Metal Gear games but found there were one or two niggling little things 
 that put you off a little, then they'll be there here only bigger, if you hated the way that the 
 further you got into the game and the story, the less control you actually had over the game, well 
 that's back too only bigger.
  
  What aren't bigger is the levels, some sections are exceptionally linear will little chance of 
 exploring or even the chance to wander off, and when you do get the chance to explore there's not 
 much to see or find apart from maybe a pretty view or a track for Snake's Ipod, because people 
 leave Ipod tracks all over the place just for other people to pick up.
  
  As usual a lot of your "game" will be taken up with overly long cinematics and conversations, one 
 of which tries to make fun of disk changing primarily laughing at the way the first Metal Gear 
 game on the PlayStation made you change disks which might be funny if your eight years old, but 
 in reality just drags out the conversation even more and you find yourself holding the controller 
 merely for something to do with your hands.
  
  These conversations are slightly surreal as they make a big deal out of the fact that you're, in 
 part, fighting to protect your freedom and free will, but its these same conversations and cinematics 
 that stop you playing the game, thus enforcing you to sit and watch as a captive audience.
  
  If I wanted to spend a few hours being preached at by a pompous, self-important scaremonger 
 I'd watch that hideous Al Gore movie, there's probably more chance I'd get to interact with that.
 
  
  When you do finally get the chance to play it's an exceptional piece of work, a few more colours 
 wouldn't have gone amiss, and there are times when Snake looks like he's crawling round on a blue 
 screen movie set, but for the most part the action, when you finally get there, is really good 
 fun it's just a shame there isn't more of it.
  
  One massive irritation, which isn't really the fault of the game but makes the game suffer as a 
 result, is that it makes good use of the Dualshock 3 pad, but here in the UK Sony have decreed 
 that they won't be releasing the new pad until they've cleared stocks of the Sixaxis which no 
 one is buying as they're waiting for the pad we should have gotten with our PS3's in the first 
 place. As such European gamers are missing out on some of the features that have been included 
 in past instalments, as I said not Metal Gear's fault, but it does suffer because of the decision.
 
  
  It may well be the best game on the PS3 but with what we've been served up so far, that's not 
 saying much, and after all the hype and false promises we've seen surrounding the PS3 so far even 
 something of this quality feels like we're being short changed, the PS3 is approaching its second 
 birthday and we've yet to see any game back up the over the top claims Sony made regarding its 
 new console.
  
  Metal Gear 4 is a good game there's just too much waffle and preaching smothering it for it to 
 be a GREAT game.
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: XPHOBOS666X
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 13, 2008 4:34 am PT
Review:  I've played every single Metal Gear starting with Metal Gear Solid on the Playstation One. I loved 
 the 1st game, didn't really play the 2nd one, loved the 3rd, but with 4, OMG its one of the best 
 games i've played. I got a ps3 a couple of days before this game came out, didn't really like any 
 of the games but this game brings out all the features of the ps3. I've really liked the Camo, 
 before in the older Metal Gear's you have to pick the camo, but now with the new camo being able 
 to change on the fly is easier and does not slow down gameplay. I've never owned a ps2, always been 
 a Xbox player, so I played Splinter Cell more then Metal Gear. I've always been a Splinter Cell 
 Fan, always thought Splinter Cell was better, but with this Metal Gear, it blows Splinter Cell 
 out of the picture. Move out of the way Sam, Snake is on top. Overall Great game, love it. Go get 
 it..... NOW 
::::::

::::::
UserName: amourkiss
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 1, 2008 5:00 am PT
Review:  This game is awesome, from the very begining of its presentation to its very core of gameplay. 
 This is the kind of game that you want to spend time exploring, figure out different ways to complete 
 a mission, and definetely play it through over and over again.
  MGS4 graphics department managed to reach a new high, in which no matter how many previews you've 
 seen before, you will still be shocked when you actually sit down and play this game for yourself. 
 It is just amazing how they did with the environment, with a lot of action goin on at the same 
 time, smoothly coordinate with one another, gives you the feel of battlefield right in front of 
 your eyes. The landscape is huge, the battle is chaotic, and the gameplay machanics are best in 
 series. 
  I really can't say anything negative about this game, it's a perfect MGS game.
  And don't forget MGO is packed with MGS4, all in one disc !!
  Great graphics, great cut-scene 
 and story telling, great controls and gameplay, awesome sound effects, and countless hours you 
 can spend on MGO, there's no reason that you pass this title.
  Go out and buy this game, Snake awaits !! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: catdadanddog
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 13, 2008 3:45 am PT
Review:  I spent awhile trying to figure out where to start and graphics are a good place. They are breath 
 taking. In game and cut-scenes alike. I cannot think of a game that would rival MGS4 in the graphics 
 department. Shadows look natural and the sky is beautiful. The buildings, pavement and dirt all 
 look photo real. Watching the octocamo take on the color of the surface it is on is a treat.
  
  The game play is about the same as in previous installments but it has been tweak for the better. 
 There are two firing modes, aim down the iron sights and over the shoulder. Both work well but 
 ADS gives a real world combat feel. Over the shoulder uses the laser sight which is great for pin 
 point accuracy. Snake can still sneak up behind an enemy and slit his throat but this time around 
 there is a lot of blood splatter. Remember this is a sneaking mission but you can still run and 
 gun if you choose to.
  
  MGS4 still uses icons to climb and jump over objects but I was hoping that it wouldn't because 
 I wanted a fully cinematic experience. The icons do not hold the game back in any way, however.
 
  
  There is a ton of cut scenes and I enjoy them but there is also a ton of game play. Areas are not 
 that big but if you make the game your own you will find that there is a lot of different ways 
 to complete a mission-including making friends that will cover your back. 
  
  From the menu options to the fluid gun play, this is the best edition in the MGS series. Enjoy.
 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: abtin00000
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 13, 2008 2:49 am PT
Review:  It is about 5 years ago, since we last saw Snake in the so called flashback game, Metal gear Solid 
 3. Now Konami has made another MGS game, that I know many have been waiting for, ever since the 
 first promise about the new game's outbreak, and what a game.
  
  Konami has always been brilliant with their control of graphic, and MGS4 is no exception. From 
 the very start you are been thrown into a brutal battle between the Hostile group PMC's, and a 
 rebel group. The graphic is so intense, that you almost feel the atmosphere and the flying bullet 
 around Snake. 
  
  The connection between story and gamelenght, is one of the best parts of the game. MGS4 Is one 
 of the longest games, I have ever tried, and i have tried a lot, and still it keeps me going with 
 a wonderful story, which both includes fantastic film sequences and real sneaking action.
  
  There many familyer faces from the early MGS games, which all have a greater role in this last 
 adventure of Snake. If you enjoyed the former MGS games, your gonna love this, cause this certanly 
 is the greatest of all the games, and a worthy end of Solidsnake.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: kape22
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 13, 2008 2:09 am PT
Review:  It is about 5 years ago, since we last saw Snake in the so called flashback game, Metal gear Solid 
 3. Now Konami has made another MGS game, that I know many have been waiting for, ever since the 
 first promise about the new game's outbreak, and what a game.
  
  Konami has always been brilliant with their control of graphic, and MGS4 is no exception. From 
 the very start you are been thrown into a brutal battle between the Hostile group PMC's, and a 
 rebel group. The graphic is so intense, that you almost feel the atmosphere and the flying bullet 
 around Snake. 
  
  The connection between story and gamelenght, is one of the best parts of the game. MGS4 Is one 
 of the longest games, I have ever tried, and i have tried a lot, and still it keeps me going with 
 a wonderful story, which both includes fantastic film sequences and real sneaking action.
  
  There many familyer faces from the early MGS games, which all have a greater role in this last 
 adventure of Snake. If you enjoyed the former MGS games, your gonna love this, cause this certanly 
 is the greatest of all the games, and a worthy end of Solidsnake.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: mad_cowboy
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 13, 2008 1:25 am PT
Review:  In today's video gaming market, we are constantly bombarded with titles which either feel "rushed 
 to be released" or are simply labeled as "sequels" with essentially the same content as their predecessors. 
 It is unfortunate that so many games these days are shipped feeling flawed and/or incomplete. 
 
  
  Unlike the many games that fall short of expectations, Metal Gear Solid 4 feels polished to perfection 
 from the moment the game starts. It is also unbelievably refreshing to find a game of this caliber 
 that allows the player to become fully immersed, without being interrupted by flaws in game-play. 
 
  
  MGS4 takes the best features from previous versions and somehow manages to make them even better. 
 For the first time in many years, I am actually thankful to be able to play a game of such high 
 quality.
  
  Although there are many games out there which are worthy of being considered "gems", Metal Gear 
 Solid 4 is a pristine diamond that outshines them all. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ps3_fanatic001
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 13, 2008 1:05 am PT
Review:  This game immerses you deeply into the storyline. Not many other games have accomplished the task 
 of pulling the players in to it's single player. However, in Metal Gear Solid 4, you will become 
 addicted to the stealthy ways of Snake and his helpers. This game will make you feel like you are 
 there; with realistic sounds, settings, weapon customization, interactive cut scenes, and believable 
 characters, its inconceivable how amazing the game itself actually is. To understand what I mean, 
 you would have to play it. There is also an extra item provided that adds a lot of fun to your 
 online and single player experience; a camera. With this, you can take pictures (up to 100 on both 
 single and multiplayer) and save them within the game. You can also export them to your PlayStation 
 3 and do what you wish with them. There is even a photo customization area in the game. Speaking 
 of multiplayer, Metal Gear Online provides the most fun online experience that I personally have 
 ever had in a shooter. You can do so many things that Metal Gear might as well be in a class of 
 its own. Not even the famous and unforgettable Call of Duty 4 has such immersive gameplay within 
 the multiplayer world. MGO lets you do the most fun, yet simple things. For example, dancing around 
 in a box, or putting down a "magazine" while watching others begin to surround, or even randomly 
 saluting each other, or using the communication system provided to try to put together a sentence. 
 Everything about Metal Gear Solid is great. I'm not some freaky Hideo Kojima/Sony fanboy... but 
 this game is definitely worth your time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: maverick_x5
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 13, 2008 12:57 am PT
Review:  i should say BIG THANKS to kojima for job by producing the most and well anticipated game of all 
 time, overal metal gear is not just agame of next generation its about anew way of games that is 
 incomporable with any other games such the story, gameplay and sounds ... etc
  
  THIS METAL GEAR is much higher than the previous metal gears , the first metal gear made us look 
 very wicked by playing it and the next 2 and 3 they were good but they didnt have what metal gear 
 1 did to us they were only like a next episodes of a story. BUT metal gear 4 is has what metal 
 gear 1 had. because when im playing the game if full of surprises and new engines and gameplay 
 and totally new environments with magnifisent sounds. i think this game deserves to be the PERFECT 
 GAME OF ALL TIME
  
  any who have a PS3 should or should i say MUST but this game. its worth 200 bucks instead of 60 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: akm123
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 13, 2008 12:36 am PT
Review:  This might be the only game I'll be playing on the PS3. It's just wonderful. I hope for more titles 
 like this for PS3.
  
  It's a major improvement for the MGS series from the gameplay to the graphics. It deserves a great, 
 no perfect scrore. Although non-MGS fans might get bored in some parts of the game but for MGS 
 fans, it's questions answered.
  
  Other than the gameplay and the graphics, it's the sound that also amazes me. The HD sound is perfect 
 for a 5.1 surround sound setup which makes the game much more enjoyable. You can feel your surroundings 
 (need good speakers though) .
  
  Overall, most people will enjoy this game and if you have a PS3, there's no reason not to get it. 
 I would recommend everyone to play at least MGS1 and MGS2 first if you haven't played it yet before 
 playing MGS4, you will not regret it (unless you hate MGS type of theme) .
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: AirHeaD4LiFe85
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 12, 2008 10:47 pm PT
Review:  This is my favorite Metal Gear, but not the greatest game ever. Of coarse the graphics are great, 
 the animation is good too. Sometimes the lip sync looks kind of awkward (maybe just a split second 
 off, and only very seldom) , but not bad enough to hurt the voice acting by any means. The gameplay 
 is very nice, as in how Snake moves, its my favorite out of the series (Snake can finally duck 
 and move!) . Snake crouching down and walking for some reason makes it feel real, I mean are you 
 going to run standing then press against the wall while still standing, then duck down behind the 
 wall.... I think not. It does however feel weird in this game because your out in the open while 
 some guys are shooting at each other. There has always been a closed area feeling, like your all 
 by yourself, it's not a bad thing by any means, just different. The camo does'nt do what I thought 
 it would, but its still really nice. I thought it would change color to all of the surroundings, 
 as in I crouched next to a green truck, and I turned green, not green and the color of the ground, 
 but just minor things that I was hopeing it would do. The Ipod is a cool feature as for music, 
 nothing special during gameplay, cutscenes are nice though.
  All in all, its a great game, I would suggest playing it if you like action/adventure or stealth 
 games. 
  As before I said I have'nt beaten the game yet, so take what you want from this, and anyone who 
 has beaten it, GO OUTSIDE! It has'nt even been out a day yet! 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: GamesClock
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 12, 2008 10:06 pm PT
Review:  Warning before reading: English ain't my mother language so there might be some error, I'm sorry 
 I tried my best to write this correctly
  
  Lets be honest here. Nowadays what can make a game groundbreaking. With the exception of amazing 
 graphics going beyond what we imagine 10 years ago. Now I'm talking ''groundbreaking'' has in games 
 like Goldeneye, GTA3, FF7, etc, games where the root of idea's, that began in those games, are now 
 in full effect in todays games, with a little bit more details. Its seriously hard to make a unique 
 game without referring it to an older game where it has almost the same concept.
  
  Kojima brought us Metal Gear Solid 4, to fan's, so they can finally understand wtf is going on 
 in this story, to newcomers to enjoy the trill of the experience MGS offered. Now I do agree for 
 newcomers, diving into this game (specially without information about Kojima) is extremely complicated, 
 his unique directing style is without a doubt known, hated and loved by many people. Which basically 
 makes MGS a hate it or love it game. Playing the 3 other games is almost required in my opinion, 
 those 3 (considering the year they are released ) are the pioneers. MGS1, was 1 of the first full 
 3d stealth games, which encouraged many other games and gave it a pace, while MGS2 & 3 had a few 
 changes in combat & started to play with a very complex story ( MGS1 was also a VERY great story, 
 but imo 2 & 3 just made things more complicated) yet for some reason, while our brain damaged and 
 confused with all this information, some of us , wanted to know more! Now MGS4 is to fans (in my 
 case anyway) a game to answer all my questions. I've seriously bought this game so i can finally 
 get all the answer's to my questions that the 3 other games infested me with.
  
  If you've played the 3 other MGS, your somewhat used to the EXTREMELY long cutscene. MGS4, is without 
 a doubt, a movie, and like explained earlier, to give you all the information you need to know 
 to understand the story. If you weren't buying this game to understand this story, then these cutscene 
 are going to be VERY painful for you. Thats the sole reason why they're there.
  
  The combat has changed to faster rhythm, specially with the 2 forces gunning each other down, the 
 explosions everywhere and the improved sound effects. But, even though it brought some new features, 
 the core of the combat that came from all 3 other games is still there, It just became more full, 
 has in, you have more ways to takedown enemies, and those actions are a lot easier to do has the 
 game progressed from 1 to 4. So when you were ranting: '' If only i could do this and that , it 
 would make things so much easier!'' while playing MGS1, chances are, it maybe implemented in this 
 new game.
  
  Graphics are top notch, the only game that has manage to do better, is Crysis on my thousand dollars 
 computer whose capable to play on high. I have found little to no glitches, and when those appear 
 they are very small and usually don't effect gameplay. The transition from cutscene to gameplay 
 are fabulous. Very few games are capable of giving you such an nice cutscene and with some very 
 nice camera work, move you in into gameplay, giving you that ''Oh damn I'm in now'' kind of feeling. 
 Usually, after those cinematic, you usually have a short load time, while here, there's nearly 
 none, a very smooth transition.
  
  The installation of the game is actually done very well. Unlike my experience with DMC4, which 
 imo too way to freaking long, everything is well separated, to only take 3 to 7 minutes long, and 
 those only happened after a good 2 to 4 hours to gameplay (with the exception of the first one 
 & if your not trying to rush through it) So it gives you a few minutes to go stretch those legs 
 / go to the bathroom / go eat!. So this is just a little detail that I've noticed which is a great 
 idea.
  
  Sound, there's nothing to complain about it. Ever since the first one, the voice acting has been 
 amazing, now its even better. Like I've said before, its like a movie, the voice acting are made 
 by pro's and they're Hollywood quality. Few jokes here and there to make you laugh, always in good 
 nature. The sound effect are just has good, the music is beautiful, when i hear some of the song 
 that just represents this game, it brings tears to my eyes. There's some of the most fantastic 
 work in the gaming sound industries, that were brought up by this game, it the first game to ever 
 represent the voice actor in the main credits, which proves that, these are very important roles 
 in a video game, which are not enough given credits too.
  
  In conclusion, this game is fantastic, but it doesn't deserve a 10 score. The game is created on 
 a very strong combat system which was gained by experience from the 3 other games. The story, the 
 graphics and the sound is what makes this game express itself more from the wide selection that 
 is available, thus i gave it a 9. To receive a 10, like the one GTA4 got (this is a little rant) , 
 you need a strong unique story, which it had, good graphics, good sound / voice acting, which it 
 all had, but what was missing was a unique gameplay that was completely different, that would make 
 fans say '' I'm scared of this new idea'' but in fact works like wonders and just makes a game 
 even better by taking a huge risk. Because in all honesty, all of the gameplay in GTA4 was just 
 recycled and given a cover system.
  
  If you have any comments about this review please PM me, I would like to hear from your opinions. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: reedjamar
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 14, 2008 6:33 pm PT
Review:  This Metal Gear Solid has out-done the rest (like it was supposed to) . It incoporates the mechanics 
 from all the Metal Gears and combines them for something phenominal. The gameplay is great, The 
 story is the best this year (and last year for that matter) and the presentation is completely 
 outstanding. 
  
  When a significant or emotional event occurs in the story the MGS team does a very good job of 
 making you feel what Snake or what those around him feel. No just the cut-scene dialogue but even 
 during boss battles which can make you feel 'terror', 'overwelmed' or 'anger' . The story line 
 of the game alone seats a new standard.
  
  I can see this game getting alot of replay even after the first time it is beaten. There is so 
 much you can unlock each time you replay the game
  
  This game sets it's self aside from alot of the other action games out there. Hopefully this this 
 will be the game to set the president as far and content and quality we should get from a game.
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: jnader
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 12, 2008 9:16 pm PT
Review:  The gun customization system, the controls, the graphics, the sound, all run smoother than any 
 other Metal Gear title. Absolutely breath-taking. The most immersive and fantastic game to date; 
 I'm not just saying this because I'm a "Fanboy" who only wants to give it a biased review. It truly 
 is amazing. I wish everyone could experience greatness like this. I have been waiting for this 
 game ever since it was announced, and I have been disappointed more than once by its delays. That 
 is why I think it should receive the most constructive criticism. They had a lot of time to work 
 on the game and it truly shows that they used every second for perfection and waisted no time. 
 Absolutely no disappointment what-so-ever in the final product. I am praying that this is not the 
 last of Metal Gear Solid. It would be a shame to put down a giant that has set so many landmarks 
 for the future of gaming. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: simon_levane
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 5, 2009 12:02 pm PT
Review:  So it's been almost four long years since "Metal Gear Solid 3: Snake Eater" and almost seven years 
 since its predecessor "Sons of Liberty". Now, finally, the direct sequel to the latter has been 
 released and it is without a doubt the best MGS game ever. Creator/innovator Hideo Kojima's "Metal 
 Gear" swan song doesn't miss a beat. It's a feature packed action-stealth game filled to the brim 
 with secrets and options galore. The IPOD extra is of "Grand Theft Auto" proportions. You can upload 
 songs and stations and listen in instead of hearing Harry Gregson Williams excellent music score. 
 I don't know why you would, but the option is nice and it's there if you want it. Also, the game's 
 state-of-the-art presentation is equaled by the action. Like the other games, MGS 4 emphasizes 
 stealth. You are to not engage the enemy, but sneak past them. When you do, the victory feels sweeter 
 than blowing away bad guys with all the dozens of cool guns available. Of course, customizing your 
 guns is also an option and the optical camoflauge is very cool and useful. CQC is back from MGS 
 3 and it has been improved. And on top of that, online is the cherry on top of the cake. Just like 
 "Grand Theft Auto IV", the online portion is awesome and will keep you playing the game for several 
 months. 
  
  As far the story goes, the plot continues the remaining strands of "Metal Gear Solid 2: Sons of 
 Liberty". However, gameplay is more similar to MGS 3. If you love the series, than you'll eat this 
 one up. Much like GTA IV, it's a state-of-the-art sequel that takes advantage of the current hardware. 
 This is a great game.
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Namaru94
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 12, 2008 9:04 pm PT
Review:  Metal Gear Solid 4
  
  This is the best game in the series by far, and the best game i've ever played. I'm a big gamer, 
 and I play all different kinds of games. This game is legendary no doubt. If Gamespot doesn't give 
 this a 10/10, then that is bullcrap. The storyline is amazing, many new characters, many old characters, 
 and it finally raps it all up. Online mode is very fun, new feel, with still the old Metal Gear 
 Solid feel to it. Graphics are amazing and detailed. Voice acting is perfect. I can't think of 
 anything bad in this game. There really is nothing to criticize about this game. This game lived 
 up to the hype that it had for so many years, and it's finally here. PS3 owners, get this game. 
 Metal Gear Solid fans, this is a must have to complete your collection. This is my first 10/10 
 on a game, and it deserves it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: REA24409
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 12, 2008 8:40 pm PT
Review:  How could you not like this game? I played it 5 hours straight at one point (yes it is that addicting) . 
 I love the cut scenes also, I sometimes feel like I am watching an animated movie. And don't forget 
 about the graphics the are phenomenal! And the gameplay is outstanding, I don't think there will 
 be one game this year that can beat the gameplay in MGS4. I think this games campaign is so fun 
 because there is so much things you can do to attack your enemies. I just love sneaking around 
 everywhere and jumping someone with a stun knife without them even suspecting it. No game on any 
 system will beat this until maybe Gears 2 or Killzone 2 comes out. But by FAR this game is the 
 best in the series and by FAR best on Playstation 3. And I am pretty sure you all agree with me 
 that Metal Gear SOLID 4 is a very SOLID game.
  
  OVERALL I GIVE THIS A 10 OUT OF 10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sOLiD_SNAKE17
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 12, 2008 8:37 pm PT
Review:  It's not over, not yet. Solid Snake returns in his final chapter, and what a finale it is. After 
 the roughly 10 minute install time, the game begins. As soon as you choose your new game, you are 
 slapped with war propaganda, and then thrown into the fray. After some cutscenes, and tutrorials, 
 the first act of the game, Liquid Sun, starts. The first noticable difference in gameplay is the 
 camera. The 3rd person camera from subsistance is back and it definetly works for this game. No 
 more restrictions on what you can see. the camera really allows you to see almost everything and 
 really helps in sneaking situations. The second thing you will notice is the interface. Aiming 
 is alot different. You get to choose between a targeting redical or the sights on the gun itself. 
 Also, you can move while in first person, another big improvement. besides the difference in controls 
 we have difference in the game formula itself. No more completley set path levels, there are many 
 ways to reach each destination, and you'll find that this metal gear lets you play the way you 
 want to, then you can. If you're a run and gunner, then you can do that. If you're a sneak freak, 
 then you can do that. For those of you who like to sneak, ik wut you're thinking. Is the ass backwards 
 clunky camo system back? NO! Instead, just lay still, and your camo suit will auto blend with your 
 environment. Neat huh?! The gameplay is simply perfect, and they have absolutley perfected the 
 metal gear formula and it's simply beautiful. The game features loads of extras, and an online 
 mode which is amazing. For fans of the series, it will be the most satisfying conclusion they will 
 likely ever encounter, and for newcomers, it's an example of videogame perfection. This is the 
 must play game of 2008. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: HeavenNathious
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 12, 2008 7:57 pm PT
Review:  Let me just say first, the wait for this game was huge! Over an hour long. So, that must mean the 
 game has been really, really hyped about, right? RIGHT! Those gamers were right to hype out MGS4. 
 Here's my review of it.
  
  This is probably one of the best games for the PS3. It delivers an incredible gaming experience 
 right from the get-go. Of course, the game animation is incredible, and will draw you in immediately. 
 If that doesn't do it, then the storyline and the way it's told should make you wonder even more. 
 
  
  The gameplay is pretty seemless and there's a lot of action. Now, it seems a little different than 
 other MGS games, at least in the beginning. There's a war going on, and Snake is dropped in to 
 do his old sneaking around. And you will get a ton of sneaking and shooting. It all adds up to 
 epic fun. It's not an ordinary shooter or adventure games, it combines both and gives tremendous 
 results. Plus there's grenades and other extras to use on the battlefield. 
  
  But the gameplay does actually require some strategy. Of course it wouldn't be that easy. It's 
 actually somewhat hard, at least on me. Now, that could be because I'm a total n00b at this, but 
 it keeps making you want to play more and more, and it's highly addictive.
  
  Now, the online play is what is truly great about this game. You can play up to 16 people online, 
 and there's some modes to choose from. Take the normal gameplay, and evolve it. I don't want to 
 give away all the awesome details in this game (there might be too many to count) but if you own 
 a PS3, this should be a MUST on your list.
  
  I'd give it an 11 out of 10 if I could, but that's just me. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pech17
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 12, 2008 7:55 pm PT
Review:  dont listen to the idiots that tell u this game is all hype... the game delivers stunning graphics 
 and similar but 15 times better game play than previous metal gears, the story is extremely in-depth 
 and concludes the saga of solid snake perfectly... besides the first time u put the game in the 
 loading times are super fast which is a huge plus... new weapons and customization of any weapon 
 is a thrilling in-depth add on, also the reintroduction of old fan favorite characters is awesome... if 
 you are a fan of the series this is a must buy, but reading reviews all day isnt going to help 
 anyone... go out and rent it or buy it, u wont be disappointed.... as i said before this is by far 
 the best ps3 game out (excluding GTA cuz its both systems) so weither your a fan of the series 
 or looking for something new to pass some time go pick it up 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lithomas
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 12, 2008 7:48 pm PT
Review:  The game is phenomenal. Picture a fantastic 5 star movie. LOTR: The Return of The King, for example. 
 Amazing movie, mediocre game. Now picture yourself playing the ultimate game based on the ultimate 
 movie. Yep, Metal Gear Solid 4 is that game (minus the movie, heh) . Aside from Crysis, the best 
 graphics of any game to date. You can actually see Solid Snake age throughout the game. Even the 
 damn install screen is cool. Snake is standing there all bad-ass smoking a cigarette, in HD! Gameplay 
 is still fun as hell, and you can choose how you want to play. Run and gun? Sneaky style? Your 
 choice. Music and voice acting are absolutely top-notch. Plenty of difficulties for the noob or 
 the hardcore gamers. Metal Gear Online is there too, once you finish the main story of course. 
 What more is there to say. Absolutely incredible. Thank you, Hideo Kojima, for this game. You too 
 Konami. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thejuggernaut_1
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 12, 2008 7:34 pm PT
Review:  I personal think guns of the patriots is the best one out of all the series, it has constant action 
 to keep you on your toes, new features that enable you to listen to snakes I pod, older features 
 like camouflage but with a more efficient suit, you can play around with the soldiers and more. 
 I only just got the game so i have yet to see all the more amazing things you can do with snake 
 and his environment. This game is perfect for those who like to sneak around, have fun while kicking 
 some ass and creating troubles for others, or fighting in a war with the only difference being 
 you one man versus' many soldiers which makes it more fun and challenging.
  
  The first time i saw the American soldiers i thought of call of duty four, the weapons they were 
 carrying and the people carrying them, i felt i was going to fight a real hard war because of how 
 call of duty four was. tis made me become even more interested in guns of the patriots, plus you 
 get there weapons. I am quit sure now that mostly everyone who was playing call of duty four online 
 will which to guns of the patriots if they get the game because its basically the same concept 
 because you'll probably be able to be either side, you have the same weapons except the fact that 
 you will get more types of weapons in guns of the patriots. I am difinitely going to be playing 
 online on guns of the patriots more if there is a lot of people. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ckelly_Tor
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 14, 2008 3:28 pm PT
Review:  It's difficult to imagine an in depth game with the absolute most amazing graphics, also having 
 a solid gameplay. (yeah I noticed the pun too)
  But MGS4 Definately delivers. Sneaking, Using Camo, shooting in first person, Sniping, Rocket Launchers, 
 Full Weapon Costumization, and of course the added insentive, peeking around real playboy photos, 
 gives the gameplay it's foundations. Using all of these things in a smart fashion and trying different 
 things to either win or just have a ball makes this game amazing. Granted, it's not as funny (its 
 more of a nerdy humour) and not as free roam as GTA. That being said it makes up for that in the 
 actual combat and seeing as it is a different genre entirely, with a completely different story 
 (more in depth and Movie Quality) , well the game deserves a 10/10. Just like GTA with better graphics, 
 and basically uses up the PS3's power to the point where not even 3 Xbox 360's 20 Wii's and 500 
 Xbox's combined could not be able to run one of the cutscenes (which happens to be gameplay graphics 
 as well) makes this game deserve a place as ONE of the greatest games in History
  
  Updated: I just beat the game.... Wow... What the hell.... That actually.. ended well! It was amazing! 
 All this talk and all these hints saying "The End", and that video of Snake eating the gun and 
 BANG were.... TRUE! AND FALSE!!!! LOVED IT!!!! Can't wait for somebody to come along (If not Hideo 
 Kojima) and pick it up into a new game With Snake or some form of him :D 
::::::

::::::
UserName: railz38539
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 12, 2008 7:06 pm PT
Review:  Metal Gear Solid 4, hyped up to no end and touted to be the first truly big PS3 hit has failed 
 to disappoint in almost every aspect. Although I had never even played a Metal Gear and I did not 
 know anything about the series before MGS4 was first announced (or Kojima's clout as a developer) , 
 I was highly anticipating MGS4 from the moment I had heard of it- excited by the potentially excellent 
 gameplay, amazing-looking presentation, and a carefully thought out story, I was excited out of 
 my pants for MGS4's arrival. 
  
  Thus, despite the fact that I didn't even care about "loose ends" being tied up and the monumental 
 conclusion to Solid Snakes saga (I didn't care because I had never experienced the saga in the 
 first place) I was still incredibly excited for this game. After finally getting my hands on it 
 and playing quite a large chunk, I can safely say that all of the potential I once observed all 
 those months ago has been entirely realized, and this is one of the most entertaining gaming experiences 
 I have had the privilege of getting- and I've played my fair share on the PS2, XBOX, 360, and PS3. 
 Are there cons to be found? Yes, but I've been so engulfed in the wonderful experience this has 
 to offer that it was very easy to overlook them. Breaking it down:
  
  (No spoilers)
  Story wise, this is how the experience has been for a someone who has never touched on the overall 
 Metal Gear saga: Often confusing, sometimes overwhelming, yet somehow always incredibly satisfying. 
 The first two things I feel about the story are issues I entirely expected- I knew I'd be confused 
 and overwhelmed by a continuation of a story that I had never even began, especially a story that 
 is central to the game. However my lack of understanding did not mar the sense satisfaction and 
 immersion I felt an while experiencing the lengthy cut scenes. A game has never done the story 
 quite like this, putting so much effort into the cinematic experience and creating an epic background 
 to the gameplay. That in itself made me enjoy the story to no end, and instead of feeling frustrated 
 by my confusion, I always felt the urge to go online and understand the complicated, engaging story 
 I was experiencing. There have been unnecessary portions, but for the most part I am glued to the 
 cinematic experience of the cutscenes as well as the top notch gameplay. It would be exaggerating 
 to say it competes with Hollywood, but relative to other games (maybe even every other game) , MGS4 
 has a story element that goes above and beyond. Period.
  
  Simply put: the gameplay has been a blast. I may be slow with certain functions, especially when 
 I have to use multiple gameplay mechanics to get things done, but the real challenge comes in the 
 very smart AI and the need to analyze almost every situation you are in- Where the enemy AI can 
 see you, can I sneak past, who do I take out and who do I leave, is it safe to just run and gun 
 through, etc. It took me a while to be fully adjusted to the basic controls, but they work- and 
 apparently they work better than they have in the past. There are many ways Snake can get through 
 to his objectives, and I have found that all of them are so enjoyable to execute. Spraying enemies 
 with bullets is satisfying, as well as stunning them, sneaking by them, CQC'ing the crap out of 
 them, sniping them- I could go on for a while. As if there wasn't enough fun in all of these mechanics, 
 MGS4 provides other, completely different varieties of gameplay in different environments throughout. 
 In conclusion: I am having a really, really, really, fun time actually playing the game, and contrary 
 to what some people are saying, there is a very good amount of interactive gameplay to be found 
 between cutscenes.
  
  To top all of these things off, the graphics and sound are very well polished. From the start of 
 the game I was impressed with the graphics, technically and artistically, and every type of sound 
 to be found in the game is top quality. But hey, we all know this already, I just need to emphasize 
 that some of the best graphics and sound, on par with Drake's Fortune and Mass Effect, beyond COD4 
 and GTA, and probably better polished than all of these (I looked for any nasty textures or noticeably 
 ugly areas and truly found none) go right along with an incredible story and gameplay in the final 
 package. 
  
  This review may be very, very positive- but it is the exactly how I feel as I complete Metal Gear 
 Solid 4, and no less. As follows, I am convinced that many others would experience the same amount 
 of sheer fun, immersion, and entertainment as I am, and that is why I've tried to convey that experience 
 with these words. I have never felt so positive about a game before this, and, having played a 
 few tens in the past, I am concretely convinced that MGS4 deserves no less than that, a ten from 
 every person who can dish out that score. And right now, I am telling you, if you have a PS3, get 
 this. now.
  
  
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: snake_9909
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 12, 2008 6:59 pm PT
Review:  MGS 4 is the GREATEST game EVER ive EVER EVEER played
  
  the game play is amazing
  scoping warzones actually being able to fight in the battles objective free sets itself apart from 
 other war games
  
  despite the constant and lengthy amazing battles the game does not stray away from its stealth 
 genre. it infacts revolutionises everything about modern gaming today
  
  in terms of graphics, story, gameplay, genre.
  nothing will compete for a long time.
  
  some 
 reveiwers may slam the install times and lenghty cut scenes.
  
  personaly i enjoy the cut scenes snake havin a smoke lol :)
  
  The Cinematics are infact realtime 
 which is truly amazing there length is perfect for the series and was a great way to end it.
  
  all questions are answered in this awesome finale to the solid snake saga of metal gear
  
 
  
  
  Graphics: 10
  Gameplay: 10
  Music: 10
  Sound: 10
  Story: 10
  Overall: 10
  
  Final Note: if you didnt preorder... GET IT NOW! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: iesexywarden
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 12, 2008 6:55 pm PT
Review:  Well when i first saw this game on a e3 video i must say i was scared. I was afraid of playing 
 an old dood, and afraid of the steathly tactics would be removed comparing there "was no place 
 to hide" However, Kojima manged to keep the mgs4 theme "no place to hide" and keep it traditional 
 to the series. The game itself is a movie. The graphics are nothing that has ever been seen before. 
 The best up to date graphics for a video game (and it stays true in multiplayer) . The multiplayer 
 has the same amazing graphics the storymode does. MGS4 offers a amazing storyline on its own, not 
 to be mentioned the closure of the "solid snake" saga. News players, dont be afraid. This game 
 will keep you up to date, and make you feel like you were playing the series all along, kojima 
 did a great job new players understand the entire storyline (however vets will obviously notice 
 and catch on to more things quicker and faster) . The game itself was drastically improved from 
 the previous games. Controls are more "modern", amazing camra, and gun aiming. The aiming i must 
 say is my favorite part about the mgs4 game. theres auto aim (for noobs) a 3rd person mode (with 
 a good aimer, like socom) and then theres first person mode ( and yes in this game you can walk 
 around in first person) . Each type of aiming is needed different sections of the game. If your 
 new, trry auto aim. Fighting enemies close, use 3rd person mode, if there far away use 1st person 
 mode. 
  -Gameplay is great. The surroundings are so real, and amazing. Theres constant armies fighting 
 eachother leaving you in the middle, hiding and sneaking around to your destination. You can also 
 dress like a militia and help fight for them and gain "rep" maknig them view you as an ally. Theres 
 quite alot of new features such as "playboy" the barrel, the solid eye, the mk2, the ipod, ect. 
 Theres a ton of cool new features. What i also love is the gun customization. Gain dreblin points 
 to customize and buy new weapons, its amazing.
  
  Overall, i bought the LE edition, and although it does not give you much, im am proud to shell 
 over the extra money to a company that truly cares about good ps3 titles. Rock on kojima
  
  Multiplayer- Now, something intresting. If you beat the storyline and want to continue the gameplay 
 of mgs4, try it on MGO. MGS4 gives players a taste, a "starter pack" of mgo. Containing limited 
 guns, maps, customization, characters, ect. And its confirmed to have much DLC, YAY. Anyone, i 
 was a beta tester for this and must say its just as fun as before. Kojima has stats for EVERYTHING 
 YOU DID. you also customize you character with skills, voice, appearance, ect. The sop system adds 
 a mix also. This is no cod4 killer, but its something different, its not on the same lines. IMO 
 its better than cod4 (which is showing alot comparing cod4 was amazing) . 
  New players will be fustraited with mgo when they first play. Youll die and get confused. However 
 once you get the hang, its major fun.
  
  Dont want to give to much away, but be sure to pick this up. Dont settle for any review less than 
 a 10 for this game. Other official reviewers gave this game a 100% and so am I, if gamepot gives 
 anything less (which i dont see how they could comparing gta4 got a 10, still cant beleive it) . 
 BUY IT NOW.. try me you will love it.
  
  Last words: only thing i dont like about playing this game is the fact of when im done with it, 
 there will never be a game as good as this one!! LOL ROCK ON KOJIMA 
::::::

::::::
UserName: EstralS
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 12, 2008 6:49 pm PT
Review:  I strongly believe this is one of the greatest games to date. It brings so much to the table for 
 gaming and how games are meant to be played. It is one of a few games that can actually give an 
 adrenaline rush. Hiding from enemies may be difficult without utilizing the new special technology 
 that the player is provided with. This game may be challenging for those who are not good at action 
 games or have low patience. If you are looking for a game that is full of action then this is a 
 perfect game. The story is one of the greatest in gaming and full of everything most people like. 
 Metal Gear Solid 4 does what most games have never done before. It combines stealth with a shooter 
 which in effect makes a beautiful crafted game. This game is truly one of the most spectacular 
 games that has ever been created and will most likely remain on top. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: primetimegamer
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 12, 2008 6:23 pm PT
Review:  MGS4 is a 10 in every department Graphics, Gameplay, Story, and Sound. You can't make a better 
 game than MGS4. Anybody that gives this game anything less than a 10 is insane. People that complain 
 about long cutscene have no business playing this game and shouldn't even write a review of this 
 game cause that means you know nothing about the series. Stop trying to find flaws in a game that's 
 flawsless. MGS4 is the greatest single player game ever created. One thing the Kojima always manages 
 to do is create a new a game with new never before seen gameplay. He never makes the same game 
 with just prettier graphics which what every game does now. Ala Halo 3, GTA4, Soon Gears2, etc. 
 This game is one heck of an experience. Its definately a system seller and a game that will pave 
 the way for PS3 games in the future. I think game developers will learn a lot from MGS4 and Implement 
 similar graphics or better in their game. Kojima is a god. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lauryn2000
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 12, 2008 5:55 pm PT
Review:  Akiba... oh this character brings comic relief! :)
  
  I've played the first Metal Gear and two for the PSP, I didn't know what to expect from this one. But 
 I was happily surprised.
  
  The graphics, the storyline, though some scenes could have been left out. Seems like it made the game 
 drag.... but this is one heck of a shooter.
  
  I don't care much for "stealth" like Tom Clancy's Splinter Cell, but with Snake I dont mind because 
 when an alert is sounded, there is no way you can fire fight your way out. You have to worry about 
 the two groups shooting you, thinking your with the other ones.
  
  I've been playing this game for about five hours now, and I'm up to the part where Meryl and her 
 team depart from Snake.
  
  The controls are easy to master, the shooting is not too sensitive.
  
  But so far I think game 
 of the year will be a tie between Snake and Niko of Grand Theft Auto. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ahoh
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 12, 2008 5:53 pm PT
Review:  If a game like GTA IV can get 10 out of 10, I cant see why this game cant. MGS4 will likely not 
 win as many awards due to a couple of facts. One is the hype of GTA will help that game do better 
 and the game came out opening day on the XBox and PS3 and that should ruffle some feathers. There 
 is no question that MGS has way better graphics and an excellent storyline. Now dont get me wrong, 
 I felt GTA was a worthy 10 out of 10, but this game should be up there. It is great fun and really 
 continues the story MGS fans have been following. New players to the series may be lost, so I recommoned 
 they try to find atleast the orginal metal gear solid for the Playstation and work up. This gives 
 you a good starting point. However the gameplay is awsome, its something we havent really seen 
 and alot of the old MGS tricks are still there. The game has been revamped and when have you ever 
 seen your player dropped off right in the middle of battle, usally the fighting is a little away 
 or your not in any real danger, if there is I havent seen it. Overall the game looks and plays 
 great and is a must in any real gamers collection. Some may wine about the cuts scenes, but the 
 great and interesting cut scences make the game more interesting and different. So congrats to 
 the boys on making another great game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Vadoc81
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 12, 2008 5:37 pm PT
Review:  Firstly I can assure I do have the finished game Mr Postman has been good to me (for once) and 
 I have played a good 4-5 hours of this truly amazing game. Now normally I would wait and play a 
 lot more before reviewing especially a game this in-depth, but I just couldn't wait to tell everyone 
 that this one PS3 Exclusive that can not possibly disappoint!! So if any one is a little dubious 
 after the so-so Haze don't worry! 
  
  The first thing to hit you about this game is the sheer quality the presentation and layout is 
 superb even the 8 minute install isn't to much of a drain with the funny comments that appear on 
 screen (lectures on smoking and details of the mission you are about to embark on) . Then with your 
 quivering figure you hit the start game button! Don't get too excited yet, especially if you downloaded 
 the 15 minute trailer off PS Network as you are greeted with the same 15 minute cut scene, so yes 
 depending if you love them or hate them the cut scenes are still there and just as long. Though 
 no one can deny how beautiful they are and make sure you keep controller in ur hand because the 
 interactive cut scenes are back too i. e press R1 to see what Snake is looking at, they are well 
 scripted and as usual the voice acting is superb, David Hayter is back as Snake along with the 
 rest of the MGS cast, and Meryl looks really fit with the Next Gen Graphics BTW. 
  
  Now after you have got through the cut scenes and start playing just 3 words really OMG!. You find 
 yourself in the most realistic war zone ever depicted on game screen believe me it seriously gives 
 COD 4 a run for its money. It took me a few minutes to get my bearings MGS 3 was along time ago 
 now, and the 5.1 Dolby surround sound making it feel like bullets are flying over your head its 
 easy to get over whelmed, but you are soon back to your Snaking ways. The whole atmosphere of the 
 game and location is astonishing! You really feel the wrong step out to the open will be your death, 
 the two warring sides work really well at one point I just could not get by these militia, so I 
 quickly helped the other side and after a great gun battle, I slipped back into the shadows. The 
 whole environment war torn eastern Bosnia type setting works great and really takes it away from 
 the quiet deserted Alaskan setting on MGS1 or the lush jungle setting of MGS3. It really remind 
 me of last few levels of Splinter Cell Rogue Agent, but a lot more detailed, the building exteriors, 
 interiors, the dusty open war torn roads I have never seen graphics like it, The character models 
 are just top notch, Snake and his accelerated aged face looks great. 
  
  I really don't want to spoil anything for anyone so I wont go into story or game play too much, 
 I will say has loads of cool gadgets this time, the camo suit is true genius and is quite Predator 
 like and really helps as this seems to be the toughest gear yet, On quite a few occasion I was 
 lying on the ground blended in to 85% camo and had a whole platoon march a foot from my head! There 
 is also a lot more to help snake along the way, this game is called Guns of The Patriots! and for 
 good reason, long gone are the days when Snake only had a Socom & a Famas to get him through, there 
 now guns a plenty!. You can pick guns up from bodies but you can't use them straight away, not 
 until you meet a very helpful Arms Dealer, who works similar to "The Stranger" in Resident Evil 
 4. 
  
  I wont tell anymore cause I just don't want to spoil it, but I just can't wait to play it some 
 more, the story looks very interesting and has the usual strange surreal twists, a great example 
 is when you start the game there is a 3 min cut scene of eggs frying in a frying pan and a young 
 girl talking/laughing and then it goes back to the usual story weird!! Also if you go to the save 
 screen there is a small screen in bottom right hand corner which seems to be CCTV footage of some 
 ones kitchen?? I guess I will find out what this is about in time. That is my only concern is that 
 I will not be able to follow the story again, Metal Gear Solid 2 lost me story wise completely, 
 I'm Big Boss, No I'm Big Boss, no it was the Patriots! Aha II was Big Boss all long!???? So far 
 though the story is carrying on nicely from MGS1 so I'm following it ok. 
  
  Sorry I have not tried the Metal Gear Online yet but I don't think it will differ much from the 
 beta, but seriously a game of this calibre and a quality multiplayer to boot this will not be leaving 
 my PS3 for some time! 
  I have never said this before about a PS3 game but if you have a PS3 get this game!!! The only 
 reason I could think not to get it is if you really hated the other Metal Gear Games then maybe 
 this wont won't sway you, but I would still recommend you give it a crack. Yes there is still the 
 very lengthy cut scenes and the story may need you to have an open mind and a degree!! But if you 
 loved the other Metal Gear's like me then do not hesitate to buy this game. Lets hope there is 
 more games of this sort of quality to come the PS3's way! 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: buffdaddy69
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 12, 2008 4:52 pm PT
Review:  So. Has five years really passed? A game thats been in the making is finally here? A Game thats 
 been hyped and sometimes overhyped by PS3 Owners is finally here? As i sat in my car with my friend, 
 Midnight came and i got Metal Gear Solid 4. And let me say this. Metal Gear AWESOME.
  
  
  This game is by far, the most beautiful game i have ever played. The fights between rebels and 
 PMC's are great and its always fun to help out the rebels. This game does infact tie the saga together 
 and it answers all questions and puts extra icing on the cake by giving us a very long well deserved 
 ending. 
  
  
  Graphics: This is THE game that takes full advantage of the PS3's power. This game has proved that 
 the PS3 can sometimes out do the 360 when it comes to the graphics department. The graphics kick 
 so much ass that its hard to tell wether your still in a cutscene or if your actually playing the 
 game. The whole war torn envirmoents are a great touch as in the other Metal Gears where you are 
 just in one area and you just go straight.
  
  Sound: Awesome Soundtrack and the simple fact that Snake has an iPod so he can listen to music 
 from all the Metal Gear games is an added bonus. Metal Gear Solid has always been known for its 
 deep story telling and its musical score. and Metal Gear Solid 4 doesnt dissapoint.
  
  Gameplay: I do like the fact that i can switch to first person mode and move while in first person 
 mode. I like how you can auto target enemies and just for the simple fact that you can actually 
 AIM in thrid person mode and still hold up enemies without worrying about shooting them and causing 
 more enemies to come towards you is a nice touch. The Octocamo suit is probably better then stealth 
 camoflouge and it just gives me an awesome feeling that while im laying on the ground an enemy 
 can walk right by me and not see me is great. Its a huge improvement over MGS 3's camo system. 
 You can lay on the ground and actually roll over on your back and get those enemies trying to sneak 
 up behind you.
  
  Flaws: This game doesnt really have any kind of flaws. My only complaint is the loading after cutscenes, 
 granted its only probably give or take, 10 seconds. Still, its a PS3 and it should have no problems 
 going from cutscene to gameplay with out loading. I also don't like the fact that when you complete 
 Liquid Sun, before you start act two, you have to install the game again. Its like installing an 
 expansion pack, granted those install times arent that long.
  
  This game does deserve a perfect 10, but knwoing Gamespot, they will give it a 9.5 or a 9. But 
 if this game gets under a 9 on this website, then you know for a fact that you shouldnt listen 
 to Gamespot and you should ether go out and buy this game... or rent it atleast. As a Gamer or a 
 PS3 owner, you owe it to yourself to help guide Snake through his last Harrah. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Flincher
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 12, 2008 4:43 pm PT
Review:  I set out to play Metal Gear 4 scared. I am very happy to say that all of my fears were unwarranted 
 and this is the game that 3 should have been. It is great to go back to basics, and play a true 
 sequel to the original.
  
  The graphics are amazing, the realism of the world is fantastic, something as subtle as bumping 
 a discarded Soda can feels realistic and subtle, you have to really watch the world more so than 
 in any previous game. The annoying MGS3 content has been removed, no more eating snakes (WTF right?) 
 and no more collecting Camo, the system does all that for you and lets you focus on enjoying sneaking 
 around.
  
  I don't want to give away the story... but... WOW. Everyone I wanted to see makes a visit and you 
 really get a sense of closure. Given how many other series' have disappointed long standing fans, 
 I was very pleased that this wasn't just another MGS3 and that we were given the game we had been 
 asking for. I look forward to the next installment in this franchise, Snake or no Snake.
  
  Very very satisfied. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GraphitePanther
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 12, 2008 4:33 pm PT
Review:  From start to finish every bit of this game is 1st class. I myself enjoy a game with a deep storyline 
 and therefore I welcomed the lengthy and involving cut-scenes. The stealth mechanics have been 
 tightened in this latest iteration, and the AI is much smarter than its previous brethren. The 
 most important thing to keep in mind for those new to series is that this is firstly a stealth 
 and strategy third person adventure game, and secondly an action game. I guess what I'm trying 
 to say is don't expect this to be COD4, because this game requires thought and strategy more than 
 all out fire-fights. In turn this game will appeal more to those that enjoy spending time planning 
 rather than those with an appetite for destruction. All of this in mind, I simply cannot see why 
 almost anyone would at least respect and admire the quality and care that went into this game's 
 creation. Happy Gaming! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: twistedhades
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 12, 2008 4:22 pm PT
Review:  After years of playing Metal Gear games, I thought I knew the drill: Infiltrate the base, rescue 
 someone, destroy Metal Gear, and fight the last boss. This time-tested approach has won the hearts 
 of gamers and earned Metal Gear Solid a spot on the industry's short list of premiere franchises.
 
  
  PROS: 
   One of the greatest games ever created. 
   Satisfies in almost every way possible.
  Metal Gear Solid 4 is a masterpiece, an unforgettable 
 game that shines like a beacon amidst a sea of mediocrity. It is not only the best Metal Gear game, 
 but also one of the best games ever made, period. If you own a PS3, put this at the top of your 
 to-buy list. If you don't own a PS3, well, chances are you will buy one soon just to play this 
 game.
  
  The octo-camo suit keeps the stealth simple, enabling you to hide from enemies even in plain sight. 
 Alternately, you can go for the Rambo approach... just be ready for a tougher fight.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: MChammertime05
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 12, 2008 4:21 pm PT
Review:  This game absolutely lived up to the hype. The graphics are incredible and the best I have ever 
 seen to date. There is so much detail in every character and environment that you will not be able 
 to keep your eyes off of them. The voice acting in this game is top notch. Many of the characters 
 from the older games in the series return, except for Liquid's voice, but it is still very good. 
 The game play is much more improved and Snake has a lot of weapons at his arsenal. The method of 
 obtaining weapons is very fun and addictive. There are also so many extras with this game that 
 will keep the fans coming back for more. Online play is very fun and tactical, but to really enjoy 
 Metal Gear Solid and the story, you have to beat it first. People who complain about the amount 
 of cut-scenes and install times really are not fans of the series. Cut-scenes have ALWAYS been 
 in Metal Gear Solid games and it really makes Metal Gear Solid feel like a movie. Install times 
 aren't that long, and you can go do something else anyway while you wait.
  
  This is the best game I have ever played, and definitely should be game of the year. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lilrichy209
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 12, 2008 4:20 pm PT
Review:  Wow I got to admit MGS4 is amazing game I have ever played on the ps3. The graphic is stunning 
 and the gameplay is the best of all MGS series. Bought mine at gamestop today and I was so excited 
 to have it for the PS3. It really worth the wait. Hideo Kojima is the greatest game creator I've 
 known for MGS series and he really earn this one for working hard and putting a lot of effort. 
 Then you have to install the game to the hdd which only takes 4gb. Finally wen the game finish 
 installation the first thing I've notice is the Cutscenes was very spectacular, its like watching 
 a movie. If you don't want to watch the cutscene just skip it and go right into the action. It 
 doesn't matter how u play MGS4, u can sneak onto your enemy use them as shield r just go straight 
 to gun fire action on the battlefield. With 5.1 surround sound the sound of explosions and gun 
 fire gives is so good that it gave me goosebumps and the voice acting is great. There is so many 
 weapons in this game and they're customizable. As I'm finish typing this review I'm going back 
 on my chair and start playing MGS4. As for my final word, I really enjoy this game and I think 
 ps3 owners should give it a shot. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NovaSky
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 12, 2008 4:20 pm PT
Review:  Let me start by saying the reason I gave this game a 10.0 is because 9.8 isn't an option like it 
 used to be on GameSpot. This game isn't perfect but it gets real close. I am not a fanboy but I 
 do need to give credit where it is due, and Hideo Kojima deserves a lot. People giving it 1.0 are 
 people without PS3's or people trying to hype up the Xbox and it's games. If your thinking about 
 buying this game here are some things you need to do first in order not to regret it. 
  
  1. Look up Metal Gear. If you've never played any Metal Gear before, look it up on Wiki, get familiar 
 with the characters, primarily Snake and Liquid Snake. You don't have to play the previous games 
 to enjoy this one mainly because the cutscenes have flashbacks, and even the story itself can be 
 separated into it's own thing. But make sure the story is for you. To give a little comparison, 
 it as the super solider likeness of Halo, with a futuristic feel of Call of Duty 4, yet the warzones 
 give you a feeling of fallout. 
  
  2. Play the game if possible. If you are watching your friend play the game, then you won't have 
 any real indication as to how it is. This is a stealth/action game and every decision that you 
 make can have its own effects on the game. Mix that in with the fact that the game is highly customizable 
 with weapons, clothing, and items for both Snake and your online character and simply watching 
 your friend play is a waste of time. If you can play it, watch the trailers, in game footage and 
 stories around it. Get a feel for it through visualization. 
  
  This game is unlike anything you will ever play. Don't compare it to Gears of War and Splinter 
 Cell for they are all completely different games. Splinter Cell is all stealth and the only action 
 comes from stealth action. Gears of War is all action and the only stealth comes from taking cover. 
 Metal Gear is right in between mixing a balance for both. If you don't think it's possible try 
 this on; in the first level you have to rely on stealth to get through the first part, stealth/action 
 to get through the second part, and action to get through the third part. And the story works with 
 it as well. For example before you meet the weapons wholesaler, Drebin, there are a lot of weapons 
 that can't be used. (Won't say why cause it works with the story) So you basically have two to 
 three weapons. Then you meet Drebin and the action comes in. From there you're free in many situations 
 to go with either. While there will still be missions that require one more than the other it all 
 comes down to decision making which was much harder in the previous MG's. 
  
  You want graphics? This game will give you graphics and then punch you in the fact with amazingly 
 detailed cutscenes. Is it the best graphically detailed game on the market, yes. Why? Because it 
 is true to human form. GOW had excellent graphics but it had a fierce presence with hulking human 
 characters and even more hulking enemies. Uncharted have stunning environmental graphics mixed 
 with a detail but in someways cartoonish characters faces. MGS4 has amazing graphics portraying 
 real human physic and real life guns even more detailed than Call of Duty 4's, and that's saying 
 something. 
  
  Sound is the same way. The game uses a Dobly Digital sound engine allowing for real sounds of gunfire, 
 walking, running and voices. If you have the volume turned up prepare to feel immense feeling. 
 If you have a sound system, good luck thinking you're not in a war zone even after you've turn 
 off your PS3. 
  
  Basically if you have an HD or a regular TV with good sound your in for a ride. With exceptional 
 character development, amazing action and stealth and warlike decision making Metal Gear Solid 
 will give you something that you may have never felt before with a game. With plenty of options 
 and an online battle mode where you can create teams, MGS will surely have you playing over and 
 over again. If you've played other, trust me there's nothing like it. If you've never played before, 
 welcome to the party.
  
  NovaSky 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JamesSoprano
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 12, 2008 4:15 pm PT
Review:  ok i have played only so far into the game but it's not disappointing it's completely opposite 
 it's a Beautiful game and I thank Kojima for this great series and Konami ! 
  
  now this game is different from other MGS games different look and feel from the rest and with 
 some new toys ! i won't spoil anything i think it's great .. online beta was pretty good but i 
 have yet to try the actual thing yet ( and i won't till this game is done ) but it is pretty fun 
 cause i don't expect much change from it .. except maps wise and Gear you can wear and or use 
 
  
  i read a few reviews that rated it a 1.0 and or a 6.0 and when i seen this i was like NO WAY i 
 have to check too see if they are being realistic and when i checked them out .... of course ... 
 360 Fanboys reviews .... from comments like. Snake you disgust me, snake your old go play poker, 
 what the heck is a 80 year old man doing on a battlefield ? and one of my all time favorite comments 
 ... 
 I was going to sell my PS3 because there was no GREAT games for it (Like Xbox 360's Gears Of 
 War, Halo 3, Mass Effect and Forza 2)
  
  now how can you compare a game like ... Forza 2 too MGS4 ? this is very mind boggling. and then 
 comments like 
  
 i played the game for a minute and then a cutscene happened and then 2 mins of play then a 20 
 mins cutscene happened ) and all i could do is run around using a knife and a gun maybe things 
 will change later in the game ? at that point i said i'l stick with GTA IV "
  
  wow you played like less then god knows how long cause it's not like this at all ... so it's 360 
 fanboys commenting and most of the 1.0 comments actually said the same thing comparing this game 
 to the 360 games i mentioned above. i'm just here to say listen to MY review and the other 10's 
 or higher then a 7 that describe the game more then I 
  
  I am not a fan boy i own both systems ( 360 and PS3 ) and i am a Big Metal gear fan and i enjoy 
 this game and it's not a let down .. Music is great the acting is great and the story is Superb 
 ! it's just plain Great one of the best PS3 games to date. and I hope you enjoy my review and agree 
 with what i say 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jarek_Cyphus
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 12, 2008 3:55 pm PT
Review:  I was so overwhelmed from the first experience of playing Metal Gear Solid 4 that it was hard to 
 put into words exactly what it was I experienced. From the Patriot-laced advertisements that launch 
 the opening sequence of the game to the grand revelation that Big Mama lays at Snake's feet, this 
 game takes you on one twist after another, and it is one hell of a ride.
  
  After taking a few moments to tweak controls to your liking, this game certainly feels ready to 
 pick up and play. The responsiveness of the controls and ease of UI use is a cut above that of 
 its predecessor, MGS3: Snake Eater/Subsistence. Whether you aim from the shoulder or from first 
 person view, this game just feels right, although an easier way to remain in first person view 
 for the more intense firefights would have been a nice implementation. Rolls, dives, crawls, playing 
 dead and traditionally hugging the wall are all easily executed, and with simple taps, presses, 
 and holds of the R1 button, CQC is easier now than ever before, which is a nice thing because there 
 are quite a few instances on the harder difficulty settings where knowledge and skill with the 
 CQC system will be the difference between life and death, detection or the silent kill.
  
  So far as the game's visuals go - this game may not be Uncharted, but it has its strong merits 
 since the disappointment that was the Metal Gear Online beta premiere. One of the more prevalent 
 complaints strewn across the PS3 boards in regards to MGO beta was the horrendous visuals it sported. 
 Anti-aliasing support was almost nowhere to be found, and the majority of textures looked very 
 blurry. With the final release of Metal Gear Solid 4, this ailment is nowhere to be found. On even 
 a 56" LCD TV using HDMI cables (the equipment used at the time of this review) , the game runs and 
 looks superb, and sports some, but not full anti-aliasing support. From the scorching hot desert 
 to the lush jungles of South America, to even Eastern Europe, this game's engine really shines, 
 and shows that this game has some distinctive diversity in its visuals. The character models are 
 some of the best ever seen in a next generation game - and are far more proportionate and realistic 
 than that of those found in games like Resistance, Warhawk, Gears of War, or Halo 3. Sofar as the 
 graphical capabilities of the Playstation 3 go, Metal Gear Solid 4 does not disappoint.
  
  The only thing that forced hesitation in giving this game a perfect score was the fact that yet 
 again, the epic storytelling that has always been the Metal Gear Solid series again takes the forefront, 
 leaving less time to play than you do watching cutscenes. What times you do have to play, however, 
 show some great diversity in the styles of play you take on. This game and this review has been 
 a major focus on diversity of the game itself, and that is something the majority of current next-gen 
 games presently lack. Whether you're sneaking through the urban desert, assisting rebels in pushing 
 back the PMCs, using camoflauge to blend into the Jungle and sneak your way to your target, hanging 
 on for a wild ride on an APC while taking out pursuing Gekko, Sneaking unarmed in a trenchcoat 
 to follow a resistance member to their base, or enduring a vicious street chase, this game encompasses 
 all that defines "action." The one thing that saves this game's cutscenes from unleashing a fury 
 of boredom within the player is the enhanced interactivity in several of the cutscenes, most notably 
 the mission briefing scenarios between chapters. However, if it weren't for the front staging of 
 the cutscenes over the terrific gameplay, this game would have easily earned a Perfect score.
 
  
  While the multiplayer is not Warhawk, Halo, Gears of War, or Call of Duty, it is strong in its 
 competitiveness, and garners a new take on how multiplayer is played. From unique CTF scenarios 
 to base capture missions, Metal Gear Online has its own take on bringing stealth action to multiplayer. 
 You can apply all the tricks you know and learn even more tricks as you advance along a customized 
 player skill set you designate for your character. While there are not yet a plethora of maps, 
 the maps that are there are large and deep, with plenty of places to hide, sneak, and mount tactical 
 assaults on your enemies. For the seasoned FPS player, MGO's multiplayer may have a lot to soak 
 into your skin, but after a couple of hours of play, it will become second nature, and might even 
 become a second habit you will pick up in your daily gaming cycle.
  
  Whether your bag is sneaking without detection, taking sides in a pitched battlefield, taking down 
 pseudo-metal gear Gekko, or just watching the unfolding of one of gaming's greatest stories ever 
 told, Metal Gear Solid 4 is the fourth "solid" entry into the saga, and should not be missed by 
 its hardcore fanbase. That being said, it is equally a great game with which to introduce NEW fans 
 to the series, and with its competitive multiplayer found in Metal Gear Online, it may attract 
 a wider audience than ever before. Give Metal Gear Solid 4 a try, it is less likely to disappoint 
 anyone than any of its predecessors.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: lewis_hague123
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 12, 2008 3:33 pm PT
Review:  Ignore these Xbox fanboys, they're just jealous they havn't got a game that is visually, and soundly 
 outstanding.
  I'm currently starting Act 3, and i've already had about 7 moments where i've simply said 'WOW'.
 
  The cut scenes and voice acting makes it seem like a movie - They are amazing. 
  
  *****************************
  **** SLIGHT SPOILER ****
  *****************************
  
 
  Especially the scene between Vamp and Raidan and the Gecho's
  
  Like i mentioned earlier, the Xbots are just plain jealous. They cry at night when they realize 
 that the only good exclusives they have are Gears of war and Halo (even though i think it SUCKS) . 
 Then they look at our exclusives: Resistance 2, Motorstorm 2, LittleBigPlanet, Killzone 2, MGS4, 
 Gran Turismo 2 ETC.
  
  Buy this game, you wont be disapointed !
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: ElChino223
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 12, 2008 3:26 pm PT
Review:  This game is amazing. Definetly the best the Playstation 3 has to offer. This game has a lengthy 
 single player and great production values. The game takes place in a middle eastern and south american 
 setting. This is a great action game and even if you never played an Mgs before you will still enjoy 
 this game due to its stylish and unique gameplay. Overall the game presentation is well done and 
 is quite cinematic. This game is an evolution cinematic presentation. The changes between gameplay 
 and cutscenes are very well done and streamline to the point where you cant tell if you are watching 
 a movie or playing a game. Overall this is a great PS3 exclusive and it should remain an exclusive. 
 There are two versions of the game including a limited retail version which comes with a blu ray 
 video of the making of mgs 4. Anyway to go too much into detail into this game would ruin some 
 great surprises, so let me just say this game is worth getting a Ps3 console for it is unlikely 
 to ever come out on Xbox 360. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AlCanDrive55
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 12, 2008 2:54 pm PT
Review:  Whatever the hell eurogamer was smoking tell them to cut it out immediately.
  
  Metal Gear Solid 4: Guns of the patriots is what many have attempted to accomplish but only a miniscule 
 amount have accomplish. Crossing the great wall and seamlessly uniting the genres of film and video 
 game. Hideo San has past this with flying colours.
  
  Before Getting down to the nitty gritty of the game. People who complain abut epic cutscenes and 
 full-on dialogue in the metal gear saga really should leave the room. Metal Gear is as much a film 
 as a game, more like an interactive experience then anything else.
  Anywhos first up:
  
  Graphics: 
  MGS has never looked so amazing. All the metal gears have had breakthrough graphics 
 and this is the same. Characters show proper emotions and feelings in their faces. Lip syncing 
 isn't flawless but a very large step foreward from the originals. Walls and floors look superb 
 from the dusty middle east to a winter covered base. Snakes octocamo also looks great as does the 
 protagonist himself and if watched closely you will notice him age throughout the game.
  
  Gameplay:
  The series has been looked on as inspiring the genre of stealth in games and in the 
 sequal stealth is even more key. Now that the fixed camera has been removed snake can move seamlessly 
 from place to place. Many new weapons have been introduced as well as the Drebin point system which 
 is very helpful. Although the main thing about the gameplay in Guns of the patriots is that everything 
 is optional, Yes you have to get to an objective but how you get to it is up to you. Either go 
 guns blazing, sneaking through the grass or a mixture of both, take an alternate route altogether 
 or use snakes little robot buddy MK-II to electrocute guards and run through safely. Controls can 
 be tedious for Metal Gear Vets who just jump straight into the game but after your first near death 
 experience with an army of Metal Gear Gekkos you get the feel of things pretty fast.
  
  Music:
  Harry Gregson-Williams and Nobuda Toda have outdone themselves. All the music feels right 
 and perfect especially from the moment starting the game. Narration from David Hayter (Snakes voice) 
 is a little poor at times compared to the other characters but little notice should be takin mostly 
 the narration is rock solid. Ambience is also a big key and from listening to birds chirping, machine 
 gun fire and footsteps to the eary sound of screams and explosions from other parts of the battlefield 
 help make the loctaions come truly alive. And if you really hate birds and the sound of walking 
 you can always turn on snakes Ipod in game (You heard me, he carrys an Ipod into war with him.) 
 and listen to numerous tunes from the metal gear saga (which is a large choice.)
  
  Storyline: 
  I do not want to ruin any of the storyline or plot for you as the story is not meant 
 to be told it must be experienced first hand. Grand theft auto 4s story actually bored me toward 
 the middle and then picked up near the end. Metal gears is constantly getting bigger and better 
 right up until the nail biting conclusion. Trust me even if you have never touched the series play 
 this game. Although many will still complain about cutscenes and dialouge yada yada yada I myself 
 at times wished the cutscenes would not end and instead watch snake kick some ass instead of me 
 controlling him.
  Oh and FYI there are no cutscenes that last 60-90 minutes long although some are tedious such as 
 briefings in between location jumps items can be unlocked during them if you explore the area with 
 the MK-II. Cutscenes also change depending on the players circumstances and how the played decieded 
 to tackle an objective.
  
  Multiplayer:
  Metal Gear Online is the multiplayer Aspect of MGS4 and it delievers as much as possible although 
 I have not delved extremely far into multiplayer it is very enjoyable, although a large emphasise 
 is placed on teamwork and deathmatch does not fit in very well (although its understandable why 
 its included) Signing up for multiplayer is a bit of a chore at the most (you'll understand when 
 you get there) although the character creation and fun games and clan support are a large improvement 
 over other games. GTA4 Stability is also very good with little or no disconnections from matchs 
 and host replacement should the host leave.
  I think Konami learned their leason from the beta.
  
  Overall:
  Metal Gear Solid 4 is everything 
 the hype lead it to be. After my disappointment in Halo 3, my boredom from Gta 4 and Haze not being 
 anything like it was imagined Metal Gear has given me back my love for sequels. I can not give 
 this game 10, as I feel no game is worthy of being perfect just like no movie can ever be classified 
 perfect. But this game is all but perfect. Metal Gear fan or No metal gear fan.
  
  Sony have a console seller, AT FREAKING LAST!!
  
  Peace out and Add me online in mgs4
  
 
  Game id: FoxyLooker !CR!
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Itsdewdewbabiee
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 12, 2008 2:41 pm PT
Review:  Words can't discribe of how amazing this game is... The best MG of the series for sure... For those 
 giving this a 1.0 rating you guys are definitely Xbox fan boys.. And yes believe the hype, because 
 graphically the game is amazing... And come on the concept, stealth in the middle of a battle field 
 flawless... Ive played this for six hours and I couldn't put this game down... Finally a game that 
 utilizes all the PS3's power, and what a masterpiece this game is... There is still alot of things 
 I have yet to master in this game and I will probably go through this game a few times or more... 
 Act one, the middle east is amazing... I like how you can customize your weapons, and buy new ones... 
 I can't wait to see Raiden and see what his tie in with the story is... This game is a must have... 
 I ve played for four hours so far and have not fought a boss yet, so I know this game will take 
 some time to beat... Thank you Konami, finally a game difintely worthy of the title next generation... 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sykalob
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 12, 2008 2:02 pm PT
Review:  Metal Gear Solid Is A one Of A Kind Game. I hate when people here are saying it's better than GTA 
 IV or Gears Of War ...!!! How it comes !!
  Every game has it's momentum and it's fans so why do we make ourselves foolish by saying it's better 
 than games from another genre. Let's Talk about our beloved Solid game 
  
  The Graphics : it deserve 10 with no mind's revision
  
  The Gamplay : we need to stop here 
 for along time to tell you if you are going to be liking MGS4 or you will be blaming Gamespot. com 
 and other friends good reviews too.
  Metal Gear Solid 4 is a very very deep game .so if you are looking for fashion game go with splinter 
 cell and don't think twice . The gameplay is what made our passion toward this game. it's tactical 
 to the nth degree everystep is counted for or on you so if you want to finish the game just too 
 fast you will be disappointed because it will take hours to move from a street to another .if it's 
 a wrong clothes the one you are putting , you will be a chicken and enemy are the wolves .and MGS4 
 is another saga in the MGS series. 
  
  Is it next-Gen or Not ?
  -actually metal gear 4 still a metal gear. the same blood of the whole series 
  .even snake's 
 movements is the same , but that doesn't mean it's a six generation game. Solid 4 is armed with 
 a new Solid Movments & Tactical actions
  and with very good improved and developed inventory so it's a very next generation game for me 
 .
  
  Last thing :-
  THIS GAME IS KNOWN FOR IT'S LONG CUT-SCENES AND IT'S MAKING THE STORY MORE DEEP AND TOUCHABLE BY 
 YOUR SOUL
  
  SO TAKE IT OR LEAVE IT ..
  AND OF COURSE I WILL TAKE IT
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: II6FUII-CauT1oN
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 12, 2008 1:51 pm PT
Review:  Metal gear solid 4 is one of the greatest games ever. Mr. Kojima is a genius, and when i get online 
 i cant wait to pwn some nubs. i think the animations could be better, but everything else is beyond 
 any other game out right now. The story is amazing like any other MGS game, and a deserved end 
 to snakes saga. Beware though, if you think "go to the castle and rescue the princess" is too complicated 
 for you, then i don't think this is your type of game, its a 10/10 for some but a 1000/10 for any 
 true MGS fan.
  
  So far I'm 2/3 into the game id say, no visual problems, the install times haven't bothered me 
 at all, and the loadings are a little annoying but nothing painful. THERE ARE 90 MINUTE CUT SCENES, 
 but i consider that a plus like any other MGS fan should. Anyway, my review is done but i expect 
 you to support MGO and go to gamebattles. com make a clan, round up some poeple and start competing. 
 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: bebito_damon
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 13, 2008 12:09 pm PT
Review:  I've read other player reviews and here is mine.
  
  From what I figured from the previous games in this series and most of the previews, I knew this 
 game would play out like an interactive movie. Personally, I like these type of games so long as 
 the storyline is interesting. Metal Gear has never disappointed in this aspect. The one thing I 
 don't do is play the game straight through on the first day. You'll always finish it feeling like 
 the game was too short. Of course it is short, like most movies. Here's a suggestion... play a 
 little, rest a little people. If you play 10-20 straight hours then yes you will finish it... just 
 like the others in this series. It's an action game not a RPG. So I like the fact that it has a 
 good storyline thus far. I can't wait to see what happens next. But I'm not going to put the rest 
 of my life on hold to see it.
  
  Onto my review though... When I play a game that is part of a series, I stop comparing the game 
 to others of its type and I start comparing the current game to previous ones in the series. Thus 
 far I've been impressed with how much the visuals have improved. I like the new gameplay as well 
 but even if it played like the older games in this series, I would have enjoyed it. The sound is 
 the most amazing part to me thus far. I am playing it on a 5.1 system. I can only imagine what 
 it would sound like on a 6.1 or 7.1 (you lucky dogs who own one of these) . I haven't seen it in 
 high def yet but I'm sure it will blow me away. I'm impressed with it on my digital TV.
  
  I haven't played enough to say it is a definite 10 yet. But I believe it will be a 10 once I'm 
 done. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ravine1
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 12, 2008 1:41 pm PT
Review:  I have never before played a metal gear solid game before. I must say it is one of the most amazing 
 games I have ever played. Everything about it is beautifully done and created to make a unique 
 game. 
  
  Gameplay
  
  The mix of sneak and shoot gameplay has been pulled off perfectly. You can always choose between 
 going in full force, and sneaking around slitting throats. The 1st person view works well and adds 
 a great view of the action. The pause and equip feature flows well with the game. The way it affects 
 health and stamina provides a great feel. The collection of Debin points adds a certain RPG fell 
 to the game.
  
  Story
  
  The cutscenes nicely fill in the gaps in the story. It is full of excellent sound and visual quality 
 and the story itself is full of many good twists and turns.
  
  Graphics
  
  Rich and just blame great. I have yet to find a single major hiccup in this game.
  
  
  
 
  
  
  If You own a PS3 go and buy it now..... 
  
  Now if you'll excuse me, I have PMC's to kill.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: gr8guy00
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 12, 2008 1:28 pm PT
Review:  Was super lucky and got my game on June 8th!!! I'm already half way through it and without any 
 spoiler its damn AMAZING... Im enjoyin every minutes of it been playing today for straight 8 hours 
 and writing this review while im in a short break :) The thing i noticed about this version the 
 very long cut scenes,, but for a super loyal fan like its not a problem at all... i still remember 
 the MSX version i played 20 years ago!!! Sadly its snake last battle i really don't wanna end it 
 : ( haven't managed to play online as im hooked with the campaign... i hope it will be just as good 
 as the campaign! The game learning curve is pretty smooth for the 1st sight you will feel that 
 there are way too many to do but once u get going you will start to get used to it... difficulty 
 levels are adjustable and its good and bad in the same time! don't try to be a hero unless you 
 are really good :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gpig07
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 12, 2008 1:08 pm PT
Review:  Wow dude MGS4 /is just plain amazing. MGS4 is a stealth action game. There are so many ways to 
 play. You could (on the lower difficulty settings) play as a run and gun game, but thats not really 
 fun. I'm not really wanting to spend much time on this review as i wish to go play mgs4 now. So 
 you should also stop reading this review and go pick up a copy. do it. go. NOW.
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  Stop reading this
  
  Im serious. Go 
 buy mgs4 now. GO. stop reading this review and go buy a copy of metal gear solid : guns of the 
 patriots. GO. STOP READING YOU EVIL DOG. Im serious. 
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  Alright if your still reading that 
 means your not convinced to go buy this game, so I will give you some actual examples of this games 
 amzingness. To start off the graphics are perfect, with only a few pixles out of place, but those 
 are pretty much unnoticeable. The guns sound real and amazing. The ending raps EVERYTHING up and 
 will make you feel amazing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: marklovesbaseba
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 12, 2008 1:03 pm PT
Review:  You may think that this game looks wierd considering it takes a new step for the mgs series but 
 i love it and ive played all of the other (except the psp games) but let me asure u its a masterpiece 
 the cutscenes add a dramatic feeling where u feel like ur watching a movie (considering it comes 
 in full HD!!!) im in love with it and ive only played it for 10 hours (only) lol
  You should go out and buy it emetiatly before everyone starts crazing for it
  it's like watching 
 a movie but a movie that lasts for a very long time considering im barely even close in and ive 
 been playing for 5+ hours... game also delivers good laughs everyonce in a while... like the ipod 
 feature u can get an ipod and literally be listening to music during dramatic fights its great 
 and makes me laugh a lot
  BY FAR THE MOST ENJOYABLE GAME IVE PLAYED FOR YEARS!!!
  WORTH THE WAIT
  Multiplayer 9.5/10
  Graphics 13/10
  Plot 10/10
  Sound 10/10
  Enjoyment 
 10/10
  Overall a perfect 10/10 and id like to give it more!!! well see ya i got to play some MGS4 add 
 me "joma555" so we can play some mgs4 online 
::::::

::::::
UserName: baddblood
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 12, 2008 12:32 pm PT
Review:  This is what we all want to play and to see , the game is perfect and the story is so cool , the 
 sond track the game play the whole thing is so huge in the history of the video games . Can't talk 
 about it more this game is the real deal . a great game and the best game of this year and maybe 
 best game of all time , you will play it as a dream or see it as a long cool movie that anser every 
 question was wondring in your mind about the great saga !
  from the very start moment till the final scene you wont believe your eyes ! it is so cool so good 
 and so real ! this game came to take PS3 from the buttom to the top . this is why you should buy 
 PS3 , this is what all new gamers , old schools gamers , fan boys and non gamers play because it 
 is MGS4 , this is the game that mark a new era upon all future games , it will change the face 
 of the history and we all should be lucky just to witnese this game , it is so good to play this 
 game after all these years of waiting after MGS3 and MGSPO , thank you so much HidoKojima 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheLastRevenge
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 30, 2008 4:56 am PT
Review:  If you still proud of your mega-Ps3-pwning Xbox 360 - first title to show what you was wrong all 
 this time is here. Second summer diamond of the gaming history (first was Gta 4) fresh out Kojima's 
 hands and wait for you to get it.
  First of all you must take this game as it is - it's not a videogame, it's highly interactive movie. 
 But Konami made every time when movie ends and gameplay starts highly octan and unique. Gadgets 
 are perfect, guns are guns, not just shiny toys. When you watching movie in theatre - sound is 
 critical. Sound here is juicy, and things mostly sound as it is in real. Graphics is stunning, 
 in movies mostly. Anyone who will say it expecting lack of colours never exactly saw Iraq or something 
 like it. Dusty, ruined cities. Atmosphere of war here is very realistic. Can't say nothing more 
 about it just go and buy it - to get sure Kojima is genius, Konami are masters and Playstation 
 - the best. It worth you time and money, of course if you have a sense of beautiful and can live 
 one life with heroes of this movie. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sabawoon
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 12, 2008 11:54 am PT
Review:  I havent played any series of MGS but i really wanted to but didnt get the chance to but somehow 
 i caught up with the story of solid snake and now i am playing that game. This game is awesome 
 wont let u go down the story in single player is just incredible and this time someone have really 
 taken the benefits of 25-50GB space of BRD for HD game like MGS4. Multiplayer is just awesome but 
 only 2 things i dont like about it is the melee attack its too slow in multiplayer and makes u 
 look weak and GAY and the 2nd one is the paying for slot to create new char this is just BS. Me 
 myself dont have any problem with the 1 slot cause i am the only one using ps3 but for others it 
 might be a problem paying for just a slot is kinda dumb. On some websites i have seen people rating 
 that game 1/10 and saying absolutely terrible the only thing i can say by looking at that kind 
 of rating is that they have nvr played that game or they are 360 fans. Allright i am done see you 
 all in MGS4 online ;) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: webproserv
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 12, 2008 11:14 am PT
Review:  MGS4 is a magnificent masterpiece. Thats all I really have to say about the game. I played about 
 1 hour of the campaign and so far it has hooked me in and convinced me that there is no equal to 
 this games greatness. I own all three game consoles and want to say that the 360 and gears of war 
 2 have its work cut out for them to try and top this game. I am a newbie to the MGS franchise and 
 I can confidentaly say that this game has my heart and soul and online dedication for being a sweet 
 and aweinspiring piece of art. The online is a stelllar piece of work to say the least. I wasnt 
 a big fan of the online beta it just seemed slow and dead if you will. But playing the online portion 
 for a good 3 hours last night I have to say that the development team worked out what they need 
 to work out to make the online portion a fantastic multiplayer experience. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Police08
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 12, 2008 10:33 am PT
Review:  This is really this first metal gear solid game i have played, i played twin snacks back on the 
 gamecube but this is completely different. This is by far the best game for the PS3 right now. 
 It has everything, the story is what you would expect from metal gear games. The graphix are sharp 
 and crisp. the sound and voice acting is prefect. overall and awesome game. the addition of Metal 
 Gear Online just makes the game replay value that much better. it is clearly worth the $59.99. 
 I don't want to get to much into the story because i don't want to spoile it for now anyone but 
 right from the begining there is a nice twist and makes you want to know whats next. So this is 
 a must have for the PS3 with a bluray disc filled to the limit (50GB) and coming from one of the 
 greatest serises this is a blockbuster game. MUST HAVE! Splinter Cell could learn a lesson from 
 this, SNAKE IS BACK but for how long..... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jakndaxter7223
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 12, 2008 10:11 am PT
Review:  I have never given a perfect 10 to a game... until now. Metal Gear Solid 4 is the most perfect game 
 I have ever played. The epic scale of just the ****ing title screen is enough to start crying. 
 The graphics are amazing, simply astounding. The character models are complete and fluid and just 
 look like damn real people. The sound effects are on par with Call of Duty 4 and really immerse 
 you in the new battlefield surroundings. The game drops you immediately into the action and has 
 you running from giant Metal Gears with amazing fun. The voice acting is what you would expect. 
 Perfect. Everything is spoken with pristine quality. The codec calls are like mini cutscenes and 
 are never boring. Snake has amazing kill moves that are challenging for experts, or for newbies, 
 fairly simple. He can frisk them for ammo, cut their throats, strangle them, roll on them and strangle 
 them, use them as a bullet shield and more. Your guns all feel tight with the new aiming system 
 which allows for less deaths and less "Snake? Snake? SNAKEEEEE!!!!!" It is sad to think this game 
 is the last of its kind, but with the amazing story and online play, you will NOT be putting this 
 game down for some time. Rest east Old Friend. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PinpointX
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 12, 2008 9:45 am PT
Review:  the metal gear solid series has always been known for their great and engaging storyline, 4 is 
 no exception. Through the use of blue ray and the uncompressed 7.1 audio, the sense of immersion 
 is more than ever. Some of the cutscenes are a bit too long, but their content easily makes up 
 for it. They may even be better than the metal gear solid movie coming out. Controls have been 
 enhanced and are easier to use than the previous metal gear games. Throughout the game you can 
 visibly see Snake age creating a new sense of empathy for the character. And as always, developer 
 Hideo Kojima has thrown in some hidden easter eggs and quirky humor. Metal gear solid 4 wraps up 
 the storyline from every metal gear, if you are a MGS fan than 4 is a must have. It is definitely 
 everything it's cracked up to be 
::::::

::::::
UserName: evilmarshy
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 12, 2008 9:39 am PT
Review:  This game is immense, if you have a ps3 you probably already got this game or ure gonna get it. 
 This is by far the best ps3 game. Great single player, Great Multiplayer. I'm currently doing the 
 game on big boss (hard difficulty) and the difficulty is just right for me, tricky but managable. 
 Yeah there are some long cutscenes but who cares? I'll tell you who cares, the people who never 
 played a metal gear game in their life and don't know what to expect, us metal fans like a good 
 story. You may think from all the trailers that the environement looks bland, but I discovered 
 that you go to all sorts of varied environments. Another thing I wanna talk about is the weapons, 
 the weapons can be fully customized to you own preference such as adding new grips, scopes, sights, 
 add a torch to a hand gun or a shotgun to the bottom of a rifle. The weapon customization is just 
 as good as games like SOCOM if not better. Another thing is live action cutscenes, wow u just gotta 
 love em. *8539...39402....90287...89* 
::::::

::::::
UserName: deezkhara
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 12, 2008 9:35 am PT
Review:  First came Metal Gear Solid for the Playstation, my favourite game at the time.
  Then came Metal Gear Solid 2 for the Playstation 2, my new favourite game.
  Then came Metal Gear 
 Solid 3 for the Playstation 2, my new favourite game - by far.
  Then came Call of duty 4 for the Playstation 3, my next favourite.
  Now Metal Gear Solid 4 is 
 here, and it has wiped the floor with me, I became speechless. The storyline is the most exciting 
 thing, the most memorable thing I've experienced in my life. I've waited so long for this game, 
 and it was 100% worth the wait. The realism in the game is next gen. definately, as is the graphics 
 and sound. There are so many features in this game, I don't know where to start with them. I'm 
 not even going to go into detail about that. I wrote this solely to give my opinion and express 
 my joy, and also to give credit to Hideo Kojima, the master behind the masterpiece of the series 
 - which is 
  THE GREATEST SERIES EVER!
  Get to the shops now, buy this game and you won't regret it. 
  
  Great work Hideo Kojima, game 
 producer, 
  designer and maker of the world's greatest games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: -Definition-
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 12, 2008 9:29 am PT
Review:  Metal Gear Solid 4 is quite possibly the highest mark set on the back wall of the Gaming Industry 
 putting most games to shame visually, vocally, and production wise. Like many Ive waited 4 long 
 years for this games release and I was blown away about how great this game was and still is during 
 my 3rd playthrough. Starts off big and gets progressivly bigger in scale and action as the game 
 goes on to deliver a solid game giving fans and other gamers everything you could have possibly 
 wanted from MGS4.
  
  A minor thing that irritated me alittle was the fact that it had to install the next chapter after 
 you complete the last. Wasn't a big deal considering that I needed a break after playing this game 
 straight through for 20 hours. That aside, a strong single player story along with a fantastic 
 online mode with absolutely no compition from the current games out on the market. Packed with 
 customizable skill sets, and characters its pushes the limits of online games. Hopefully the gaming 
 industry follows suit and creates games with as much quality as this one. Check it out, you wont 
 be dissapointed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Benjamin19
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 12, 2008 9:26 am PT
Review:  Metal Gear Solid is satisfying in every way. You notice the game is something special, even at 
 the initial install. The install screen features Snake smoking a cigarette, with different texts 
 popping up around him, which quickly puts it aside from other games where the install is a simple 
 loading bar. 
  
  The game itself is a great experience, there's nothing more satisfying than sneaking up on a man, 
 grabbing him and then choking him until he passes out and the shooting feels good too. The right 
 sounds are there, less artificial than most shooters. You'll find yourself completely wrapped into 
 the gameplay, excited when you can roll out of sight of the searching enemies and painfully frustrated 
 when you don't manage to stay hidden.
  
  The game is unique in many ways, one of the things being that it has a cinematic feel to it at 
 times. Lots of cutscenes could have impaired the game, but this story is so great that you don't 
 mind and simply speculate with the story and enjoy it.
  
  This game is worth the wait and the hype. 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: James_ps3mad
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 12, 2008 9:21 am PT
Review:  the games lives up 2 the hype and from the start everything about this game is epic.
  
  everything about this game is just brilliant, the gameplay with the new over the shoulder shooting 
 and the octocam work brilliantly, and the story is fantastic even tho there are some random bits 
 (like sunny cooking the eggs) the only bad point i can make is that, when in the middle of the 
 battle field trying to help the militia fight the pmcs, the militia spot you, into alert mode and 
 try to take you out and then forget completely about the pmcs shooting them so some of the a. i 
 could be improved.
  
  overall this is the number one title for the PS3 and anyone who remotely likes the series should 
 get this game, newcomers would like it too tho it may be harder to follow the story.
  
  i haven't yet played the multiplayer but from what i have seen it looks great. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: All-Star-Gamble
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 12, 2008 8:46 am PT
Review:  Kojima has made a master piece, from the graphics to the sound, to the gameplay. This game is worth 
 it, there is nothing wrong with it! It is flawless, it is so FUN to play, and the story is REALLY 
 interesting. I have yet to play a game so fully complete and so well-done. I really enjoyed the 
 gameplay of the game its very smooth, no issues with frame rates, grahpics look the BEST i've ever 
 seen. I even think the graphics have beaten the Uncharted one. The story just grows and grows,, 
 its VERY interesting and this game is a defenite buy. This game also has a lot of fun in it, it 
 just isnt full of a serious story, there parts in this game you'll have a good laugh on. I think 
 EVERY ps3 owner should have a game like this. I dont give many games a 10, infact this is the first 
 10 I've given. This is very well-deserved so go and grab it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DominicanAG
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 12, 2008 8:39 am PT
Review:  I've never said that about any game I've played before. Not many games are made in the way this 
 one is. I mean I know some people are not too crazy about the cutscenes but for some reason I care 
 about it in this game. I don't even want to skip them. I love everything about the game from the 
 start to end. If you're a fan of the series you'll know what to expect and what's to come. I will 
 not go into detail about the story. You'll have to find out for yourself once you play the game.
 
  
  The Graphics has to be the BEST to date I think this has taken over Gears of War's trophy for the 
 best looking game. Gears had the crown for a while and I think Metal Gear Solid 4 has taken that 
 crown for now. The level of detail in this game are just amazing. They use the same engine as in 
 the cutscene you don't realize it until the hud comes on screen.
  
  The sound in the game are just like call of duty quality. You feel like you're in a warzone and 
 you have that feeling that everything around you is falling apart. You're not with any side but 
 if you choose to help the rebels there are some benefits on getting around the levels in the game. 
 
  
  The multiplayer comes back from MGS3 with Metal Gear Online. You will have to install it and PnP 
 and you'll take you sometime before you can just jump in and play. But it's just as promised but 
 with better graphics. If you're a fan of the series you'll love this game. If you're a new comer 
 there are 4 different kind of difficulty that you'll be able to play this game until the end. I 
 don't think anybody should miss out on this EPIC story of Solid Snake. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hotdork70minus1
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jun 12, 2008 10:10 am PT
Review:  You people giving this game a 10/10 are just thirsty for that PS3 game we have all been promised. 
 Although very close, there are many draw backs about the game and I believe all these 10's are 
 coming from pure excitement then actual critique.
  
  The begining of the game is amaizing but half way through it's a game that we've all seen before. 
 Visuals are also somewhat bland after half of the game. 
  
  This is basicly as close as you will get to a game feeling like a movie but for some, this will 
 be really annoying with insanely long cut scenes and a few minutes of load time for each chapter. 
 MGS4 does blur the line and sometimes it's hard to tell wheather you are watching a cut scene or 
 playiing in the game.
  
  The entire Metal Gear Saga is explained, loose ends are tied and it left me satisfied over all. 
 
  
  Combat is pretty easy and fun but you don't really get enough of a chance to use and develop yourself 
 with every instrument and technique.
  
  Definately and fianly a PS3 game worth getting but it's also not the Mecha of all games.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: wootasifwoot
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 12, 2008 7:24 am PT
Review:  The artistic design of metal gear solid 4 is some of the best i have ever seen, along with story, 
 character design, voice acting, gameplay, etc. I haven't finished the game yet, but so far, it's 
 coming along REALLY good. All i can say is, I recommend this game to everyone, its very inspirational 
 and addicting. Anyways, I'm gonna go back and play this game, once I'm done with the story, I'll 
 check out MGO which is another plus to the game, comes with single player and online. I hope the 
 online of the game is fun to play but I'm gonna assume its really good since it's using the same 
 engine as metal gear solid 4. I haven't check it out yet because I've been playing metal gear solid 
 4 the whole time, really addicting. I can't stress it enough, this game is the game which should 
 be enough to drive you to buy a playstation 3, most likely you will like it. Anyways, enjoy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Danieldbest
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 12, 2008 5:11 am PT
Review:  This is so far the best MGS to date. It's graphics are dtunning and the movments are very smooth (in 
 the beginning you will notice how the gekkos are destroy the walls, it's amazing)
  
  The story is great and really brings the series to a fantastic end. The sound is great and you 
 can really hear all the things going on the battle field. The voice actors really did an amazing 
 job and snake's voice is just perfect. Gameplay has been so much reworked that it seems like playing 
 a different game until you get immersed in its amazing story.
  
  
  Didn't have much time to play it, but as soon as the exams finish i'll play it 24/7
  
  IMO 
 this is best game of 2008 and in TOP 3 of all times!!
  
  You should buy this game 100% if you have a PS3, if not and you are a gamer just buy the MGS bundle. 
 you won't regret it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: warp10ck
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 12, 2008 4:54 am PT
Review:  I am gonna keep this review spoiler free so here goes.
  First of all after waiting three years for this game following the developent with every screenshot, trailers 
 and podcasts. I finally could finally slide the disc in my ps3 and what happend after that was 
 nine hours of fun.
  
  The story does tie up all the loose ends from the previous games and fans of the series will be 
 pleased. 
  
  And the game is basicly one big reunion all the characters who are still alive is back and allthough 
 the cutscenes seem a bit long at times ,skipping one is not advisable but you can pause any cutscene 
 and take a break at any time.
  
  
  The only negative thing I have to say about the game is for every act or chapter that loads it 
 takes a couple of minutes to install. (yes every chapter ) 
  
  
  I reccomend this game to everybody who love a good story and good gameplay its been 20 great years 
 Snake and all good thing needs to come to an end.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: BRAWLL
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 12, 2008 4:33 am PT
Review:  I never played any MGs games, just 2 years ago when MGS4 was announced a lot of people said to 
 me that this game was gonna be the best PS3 game, well i dint believe so much so i decided to play 
 all the games and read on the history. Finally playing MGS was interesting then 2 just took my 
 heart away, then MGS3 just made me realize that games have become more than fun a interactive kids 
 stuff to something bigger than movies, because movies you only watch MGS you get to be the action. 
 
  
  This game just shows how far video games go when they truly are being developed by some one like 
 Kiojima . The game on its own its full or plots that keep you wanting more, action, romance, honor 
 , fear and death. They show every aspect of human life in a single interactive master pice. I never 
 thought i would enjoy a game so much like this, you always hear people talking about the gameplay 
 and graphics but really a game is no game without a story behind it. MGS4 delivers a great story 
 that will keep you wanting more from Snake, the gameplay will make you enjoy the great story line 
 and the great visuals well thats for your eyes to decide. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fazko
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 12, 2008 3:58 am PT
Review:  When writing a review for MGS4 i'm not sure whether i am writing it for a video game or a motion 
 picture...
  
  I recommend only two things. Get a very very good sounds system and this will sound better than 
 most movies you have seen. Take you time to appreciate the detail that has been put into this game, 
 truly amazing and what a way to approach an ending to a series. Raises the bar and stands tall 
 as an example. 
  
  With a single player component packed with quality, the multi-player is only a bonus. It may not 
 be as impressive, but some potential fun is to be had. I just hope it doesn't turn into another 
 online shooter on steroids and takes advantage of some stealth mechanics. 
  
  A lot of good can be said about this game, and again it seems more like a playable movie. You almost 
 feel like that game play is unnecessary at some points and serves as a connecting point between 
 the cut scenes. Almost an opposite to most games. 
  
  That being said, this is one of those games for the PS3 that every owner should invest into to. 
 
  
  Games have come a long way ... MGS4 is leading the pack.
  
  Go and enjoy !
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: stonecold316
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 12, 2008 2:16 am PT
Review:  Yes you read it right, this game is a true blockbuster! Forget all hollywood movies, this game 
 gets 10 times bigger then that, hats of to mastermind Hideo Kojima for creating a truelly immersive 
 and exciting environment in a game.
  
  I received the game yesterday (11th June) so I havnt completed it just yet but played it for almost 
 10 hours! In those 10 hours I have gotten the best value for the 40 I spent on the game ever! 
 
  
  All previous MGS games were good, but nothing spectacular in terms of control and gameplay, this 
 game changes all of that and creates a revolution not only for future games but also for big hollywood 
 movies.
  
  There is not too much video and watching/reading like the earlier MGS games, heck there is only 
 1/3 of watching and the rest playing, but after you see those masterly directed cut scenes you 
 only wish that there was more FMV's, I even started to miss the long codec moments from the previous 
 games as they are even better in this game but much much shorter and dont appear every 5mins like 
 MGS2. Heck this time its a direct feed video being shown which can be slightly controlled with 
 the right stick and much better then just having a picture of (eg. Otacon) .
  
  Battles are hugely fun to play, but the main attraction in this game is the sound which is simply 
 stunning! Play the game in high volume surround sound and you will witness one of the best background 
 scores ever! But its not just the BG music, its the sound effects which change everything. You 
 hear battles in the distance, guns firing all over from every speaker in the true sence of 5.1 
 which makes you believe you are in the battle!
  
  I cant wait to get to carry on playing it again, im sadly at work now typing this and missing the 
 game.
  
  If you dont own a PS3 now, you would be STUPID not to go out there now and purchase one now ASAP! 
 I can GURANTEE you will not be dissapointed if you go ahead and take my advice, Even if YOU HAVE 
 NEVER PLAYED A MGS BEFORE, it doesnt make a difference because so far the things ive seen are all 
 new and the things linked to previous games are all well told to new players aswell.
  
  I had a quick hour online too last night, the MGO game was pretty cool. Nothing as stunning as 
 Battlefield: Bad Company though, but then its completly different. It stayed right to the metal 
 gear flavour and was fun to play, it was alot easier though to my liking for people to kill with 
 sniper rifles at close range as most people noticed this and carried sniper rifles around!
  
  I only played battle team mode but there was 5-6 different modes which I will try soon. 
 
  
  Overall, although I havent even completed the game or played every mode online I can tell straight 
 away its a straight 10 game! I have satisifed my money for this game in one night, so everything 
 else on from today is a added bonus!
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: sneaky2
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 12, 2008 1:13 am PT
Review:  simply unbelievable! the best game ever made! Hideo Kojima has created a world never seen in any 
 game before. Everything to make this game the best ever has been achieved technically and artistically..... from 
 graphics to gameplay to the storyline... a masterpiece that will make gamers a hundred years from 
 now play it without hesitation. It has completely outshun any game that has been created this year 
 and is the best in every single category that MGS4 falls in. It is as simple as this , If you do 
 not have a ps3... this game is the reason you should buy one.. and believe it or not.. it is going 
 to be your moneys worth if you are a true gamer.. be a wii or xbox boy but this game is far bigger 
 than the current console war.... because this game has been created in such a way that we could 
 have never imagined. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Abadiho
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 12, 2008 1:03 am PT
Review:  it`s new game ... it`s not like other games it`s have new idea & story is strong you can play hours 
 after hours without feeling the time the good thing Kojima put everything he have to make this 
 game the best play ever :D the graphics AmaZing you got many options for playing it`s not for kidds 
 :P enjoy the game ....
  by the way you need to know the solid snake story in 1st & 2nd season to continuo the Stealth massion 
 !! also you need to get HD TV to can play this game without any proplem ..
  
  Sure if you buy this game i`m sure you stop every game you playing until you finish this game :) 
 or maybe you play it again & again sneaking massion you need becarefull with sneake don`t let guards 
 seen you if they catch you you well be in big proplem calling backup 1st thing they do then find 
 way to run & hide :) 
  Good luck ... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dan2002sk8er
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 12, 2008 12:40 am PT
Review:  Take the intensity of Call of Duty 4, The most Beautiful Graphics on a console today, a Spectacular 
 Story line, addictive Multi-player experience, and then add Cinema Blockbuster Grade events and 
 you get Metal Gear Solid 4. 
  
  Metal Gear is not just a game it is an experience. the Cut scene direction put most of the Big 
 budget Hollywood blockbusters to shame. From the Very Beginning of the Game you are immersed into 
 the intense action of Metal Gear. During the Beginning of the Game you notice how beautiful the 
 Graphics are and you think to your self WOW this cut scene looks really good, then all of a sudden 
 during the Cut Scene a HUD appears and you take over, until you have played this game you don't 
 understand the true Beauty of it. 
  
  the hardest part of this review is finding where to start there is so much to admire about this 
 game.
  
  Know what I Quit writing, this review makes me want to Play MGS4 so bad that I'm not even going 
 to finish writing it, If you want to know how awe inspiring this game is you need to buy it know, 
 if you don't have a ps3 go buy the MGS4 bundle at Wal-Mart it is only $399.99 it is a great deal. 
 I'm out... 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
