-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Midnight Club: Los Angeles
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/ps3/driving/midnightclublosangeles/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Cool-looking interface.
 16-player online with quite a few different modes.
 Gorgeous rendition of the City of Angels.
 Fast, exciting racing.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Excessive difficulty hinders fun.
 Not very original.
 Interface favors form over function.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Oct 21, 2008
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 7.5
Critic Score: 8.2, 41 Review (s)
User Score: 8.3, 843 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Rockstar Games
Developer: Rockstar San Diego
Genre: GT / Street Racing
Date: Oct 20, 2008
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Midnight Club is fast, beautiful, and way too hard. 

  Midnight Club Los Angeles has a lot going for it: excellent graphics; fast, intense racing that 
 takes place day or night; and numerous online modes that support up to 16 racers. Unfortunately, 
 it has a few rather significant problems that hold it back, including a small roster of vehicles 
 and gameplay that, while fun, doesn't break any new ground. But most of all, it is Midnight Club's 
 excessive difficulty that makes it a very good racing game rather than a great one.  

           It's a nice car now, but it won't be by the end of the race.      

  There's a bit 
 of a story, but it's the bare minimum to get you in a car to race around the streets of LA. And 
 it is quite a version of LA. The game has a day/night cycle so you're not stuck racing at one time 
 of day the whole time. You won't just race in sunshine, either. Some days are cloudy, and every 
 once in awhile, the clouds unleash torrents of rain. Day or night, rain or shine, the city looks 
 fantastic. The frame rate is steady, the action is fast, and the game's re-creation of LA is absolutely 
 gorgeous. This slightly scaled-down City of Angels covers everything, including the beaches of 
 Santa Monica, the Hollywood hills, and downtown. What's really neat about the city here is not 
 only how many recognizable landmarks there are, such as the 3rd Street Promenade and LA Convention 
 Center, but also the branded buildings, such as 7-11, Pizza Hut, Holiday Inn, and even billboards 
 for iPods. There's certainly such a thing as too much advertising, but it's not overdone here (not 
 every gas station is a 7-11, for example) , and having these real-world businesses in the game world 
 helps immerse you in the experience.  

  As with most street racing games, you drive around the city looking for people to race. When you 
 find someone, you flash your lights, and in most cases, race to the starting line. There are time 
 trials, checkpoint races around the city, freeway races, and races from point A to point B-- pretty 
 standard stuff for the genre. You'll also have missions where you must render payback by damaging 
 target vehicles and deliver cars across town unscathed in an extremely short amount of time. There 
 is a police presence, which can and will chase you down if it sees you're up to no good. Chases 
 aren't as intense as in the Need for Speed games, but it's immensely entertaining to pull over 
 and then watch yourself on the police car's dash-cam as you peel out when the cop approaches your 
 vehicle.  

  When you finish a race, you're awarded money and respect based on your position. Respect unlocks 
 new races, as well as new licensed cars (plus motorcycles) , visual customization options, and performance 
 upgrades. The slow way in which new cars are unlocked is most likely because of how few cars and 
 bikes are (about 44) included. But regardless of the reason, it takes a lot of winning to gain 
 new items, which can be frustrating when you've got money to spend and a car in desperate need 
 of improvement.  

  Frustration is something you'll become accustomed to as you play Midnight Club LA. This is mostly 
 due to the game's uneven and excessive difficulty. Other than the occasional race that lets you 
 choose ahead of time, there are no difficulty settings. There are color-coded races that purport 
 to be easy, medium, or hard, but quite often, the "easy" races are just as challenging as the hard 
 ones. This "one size fits all" difficulty wouldn't have been a problem if the game were balanced, 
 but it's not. CPU racers seem impervious to the perils of oncoming traffic. They rarely make significant 
 contact with other cars, weaving back and forth across lanes like George Costanza playing Frogger. 
 You, on the other hand, won't be as lucky. Even minor scrapes with cars, walls, and fences can 
 send your car spinning and leave you facing the wrong way when you come to a stop. Parked cars 
 are particularly hazardous because they don't have their lights on and are extremely difficult 
 to see. Because of the amazing skill level of the CPU, even one minor error on your part can -- and 
 typically will -- cost you the race. This means that you'll end up doing a lot of grinding (finding 
 races that aren't insanely tough and repeatedly doing them over) to raise your respect level. It's 
 tedious and doesn't make for a great time.  

  There are other issues that prevent Midnight Club from achieving its potential. The Google Earth-style 
 map looks really cool as it seamlessly zooms from street level to the sky, but it's not great at 
 showing you where to go. This is a problem because it's a  map . The angle at which you view the 
 city streets isn't very user-friendly when zoomed in, many streets aren't marked, you can't rotate 
 it, and while you can set a waypoint marker, it won't show you the best route to take. This is 
 a huge problem when you're racing from one spot to another without checkpoints -- you must constantly 
 pause the game and consult the map to make sure you're taking the right streets. This problem is 
 even worse in the ridiculously punishing car-delivery minigames. Not only do you need to keep the 
 pedal to the medal the whole time, but you have to avoid damaging the car all while pausing the 
 game and checking the map every few blocks. Even when there are checkpoints, there is no guarantee 
 you won't get lost. Some of these large pillars of smoke are poorly placed, and the smoke actually 
 obscures what's behind it, making it possible to zoom right by a turn. When this happens, you might 
 as well quit out of the race to start over because you don't get the same rubber-band assistance 
 as the AI and probably won't recover.  

           The map is really cool-looking; unfortunately, it's not as useful as you might hope.  
     

  If you can look past Midnight Club's many frustrating aspects (unlockable special abilities that 
 do things like slow down time and clear cars out of your path help alleviate some, but not all, 
 of the problems) , there's a very solid racer to be found. When the difficulty is just right (it 
 happens occasionally) , and you take advantage of the simple-yet-effective drafting mechanic, races 
 are exciting and finishes are tight. There's also a lot of enjoyment in the game's multiplayer 
 component, which supports up to 16 racers via system link, as well as online. You can create your 
 own races, challenge folks who happen to be driving around to standard races, or play one of the 
 game's unique modes, such as Capture the Flag, Team Capture the Flag, Keepaway (get a flag then 
 keep it away from everyone) , Stockpile (whoever returns the most flags to his base wins) , and more. 
 Because it's a level playing field and you don't have to deal with the AI, multiplayer is where 
 Midnight Club is at its best. Going online also gives you the opportunity to show off your ride 
 to the community where others can rate your car's looks and even purchase it.  

  Midnight Club Los Angeles is exciting, beautiful, and great when played online. It's a shame that 
 its difficulty is so uneven, because this issue and other problems take your attention away from 
 what is an otherwise very good racing game.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (70 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: skojic
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 13, 2009 7:14 pm PT
Review:  There are only a few games that I really keep in my collection. What I usually do (and this is 
 not very supportive of me, I know) , is I buy or rent a game, and then return it for another one. 
 A few exceptions are present, but they are far too few and in between. However, I am honored to 
 say that Midnight Club: Los Angeles is a game I'll keep.
  
  I've followed the Midnight Club series since it's conception, and being a racing fanatic, I followed 
 the Need For Speed series as well. I've often made a point that, in the beggining, they were just 
 too different to compare. But now, with NFS: Underground and its spiritual sequels, I can finally 
 consider the two competitors in the illegal street racing game market.
  
  To start off, MCLA has gorgeous visuals. This is probably the most apparent aspect of the game, 
 but it's even more impressive when you see it in action. The roads are deadly hosts and the cars 
 are dangerous companions as you skid your way into the final stretch. The people around you duck 
 for cover, but you're going so fast that you can't help but keep your eye on that GPS and just 
 how far off you are from the finish line. Then you realize that the driver of the Ford Saleen behind 
 you is a persistent bastard and he drifts perfectly on the inside of the curve. 
  
  Now you're in trouble, you think, but you shift gears and step on that gas and as the lights speed 
 past you, you hit that nitrous oxide button and your Nissan Skyline R34 starts spewing flames through 
 its exhaust tip. The world blurs for a second or two, but never enough to leave you completely 
 blind as to where you're actually going. You might think it's over, but it's not. If you're a smart 
 driver, you would've kept both NOS bursts for the home run. The end of the course is marked by 
 red smoke, and you see a couple of cars ahead of you. 
  
  This is a fairly common situation, and sometimes leaves you supersitcious as to how they are positioned 
 EXACTLY ahead of you. However, with no time to think, you use that second spray and shift the vehicle's 
 weight onto one side. As the car starts leaning over to one of its sides, you pray to the car gods 
 that it doesn't land on its side. And just as the fininsh line nears, your car explodes between 
 the two civilian vehicles, and then falls back onto all four tires. 
  
  You've won the race. You get the cash and you get the respect, which boosts your rank or at least 
 gets you a couple of hundred points nearer to it. Not all races are as fortunate as this one, and 
 beating your competition is as challenging as ever. But once you're done, the feeling of victory 
 is all the sweeter for it.
  
  The gameplay allows for all this, and much more. Every car drives and feels a little different. 
 Muscle cars usually pack more power but are less dependable when it comes to steering. Motorbikes 
 are as fast as they come, but one mistake and you might be skiding across the pavement, instead 
 of your ride. 
  The music is the usual adrenaline boost you need, but you'll find that keeping your eyes on the 
 road is going to take up a lot more of your attention.
  
  The selection of cars is extensive to say the least. Muscle, import, and luxury vehicles all have 
 their pros and cons. As you upgrade your ride, the competitor's will follow. Don't expect to outclass 
 your enemy in any way. Only your skills and your drive will land you the 1st place in a race. It 
 can be frustrating, but well worth it in the end.
  
  From the exterior parts like bumpers, spoilers, and wheels, to interior styling; modding a car 
 has never been this much fun. Whether you want a new Sparco steering wheel or racing seats, or 
 even a complete widebody kit, you'll get your daily fix of pimping up your ride with this game.
 
  
  One drawback that I can mention, and this is quite familiar with all racing games, is a weak story. 
 There is no real emphasis on it, and truth be told, you don't need any. This is a game for those 
 who want a faithful Midnight Club entry in the series, and not a Hollywood blockbuster.
  
  And so, having played all the recent racing games (including NFS: Undercover) , I can shamelessly 
 say that MCLA leaves its competitors in the dust. When you come back after a long day at work, 
 or after watching the new 'Fast & Furious' (which is a treat for the fans) , your feet will be itching 
 to step onto the virtual gas pedal behind a sweet ride that MCLA so undisputably provides. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: adamt2828
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 10, 2009 7:23 am PT
Review:  WOW
  I bought this game for 17.99 from www. play. com and it is definatley worth the money.
  Before this game I owned Midnight Club 3 DUB Edition Remix on PS2 and that was a fantastic game. 
 When I bought this I really didnt expect it too be as good as MC3 but it is a lot better.
  
  The graphics is great and all of the cars have individual engine noises so you feel different 
 in every car. The new cockpit view is also great if you just want too cruise around LA at your 
 own pace. There are many vehicles too choose from at the start of the game and there are more coming 
 in future car packs.
  
  The online play is good on this game too but does have room for improvement.
  RMR is a great 
 idea with loads of cars onit but some people just give stupid ratings, there should also be a search 
 bar so you can easily find cars that were made by your friends. But this is a minor problem in 
 such a great game.
  
  A lot of people have said that this game is way too hard (gamespt included) but it isnt. Sure you 
 dont win every race and on some races you do have to restart a few times, but if this game was 
 too easy it would be no fun at all.
  
  The gameplay is great and I have played this game for about 40 hours now and I'm still not finished 
 with it.
  
  Overall I give this game a rating of 9/10 because it is all it has cracked up to be and more.
 
  I seriously reccomend* this game to all PS3 and 360 owners who are even remoteley* intrested in 
 cars.
  
  *sorry for the spelling 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dada_konke
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 9, 2009 2:34 am PT
Review:  There, I said it. After using the 240SX, the evo IX & the cobra; it frustates the daylights out 
 of any amateur racer from the likes of NFS, GRID or even Ridge-Racer. Despite starting my career 
 with auto gear and yellow opponents, there were many times when I almost flung my controller straight 
 at the TV. Is this game tough or what. Its totally obnoxious. to summarise the game in short: take 
 a blender; pour Ninja Gaiden Sigma, rough taunts, car damage and pain in the arse traffic. Blend 
 until smooth and there you have it Midnight Club: LA
  For those who just found their partners cheating on them, DONOT play this game or else you will 
 reconsider shooting them in the head and then the TV, followed by shredding the BD. The only mobile 
 I think worthy of honor in the entire game is the Kawasaki Ninja. This Bike when totally modified 
 in regards to its performance, can outrun any two/four wheeled vehicle in the entire game. If this 
 vehicle was absent in the game I would have given MC: LA a 6 or 5. A word to RockStar: Good game, 
 but the difficulty would bore even an addict 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gregdemetrick
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 6, 2009 1:50 pm PT
Review:  I was always hesitant to buy MC: LA but when Circuit City had it for 40% off I picked it up. The 
 game generally does not expand on the Midnight Club series and plays very close to MC3: Dub Edition. 
 But MC3 is a solid game and what LA does is expand on the online options, customization, and the 
 details of the game. The game play isn't new so don't go looking for that. Where the title shines 
 is in it's fully immerse nature and high end graphics. They have removed a lot of the collectables 
 and focused instead of the map, physics, and game play. None of it is highly realistic and the 
 police chases can get annoying but the race modes are diverse and easy to deeply dive into. Hidden 
 shortcuts are always the key to winning big so taking a long cruise always helps in finding ways 
 around the map. 
  
  The South Central expansion is a must have here as it add 33% more to the map, cars, and contests 
 you can drive. Tournaments are incredibly fun and the online play is solid. Definitely worth the 
 full price of admission. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jacko-147
Rating: 7.5
Date: Mar 26, 2009 10:47 am PT
Review:  Midnight club LA is the best game in the whole of the series bringing great graphics and online 
 multiplayer.
  
  Story- an alrite story but it takes a long time you will find yourself completing race after race 
 and not getting anywere. And the races become a bit repetative doing the same races over and over 
 again. The start is fairly easy and does not offer a chalenge but very quickly it become insanely 
 hard it seems that competiters have faster cars and no every shortcut imaginable. Plus you will 
 not be playing for a long time and it still gets inreadably boring.
  
  Cars- A wide range of cars for sport and luxery to bikes 4x4. The best bit about this game is doing 
 up your car with a good range of body kits and rims it will keep you intrested for hours.
  
  Online- offers freerome and an alrighte set of races to do from a simple cuircit race to capture 
 the glag.
  
  I strongly advise you rent before you buy because this game is not for everyone only deservses 
 7.5 it could have been better 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Blaze_Hrimfaxi
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 15, 2009 5:47 pm PT
Review:  Alright, I kept hearing NFS: Undercover blew so i finally decided to get myself MC: LA after much 
 consideration.
  
  At first i enjoyed it. The city is a blast to drive around and explore. Almost no street "grids" 
 as in previous games in the series and the cars and customization are awesome. Plenty of options 
 to choose from. Theres virtually no limit to what you can create.
  
  But then, after a few races the game started to get brain numbingly hard. the opponents get ridiculously 
 smart and blaze ahead as if their cars have warp drive. One little mistake, and you are SCREWED! 
 Theres also some occasional freezing issues. 
  
  In summery, I recommend you rent this game first before you consider buying. Unfortunately, Its 
 not a game for everyone. I for one will be returning it next chance i get if this mess keeps up. 
 I can only pray R* releases a patch to fix the ridiculous difficulty.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: lindseyiluvyou
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 21, 2009 8:07 pm PT
Review:  Midnight Club LA is an awesome game don't get me wrong. With awesome cars sweet gameplay and lets 
 not forgot the high speed chases in the game is amazing. However the game gets a little boring 
 due to the fact you need a great turning vehicle along with enough speed to win. Some races are 
 so hard that you may want to wait till you unlock different group vehicles. One mistake can and 
 most of the time will make you lose. 
  
  
  This game will make you scream at your TV in frustration as it may take 3-5 tries just to win an 
 easier race and 6-10 tries to win one of those harder races. Another thing is that you race in 
 the same place so many times it gets a little repetitive. More harder things are the pinkslip races. 
 You got a 50/50 chance of winning or losing your vehicle. This is really bad because you have to 
 race in your good vehicle and there is still with the hardness a chance you may lose your good 
 vehicle.
  
  
  Now single player review is over lets talk about Multiplayer. Awesome features. You can get money 
 for winning an online race you can rate and buy cars and even submit your car to "rate my ride. 
 Of course you might need to finish your whole career mode or at least wait until you get group 
 4 vehicles cause most of the people online will have great cars which will be hard to win in unless 
 you have your car fully upgraded. Another thing you can do is pick your character of the players 
 you meet and face on career mode.
  
  
  My review its a great game. No more no less. A hard game that sometimes gets repetitive but is 
 really fun. I will give it a 8/10. Congratulations as Midnight club in my book won the 3rd best 
 street racing game on the PS3. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mayhem94
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 17, 2009 10:36 am PT
Review:  Many say this game is way too hard, however if you get the update (which is 99% yes) the game is 
 not super hard. I see it more as a challenge. In midnight club u are the new dude in l. a. You earn 
 rep and make money. With money you can customize cars, or of course buy cars. Overall midnight 
 club has a great story that is easy to follow. To make the money that you will need you can race, 
 perform delivery missions, pay back missions, or wagers. One can also get cars from pinkslip races. 
 Also the customization is DEEP. From inside to outside it can be customized up to the tiniest detail. 
 Also the online is fun and nice in its open all over l. a. layout. If you get a socialclb i. d. then 
 you can do SO MUCH more online. The graphics and details of l. a. are well made. Rockstar has mapped 
 out many different famous places in l. a. perfectly. And there is more to come (South central DLC) 
 All in all, this game is worth buying and remember - it is not hard if you get the update!
  
  Thank you
  
  psn= mayhem594 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Trickedoutps3
Rating: 7.5
Date: Feb 7, 2009 12:12 pm PT
Review:  This game takes a little getting used to. You start out as a guy from the east coming to LA for 
 a fresh racing start. The game puts you in a car that should belong in the junk yard, but it will 
 get better.
  
  The gameplay is similair to Burnout Paradise where you drive around looking for races to complete, 
 which there is an abundance to do. There are cops in this game and they get VERY annoying. However, 
 you will get used to avoiding them for the most part. The bad part about this game is that there 
 are alot of glitches. Sometimes you will crash on a motorcycle and when you respawn you will be 
 driving around with no one on the bike. Another one is that it sometimes has trouble loading the 
 textures on the roads. There are many other glitches like getting stuck in a wall and keep falling 
 into oblivion.
  
  The Online gameplay is crap. I have only been able to get on once and it was boring because no 
 one was doing anything. The other few times I have tried it just says "Joining game" and it will 
 sit like that for hours if you get it and there is no cancel option so you have to quit the game 
 if you want to keep playing offline.
  
  Overall, this game isn't too bad, but it is definately not one to buy for more than $30. If you 
 are looking for a game similair to this and havn't played Burnout Paradise I highly recommend that 
 you go with BP.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: band_w8
Rating: 7.5
Date: Feb 7, 2009 6:41 am PT
Review:  Don't get fooled by the others when they say that it is too hard. It is not easy either. I finished 
 it in only ten days. But I'm telling you, you should only buy this game if you are a serious racer.
 
  
  The easiest way to finish:
  Start of with any of the three cars. (I recommend the golf)
  You do not need to buy any cars 
 your self because you can just use the cars that you win in pinkslip races.
  Once you have unlocked the group 4 vehicles, then go ahead and buy the Kawasaki ninja (which is 
 only 17,000$) . After you have done that, then you should be able to win any race in the game even 
 the ones that are on the hardest difficulty.
  
  I hate it when the midnight club server is not available. in every 3 in 5 times you log in, the 
 server is not available.
  
  Add me if you want
  
  PSN ID:
  kamranxx 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gamereviews2008
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 4, 2009 12:11 pm PT
Review:  After raking in the millions with Grand Theft Auto IV in April, Rockstar is back with another hot 
 title for 2008, this time with much less controversy, but a similar level of anticipation.
  
  The Midnight Club series has a substantial fan-base of its own and Midnight Club: Los Angeles 
 has been on many peoples' radars for months now. In true Rockstar style however, they have gone 
 for bigger and better, faster and shinier than before. On starting up Midnight Club: Los Angeles, 
 you'll be thrown directly into the game without the need for any pesky menus - this seems to be 
 a growing trend these days. Immediately you are made familiar with your character, the nameless, 
 neutral protagonist who has come to Los Angeles to pursue a career as an illegal street racer. 
 Like its predecessors, Midnight Club: Los Angeles is all about illegal street racing in hotted-up 
 cars.
  
  Your character is given a low end car by a contact you have in the city, who is your window into 
 underground racing. The story is all too familiar from the likes of Need for Speed, but it doesn't 
 seem to get old. The cut scenes are very cinematic and look fantastic, but it is clear that the 
 story is by no means the emphasis of this game. For a racer, this is probably a good thing.
  
  Los Angeles has been chosen as the scene for this iteration, and it is truly epic. As far as 
 we can tell every main and side street in Los Angeles has been put into the game, along with street 
 names and a considerable number of branded stores to boot. The Hollywood Hills, Santa Monica, Beverley 
 Hills, Downtown, it's all there in the game for you to race around, or explore at your leisure. 
 Midnight Club: Los Angeles has to be one of the best-looking titles of the year, the graphics are 
 simply mind blowing. Everything looks very crisp, from the cars to the pedestrians wandering the 
 streets. The cars have roughly 100,000 polygons each, which explains why they look so spectacular. 
 Rubbish whips past your windows as you race down the freeway, kicked up by cars ahead, and despite 
 being an open, streaming world there is no noticeable pop-up at all.
  
  The streaming engine is quite impressive, and the whole world and experience is seamless - though 
 this should come as no surprise as it is based on the same Rockstar Advanced Game Engine (RAGE) 
 used in Grand Theft Auto IV. The longest you'll be waiting is when you change cars in the garage, 
 but other than that you'll be in the world virtually non-stop. The open world means you can drive 
 anywhere, any time, and the dynamic weather and day and night cycle make it feel as though you 
 could really be cruising the streets of Los Angeles.
  
  Watch out though, driving too fast past the cops will soon have LA's finest on your tail. The longer 
 you run, the higher the ticket price - if (or when) they catch you. Evade them for long enough 
 (and get out of their line of sight) to avoid them. This is another element which makes you feel 
 simply immersed in a real hustle-and-bustle city. Coupled with the massive, Pacific coast-themed 
 soundtrack included which amps you up for driving, it's a real pleasure to cruise the streets and 
 check out the sights.
  
  As you start out, the game is outlined to you by messages received on your communication device, 
 which is a sort of cross between a pager and a phone. This prevents you from being overwhelmed 
 by the number of different aspects to the game. There are the nitro boosts, the GPS, power ups, 
 gas stations and more, and it takes a short while to get a handle on it. But once you're sitting 
 pretty behind the wheel of your car, you can admire the beautiful in-car cockpit view that Rockstar 
 has created.
  
  Each car is accurately recreated and looks magnificent, with fully 'functioning' hands on the wheel 
 that will even hit the horn. Although strangely they don't move when using the handbrake. In any 
 case, the first thing we noticed was the fabulous handling that all the cars seem to have, including 
 the motorbikes. They have a solid centred feel to them, without feeling as though they could turn 
 on a dime. While this is definitely an arcade racer not a simulation, the cars are precise to control, 
 and you will soon be whipping between traffic with relative ease. The inclusion of a slip-streaming 
 option that gives you a nitrous boost is also nice, although we have definitely seen it all before.
 
  
  You can also redistribute the weight on your car or bike, which helps with cornering on bikes and 
 allows you to ride up on two wheels in your car. The advantage of this is it reduces your slipstream 
 profile meaning that competitors behind you can't use your slipstream. Not to mention that it makes 
 you feel a bit like Knight Rider. The emphasis on visual damage instead of performance damage is 
 a plus in an environment that is so chock full of traffic, trees, lamp posts and the like. Needless 
 to say, you would be hard pressed to finish a race without hitting a few things, therefore the 
 damage is mainly visual. Although with each crash a damage meter incrementally fills, and if during 
 the race it fills up entirely you will be out and forced to replace the vehicle. At the end of 
 each race you are given the option of repairing your vehicle for free, but to fully remove all 
 the scratches and scuffs and get the shine back on your paint job you will need to pull into a 
 service station.
  
  With over forty gorgeous vehicles, and three bikes in the game, from a 1969 Ford Mustang Boss 302 
 to a 1999 Nissan Skyline GT-R V-Spec, or even the 2008 Audi RS4, you'll be wanting to keep them 
 looking nice. To achieve this, you can access the garage along with a wealth of tuning options 
 for your car, including a range of performance tuning and body modifications. You can then access 
 a livery editor in which you can create your own logos much like in Forza 2. If you create a true 
 masterpiece you can list the car for sale on Xbox Live, which will sell a copy of the car earning 
 you cash, but retain the original for you. Or you can enter it into the Rate My Ride competition 
 and have people vote on their favourite rides, all from within the game's menu system.
  
  Once you have your ride pimped out like you want it, you can jump into the in-game map and use 
 the GPS to set a course for one of the races around town. You can take on other racers cruising 
 the streets, or attend race meets at certain locations. When you see someone cruising you simply 
 flash your lights at them to initiate a challenge and away you go. Races are divided up into checkpoints, 
 circuits, point to point races, time trials and freeway races. You will be able to race in tournaments 
 and series, for pink slips or for money. Let's be straight, this all sounds a bit like any other 
 street racing title, so what's new other than the spectacular environment and graphics? Well, Rockstar 
 has included power-ups for online and arcade modes. You can either race with them or without them, 
 but they are surprisingly fun. These include Ice, Nitro, Pulse, Reverse Steering, Shield and Stealth 
 amongst a few others. Basically the effect of these is to slow down or hinder your opponents, but 
 they are implemented so that the effects are not too overwhelming, so as not to ruin the racing.
 
  
  During the normal career mode you also have a number of special abilities. These are Nitrous Boost, 
 Agro, Zone, EMP and Roar. Nitrous is self explanatory and can be refilled by passing through a 
 petrol station. The others refill from good driving without contacting other cars. Agro allows 
 you to plough cars out of the way without taking damage. Zone slows time and allows you to dash 
 through small gaps. EMP disables the competitor's electronics, and finally Roar sends out an engine 
 rev so loud that traffic will move out of your way briefly, which is very helpful on the freeway. 
 What is clear is that given the AI you're up against, you will need all the help you can get.
 
  
  The AI in Midnight Club: Los Angeles is very challenging. They are not that hard to beat if you 
 race a good clean race and know your courses, but a mistake which leaves you spinning out of control 
 may well mean race over. If it happens early enough in the race it does seem as though you can 
 claw your way back, but in the final stages, you're done for. We found we were winning a substantial 
 number of our races, but we were using the race restart function almost as much. Then again, who 
 says an AI has to be a walk in the park? They race competitively and strongly, but they do make 
 mistakes as well - even if it does seem that they recover substantially faster than you do. It 
 raises the entry curve for this title just that little bit higher.
  
  Multiplayer is accessed from the smooth in-game menus and allows you to get into a race in a very 
 short time. This seems to have been modelled on Burnout Paradise's online mode to a large extent. 
 Basically you can race anywhere in the city, or simply cruise the streets with some friends challenging 
 them as you please. You can create your own races by setting up the way-points, meaning the game 
 has an endless array of possibilities in this respect. There's a spectator mode for when you are 
 waiting to join a race, and some interesting game modes such as "Capture the Flag", "Basewar Capture 
 the Flag", "Stockpile" and "Keep Away", amongst others. We published a more comprehensive look 
 at these a short while ago, so you can get up to speed here. All of these are flag based game modes, 
 but very different variations and they should keep the online mode very interesting indeed. The 
 games we were able to have mainly off-shore with Americans were relatively lag-free and were easily 
 playable. Much like with the AI however, a mistake can be fatal and it is difficult to come back 
 from it.
  
  Midnight Club: Los Angeles is an excellent street racing title. The world is simply enormous, and 
 the graphics are jaw-dropping. The game is like a merging of Burnout Paradise and the Need For 
 Speed series. The customisation comes close to that of Forza 2, with even more body and interior 
 modifications. The game itself however seems to have very little to it that is unique or innovative, 
 despite the fact that the cars feel exceptional. The question is, when the environment and the 
 cars are this hot, does it need to be? We think not, and if you can get past the challenging AI 
 it is an excellent title that will provide you with many hours of entertainment.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: bigd575
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 3, 2009 8:03 am PT
Review:  I've been play Midnight Club ever since the first one, and yea I've defiantly liked everyone that 
 I've played. I've become a fan over the years, and Los Angeles is no different it's just as good 
 and really stands up to my expectations that I had for it.
  
  The graphics are really nice a lot better than the third one which that's something that you should 
 expect though because it's on the PS3. Everything from the cars to the city that you race in looks 
 great actually better than what I though they would be.
  
  The sounds of the game are great as they have always been just like we have seen in all of the 
 others. The cars sound fantastic and really realistic. The soundtrack is good there are some tracks 
 that I didn't like but for most of it I enjoyed listening to it will I was flying past everybody.
 
  
  The gameplay is amazing because the controls are really nice all of the cars have a different fill 
 to them which is really nice. All I hear is that it's to hard to beat and it's a disappointment 
 I didn't thank that at all if anything Rockstar could of made it harder. I guess if you want something 
 easy NFS might work for you.
  
  Overall Midnight Club: Los Angeles is great just great as I said before Midnight Club 3 was the 
 best in the series well not anymore. A new king has taking it's place I can't wait for the next 
 one at least I hope there's one.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: zombie_killah
Rating: 4.5
Date: Jan 30, 2009 12:46 pm PT
Review:  At first glance this game looks great. It has amazing graphics and a great range of cars. But it 
 has a few to many flaws. The difficulty is way too high, it takes ages to win 1 race. Secondly 
 there's no local multiplayer so you can not race against your friends. The map is dodgy and it 
 is hard to know were to go. Basically this game is a rip off. It is great if you like extra hard 
 and frustrating gameplay, but if not it's not for you. The bottom line is this game is 1 of the 
 worst racing games ever created.
  This is rubbish!
  Don't buy it!
  This is a let down for such a great console it makes me sad when i see it. It is worse then grid 
 and need for speed undercover and burnout paradise and gran turismo 5 and need for speed prostreet 
 and all other ps3 racing games. Even if you bought it for 1 cent or 1 pence you would ask for a 
 refund that's how bad it is. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Omislash1234
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 19, 2009 10:34 am PT
Review:  This is a great game in my opinion. I see that most of the reviews for it so far are right on. 
 The game spot review is a bit to harsh and has probably steered away even some hardcore racing 
 fans from this beautiful and difficult game. What I look for in a racing game is how many cars, 
 how many tracks, can you upgrade your vehicles? and how well does it control? This game scores 
 high on all of the above.
  
  First to explain the difficulty. No you can't just pick this game up and beat it right away. You 
 still earn money for loosing in half the races and advance your rep to unlock parts, and as you 
 progress and learn the tracks it becomes easier and you start to win more races. My way around 
 this was to start using the motorcycles. Granted this game is hard enough to deter someone from 
 playing it if they give up early on.
  
  The controls are very good, responsive fast and rewarding. The bikes are my favorite because I 
 ride a Kawasaki in real life and yes you can take turns very fast not using your brakes. Although 
 I would never do this in a city and kill myself.
  
  The cars are great, muscle, tuners, and exotics are all fun to drive and have their own strengths 
 and weaknesses. You can do a lot of tuning on these machines and paint them and make them your own 
 with a lot of extra designs. The vinyls are great.
  
  The tracks are well laid out in my opinion and each area offers a variety of exciting shortcuts 
 and some mind blowing jumps.
  
  The map and checkpoint system works well for the most part. Sometimes the checkpoints are spaced 
 a little too far apart and if you are in the lead this can cause you a lot of frustration by looking 
 down at it then finding yourself flying off of your bike because in that split second you didn't 
 see the grey car on the grey road with no headlights on at dusk because you were in first and needed 
 to double check your map and when this happens it is a trial to catch back up but unlike what the 
 game spot reviewer said there is no need to start over, you can catch back up and overtake first. 
 
  
  The graphics are wonderful, I do not recall very many racing games that have people roaming the 
 streets and being able to race at all times of the day. I have only got to see it rain once so 
 far and that looks really good. The environments feel so wide open and offer the popular living 
 and breathing city element found in most sandbox style games today.
  
  The music, rating music has become more of a matter of opinion over the years do to CD quality 
 sound. This sound track for example in my opinion is weak and doesn't offer me very many songs 
 that stand out in my ears. The sounds of the vehicles, are well the sounds of the actual vehicles, 
 can't fault anything there. 
  
  Ah the story. Nothing against game spot but they always seem to have an undertone disapproval for 
 the stories in most racing games. What do folks want out of a racing game story? Should our in 
 game hero be addicted to crack provided by aliens from outer space while single handily thwarting 
 an invasion from the supreme alien drug lords, all the while on a quest to save his father, slash 
 ninja, robot ,pirate, bounty hunter from the clutches of Lester (the guy you race for pinks) ? It 
 is a RACING game.
  
  
  
  Overall. This is a challenging and rewarding racing game that all hardcore racing fans will enjoy. 
 You might need to buy a new controller but you will still love to get mad at it.
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: pez-loving-lea
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 15, 2009 6:03 am PT
Review:  Midnight Club is back better than ever! Gamespot said way too hard.. they we're lying. The game 
 can be challenging at first but not too hard. once you make money you can supe up your car and 
 gradually win and buy better vehicles. once you have the Kawasaki Ninja bike the games a breeze 
 taking on the hardest races and destroying all the racers earning you lots of quick money. the 
 games better than expecting and given the right time the game is brilliant! it was 17.99 on play. com 
 and it was best bargain for it anywhere. Online is awesome rating and buying other peoples rides 
 never gets boring! you can customise every part of your car including steering wheel, drivers seats, 
 neon inside the car. Its endless what you can do and once you finish the game theres a BIG reward! 
 Give this game a chance and you will be blown away!
  
  Graphics 8/10
  Gameplay 10/10
  Lasting Appeal 9/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: The_Solid
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 7, 2009 6:37 am PT
Review:  Well, this game is a great buy, while the begining of the game is hard and the rest is hard too. But 
 this game is true, to the essence of what made racing games fun. The hardness makes it worthwhile, Better 
 than undercover.
  And the multiplayer is actually loads of fun, hard to expect from a driving game.
  Trophies are 
 there and are quiet easy to get.
  
  This game also has a good bunch of cars and bikes. I recently cracked 250 mph and it was great and 
 i chained it all the way through L. A. It was Effin' amazing. and in this you may customise every 
 bit of your car.
  
  This game, also has a Lamboghini Muira, which is where the lifeline of the supercar began, it is beauty 
 and its also a great buy for car fanatics. In this game you can customise, the interiors, the vinyls, the 
 steering wheel, the seats, the doors, the list goes on.
  
  
  
  This game is chillin' 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sleepy_weasel
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 6, 2009 5:26 am PT
Review:  Although the reviews here say it is a difficult game, for racing game fans I don't think this is 
 the case. Yes it pushes and challenges you, but isn't that the whole point? Easy racing games where 
 you just keep hitting nitro to speed ahead of the pack and win every race are just no fun. Having 
 played burnout paradise to death, I do prefer this game with its real world cars, and customisation 
 options.
  
  Whilst the cut scenes are verging on the hilarious, underneath the hood is a fun street racing 
 game, which for me is streets ahead of need for speed and the rest. There's enough variety in here 
 to keep you going for a while, and trying to outrun the cops never gets boring!
  
  You can pick this up at the moment in the UK for less that twenty sheets, which for such a fun 
 game, is a bargain!
  
  Possibly not one for newbies, but still a fun and good looking game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheProdigyIV
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 9, 2009 11:01 am PT
Review:  Well, Im a litte late in reviewing this game, but then again im a little late in buying it, I bought 
 it on The 28th of Last Month. Ok so as usual, I will say a few things and then give the pros and 
 cons. First, This game is a fast street racer, It features an amazing view on the City of Angels, 
 The general graphics are great, And its very, Very, VERY, Addictive. There is alot of cars to choose 
 from, Starting from the cheap 3 Grand cars, Which are all grouped, Group 1 Cars, Group 2, Group 
 3 Etc. You have Tuners, Muscle Cars, Exotic, Luxory, Motorbikes. The fastest car I believe is a 
 Lancer, Doing 200+ MPH, And that will cost you alot of cash but.. Worth it. Im currently driving 
 the Evolution, And I have the 2nd Car Performance Upgrade, And boy thats fast, And cheap really. 
 You will find this game hard at times, Especially during Pink Slip races, As the nerves make you 
 sweat when you are close or nearly losing a brand new 100 grand car, But hey thats life. The AI 
 seems to be pretty aware of whats around them, And they are not stupid, Believe that. There was 
 an update for the PS3 version of MCLA and it has changed it so the A. I are a little more crash 
 likely, Which balances this games difficulty out perfectly. 
  
  
  Graphics - 9/10
  Story - N/A
  Sounds - 8/10
  Gameplay - 8/10
  Multiplayer - 8/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RepThe610
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 4, 2009 5:20 pm PT
Review:  Firstly after I initially read the official gamespot review and watched the video I was coaxed 
 into staying away from this game. It sounded like I would be incredibly frustrated and wouldn't 
 enjoy playing this game at all. About two months after the review I caved in and decided to give 
 it a try.
  
  This is absolutely a quality racing game. Since i played NFSU2 i've been somewhat dissapointed 
 since that because no other game in my opinion came close to the level of customization and gameplay 
 that NFSU2 offered. Sure, Most Wanted had cop chases but at the expense of putting together a body 
 kit from the front, back, and sideskirts as well as no underglow, trunk audio, and fun things like 
 that. Midnight Club: Los Angeles is essentially NFSU2 on steroids (Next Gen) . It doesn't have the 
 trunk audio layouts or engine neon, but you can customize your cars interior which is really pretty 
 sweet especially if you've got a convertible. The vinyl's are nearly identical to Forza 2 which 
 is great because you feel satisfied spending time to put together a sweet layout on your car... rather 
 than pick from preset ones.
  
  Graphically the game is solid and the vehicles look awesome flying through the city. The underglow 
 is quirky at night which is dissapointing because that's when it's supposed to be it's brightest 
 but it's minor. The city looks really cool and the fluidity of the map to actually street level 
 is impressive. As fa as the map being "Unhelpful", as put the reviewer, I'm personally confused 
 as to what more he would have wanted. You can highlight a race and that blip will show up on your 
 map/minimap and you drive to it. It doesn't give you turn by turn directions but the point of the 
 game is to use shortcuts and see the city. I buy a video game so i can play it, not have it tell 
 me what turns to make constantly... if you want that pick up Gran Turismo and follow a track.
  
  The only problem in the driving mechanics is when you hit a pole the car glitches through it 
 with no reprecussions to your driving which makes poles something you want to aim for if you take 
 a turn too fast because it doesn't cause you to lose speed. That's truthfully the only thing i 
 can say hurts this game the rest of it is tons of fun. The difficulty isn't hard if your not new 
 to the racing genre. If this is your first racing game your going to be frustrated. 
  
  Don't let the review scare you if you like customizing your cars and have enjoyed past street racing 
 games then you will in no way be dissapointed. If you've never played a racing game then pick up 
 NFS Undercover because it's easy as pie. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: codifexda1st
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 1, 2009 4:51 pm PT
Review:  Although the reviews by the critics are bad, they really have no right to say thoes things. this 
 game is a mix of racing, police pursuits, upgrading your cars to be the best of the best, betting 
 your cars in pinkslip wagers, burinig up the freeway just to veer onto the wrong side and get into 
 a 250mph head on crash (but that just might be me) and so much more. with only a small part of the 
 storyline actually sequenced, you can race through the whole game with as little as 10 cut scenes! 
 this game is one that opens a door into the future of racing and NOTHING i have played even comes 
 close to being as good as this. It is money very well spent and i would recomend this to people 
 who like suping up their lambroghinis and taking them out for a 200mph cruise down the 101 freeway 
 just to end up with a cop pointing a shotgun at your head yelling for you to put your hands up 
 and step out of the car! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chrismaster36
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 26, 2008 11:20 am PT
Review:  So the new game in the MC series has came out. And it's more intense than ever. Sweet cars and 
 bikes and even intense police chases. Theres a character you play for the first time in the series 
 and theres more types of races you can account in. The game might get a little hard if you're new 
 to the series. Like, if you crash your car, it costs you the race and you obviously lose. But, 
 if youre expereienced, you sholdnt have a problem playing this. The graphics are just amazing in 
 this game and I highly recommend it. I cant believe GS gave it a 7.5 this game is awesome. Also 
 the online play is very good and the advertisements in the game are cool like:7 Eleven signs Pizza 
 Hut symbols and McDonalds signs and Best Buy stores. Overall a great  
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: krazykk4
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 25, 2008 12:24 pm PT
Review:  this game is the best yet. its not that hard, especially the beginning races (when choosing ur beginning 
 car, choose the nissan which is the middle car of the three) if you've played the other midnight 
 club series. if u havent then i would agrre with gamespot that the game will be challenging for 
 u. its a good buy for $60. the reason its so expensive is cuz its crazy long and fun if u like 
 the cop chases. ive played like 10 hours alredy and i dont think im even close to 1/4 done the 
 game. the cop chases are seriously eesy or hard dependin on the car u drive and how good u can 
 drift tight corners. the best part is pulling over and then drivin away as soon as the cop gets 
 reely close. but u can only do that if it says pullover. u'll get wat i meen if u buy the game. 
 there arent any hazards like nfs undercover. also like midnight club 3, there are collectables. 
 the good part is u can collect them during racing. the bad part is there are 60 of them in 1 city. 
 u mite think that is good since there all in one city but the city is humungous. neways BUY IT 
 NOW OR REGRET IT!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: grands0229
Rating: 7
Date: Dec 20, 2008 9:28 pm PT
Review:  When the game was first released there was quite the hype about the game so i decided I'd pick 
 it up.. started playing it and it looked good at first, but once I started getting into I just 
 couldn't get past the way the car handled. It's a bit too arcade-ish in my opinion, mind you I'm 
 used to playing games like GRID, DIRT, Burnout Paradise and GT5.. but still i was hoping the car 
 would handle a bit more realistic (then again the game was built on the same engine as GTA4 if 
 I'm not mistaking, and I didn't like the way they handled in that game either. But for a game which 
 is based on driving, rather than shooting, they should have fixed the handling) . Also it's almost 
 impossible to get rid of the cops when they show, it kinda killed the buzz for me. Other than that 
 good concept and graphics, and if the cars would handle more realistic and the cops laid off a 
 bit.. I'd enjoy the game more! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: superlobo
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 20, 2008 7:22 pm PT
Review:  I played Midnight club Dub remix and loved it. This one has less cars but just recently they said 
 that there's download content that's going to add new vehicles include a variety of cars and a 
 motorcycle, also SUVs. Also The "South Central Upgrade Map" provides players with a whole new area 
 of the city, about one-third the size of the original map, and will be available for free. The 
 game keeps growing and I live in L. A. and I think it's a good way for people who never been here 
 to get to drive around in it and enjoy. The game has a great online community, you can cruise offline 
 and race all you want and just by a press of a button you jump online and can cruise, race, take 
 photo's while you race (offline) and even rate other people cars from a rating system 1 through 
 10 and BUY their car. You can work on a car and sell it too. I get hook cause I always want to 
 redo my paint job, add graphics, rims and of course make it faster. It also supports trophies so 
 that also gets me to try to get those cause some of them are actually fun to get. 
  
  The graphic are great both on the cars and city. I think it's better than any other racing game 
 cause you have so much freedom. You have a mission log that keeps track of the missions you done 
 and the ones yet to complete. People say it hard and I'm about 50 percent done with it and it's 
 been from decently hard to really, really challenging.
  
  Bottom line if you like Open sandbox racing games, you can't go wrong with this one and if you're 
 a fan of the series then it's a must buy.
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: DM2438
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 18, 2008 2:27 am PT
Review:  Midnight Club Los Angeles is a beautiful game, though night time graphics are dull and boring. 
 The games graphics shine at dawn, noon, and dusk creating an lighting effect only seen in GTA IV 
 which was nothing short of impressive. The cars handle well, but understeer and oversteer are prominent 
 (mostly when driving below 40 mph, but it still is bothersome. The car models are not photorealistic 
 like GT, but they are pleasing to the eye and are worth an applause, but some cars could have been 
 paid more attention too like the lower the end cars such as the Lancer, Cobalt, etc. The soundtrack 
 is so so compared to Midnight Club III, but it does a great job at creating the atmosphere with 
 a mix of rock and rap, but some songs are just plain annoying like the main title song which I 
 still do not enjoy listening to when I start the game. 
  
  The story in this game seems like a less corny version of a need for speed game, but with a more 
 serious tone which is understandable for a game which does not take itself too seriously which 
 makes this game more enjoyable each second behind the controller. You land in Los Angeles, looking 
 to make money to race faster cars to become the king of the streets, not much in this department. 
 But just like Dub edtion, the game is full of fast and I mean fast racing which makes accidents 
 a dominant moment in this game. But missing a car by a hair makes the race more intense and being 
 able to finish a race head on with a competitor is damn near beautiful. Many people complain about 
 the difficulty of this game, but if the A. I. were a clumsy as you, once you become a pro at the 
 game, each race would be a breeze making the game unplayable because the novelty quality has diminished. 
 My favorite car is the Saleen 302 because it has weight to it and the speed of an exotic. A lot 
 of the fast cars on the game are light and slippery making it hard to complete races without sliding 
 because you are going to fast for the brakes to be responsive. The game does not feel so arcadey 
 this time around which makes it more appealing because I was going to be very dissapointed if the 
 game handle like Dub which was fun at that time in my life, but now it would just be to simple 
 and predictable. Some dissapointments include limited car choices, long and overdone police pursuits, 
 (mostly during freeway races) , far camera views, and sometimes unrelentless godly A. I. Another 
 thing is they got rid of the car class/type based tournament races which were fun, but I guess 
 with such a limited amount of cars in each class, everyone would be racing the same car. Hopefully 
 downloadable content will be available.
  
  This game is the only game I can come back to and just play, just like GTA IV, but unlike GTA IV, 
 midnight club feels like it is missing something that would make this game whole. I enjoy it every 
 second, but it feels like the continuation of an old series that needs new ideas. Midnight Club 
 III was mind blowing, while this game is just an improvent of it, but with less Wow factor which 
 I was expecting from Rockstar. I still play the game non stop and just cruising around is a good 
 way to get time to past when their is nothing better to do. So go buy Midnight Club LA, because 
 it will be one of the best racers this year, even better than GRID due to fact that you can play 
 this game and still have fun well after the single player mode is over. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: darkwolf1982
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 16, 2008 7:06 am PT
Review:  To see the latest Need For Speed offering from a couple of video reviews STILL running "Enclosed 
 Races" while Midnight Club has been doing Open City in both cruising and racing from the very beginning 
 long before NFS every had Open City... Knowing that, I don't have to buy NFS: Undercover to know 
 it's a complete rip-off and an absolute failure!
  
  Now I've been hearing that Midnight Club's latest Los Angeles is considered to be "Punishing" in 
 the difficulty department. Hmmm...
  Yes and No.
  Yes. Need For Speed is what I would consider to be "Training Wheels" for MC: LA, it's challenging.
 
  No. For those who played the previous MC games will know about executing "Burnouts" (hold Handbrake 
 and Accelerator then release Handbrake at desired moment) at the start of a race to gain that perfect 
 takeoff. IGN states (quite ignorantly IMO) that AI opponents leave the starting line as if they've 
 all got warp-drives. Whoever reviewed that didn't take into account that MC: LA wasn't much different 
 to MC3: DUB.
  For those familiar to MC3: DUB (if that was your intro to Midnight Club like myself for example) 
 then a fair degree (to say the least) of MC: LA will become familiar to you, on the same note... 
 If you've had good deal of experience with the Need For Speed games, chances are you're going to 
 pick up the gist of MC: LA at a reasonable pace. For newbies... I won't lie to you. It's tough at 
 first, but with perseverance and determination you will gain a firm enough grasp to work your way 
 though MC: LA. No matter what experience level, No challenge is unwinnable. Oh yeah...
  Comparing cops from NFS to MC: LA... Unless you've got a good ride (a Level 1 modified Starter Car 
 or Group 2 vehicle and Higher) your chances of evading the cops are SLIM!
  Looking at the Midnight Club's recreation of Los Angeles is stunning along with the rest of the 
 audio visuals that MC: LA has to offer. Navigating LA is (from what I've found) is surprisingly 
 easier than doing so in any MC3: DUB environment.
  The Line-Up for MC: LA is quite impressive and yet again another surprise for you... Statistically 
 (stock stats) the most powerful ride you can buy is the Kawasaki Ninja which costs about $20,000! 
 But what I was told by the retailers who sold me MC: LA, they were right when they said you won't 
 miss any of the rides not present that were previously from MC3: DUB.
  And the Specials... You can add any Special to any ride like you do any other modification within 
 the garage!
  ... And now you've got EMP (my personal favourite) along with Zone, Agro and Roar!
  As for the 
 Online features... PlayStation 3 plays seamlessly! The "Rate My Ride" feature is rather novel... 
 Submit a ride and rate other rides submitted, as well as have the opportunity to purchase them.
 
  
  This is what Need For Speed COULD HAVE become.
  MC: LA is worthy successor to MC3: DUB and a crowning glory for the Midnight Club franchise!
  
 
  If you're deciding between Need For Speed: Undercover and Midnight Club: Los Angeles...
  
  MC: LA without question! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ltjg_urbas
Rating: 6.5
Date: Dec 13, 2008 6:31 am PT
Review:  At first the game seems okay. The graphics and sound are pretty good and the car selection is impressive. 
 The races are simply too hard to be fun. I get frustrated after crashign in every race from tryign 
 to weave in and out fo traffic. You go flyign through the air and spinning out of control. It's 
 just frustrating. Almost every race I do makes me want to throw my controller through the wall. 
 If the races were a little easier then it would be a good game. they should tone it down on the 
 traffic. I really liked the ability to customize your cars with different paint jobs and vinyls, 
 but it's not enough to overcome how frustrating I found the races to be. This was the first game 
 that I bought with my PS3 and I would have much rather gotten GT5 or the Grid. I don't knwo mif 
 anyone else shares my view on the difficulty of the game, but I hope Rockstar takes it into account 
 next time they make a racing game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: joshrocks2245
Rating: 6
Date: Dec 11, 2008 5:09 pm PT
Review:  I have played many midnight club games before, and they have all been very hard. This one seems 
 even more hard.
  It can be a fun game though, it is fun to go really fast and fly by other cars, the city looks 
 amazing, and the cars are great.
  
  I also really like the vinyls. It allows me to be an artist and create some artwork on my car, 
 like some South Park characters. 
  There are some body kits and headlights and other parts for your car, but there isn't that many 
 to unlock. 
  
  The online mode is not that great, theres not many people online, and usually you will get booted 
 if you enter certain races where others are racing. 
  
  The cop chases are not that great, it is very hard to escape from the cops. Usually cops will just 
 come out of no where and chase you down.
  The graphics are amazing, the city looks great and the cars look great.
  
  The races can be 
 fun, at first you don't win a lot of money but as you get further in the game you start to win 
 more.
  The races are usually very difficult, if you hit a car when going fast, you will crash and it will 
 take a while to recover.
  You will probably have to restart because it's hard to get your position back if you crash.
  
 
  It's worse if you crash on a bike, it takes almost 10 seconds to get back on the bike, and when 
 you get back on it the cars in the race are really far ahead, and it takes you a while to speed 
 up.
  You can also crash into walls and fall off your bike.
  
  If you are in a car and crash into a wall, you will be sort of stuck so it takes about 5 seconds 
 to back up and get unstuck.
  
  There are some glitches, I experienced quite a lot just in a few days of playing.
  There is a 
 glitch where you can't hear your car, that happened a few times, and there is a glitch where I 
 crashed into the side of the road and I completely fell off the road into no where.
  
  This game is fun but it can also be frustrating to play, most of the time you will be trying to 
 win the same race over and over again.
  
  If you enjoy a really, really hard challenging game, then this is the game for you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nerkle01
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 8, 2008 12:43 pm PT
Review:  This game is great at first, until it gets hard. Its alot of fun if you can get used to the hardness 
 of the game. But ultimately still a great game
  
  Pros
  
  Alot of nice cars and great customization options
  
  Decent sized map
  
  Good character 
 and the voice acting has its humorous moments
  
  Therea alot of ways to make $$ and there is alot of it to be made
  
  Alot of things to do aside 
 from the carreer
  
  Cool Multiplayer features such as Rate my ride where you can submit a car to be rated by players 
 all over the world and you can rate other cars as well and buy the cars! But you cant set the price, 
 because the game decides how much the car is worth based on $$ put into it and which car it is. 
 You can also race online as well as use the Race editor which is when you basicaly create your 
 own races for you and the world to complete
  
  Trophies are fun to get and add a lot of replayabilty to the game
  
  The ability to choose 
 what race to do and when
  
  Cons:
  
  The game is very hard and fustrating at times
  
  Some times you have to buy a more expensive car right after you just bought 1
  
  The competations 
 are sometimes ridiculus for example people racing faster higher class and higher tiered cars (no 
 thats not whats the car groups are called theyre simply called group than a # for example group 
 1 vehicles) to try and win a car that is slower and not as high classed as the cars your racing 
 against and are racing with
  
  Since you have the abilty to do what ever race when, it makes the races loosely tied
  
  The 
 Verdict: a great game to buy if you like racing games, challenging games or if you are just plain 
 patient and are looking for a great game to play!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mr_yousef
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 6, 2008 2:23 am PT
Review:  Beginning in late August 2007, Rockstar began releasing screen shots and trailers that showcased 
 the new 24-hour cycle, new makes including Ford and Mazda, and the city of Los Angeles itself. 
 In all a total of seven trailers were released along with a large number of quick clips that showcased 
 individual cars that appear in the game. [7]
  
  Along with various videos and screenshots, Rockstar began opening individual sections the video 
 game's official website that featured new videos, screenshots, and characters. At the annual Leipzig 
 Games Convention gamers in attendance were given a chance to experience Midnight Club: Los Angeles' 
 head-to-head multiplayer aspect for the first time. As the release date drew nearer Rockstar revealed 
 several contests which included prizes from Pizza Hut and Footaction USA. Also, Rockstar has teamed 
 up with Jordan Brand to make a pair of limited edition shoes to celebrate Midnight Club: Los Angeles. 
 The pair of Air Jordan Classic '87 are said to cost $380, along with the game. Only 40 pairs were 
 given away.
  
  Soon after a sample of the Midnight Club: Los Angeles soundtrack was released which has a total 
 of 97 songs. The music includes a variety of genres; from hip-hop, to rock, to electronic including 
 Maino, Nas, The Cool Kids, Digitalism, Agent Elf, DJ Felli Fel, Bishop Lamont, MURS, and No Age. 
 The Live Launch Event introduced the remix of the Eagles of Death Metal soundtrack-featured song, 
 "Wannabe in L. A." from their album Heart On, at the Virgin Megastore in Los Angeles.
  
  Finally on October 20, 2008, Midnight Club: Los Angeles was released in the United States and the 
 music section of the website was released and revealed all the tracks that were in the game. The 
 full vehicle list was also revealed, showing surprising vehicles, such as the Ford Mustang GT Convertible
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: -Origin-
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 4, 2008 3:05 pm PT
Review:  The street racing scene has been seen many times now in video games and it continues to shine and 
 to be as intense as ever with Midnight Club LA.
  
  Presentation: Midnight Club is known for it's line up of licensed vehicles and they make good use 
 of this. The cars are absolutely beautiful. You can tell they put in a lot of effort to perfect 
 each detail of every car, this does a great job of enhancing the whole street racing experience... Pretty 
 cars going really fast in Los Angeles. The environments such as the buildings and billboard advertisements 
 fit in perfectly with the game as it feels like you're actually cruising down the streets of LA. 
 
  
  Audio: The first thing to mention about Midnight Club's audio is the soundtrack. This game features 
 a wide selection of music for it's soundtrack and like everything else, it fits in perfectly to 
 the game. The music doesn't seem out of place and almost all the songs have links or relations 
 to LA which I found was pretty clever. The sounds of cars and racing also are well done. The voice 
 acting isn't bad but isn't the best either, although the different characters you'll encounter 
 actually match the kinda of people you would expect to find in LA.
  
  Game play: Of course this is the most important feature of any game and Midnight Club doesn't fall 
 short. Although it may be challenging and a bit hard, it keeps you hooked as you'll want to keep 
 trying to beat a race if you don't first succeed. You play as a newcomer to LA who knows a thing 
 or two about street racing. As soon as you know it, you're winning races and tournaments with cash 
 prizes or even cars. To add more onto the excitement, you have the option to race for pink slips 
 and this really brings out the intensity since you risk your pimped out ride that you spent your 
 time and money on but in return, you run the chance of winning your opponents own pimped set of 
 wheels.
  
  In conclusion I recommend you buy this game or at least rent it since it's well worth your time.
 
  
  P. S. I haven't tried the multilayer mode since I spend my time playing the single player story 
 mode. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: moej88
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 3, 2008 3:38 pm PT
Review:  Good: 
  
  Its midnight club! 
  Finally a street racing game that gives the players to do whatever they want, whenever they want. 
 
  * The game takes places in L. A. The level design is amazing and the city is very detailed. 
  
 
  * It has a wide variety of cars, and with today's next gen consoles, there will be more content 
 to come online. 
  
  * Graphics are amazing, which is a big improvement in midnight club. 
  
  * The music in the 
 game is just right for a driving game.
  
  * There are tons of events and races around in the game. 
  
  * Online is amazing: no lag, you 
 can make your own races and the best thing about online is "Rate My Ride" 
  
  * Rate my ride is an option where you upload one of your favorite cars online for people to rate 
 it and buy it. 
  
  * New view of the interior of car. You will be able to see the steering wheel and a clear speedometer
 
  
  * Midnight club offers something the no other racing game offers, which is the amount of customization. 
 
  
  * You can customize exterior, interior, seats, colors, gauges, neon's, hydraulics, and license 
 plates. 
  
  * The vinyl customization is amazing and you can almost make anything for your car and it's easy 
 to get used to. 
  
  
  
  Bad: 
  
  * The game is kind of hard, but it's not really a big problem because you don't want a dumb A. I. 
 It's a challenge and it makes it fun and more realistic. 
  
  * Some sound issues when the music is louder than the car and the surrounding environment. There 
 should be more sound balance.
  
  * Some minor refresh rate issues. But not very common.
  
  
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Chaz09
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 3, 2008 6:51 am PT
Review:  Midnight Club: Los Angeles is a great game. If you like a challenge, fast cars and street racing 
 this is for YOU. You start with a not so good car but as you spend some time playing it and getting 
 your money, reputation up it gets much better and faster and it really does test your skills. 
 
  
  The story of the game is basic but fun at the same time. There will be times where you will have 
 best of 3 race's and you'll need to finish first to win the tournament and get some cred up and 
 money to customize your car, it can be hard but life is never easy and this is what makes the game 
 really good + the grathics are amazing and a great choice of music to listen to. 
  
  It doesn't have a lot of cars as i thought it would but the gameplay will keep you busy. When the 
 Po Po are on your case it can be easy to lose them or you can pull over get a ticket or watch your 
 self on the police cam pull away when the officer approaches you. 
  
  On the map you have choices to race Single race, Best of 3, Delivering cars, Pink slips, Tournaments, Time 
 trials and each race is colour coded GREEN = Easy ORANGE = Medium RED = HARD. Overall Midnight 
 Club: Los Angeles is worth adding to your ps3 collection. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: HaZdawg_11
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 29, 2008 1:59 pm PT
Review:  Ever since Midnight Club 3 Dub Edition, I knew I could trust the MC series on giving me a good 
 racer. And L. A. is not disappointing me! It's the best racer i've ever seen. Fast cars. Excellent 
 customization. And barely any glitches. The only one I remember is driving in mud, but it got fixed 
 after 5 seconds. 
  
  The game is not as hard as it sounds. Its challenging but as soon as you get the Ninja, it feels 
 like you've all ready won the game because races are simple. The game has an excellent story with 
 terrific voice acting. The cops are a challenge to get away from but if you evade you get a great 
 reward.
  
  THE GRAPHICS ARE AMAZING!!! The city looks beautiful day and night. The brand new cockpit view 
 is hella of fun! The race editor is so much fun because you can access it online in cruise and 
 make races with your friends online or offline. Speaking of online, IT IS AMAZING!!! Just start 
 a cruise and play a race or battle!
  
  This is a must buy if you are into racing because this is A LOT BETTER THAN NFS UNDERCOVER!!!
 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: fredyellowone
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 25, 2008 10:47 pm PT
Review:  Yea, it's hard. Really. But finally, a racing game that we can't just get it done in 5 minutes. 
 And after a few play, you'll get the point, and you won't loose much.
  
  Graphics are great, and you have a bunch of cool car to drive. My favorite is the 1979 Pontiac 
 (obviously) Trans-Am, and, of course, the Z06 Corvette. Each car is fully upgradable and you can 
 customize every vehicule. In fact, you can almost do what you want. Infinite colors, infinite options. 
 Vinyls, wheels, sideskirts, and a lot more. Theres also a good number of different races. Some 
 time trials, championships, agaisnt the clock, freeway speedraces, etc.
  
  Theres trophies for the PS3. Wich are, yea, hard to get. The story is not really good, but who 
 cares? Driving LA in all weathers at full speed is passionate. Ho, i forgot, theres also great 
 online modes. D'ont miss out this game, and please, do not trust gamespot on the bad 7.5 out of 
 10 rating. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: downsider
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 23, 2008 4:33 pm PT
Review:  Such low rating's for such a great Open-World Street Racing Game. Is the game really that hard? 
 or do you all just suck at it, i'm not sure which is the right answer, but i can tell you all that 
 it is not the case for me.
  
  I've played the first Midnight Club and the 2nd, not the third but Midnight Club: LA (for me) is 
 the best Midnight Club out right now.
  
  Let's start with the one subject that matter's the most in gaming, Gameplay! -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  As far as Gameplay goes, it's great. The control's are very easy to get around and are not frustrating 
 at all. Plenty of Camera option's are a bonus, i just love the Cockpit view. The A. I can be a pain 
 at time's, but not how most describe it. I will admit that I have indeed restarted a few time's 
 here and there, but that's only because I would be careless and use NOS too late or not pay attention. 
 As for the difficulty? for me it's just right. When you go from Easiest to Medium the only thing 
 i noticed that changed was that there aren't alot of checkpoint's. This give's you more freedom 
 to choose your route, but can also cause' you to lose. The same goes for Hard to Hardest. If your 
 driving a D class vehicle on a Hard difficulty race it's not going to pit you agains't a C or B 
 class vehicle, atleast, i have not noticed. Maybe the A. I jump's up a bit? i just have not noticed 
 it. But one thing i can agree on... it's very challenging. Also a short note on the traffic. Just 
 pay attention to what's going on.
  
  Next up is Graphics!
  -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  There is no denying that the game does look great. The cars, detail... it's all very impressive. 
 Atleast, to me it is. Did I mention the Day/Night cycle? nothing like driving your mean Mother 
 ******* machine at night, and the game look's even better. The entire City look's amazing, it feels 
 very much alive.
  
  Not much I can add on Graphics, the game just look's so damn good.
  
  Sound and Content!
  -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  Sound to me is impressive. But there is one thing that gets on my nerve's all the time... the 
 sound will cut off from time to time. All you hear is the music and the sound of you driving past 
 checkpoint's. But this doesin't happen often.
  
  The Soundtrack could have been better. I'm not into Rap and Pop music, just Hard Rock and Metal... 
 and the many Sub-Genre's that follow it. Would have been great to race along with some Motorhead, 
 Slayer and Scar Symmetry. Ah well. Atleast they have Disturbed and As I lay Dying, NIN is also 
 a nice addition. The option to have you put your own music in the game would have been so great... 
 Last for sound is the cars, and yes they sound great. Well, the Muscle cars do atleast. I'm not 
 a fan of Tuners, Exotics and Luxery. So I'm not sure what they sound like and never will do since 
 all I plan on driving is some American Power. Next is the content. -And yes it's full of it. Good 
 collection of cars... After-Market part's, Exterior/Interior customization... Rate My Ride, so 
 much to say.
  
  There are also some fun Online modes such as Battle Mode, it's a CTF type of thing. It works really 
 well. Also lot's of Race types to keep you busy for a long time.
  -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  That is my two-vents worth. I am loving this game and think it's a blast. We are all diffieren't 
 and many of us aren; t video game whizz heads. Some of us can't handle a challenge, however, i can.
 
  
  Rent it if your unsure. But I am glad i got this and not NFS: Undercover. I'd also like to add that 
 when racing you may think that there is twice the ammount of cars in traffic when your in first. 
 If so, i don't mind it. I'd also like to add that alot of folks tend to curse the game when they 
 crash and wipe out. I have done this a few times but i just get back into the race. Pay attention. 
 That's all i can tell you all.
  
  You also may hink that when the other racers turn it seems they do it flawlessly. This is not true. 
 They have made a few mistakes when taking up a turn. Just ease off the gas and floor it when your 
 safe around, use Zone to help you with those sharp corners. ROAR for when your on the Freeway and 
 EMP to slow your opponent's down. But you will find ROAR and Zone to be the most help. -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  "When the A. I hits another car it just bounces off. When you hit a car you spin out and you may 
 aswell just restart" - **** i've seen the A. I hit a car at high speed and flip, wipe out and do 
 whatever you do when you ram a car at full speed. Stop trying to come up with excuses for your 
 horrible driving. Period! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Riverspirit
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 23, 2008 1:58 pm PT
Review:  I guess one may be able to call me a "Midnight club virgin", as this was the first time I have 
 ever played a game from the series. And so I am presented the rather easy job of judging this game 
 without having to compare it to any of the other games in the series. 
  
  And as I looked at this game with out any idea whatsoever about how it will play, look, or feel 
 like. I came to see that it was the much smaller and more minute details that both made and broke 
 this game. It seemed that after spending a few hours of playing, the level of difficulty jumped 
 dramatically, and soon green (easy) level races were so hard, constant retries would be expected 
 of all races. And the yellow (medium) races were of increasing difficulty yet, making them incredibly 
 frustrating and the largest issue of the game. Other small things, that can be more easily managed, 
 is that no matter how hard you press on the left analog stick to go, you will slide against the 
 pavement for a bit, while the cars around you go right on by. And after a while, it can become 
 increasingly annoying, but it can be managed, as the races tend to be long enough for it to not 
 really matter.
  
  While the negative details of the game can become persistent and annoying, they are also very much 
 just that, small details. the positives of the game overrides the negatives in a large way, as 
 the open world is detailed, beautifully real, and very much large and open. Changing streetlights, 
 daytime to nighttime simulations, all add to the realistic effect of the game. Keeping this classic 
 idea of open world racing helps give Midnight Club the advantage it needs, while letting it become 
 enriched with races, shops, and hang-outs, allowing for a wide range of choices and opportunities. 
 
  
  
  With a sigh of relief, I must say that Midnight Club Los Angeles has exceeded my expectations of 
 it, as the idea of open world racing has come to slow crawl, and a powerful boost from this game 
 helps give the genre a nitrous boost it really needs. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: brianone24
Rating: 3
Date: Nov 22, 2008 4:10 pm PT
Review:  i'm going to make this short and sweet. This game has good graphics, great car selection, motorcycles, 
 an open world that looks great, and good customization. thats the only reason i gave it a 3.0. 
 but the mistake that MCLA made is the same mistake that alot of companies are making with the next 
 gen consoles. BETTER GRAPHICS WITH HORRIBLE GAMEPLAY!!!!!!!
  this game is hard. you will find yourself holding back to not break you 49.99 controller! The easy 
 races are hard, the normal races are even harder, and the hard races are DAMN near impossible. 
 i mean its hard enough racing around LA with all the traffic. the cars that like to change into 
 your lane during a race. the fact that you have to watch your car in slow motion during an accident 
 (which by the way was a horrible attempt by midnight club to bring in the same affect of the slow 
 motion accidents from burnout paradise city) , or God forbid that you get in an accident while riding 
 a bike... because than you have to watch for about 5 to 10 seconds of the body flailing around 
 while the other racers keep going.
  
  you basically have one shot, during a race, to win. if you get in an accident you might as well 
 start the race over. street bikes will get beat by corvettes off the line no matter what you have 
 done to your bike. when you are in first place you will notice that the streets becomed filled 
 with more traffic. the cars your racing against will blow right through other cars with no problem, 
 but if you as so much knick anothr car. you will be sent inot slow motion and than another 5 seconds 
 of watchng your car spin in circles.
  
  the weapon features fail horribly. the ZAP that i supposed to mess up the other cars electrical 
 system... but all it does is slow them down a little bit... for maybe couple seconds.... which 
 sucks because its takes well over 30 seconds of CLEAN driving to fill these weapons up!
  
  not only is it hard to win races... but the races are tooooooooooooooo long! we're talking about 
 5 minute check point races! you literally will sit there wondering "when is this DAMN race going 
 to end?!!!!!!" which is why your never safe in first place! you can be in first 99% of the time 
 only to lose in the 4 minute and 59th second!
  
  ALL IN ALL..... do not buy this game. rent it first and you will see what i'm talking about. it 
 will take more of your strength not to break your controller. i rented this game and returned it 
 earlier than i had to. hope this helped alot of people save their 59.99!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: codezer0
Rating: 6
Date: Nov 19, 2008 9:57 am PT
Review:  Coulda, shoulda, woulda... we've all heard this before. But even now, it is still very much a valid 
 phrase to use.
  
  Rockstar "coulda" spent more time play-testing the A. I. with less experienced players, or with 
 players who don't play midnight club 24/7.
  
  Rockstar "shoulda" spent more time in ensuring a balanced difficulty that adapts to the player's 
 success rate, or how frequently they have to hit the restart button, crash their car, etc. They 
 "shoulda" done more to ensure a traffic system that isn't constantly in your way and ruining your 
 line, so that four of your opponents whizz by you the second you tap someone's fender.
  
  Rockstar "woulda" had a game that would have toppled their excellent offering Midnight Club 3 here, 
 as all the other ingredients were here. Tight Controls, pretty graphics, good soundtrack, and it's 
 all ruined for me because of AI opponents so punishingly difficult and traffic so egregious that 
 both cause you to waste more time resetting until you can get a proper line to even hope for a 
 podium finish, if not dead last.
  
  As it is, this became one of the fastest games I'd returned to the store. Thank god i bought it 
 used, or I would have been even more upset than I am now. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: coolabd619
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 19, 2008 4:08 am PT
Review:  pls anyone tell me that it will come on pc. there is no reason to dont release on PC. Pc has better 
 graphics and everthing!!
  
  When writing your review, remember to keep the language clean. Reviews must be 100 words minimum. 
 We encourage you to try to get your review right the first time-you may choose to edit it later 
 on, but by doing so, you will lose any positive feedback associated with the review. We encourage 
 you to write your review in a word processor or text editor, save it to your local disk, then copy 
 and paste it into the posting box below.
  
  When writing your review, remember to keep the language clean. Reviews must be 100 words minimum. 
 We encourage you to try to get your review right the first time-you may choose to edit it later 
 on, but by doing so, you will lose any positive feedback associated with the review. We encourage 
 you to write your review in a word processor or text editor, save it to your local disk, then copy 
 and paste it into the posting box below
  When writing your review, remember to keep the language clean. Reviews must be 100 words minimum. 
 We encourage you to try to get your review right the first time-you may choose to edit it later 
 on, but by doing so, you will lose any positive feedback associated with the review. We encourage 
 you to write your review in a word processor or text editor, save it to your local disk, then copy 
 and paste it into the posting box below. 
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Yankeese411
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 11, 2008 7:46 pm PT
Review:  There is no doubt Midnight Club is one of the best racing games out there. The map is mostly accurate 
 with amazing graphics. Although, the difficulty is way to high. If you crash, it isn't over but 
 will take some time to get back in the front. The CPU never crashes unless you ram them into another 
 car. There is also an okay amount of cars but definitely not enough. The game is a challenge but 
 is easy to get the hang of. The police pursuits are just the right difficulty, not like Need For 
 Speed Carbon, which it is easy to evade every one. This game is not the best, but indeed on the 
 best. If you are not sure if you want to purchase the game, just Rent it! If you are not looking 
 for a tough racing game you should stay with Burnout. But if your up with the challenge, Midnight 
 Club is the game for you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 713masterchief
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 11, 2008 5:06 pm PT
Review:  This game is pretty good. However, many quirks and difficult races makes a solid 8.5. Problems: 
 When you are racing, if you hit a car, you go flying and spining all over the road, most likely 
 losing the race. When the AI hits a car during a race, the car is just pushed to the side, and 
 the race continues. As always, muscle cars hate corners, exotics still rule the streets. Because 
 there are such few cars, it takes forever to get a new car! You usually only get $5000 per race, 
 so saving up for the $518000 car you want will take a while. NOTE: This is more of a racing SIMULATION, 
 than a racing GAME! The physics are pretty good, customization is cool, nice convertibles, possibility 
 of DLC is promising, and other great things. THE COPS CHASES ARE BORING. Overall, it was worth 
 the money. Lastly, the special move things are stupid, and need the control of nitrous, not just 
 the little bars. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zxssded
Rating: 6.5
Date: Nov 10, 2008 1:45 am PT
Review:  Before i say anything, this game is hard, i might be personal pref, but this game to me is HARD. 
 I found the NFS underground, most wanted and carbon easy. most people i know cant finish carbon.
 
  
  Good: It looks great. The graphics is just top class, its like pro street, without the crappy frame 
 rate. The wide varity of cars make NFS look bad. ok maybe not but i cant think of anything to say.... 
 The paint is free!!! custmisaion of the car is deeper than NFS, but you cannot tune your car. Some 
 people may think that the difficulty is just right. that them. the good thing is that the multiplayer 
 is great. playing with other people who make mistiakes is great. also the server automatically 
 puts you with people who have the same class of car you have so people arent going to go up agenst 
 lambo's and ashtons the first time they go into multiplayer.
  
  Bad: Its hard. very very hard and stiff..... yeah. You dont know how hard it is. on easy (green 
 difficulty) you need to restart at least 2 times before you win. one mistake and you might as well 
 restart from there. driving is unrelistic, you drift at 40 mph.... WHAT!!! its NFS on drugs. The 
 upgrades are expensive, and you get jack all money from a race. The story is a bare minimum to 
 get you to race. the lack of types of races makes the game feel repetive. 
  
  The game is hard. i cannot stress enough. i got so frustrated, i returened it the day i bought 
 it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: obi-1
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 4, 2008 5:20 pm PT
Review:  Midnight Club Los Angeles is my the first game of the series that I bought, still I do have played 
 to midnight club 3. First, the game is hard, but I find the difficulty just right, I give you challenge, 
 what need for speed don't. Also while some peoples complaint about the small choice of cars, I 
 find it ok since the cars are very different one from the other. Also the graphics are nice and 
 the speed effect is really cool. My only complaints are about the modding that while its advanced 
 is missing some of the cool mods that where in MCIII and the autosculpt of need for speed, also 
 the cops are boring, I prefer paying the fine than losing my time to do this boring pursuit and 
 the very unfonctional map. Please Rockstar, put that very nice GPS from GTA4 that showed us what 
 street to take to go from A to B without getting lost. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: redfactionfan_1
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 3, 2008 6:44 pm PT
Review:  i dont know why its a 7.5 it was really good. lots of cars hudge map and lots of fun online and 
 offline challenging and easy and u can test the cars u didnt unloc yet (dam i want that lambo!!) 
 any way it shoulde be good 4 the car enthusiast or even a noob. it has all the cars u really need 
 (exept 4 me theres no srt4 : ( at least not that i know of yet) theres lots of fun game types online 
 and i really liked the graphics. only the no split screen ticked me off a bit. the game is best 
 played on ps3 [ (as usual) yes im a ps3 fanboy so shhhh] now for the actual story plot i didnt get 
 it and i dont think i will till the 4th time i beat it so thats  
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dutch777
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 3, 2008 3:46 pm PT
Review:  You're a loser! We're all losers. Everything's too hard, unless it's too easy, which we pretend 
 not to notice, and then we go online and get beaten up by kids. Checkpoints are always in the wrong 
 place, there's never enough health, weapons are puny and AI cheats. Against this (alright, exaggerated) 
 backdrop of declining skills in videogames of the 21st century, Midnight Club: Los Angeles is a 
 breath of occasionally swear-splattered fresh air; a fierce, often brilliant boot camp for recovering 
 wimps.
  When Rockstar North took Liberty's inspiration from the layout of New York, it sacrificed real-world 
 details for imagined, gameplay-minded alternatives. Midnight Club's Los Angeles pulls the same 
 trick, but rather than enabling GTA's fiction and multi-faceted action levels, the objective is 
 to preserve the player's speed in a car or on a bike, and to this end the only things that slow 
 you down are NPC-controlled vehicles and walls. Pedestrians scoot out of the way, and lamp-posts, 
 chain-link fences, rubbish bins and bus shelters disintegrate on contact, or allow you to sail 
 through them, while your speed increases, oblivious to their plight in either case. And the walls, 
 though dangerous when struck at too straight an approach, are smooth to rub along if not, despite 
 their superficial details. You're playing in a square-edged maze, where much of the city's content 
 and sharp visual details are incidental to the gameplay.
  
  But Midnight Club has always been a brutal opponent, and MCLA is no exception. Everything in the 
 world except the other cars and walls is on your side, but by god those cars and walls hate you. 
 You'll spin, you'll roll, you'll crunch to a halt, and you'll have to wheelspin yourself in the 
 right direction before getting back on track. Races, time trials and the game's other variations 
 often last nearly five minutes, if not longer, and the AI - even in the first few hours - makes 
 little concession to players who hold it together almost to the end, barrelling past you when you 
 come unstuck and necessitating a restart.
  
  From time to time, it will get the better of you, and at that point it's not about difficulty so 
 much as accumulated failure, a burden Midnight Club: Los Angeles forces you to carry, and one that's 
 tough to bear for all the game's other successes. Tolerate the lashing of agony that accompanies 
 every one of these moments, though, and this is fast, brutal, ingenious racing drama, dragging 
 you into the screen every bit as thoroughly as Burnout Paradise, and delivered in a manner that 
 befits the publisher that financed GTA IV.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Hovster
Rating: 5
Date: Nov 3, 2008 12:17 pm PT
Review:  Although the graphics are good and the driving mechanics are great, this game still sucks. Even 
 the most easy of the races is very difficult. One crash or one bump into the wall and you lose 
 the race. Don't get me wrong, I love a challenge, but I hate feeling the urge to break the controller 
 and then using a sledge hammer on the PS3. They have a very poor selection of cars. The performance 
 upgrades are all wrong. They're never gonna make a good racing game. What we need is a mix of Gran 
 Turismo, Need 4 Speed, Midnight club, and Grand Theft Auto. I'm yet to see the Mazda 3 sedan, the 
 new Honda Civic Si, the EVO X, the Nissan GTR, Lamborgini, Ferrari, Mercedes C63-S65-CL65, BMW 
 M1-M3-M5-M6, Nissan 300ZX, Toyota Supra, Shelby GT-500, Mitsubishi Eclipse GT, and I can go on 
 with the list. We may have seen these cars in different games, but never in the same game. The 
 game also needs to have a changing storyline. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: UlTimatelee
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 2, 2008 6:01 pm PT
Review:  Althou its not ur typical racer game- it still has alot to offer! Some bits are tricky, the traffic 
 seems to get you alot even when you think you havent hit them, it seems you may have brushed their 
 bumper with ur car, and yeah in some of the races its hard to see where your meant to be goin if 
 you dont quickly drop ur eyes to the map- and its also hard to deliver the cars to the destinations 
 cos before you leave the garage it shows you the map for about 5 secs and then disspears and you 
 just have to wing it- many restarts have been had because of that! But besides all of this im still 
 enjoying the game- the city is great and the map system, alot like TDU is very cool! Love the freeway 
 races and i really enjoy delvering the cars even thou as i said you may need to re start a few 
 times to just work out a path to take! All in all id say this game is rather fun- its not a game 
 to be taken seriously, just some old school racing fun- Upgrading ur cars is cool and yeah having 
 the bikes to race as well adds to the fun- so what if you mess up a few times- re start the race 
 and give it another go!!! Cool game:) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KING_KEV_321
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 9, 2008 5:10 pm PT
Review:  1st of all i must say the reviews about this game about bein hrd is utterly ridiculous, its not 
 DIFFICULT. like most games an every game i play it take a while 4 u to used to it (learni curve) . 
 but i must admit its not the easiest of racing game either, because of this i believe the replay 
 value of it went thru the roof, easy games are wak rite?? lol. graphics are awesome dats the best 
 way i cud put it, dub edition on steroids lol, the handling is gud very responsive ( unlike gta4 
 where u cant make corner at 10mph lmao) . bad news tho only 44 cars includin bikes smh, how u go 
 from a roster of cars like dub edition (suvs, choppers included) to juss a hand full of vehicles, 
 wat i beleive is rockstar will have downloadable content on psn but still cum on. traffic is a biatch, 
 u cud b miles away from ur oponent an 1 car collision can mess the whole race up 4 you grr. customization 
 is gud 2 say the least cud have more in it like autoscult (nfs series) but its gud enuff 2 get ur 
 hands durty, lots of fun an immersive. all an all a must by my expectation were met an i recomend 
 it 2 racing fans cuz if u aint lol ur gonna sruggle i aint gon front an say its a peice of cake 
 cuz it aint (comment am pix) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SadPSPAddict
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 2, 2008 1:54 am PT
Review:  As a fan of racing games but with a tendancy to prefer the more perscriptive type game rather than 
 open world I went into this game not expecting too much - but boy was I mistaken.
  Graphics: 1 word - Awesome. LA is beuatifully rendered with lots of details and one of the few 
 racing games to run at 1080 instead of 720.
  Gameplay: Cars handle very well even in the early days and this then improves nicely as you unloack 
 better cars and upgrades. Some of the races are very win-able and others are pretty hard and this 
 aspect is the only thing that stops this game being a 9.5 or even a 10. Inconsistant difficulty 
 level. However with perseverance and upgrades anything is possible! It is certainly achievable 
 and I am by no means an "expert".
  
  I find that the GPS system works really well although I play on a 42" screen and I suspect that 
 smaller screens may look a bit crowded. However I have found the GPS and maps to work very nicely 
 and it is this aspect that I have found poor in other open world racers such as Test Drive Unlimited 
 and Burnout Paradise
  
  One really nice feature is that ALL the cars can be driven in test drive mode and taken for a spin 
 round the city - this meant that even my 4 year old could have a go and get some enjoyment from 
 it!
  
  There are pletny of customization options - some of which help and some don't. Equally one nice 
 feature is the "special features" and I am a big fan of the ROAR were your car emits a sound wave 
 and moves everything around you out of the way!
  
  All in all a great game with loads of replay value and something in it for everyone. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BrideInDream
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 31, 2008 9:54 am PT
Review:  well. the game was amazing. too bad they took out SUV though which was pretty sad cuz i like SUV 
 cars. i like to costumize them and cruise with it.
  customizing is incredible. you can customize the inside of your car, change the steer wheel, the 
 seats, the color and etc.
  racing is fun especially the highway race (easiest to earn money and respect) . some of the races 
 are veryyy hard. especially DUB tournament since you need to play on hard to get the DUB car but 
 you can choose wether you want it or not.
  Pinkslip and Wager is nice.
  the game become abit laggy if you use the abilities such as roar and the electric one. but other 
 than the lag its awsome that you can choose what type of abilities you want to use on the car.
 
  they way the use the type of google earth is also nice and the mode where the time changes also 
 is very good so you dont have to race at night all the time.
  Bikes for somereason are very strong here. they can crash cars and make them spin which is very 
 weird and interesting at the same time.
  
  overall the game is good. its not that hard unless you race the red one. yellow are sometimes hard. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: poseidion
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 28, 2008 9:56 am PT
Review:  The game is not either bad or good. It's definetly not as hard as described "ridiculously hard" 
 in the page's review. I managed to win a race to a Ford GT while driving an '83 GTi, and it was 
 no luck. The gameplay is just fun, despite the low amount of vehicles available from the beginning 
 (guess they want us to pay the DLC) . The graphics are awesome, the day-night-day effects that other 
 racing games have been avoiding, like Need For Speed for example. The crashing effects on the cars 
 is very weak. No matter how much you crash, the headlights will always be there. The music list 
 is not a very popular one but it still matches the game, plus you can easily change it at any time. 
 I hace to say that I surprised myself when I popped up and down the convertible tops. I've been 
 asking for that for a while now, and finally somebody agreed with me. If you like racing games 
 you should buy it but remember, this is no simulation game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mohammed189
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 28, 2008 7:26 am PT
Review:  it is a amazing game once you get used to it but i am warning you, it is hard. the amazing part 
 is the cars . they have the best cars around.
  
  
  you sometimes crash and become dead last or 4th or 3rd or 2nd or 1st even if you crash. always 
 stay away from cops cause if they catch you. you get fined. maximum under 500.
  
  the graphics are great and the controlls and the cars but if you had a steering wheel for your 
 console. the controlls would be a lot easier for you to drive
  
  in the beginning, you find a 2 pairs of car each. they are called gti sircoo ggrttsg or something 
 like that but later on in the game you get lamboghinis and fords and saleens and 300c and s600 
 and audis and golfs and mazdas and aston martin and corvettes and dodge and mitsubishi and nissans 
 and datsons and last but not least pontiacs.
  
  
  
  the game is just amazing it even has moterbikes which are nearly as fast asa lamboghini for just 
 17,000 thousand pounds. you can even buy dub edition litted cars which are fast and a bueaty
  
  
  
  my rating is 8.5
  
  buy it now, its great 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xtoda7
Rating: 7
Date: Oct 26, 2008 9:10 pm PT
Review:  This is the first game in the Midnight Series that I've played ,and it'll probably be the last.
 
  The previews about the game of course made it sound better then it turned out (kinda like GTA4) . The 
 old adage of 'don't believe the hype' rings true.
  The game offers nothing new, it has all been done before. It reminds me a lot of N4S Most Wanted 
 .The traffic in this game is the most frustrating aspect ,there's way too many cars and other obstacles. The 
 frustration peaks when you have a head-on crash and almost 100% of the time you'd end up facing 
 back in the opposite direction.
  
  The things I do like about the game-
  
  -Nice zooming map effect
  -Very good customization
  -Good soundtrack
  
  The game is worth 
 renting just to see what its all about. Its kinda good but it frustrates the crap out of me, and 
 its a little repetative and 1 dimensional. Find a race ,race. Find another race, race. so on and so 
 forth.
  Its challenging ,the racing is fast and furious, but overly the game isn't the money.7/10 
  
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: nickelback123
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 26, 2008 3:54 pm PT
Review:  quite a hard and long game and also gets anoying and repetetive but the game overall is actully 
 quite fun and at a cheaper price of most ps3 games at 37.99 in stores and 32.99 online its well 
 worth it you might sometimes find it boring but it will definatley keep you playing for a long 
 while. not much of a story line mainly just play the game. graphics are very good also with a 3d 
 zoom out every time you look at the map makes it look very nice and you still get good customization 
 on your cars also a nice range of cars from your 1970's clasics to the super cars of 2008. also 
 if you sighn up to rocksars socisl club you get the audi r8 and hydraulicas. so my overall thoughts 
 of this game are 
  1) hard
  2) long
  3) sometimes anoying and repetetive
  4) but a supprisingly good buy at the price my advice would be to buy this game good to kepp for 
 a long time so get down to the shops and buy it NOW good buy well worth it 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wayneb22
Rating: 7.5
Date: Oct 26, 2008 9:27 am PT
Review:  The Game spot review is spot on, I think everyone wants a challenge.... especially in a racing 
 Game however there is a fine line between challenging & frustration case in point-I hit a bus with 
 the A. I racer and it rolled my ride, the A. I racer bounced off of it & kept going after we both 
 Literally slammed into the front of the Bus, i consider myself a pretty good racer and have beaten 
 most challenges already (Tuners, Muscle car ,car delivery) . Another point of annoyance is the The 
 G. P. S, simply put it's useless all it does is cause your Target to flash with no guidance on the 
 the best route or any route for that matter..... WTF was Rockstar thinking!... That Booke character 
 alone is annoying enough to make me trade the Game in! I have played every single Midnight club 
 game and loved them all. this one looks great but i would would recommend RENTING it. Rockstar 
 is becoming a bit too conservative for me i think they have lost the edginess & sold out! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jedioutkast
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 25, 2008 2:24 pm PT
Review:  There are many mixed reviews talking about how this game is hard and they can not win races let 
 me tell you, if you give yourself more horse power and stop trying to add ground effects, paint 
 jobs, tinted windows to your ride you will win! Oh you can always restart the race learn the route 
 and do the race again.
  Ok first things first your car, pick the 1998 Nissan 240SX win your first race and when you enter 
 the garage for the first time sell it and buy the 1988 Volkswagen Scirocco now all you do is add 
 the upgrades that increase the power and the handling. Now go race or should I say go GRIND for 
 cash and before long you will have a car that wins a lot and some cash in the bank to buy a new 
 car.
  Thats what I did. I bought the Scirocco and just maxed out the speed and the handling and I win 
 races. Also if you have a basic car don't race red races go with the green races. I now can win 
 every green race with at least a 10 car lead and only use my nitrous if I make a mistake or just 
 want to have some fun. I think if you concentrate on fixing up your first ride just for speed and 
 forget about looks you will be successful!
  The graphics are awesome and I am enjoying the races. It is more of a challenge if you compare 
 it to MC3. I think thats a good thing. The police are awesome in this game too better then the 
 ones in MC3. In MC3 you would hear the sirens and maybe see the cops but they would never ever 
 catch you nor try to stop you furthermore; if you were just cruising the city the cops are not 
 even there but in MC: LA they will come after you. So now the police in MC: LA have a brain and they 
 will really try to catch you thats very cool and fun.
  Yes this game is almost like all of the other MC games but its online, has better graphics and 
 its has a longer learning curve. And you call this a BAD thing?!
  If you like the other MC before you will cream over this one! If you never played any of the MC 
 before your missing out on a fun game.
  Now if I may make one comparison Burnout Paradise is not as fun as Midnight Club LA. I think these 
 games are comparable they are both racers and on that level I can continue. I owned Burnout Paradise 
 and after 10 hours I was bored I was not very thrilled with the game, Midnight Club LA does a better 
 job of a full city with races everywhere. Better cars, better music and overall better game! DUDE 
 its ROCKSTAR!
  
  Rockstar is to video games as Orgasm is to Sex!
  
  EA games is to video games as Madonna is to Old Age!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nitrous_boy
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 24, 2008 1:54 pm PT
Review:  So, if you are looking for a good street racing game that isn't in the NFS series, you've come 
 to the right place. MC: LA is the fourth sequel in the Midnight club series.
  
  If you played DUB edition and thought that was fun, MC: LA takes fun to a whole level up. You start 
 with a banged-up range of cars, then work your way up to get a World-class street machine. (or 
 'machines' if you are really rich) The gameplay is so much fun, cars react as you would expect 
 them to, and the customization has to be one of the best seen in any other racing game to date.
 
  
  Despite all of this, there is only ONE drawback that holds this almost-perfect racing game from 
 getting a 10. The difficulty. You'll probably know challenging games are lots of fun, but R* just 
 pushed the Difficulty a little to high. the AI never seem to make mistakes, unless you push them 
 into something hard. They are perfect through tight turns, and if you spin out, there is little 
 chance of you coming back. Unless the opponent is THAT easy.
  
  Thankfully, you can still win cash and rep points if you finish last. In fact, you can complete 
 the game finishing last. Just not a quickly as winning.
  
  Overall, Midnight Club: LA is a totally fun, action-packed racing game with a great online system, 
 cool power ups and Cops to chase you round the city. Definately worth a rent, if not, a must-buy. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: earlaps
Rating: 6.5
Date: Oct 24, 2008 1:39 pm PT
Review:  I am very familiar with Los Angeles, so I was disappointed after reading all the overly generous 
 reviews that said that the game displayed Los Angeles very well. It does not. It is the same crap 
 as usual with the game concentrating on tourist LA, conveniently leaving out the parts where people 
 actually live. The gameplay, while not bad, is more of the same. If you played some of the better 
 urban racing games in the last year, I can't say that MCLA gives you more than you have already 
 experienced. I agree with one of the other posters that the cheap gangster talk is embarrassing 
 more than anything else. Rockstar needs to have a quality control system that includes some strong 
 willed outside people who can talk tough to the decision makers there and tell them when they are 
 making mistakes. Success does not mean a steady stream of good games, it means, it looks like, 
 a slowly deteriorating set of standards and games that might have been great had someone held these 
 guys to higher standards within their own shop. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: keyboarder20
Rating: 6
Date: Oct 24, 2008 12:34 pm PT
Review:  I have only played this game for about 4 or 5 hours and i am already bored with it. The game is 
 not bad, the problem is that it offers nothing new in relation to the previous two Midnight Clubs. 
 The racing structure, the car physics and even the story feel extremely old-fashion. Also the gangster 
 talk and their challenges have been done before. Boring very boring. The career is just race after 
 race. At first it looks like you are racing a different L. A. environment everytime you race but 
 after awhile it all starts to look the same. Although the change of night into day and vice-versa 
 is very nice indeed. Another thing that is a complete pain in this game is the police chases. They 
 go on forever and i get so bored with them that i just give up and pay the fines. The other problem 
 is that the races are to difficult to be fun. The AI cars get on the lead, then they wait for you 
 to catch up and when you start to think you might have a chance to win, they take a short cut unknown 
 to you or some stupid car on the road decides to jump in front of you and you lose the race. This 
 is just to frustrating and predictable to be enjoyable. The graphics, however, are quite good and 
 the music is also good but the engine sounds could have been much better. To conclude i would say 
 this game feels old and is to hard and frustrating to be considered fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wolfie1984
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 24, 2008 3:59 am PT
Review:  OK where to start 
  This game is great havent played it much yet but its allready growing on me and i wish i didnt 
 have to go to work after writing this - or i'd still be on it.
  
  Presentation: the FMV's could be a little better but not much.
  the graphics when you are playing 
 are great with a good sense of speed. 9/10
  
  Vehicles: outstanding with a huge range from the 1983 vw golf gti all the way to the saleen s7 
 with 3 bikes - 2 ducati's and 1 kawasaki there could of been more bikes and a few more cars 9.5/10
 
  
  Sound - awesome 10/10
  
  there are a few more little niggles to go over like having to spend $1000 just to see the vynls/decals 
 that you might not actually like - you should be able to see before you buy.
  and there is no up/down view ability while in the cockpit you can look left and right though which 
 is cool.
  
  but the one thing i love above all others is if you make one mistake you get punished for it and 
 the damage engine is quite good.
  
  I would recomend this game to petrol heads
  
  I give it 9 out of 10 
  just the few little niggles let it down 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheodenofRohan
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 23, 2008 11:06 pm PT
Review:  Like I said above, the game is nice but there are some elements that are rather turn offs. Here 
 is my review:
  
  1. Gamespot's reviewer couldn't be more wrong, the game isn't that hard, yes it has some races 
 that are more challenging but why make every race easy? You do need to upgrade which again the 
 reviewer was wrong here, it gives you a advantage over the weaker cars unlike what was said.
  
  2. The game is at points too arcade-like. ie: the powerup's to use EMP, rage, roar, ect. That's 
 not apart of street racing, ever... poor decision in my opinion to add that.
  
  3. The car selection is not bad, could be a lot better though. Hence I only said cars... They removed 
 the trucks ( no loss personally) and added so very few bikes.
  
  4. The story behind Midnight Club LA is quite weak at times. The stories main character can get 
 rather annoying to listen to after awhile and it does make you wish that someone would shut him 
 up.
  
  5. Music.... That's a topic I should pass up, but I'll say it. The selection of music is pathetic! 
 I found 1 maybe 2 good songs on the entire library they added. 
  
  6. Graphics are quite amazing, I run on 1080p and wow!!! It is awesome the detail added to the 
 cars!
  
  All in all it's not that bad but it could have been so much better in the long run. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jron310
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 23, 2008 10:04 pm PT
Review:  This game is cool and fun. They changed things a bit, like more realistic physics, but not to much, 
 and they gave the damage system an overhaul and a lil more realistic, such as you cant run into 
 light post and knock them down like paper cups. The AI is competitive, and always talking trash. 
 And the car customizations are just completely insane, very nice on what you can do to your car. 
 The graphics are beautiful, and the come almost identical to the streets in LA. Overall just a 
 completely fun and addicting game. 
  
  I can say the AI is a lil hard, so if your ones of those looking to breeze by games and dont want 
 or like a challenge, you might wanna rent or avoid this one, but this game is challenging and fun. 
 Also, the lil tutorial pop ups can be a bit annoying, and the cops can be annoying as well because 
 just when u think you got away, they're still there. 
  
  The online is TIGHT! i havent had any problems with that, except for people got good at the game 
 faster than i did and i got my ass handed to me a couple times.. but its good.
  
  The game is great! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vickoktavian
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 23, 2008 9:48 pm PT
Review:  you get to be the guy that not only just talk, but really shows it with his driving skills. If 
 you're looking for easy game where you win almost 85% of the time, then i suggest you don't buy 
 it. If you still would like to try, then rent it. But if you're a MC fan just like me, then this 
 game will be a new experience for you. Talk about real illegal street racing, everything is here. 
 Cop chases, after market parts, underground racing community, real side jobs street racer would 
 probably has to make money, fast cars, and for the first time ever MCLA delivers astonishing gameplay, 
 where driving in the wrong side of the street could cost you your life!!! Yes in this game you 
 have to pay the consuquences when driving into incoming traffic. And what an amazing technology, 
 google earth I thought its pretty cool. Let's put it this way, if you want to get to the top, you 
 work hard for it. There's no point if you can just easily recieve it. So in conclusion, MCLA Rules!!! 
 10/10 for gameplay and graphics! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chauncey26
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 23, 2008 3:17 am PT
Review:  The game is not perfect, but if you're a racing type gamer. I highly suggestion Midnight Club LA. 
 Gameplay is great, control settings takes a bit getting use to. Controlling the throttle and brake 
 with the right analog stick is weird. Upgrades seem to be endless. I computer generated cars are 
 well designed and keep you guessing as to what you can do with your ride once get get enough credits. 
 The layout of the city is very nice. Beware of the cops. They are patrolling the streets. Unlike 
 NFS, the police actually have to see you breaking the law, not just driving by and start chasing 
 you. I think Midnight club is going to rock online, althought I haven't played online as of yet. 
 the characters on the game seem to be really cool. I like how they mixed up the characters in the 
 game. One set you have the preps, and another you have latinos. Overall, I'm glad I purchased the 
 game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: solid_shark88
Rating: 6.5
Date: Oct 22, 2008 7:10 pm PT
Review:  I never really was "in" to racing games but i really liked midnight club dub edition so i thought, 
 its 38 dollars, why not buy it?
  
  Graphics (10/10)
  
  No doubt about it, good graphics. Environment glitches happen but that happens in all rockstar 
 games anyways. 
  
  Gameplay (5/10)
  
  Hard story but enjoy the vehicles.
  
  Replay Value (6/10)
  
  Really cant be sure cuz i returned my copy but someone will play it 
 i guess.
  
  Sound (7.5/10)
  
  YAYYYYYYY!!!! ENGINE NOISEZZZZZZZZZZZZ!!!!! ARGHHHHHHHHH!!!!!! GLITCHY NOISESSSSSSS!!!!
  
  
 I love engine noises but a couple of times i get whining 
  instead of purring...... is it glitchy? so its a 7.5 instead of 6.
  
  Online Value (N/A)
 
  
  Didnt want to play online. so it wont be judged.
  
  Overall (28.5/40) 71 % or 7.0
  
  It is an ok game but i couldnt enjoy it. i hope someone else can. Rockstar, an ok effort on 
 your part but i'll stick to dub.
  
  If you're looking for a good racer, try GRID (a 7.5 in my book) or Grand Turismo 5 Prologue (8.0) 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kkkk_5245
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 22, 2008 5:11 am PT
Review:  hhaha i been waiting for u from 5months i mean ur the best game for me and need for speed too ya 
 ya ya ya my best firend game and i will buy this game ) midnight club los angelos) haha nice game 
 nice game nice game nice game nice game nice game nice game nice game
  i want thank u all cuz u showed us this game and im thanking full the best gameres spot i mnean 
 ROCKSTAR GAMES ty ty ty haha haha hahah hahah haha hahah haha hahahhahah hahah ahhaha hahah ahhah 
 hahah ahahha hahah ahahha hahah ahhah hahaha hahhah ahhah ahahhah ahahh hmmm i dont know what to 
 asay more then thank u rockstar game my lovely spot:) and i thank u too for the game needforspeed 
 unerground its better that most wanted and carbon but the best is gta iv i mean the new gta fom 
 rockstar game :) :) and i want tell u im waiting this moment that MIDNIGHT CULB is here :) :) :) ) :) ::) :) :) :) :) :) :) :) : 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cmartin777
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 21, 2008 9:59 pm PT
Review:  Great graphics, cars, gameplay and the online rocks. Will be one of the best racing games this 
 year.
  
  Graphics- On the PS3 the detail is superb. Damage modeling the works. There are a good arrangement 
 of cars that look great and it looks as if there will be DLC later. Hopefully more cars (free) 
 R* don't screw this up like they did with TDU.
  
  Online- The online is fun. Many different modes. Slight lag but that should all clean up in time 
 or with patches. After a race a few of us just sat there doing donuts showing off. How many games 
 let you do that.
  
  The game is very challenging but that is what makes it so fun, you have to work on driving, tuning, 
 winning to move on, that is the key to a good game. If someone wines about it being too hard they 
 are a true racing aficionado, take it back and get on of the 50 FPS coming out this year.
  
  9/10 Overall. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DominicanAG
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 23, 2008 3:02 pm PT
Review:  It's been 3 years since the last midnight club came out. I have to say it was one of the best street 
 racing games I've ever played back than. The only other game I could compare it to as been as good 
 is Need for Speed Most Wanted. If you want to compare this game to another great street racing 
 game than Most Wanted comes close. 
  
  After playing the game for the last couple of hours I've notice how beautiful and nicely detailed 
 the recreation city of Los Angeles is. I've never been there myself but I'm pretty sure if I ever 
 visit I'll know the street routes from just by looking at the map in this game. The entire city 
 is unlock from the beginning just like Burnout Paradise. 
  
  If you're a fan of that game than you'll love midnight club. If you're a fan of the series you'll 
 know that you'll start with an old beat up car. The more you race the more money you win. As you 
 make money and a build up your rep; You'll be able to unlock items for your cars. You have different 
 types of races within the game. There are 4 levels of difficulty that are by color. Green being 
 the easiest, yellow being medium, orange being hard and red being the hardest. The harder the difficulty 
 the more money you make and the higher your rep is. Prepare to be frustrated if you're a fan of 
 the series you know how hard it is to cut corners in this game while driving really fast. From 
 the hours I've spent playing this game I've noticed I'm always coming from behind. One little mistake 
 and you'll have a hard time gaining ground on the AI.
  
  The graphics looks good and could be better. So there's room for improvement. The controls are 
 very different from the last midnight club but you do have the options to customize your controls. 
 The soundtrack is decent I don't think it's as good as the last midnight club. They have different 
 style for everyone. 
  
  There's multiplayer as well just like in burnout paradise. If you're a fan of the series there 
 is no denying you owning this game. If you're a fan of burnout paradise and Need for Speed Most 
 Wanted than you should definitely check out this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xfactor674
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 20, 2008 2:58 pm PT
Review:  In midnight club los angeles it has better graphics people look real the cars look real they can 
 arrest you now polices have guns they have new cars and they have 4 moves called zone that slows 
 down time, roar knocks out traffic in the way roar, makes a loud noise and makes the opponents swerve 
 and crash into the traffic or the wall and the new move midnight club los angeles has now is emp. 
 Emp is like a tazor that malfunctions cars and disables the competition. In midnight club los angeles 
 they show the person your using in career mode. butin the old midnight clubs they dont show your 
 career person's face have police arrest you and aim guns at you and they never had people walking 
 on the sidewalk. in midnight club los angeles it is the best midnight that is ever made because 
 it looks more realer then the first three midnight clubs that came out before
  in midnight club los angeles there grass look better te cars look just like the one real life they 
 have cars with open hoods and the game is going to be hard to beat because of the police because 
 there aggressive. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
