-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Mirror's Edge
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/ps3/action/mirrorsedge/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Flawless runs provide a total rush.
 Clean and striking visual design.
 Fantastic sound effects and music.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Frustrating amount of trial and error.
 Cramped jumping puzzles trip up the momentum.
 Combat and gunplay are weak.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Nov 11, 2008
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 7
Critic Score: 7.8, 47 Review (s)
User Score: 8.1, 1,224 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: EA Games
Developer: EA DICE
Genre: Modern First-Person...
Date: Nov 11, 2008
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Mirror's Edge offers occasional thrills, provided you can get past some awkward stumbles. 

  Like its heroine, Faith, Mirror's Edge tries to hurdle some significant obstacles, but unlike 
 Faith, it can't always make the leap. No doubt, this fascinating action platformer possesses its 
 share of innovations, from a first-person perspective to a clean and crisp visual style, yet it 
 looks to the past more than you may initially notice. This is a modern-day iteration of an old-fashioned 
 platformer, in which you're meant to play and replay sequences of jumps, grabs, and slides until 
 you get them perfect, or at least perfect enough to continue. But unlike its ancestors, Mirror's 
 Edge is more about speed and momentum, and when you can connect your moves in a flawless stream 
 of silky movement, it's eminently thrilling and satisfying. Unfortunately, Mirror's Edge has a 
 tendency to trip over its own feet, keeping you slipping and sliding blissfully along, only to 
 have a tedious jumping puzzle or hazy objective put the brakes on. Leaderboard chasers looking 
 to set a speedrun record will find Mirror's Edge to be pure gold. Others will give up, alienated 
 by the inherent trial and error of the game's basic design. At the very least, there's nothing 
 quite like it, and it deserves a cautious look by anyone who appreciates games that hew their own 
 path.  

           Faith and her fellow runners discuss the finer points of antidisestablishmentarianism. 

  Faith is a runner, in more ways than one. In the oppressed, fictitious society of Mirror's Edge, 
 runners are an underground network of couriers, carrying sensitive information and documents from 
 sender to receiver. The content of these messages is never clear, nor does it matter much; rather, 
 the story's conflict revolves around Faith's sister, a cop who is framed for the murder of a mayoral 
 candidate promising to bring change to the totalitarian government and bring hope to the runners 
 living on the fringe. Soon, Faith is running for a different reason: to uncover the conspiracy 
 at the heart of the murder and clear her sister's name. The story is straightforward, but it's 
 interesting enough to keep you involved, and though it ends with a sequel-hinting cliffhanger, 
 it wraps things up enough to feel fulfilling nonetheless. More intriguingly, the story plays out 
 between missions in stylish animated cutscenes, as well as scenes within the game engine itself, 
 which also look attractive but feature a completely different art style. Both types look good, 
 but the disparity is a little odd.  

  And so you run -- across rooftops, through train stations, and along walls. As you run, you pick 
 up speed and are able to string a number of moves together in rapid succession. You can slide under 
 pipes, bound over railings, and leap across impossible-looking chasms, among other techniques. 
 The most obvious twist in Mirror's Edge, of course, is that you do all of this from a first-person 
 view, rather than with the typical third-person camera we've come to expect. It's an interesting 
 spin, if not wholly new (Montezuma's Return for the PC was blazing this trail in 1998) , and it 
 has a way of immersing you as you speed toward your destination. Actions like balancing on a narrow 
 beam, sliding under a ledge at top speed, and tumbling when you land a long jump are fun to execute 
 and look neat, but it may also make you wonder how much fun it would be to see what Faith looks 
 like when she pulls off these neat stunts, which isn't possible in this game.  

  Nevertheless, Mirror's Edge excels when you hit that snappy stride, and once you've found the best 
 route through a particularly tricky scenario, it's exhilarating to rush through it without a care 
 to weigh you down. But this doesn't happen the first time, or even the fifth time, you do it. You 
 will need to experiment and hone your skills, because a simple mistake can send you plunging down 
 onto the street below, or will at very least interrupt your stride. You're expected to play each 
 level multiple times to learn the routes that best propel you along, which is great the 10th time 
 around but is often an infuriating series of false starts, mistimed jumps, and full stops the first 
 few attempts. If you need a hand, you can hold a button to activate runner vision, which turns 
 the camera toward your destination, but it's an imprecise solution that sometimes points you toward 
 a short-term objective and other times points you toward your long-term goal.  

           The early going will deliver more spills than thrills.      

  Another inconsistently 
 helpful tool comes directly from the game's impressive art design. Mirror's Edge is a game of visual 
 contrasts, in which stark white environments contrast with vivid colors. It looks beautiful and 
 clean, and it's a great way of demonstrating both the bleakness of an authoritarian society and 
 the unique manner in which a runner would see the world -- as an array of landing points and jumping 
 opportunities. Important ramps, doorways, ladders, and other points of interest are painted in 
 a vibrant red, which is an important visual cue in some of the broader levels. However, this element 
 too is delivered inconsistently; in some cases, the red hue may not fade in until you are close 
 to the pole or vaulting point in question, and in other cases, Mirror's Edge expects you to figure 
 things out without this visual assistance.  

  For a game that relies on so much forward momentum, Mirror's Edge has a way of bringing the pace 
 to a halt. Sometimes this is because of the nature of trial-and-error gameplay: fall, die, reload 
 checkpoint. At other times, it's because you're faced with an intricate jumping puzzle that eschews 
 the sense of speed entirely, such as one that has you descending into the depths of the water supply 
 system and then up again. These aren't bad, but they're not particularly engaging either; you're 
 more likely to feel relieved when you reach your destination, rather than fulfilled. Or you'll 
 be zooming along, only to find yourself in an elevator, reading the news crawl on the wall's electronic 
 panel while the level apparently loads in the background. In all of these cases, you're torn from 
 the experience and reminded that this is, after all, just a game.  

  Armed enemies further complicate matters. It's best to run right past them when possible, but their 
 bullets have a way of bringing you to your knees as you rush around looking for the best escape 
 route. Some foe-heavy scenarios are particularly annoying, such as a sniper-loaded sequence in 
 the final level. You can confront the threat head-on in some cases, but it requires careful planning 
 and excellent timing. You can perform some close-combat moves like jumpkicks and punches, but these 
 are best when used as hit-and-run tactics; trying to engage in melees with more than one or two 
 enemies at a time is a quick path to the most recent checkpoint. Conversely, you can disarm an 
 enemy with a quick-time event, pressing the disarm button when your foe's weapon flashes red. If 
 you want to hold on to it, you can fire off a few shots until the clip runs out. Faith is ultravulnerable 
 to gunfire, however, and the gunplay is loose and unfulfilling. If you have trouble keeping things 
 in check (it takes some split-second timing to land a pitch-perfect disarm) , you can enter a limited-use 
 slow-motion mode, which comes in handy and makes some of these action-focused moves look cool but 
 ultimately doesn't add much to the gameplay.  

  If you can overlook the array of quirks long enough to find your stride, you'll want to check out 
 the beat-your-record races and level speedruns. Both modes feature online leaderboards, and both 
 cater to the players most likely to get the most out of Mirror's Edge. In a sense, the single-player 
 story is simply a practice run for being a virtual show-off, yet the players repeating these levels, 
 because they'll learn them to perfection, are also the ones likely to see Mirror's Edge at its 
 most thrilling. But even casual players will take to the unusual controls, though the trigger-centric 
 jumping and crouching may take some getting used to. For what it's worth, the PlayStation 3's Sixaxis 
 and Dual Shock 3 controllers offer a slightly more comfortable experience in this regard; the clicky 
 shoulder buttons on the Xbox 360 pad are fine but are a little less enjoyable to use.  

           The world of tomorrow -- today!      

  While the visuals deserve kudos for their unusually 
 crisp style, the audio deserves its own high praise. Sound effects like Faith's breathy heaves 
 and plodding footsteps are authentic touches that heighten the sense of speed and tension. The 
 voice acting is equally terrific, but it's the pulsing, driving soundtrack that impresses most. 
 Its rhythmic flow augments Faith's most fluid runs, while subtle notes fill in the silence during 
 downtimes. The superb musical journey culminates in a fantastic vocal track that plays during the 
 game's final credits.  

  Mirror's Edge is many things: invigorating, infuriating, fulfilling, and confusing. It isn't for 
 everybody, and it stumbles often for a game that holds velocity in such high esteem. But even with 
 all its foibles and frustrations, it makes some impressive leaps; it just doesn't nail the landing. 
     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (84 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: M0wen10
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 19, 2009 12:33 pm PT
Review:  Mirror's Edge was an interesting idea which I believe paid off nicely. Unlike most games, in Mirror's 
 Edge you won't find most of your time battling enemies, but more trying to find a way past them 
 or escape them. You will constantly be faced with environments above ground and on top of rooftops, 
 where you will be pressured to find a path across each one, or fall to your bone crunching death. 
 To reach each destination you could do some impressive moves such as wall climbing, wall running 
 and sliding down 45 degree angle slopes without a problem. Assuming you make it your destination 
 that is. Timing must be perfect, or the ambulances will have a nasty job of cleaning you up.
  A nice game mechanic was that important paths had highlighted objects in red to hint the way forward 
 to progressing to the next stage. This was called runner vision, which runners such as your character 
 'Faith', possessed. 
  The gameplay was OK. This being said was that melee combat at times was difficult and the gun play 
 was seemingly broken at times. You rarely carry a gun, so rely on your disarming skill to maintain 
 one. But use it well becuase guns don't have much ammo.
  Its fair to say though that most of the fun will revolve around melee combat and the great adenaline 
 rush of escaping the police.
  The game progresses at a good pace and the puzzles are simple enough. That is mainly on the first 
 few levels. On later levels you will become heavily frustrated when you just can't see a reasonable 
 path upwards and die non-stop. 
  The game also hosts some beautiful graphics and scenery, and when running away at full speed, you 
 really feel a great rush of enjoyment.
  
  Story - 2/5
  Gameplay - 3/5
  Graphics - 4/5
  Sound - 4/5
  Characters - 2/5
  Controls - 3/5
  Length - 2/5
  Replayability 
 - 3/5
  
  Good Points: Beautiful visuals inside and outside, Great moves provide a real adrenaline rush, 
 Sound effects and voice acting are spot on.
  
  Bad Points: Timing is crucial which forces constant trial-and-error, Melee combat can be difficult, 
 Gunplay is broken, Characters are uninteresting, Puzzles are frustratingly difficult 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ZenesisX
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 15, 2009 2:39 pm PT
Review:  Story: In a future where everything is under totalitarianism ( complete surveillance of both public 
 and private life regulated by a higher power) life is safe but naive. In this society you play 
 as Faith, a runner part of a secret organization of people . A runner is someone who delivers sensitive 
 data on foot to avoid government interference. The story revolves around Faith's sister Kate, a 
 police officer who has been framed for murder of Robert Pope, a candidate who promised change from 
 the totalitarian form of government. Faith now has to unfold the conspiracy behind the murder aswell 
 as clear her sisters good name.
  
  Gameplay: This game is the first of its kind, a first person parkour game. That being said, the 
 gameplay is like nothing you have ever seen. You will be looking through the eyes of Faith, so 
 the camera will move as such to display a sense of realism. Mirrors Edge will have you running, 
 jumping, sliding, and swinging all over the place. You would think this would not translate well 
 in a first person game but you couldnt be further from the truth.
  
  Controls are simple enough, you have a up and down button located in the top left triggers. The 
 up button is used to do such commands as jumping, wallrunning, and vaulting. The down button is 
 used to crouch, slide, roll, coil, and dismount. The world you run in is very fast pace at times 
 so you will also have this feature known as "Runners Vision", a sort of seeing which tells you 
 where to go or what to do in the form of a red pathway for the player. You can also use another 
 feature called "Reaction Time" which slows down all movement allowing the player to time things 
 much better. These controls and features will be used to traverse the dangerous world Faith lives 
 in. 
  
  Running isnt the only focus of this game, so is combat. Attacking is assigned to the back trigger 
 on the right side. though it is one button you can string together movements such as wallrunning 
 or sliding to do other attacks. The player can also counter and disarm enemies aswell by pressing 
 the triangle ( or whatever you assigned the counter button to) at the right time when the weapon 
 glows red. Note that you can use the weapon taken away from the enemy but it is not advise because 
 weapons slow you down and also deprive you from other things.
  
  Graphics: Mirrors Edge takes on a special sort of art style. The city you will be running around 
 looks clean and carefree, everything is mostly displayed with white and a bright color along with 
 it. Its not only visually stunning but also symbolic in a sense of the word. It seems to represent 
 the society the game is set in through its colors. The in game graphics is one thing but the cutscence 
 graphics take on another style. It appears in novel form, that of which you would see in a comic 
 book but the picture moves in animation. I was quite impressed by the visuals of this game.
  
  Sounds: Just as this games exceeds in graphics, it also exceeds in sound. sound effects sound 
 great, realistic enough i would say. Sountracks are nice, a different soundtrack for every level 
 you are in, all original pieces. No complaints here, I was thoroughly satisfied with this area 
 of the game.
  
  Value: This is a really short game, you can probably beat the entire game in one sit down. Despite 
 that, the actual value of this game is varied depending on the type of gamer. Yeah the story mode 
 is short, but this game has other features to make up for this. It has other modes like time trails 
 and speedruns which will rack up hours for gamers who enjoy that sort of thing. that being said, 
 this sort of gameplay isnt for everyone. Things can get overwhelming at times do to the difficulty 
 of certain points. Besides these features, there is a bunch of unlockable content such as artwork, 
 videos, and soundtracks.
  
  In conclusion, Mirrors Edge is a fun and addictive game that i rather enjoyed alot. Not everyone 
 will be able to get into this game like i have, but that is the same with any game someone plays. 
 With its interesting storyline, innovative gameplay, sweet controls, stunning graphics, cohesive 
 music, and replayability I cant help but recommend this game. Buy or rent would be good as long 
 as you play this game, Its truly a game that must be experienced. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Darkrobe
Rating: 3.5
Date: Apr 13, 2009 7:48 pm PT
Review:  I was able to borrow the game and I'm glad I did, because I would have wasted my money. I have 
 NEVER been so frustrated playing a game like I have with this one. Some of the game play has been 
 difficult to do, with you trying to do somewhat complex game interaction moves combined with wireless 
 controller lag will make you want to:
  - toss your controller across the room after dying for the nth time.
  - twist the remote in frustration
 
  - want to take scissors to the game disc
  - scream in your pillow
  The story line is good, the animation is different from other games so that's been actually the 
 only incentive to keep going. 
  The other thing the game has going for it is the detail to the surroundings, which have been incredible 
 in detail but you'll be too busy running to enjoy it. At times the path to where you need to go 
 will seem obscure and often times I am wondering, how the heck am I going to ever get over there. 
 
  After you die a few times you'll figure it out. 
  
  There's not many games in my life that I would say that I am glad I'm never playing that one again, 
 this one might make your list of those as well. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Glokwerk
Rating: 6.5
Date: Apr 7, 2009 6:52 pm PT
Review:  Mirrors edge is visually stunning with an excellent concept and amazing audio tracks, but it is 
 lacking in gameplay. This game is awesome.. for the first 20 to 30 minutes you play, after that 
 it becomes one frustrating fall or death after another. It is one of those games that requires 
 perfection to pass a level, anything short of that will result in death, whether it be from an 
 extremely high fall or the unrelenting bullets from overly difficult to take down police officers. 
 Even one miss step makes this game impossibly hard.
  
  That doesn't mean it is all bad though, the one time they get it right is with the time trial runs, 
 these are insanly fun romps over rooftops or, with the DLC from the Playstation Network, a trippy 
 multi coloured series of suspended platforms.
  
  I really wish they would have gotten this right because the idea is great and I really wanted this 
 game to be good. But with overly difficult levels, impossible to avoid bullets and some insanely 
 difficult pathways to freedom, this game goes from buy to just rent. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheClown24
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 7, 2009 3:34 pm PT
Review:  Mirrors Edge is another game to come out of EA's Dice Studio creators of the critically acclaimed 
 "Battlefield" series, although Mirrors Edge hasn't received quite the praise, i personally love 
 it
  Good points:
  Gorgeous visuals would not look out of place in an art gallery, smooth, flowing free-running, great 
 story, not bad combat, re-playable (ive completed it 4 times :) ) , time trial mode keeps the fun 
 going even longer, animated cut-scenes work really well, cityscape background looks like you can 
 go there even if you cant, intelligent level design keeps it not too hard or too easy, nothing 
 like this has ever been done before
  Bad points:
  Too short! i completed it on boxing day after getting it for Christmas!, sometimes can be a little 
 frustrating, when i completed it on hard i felt like my abilities could take me further
  All in all a great game well deserving of 90/100.
  Would definitely recommend if you want something 
 different! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JonnyEarthquake
Rating: 5
Date: Apr 15, 2009 6:14 am PT
Review:  Mirror`s Edge - one of the first more innovative and controversial games of this generation - has 
 brought us something completely unthinkable - first person platforming at it`s early roots. Standing 
 on the edge of a possible new sub-genre of gaming, ME delivers fresh and strangely satisfying experience 
 to quench the gamers thirsty for something new and daring.
  
  Mirror`s Edge presents a world where the government cares a little too much about the lives of 
 ordinary people. Yes George Orwell, just keep turning in your grave we still eagerly wait for our 
 own 1984. In fact Big Brother is so concerned about the poor, helpless masses of society that every 
 street of the City (yes, that`s the name of the place where the events of the game take place, 
 but DICE could have came up with something little more original than beating the corpse of classic 
 cyberpunk) has a security camera, where every form of communication is carefully monitored and 
 controlled... Well, not all of it. Some people, however, simply can`t let their precious little 
 secrets to be ransacked and that`s where the Runners come in. The main heroine Faith, along with 
 some others, despise the current state of society and dedicate herself to a different way of life 
 - delivering the aforementioned messages in the only possible way left - the real oldskool travel-by-feet 
 method. Or, as you might have guessed already, parkour. However the anorexic Eurasian girl`s usual 
 living on-the-edge routine is disturbed when her sister Kate - a policewoman - is framed for murder 
 she clearly didn`t do. Now it`s up to Faith to clear her name and uncover a conspiracy which might 
 end all Runners lives once and for all...
  
  Unfortunately I make the truth sound a little better than reality. The game fails to capture the 
 uniqueness of Runner`s lifestyle or any other elements of their lives. There are no `real` personalities 
 - only a bunch of cardboard characters. Faith is really just a running chick - she rarely speaks 
 and doesn`t show much emotions the player could relate to. Even loss of major character (s) doesn`t 
 mean anything. It`s just there. The writing is not to blame though - it`s the very game design. 
 The single player is extremely short and feels like a bunch of ideas compressed together with weak, 
 if none, connection whatsoever. This make the story experience sour and leave you desiring more.
 
  However the first person perspective somehow links you with Faith - during a jump your will gasp 
 along with her, when she gets shot, you`ll twitch as well. In fact Mirror`s Edge delivers such 
 immersive experience usually had in role-playing games in some terms even surpassing them.
  At first glance, the game`s visual design will seem absolutely hypnotizing and unbelievable. Mirror`s 
 Edge presents a very unique color scheme - the basic color is white, representing the sterile environment 
 of the city. Along with that, various contrasting colours as orange, bright green and blue create 
 an amazing sense of high-tech utopian society. However when you`ll be seeing the same view with 
 the same color scheme for the hundredth time, you`ll realize how boring and depressive it really 
 is.
  All first person perspective cutscenes are rendered using in game engine surely look great, but 
 for some reason somebody decided to disharmonize the overall design by adding animated cutscenes. 
 Oh my God, you just look at that disgustingly cheap, Flash-quality crap! What the hell?? Seriously 
 why they had to do this? There is absolutely no artistic sense in this! I have studied some aesthetics 
 and trust me, those scenes just suck!
  
  The very gameplay of Mirror`s Edge is surprisingly simple to pick up for anybody who has ever played 
 any first-person related game. Once you get a grip of the controls, which is not hard at all, you`ll 
 run, jump, roll and swing around across rooftops, through offices, warehouses and such. There are 
 various ways of defeating the many obstacles in your way - you can slide under pipes, vault over 
 fences, perform wallruns and pull off many other great-looking stunts. The game also allows you 
 to experiment by offering you to take various paths. However the pace of the game is very inconsistent 
 - you`ll frequently get stuck figuring out another `where-do-I-have-to-go-again` puzzle. This happens 
 mostly in indoor environments. To help avoid frustration, the designers have given Faith `Runner 
 Vision` - interactive objects, such as pipes, ladders, platforms and stuff, will glow bright red, 
 allowing you to focus your attention on something more specific. Also, by pressing the Circle button, 
 Faith will automatically look at the desired destination. That`s so not brilliant as sound though. 
 Faith`s eyes catch your ultimate goal, not the ledge/pipe/whatever you were so desperately looking 
 after. The bad parts don't stop there - I found myself falling to death because of many dumb design 
 choices. You see, Faith may not grab that ledge because you were not looking `up` enough. Or she`ll 
 do a vault over a box instead of pushing against of it, thus failing a jump. Or simply not grab 
 a pipe even if you clearly jump or step next on it. Other problem is that Faith is not really a 
 `solid` human being. There are lots of clipping issues throughout the game - but why, WHY, does 
 our little Eurasian girl loses her momentum when simply running along walls and runs into invisible 
 ledges? What is that supposed to mean? In a game where speed is everything, you suddenly are stopped 
 for no apparent reason? This makes the bonus content (a little later about that) just as frustrating 
 and hard as the single player. Even more - there are SPECIFICALLY designed `obstacles` who are 
 just LAME. How do you like turning oh-so iconic valves to stop stem coming from a pipe? Or crawling 
 through a maze of ventilation shafts? But wait, how about my favourite - elevators? You know, it`s 
 really awesome to ride in one for a minute or even longer while nothing, absolutely nothing happens. 
 Yeah, I suppose old habits die hard DICE. It`s really hard to get rid of those cliches even with 
 a fairly innovative idea, huh? Oh, and explosive barrels. Yes, explosive barrels in Mirror`s Edge. 
 Nuff` said.
  In case you didn`t know, there are also action sequences in the game. Once the military police 
 - the `blues` (as an opposite to Runners, who use red color as their mark) - catch wind of Faith 
 (which happens hella often) , they initiate their average AI`s and try to shoot down our beloved 
 heroine. You can avoid pretty much any confrontation with enemy, however in some cases asses must 
 be kicked. And, oh boy, how Faith can kick ass! You`ve got only one melee attack, but you can use 
 it in mid-air, while sliding or doing a complex yet sweet 180 degree jump-kick move. Still, it 
 takes more than one punch to take out a trained opponent. But if you want to show off, Faith can 
 disarm a soldier in the best Wing-Chun martial arts traditions (honestly, it`s true, just Wikipedia 
 it!) . By pressing Triangle while soldier`s weapon appears bright red, she`ll perform a disarming 
 move and knock out the enemy as well. There are various super shweet animations, different to every 
 enemy type or position Faith is at and I gotta say it`s wicked cool to kick so much ass just with 
 one button press.
  When Faith disarms a `blue` or knocks the fella out, you can take his gun and use it, however our 
 anorexic friend doesn`t feel too comfortable shooting a weapon, so don`t expect any amazing firefights. 
 For more proof the Faith is a pacifist, she can`t run too fast or jump while carrying a rifle, 
 neither she carries around any bullets - after the clip is empty, she`ll just dispose of the gun. 
 Overall the shooting action is pretty lame, not only because of the unsatisfying shooting mechanics 
 but also thanks to poor hit detection - both melee and gunplay. Not just that - expect alot of 
 `WHAT THE F-!?` screams when your perfectly timed disarm is somehow ignored and poor Faith gets 
 smacked in her cute face.
  To expand the lifespan of your copy of Mirror`s Edge after beating the 6-8, hour story mode, you 
 can also play through more than 20 time trials, do speedruns for each level or collect trophies. 
 Some might say that it`s just a lame time filler but I, oddly enough, disagree. Figuring out the 
 fastest routes and discussing game hints along with other gamers is really interesting. However, 
 time trials are in a completely different level of difficulty. Not only that - the design problems 
 I mentioned flesh out even more while you`re trying to prefect a single level - and it can take 
 HOURS of hard, frustrating work. Overall, if you get hooked, Mirror`s Edge is sure as hell is gonna 
 keep you busy for weeks.
  
  The graphics of the game are a mixed bag. The Unreal Engine 3 looks crazy good, along with clean, 
 sharp textures however some of them look blurry up close. The draw distance is also spectacular, 
 allowing you to see the whole City from any rooftop. When you look down the edge, you`ll see ordinary 
 folks carrying on their meaningless lives but I wish there were more crowds - or at least the roads 
 could have had more cars on them. Frame rate is okay, with a few dips when you run like crazy. 
 What also should be mentioned, are the load times. They`re bad, and I mean BAAAAAAAAAAAD. Your 
 average level takes almost 20 seconds to load, when Faith dies, you`ll be staring at white screen 
 for at least five second. What`s even worse, even with a 500 MB installation (why..?) there are 
 mid-level loadings which unpleasantly break up the pace. Luckily there are far less of them on 
 PS3 than on X360. Also the game tends to freeze quite often, which is just... beyond annoying. 
 Oh and the patch does nothing - just adds new trophies for purchasable DLC. Did I just spent five 
 minutes of downloading something I`ll never use? It seems that I did.
  What I also found disturbing, was the use of Havok engine. Basically, to make a decent jump, Faith 
 needs a run-up, so there are fairly realistic inertia-related physics laws here. But no, wait! 
 Why are wooden boxes/sand bags nailed to the floor? Why can planks in size of a match hold a mature 
 persons weight? So what if Faith weighs like 20 pounds, she ain`t no exception to Einstein`s laws, 
 now is she?
  
  The sound design is pretty amazing, even worth to be put in one line with Dead Space. Faith`s interactions 
 with the environment, her moans, gasps, the wind in your face - it all is recorded perfectly and 
 make immersion in the game even better. Voice acting is also solid, but nobody really talks much 
 here. That`s a shame - voicing suits each character well but if somebody here would have had a 
 fleshed out personality, story had felt much better.
  Music is a mixed bag again - great electronic pieces but outside the main theme, the rest of the 
 soundtrack is surprisingly blank.
  
  In conclusion, Mirror`s Edge is the gasp of fresh air gaming community has been waiting for. On 
 the other hand, the first steps into first-person platforming haven`t been without it`s share of 
 flaws. I`d recommend you to check out the demo before purchasing the game and determine weather 
 this game is for you or not. But don`t get confused - Mirror`s Edge still has a giant leap to take 
 to become a fully enjoyable game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cooldude1888
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 18, 2009 5:13 am PT
Review:  When I heard about this game and saw the gameplay trailer, I though nah, that game was'nt for me. 
 Not that new genre with all the fancy tricks over buildings escaping from police choppers and stuff. 
 Nah. Anyway, I'd heard that the demo had hit the Playstation Store so I downloaded it to try it 
 out.
  To my great suprise, I thought it was fantastic, I loved the control system and gow simple it was 
 to do all these really cool tricks. It was great! Anyway, I go out and buy out and complete it 
 and heres me now writing this review for it. I dont play it much anymore though. You can find some 
 DLC of the Playstation Store, half of its free like the additional time trials, I download all 
 that as well. Its a good game and as I played I realized that it was actually funner running and 
 hurling over rooftops than it was fighting with police units. The fighting sequences are really 
 hard. There are always loads of guys and you dont start with a gun usually. So you have to disarm 
 the weapon of the police officer with loads of others punching you and shooting then shoot the 
 big crowd of them. Then you'll find out that 5 more will come sprinting round the corner this time 
 more advanced units with heavier armour and guns. So you have to keep on the move. The police officers 
 are clever in knowing to predict what route you're going to take, such as cutting you off when 
 you least expect it. The heavily armed units are more sort of SWAT riot cops sort of guys who will 
 open fire at you with machine guns as soon as they see you. The thing is, its not as simple as 
 hiding behind a wall and waiting for them to come round so you can beat the crap out of them. They 
 are clevel and will know your plan so will likely quickly sprint past in 4's leaving you confused 
 before punching you and beating you then finishing you off with a pistol. You are on the run for 
 a reason, you see, you're a runnner called Faith who is one the run from the goverment. The city 
 was in riots years back, fighting each other, Faiths mum died in the riots when Faith was a little 
 girl. She was trying to protect Faith but ended up getting killed. The city folk now enjoy a peacful 
 life while Faith is running across rooftops fighting cops and SWAT and fighting off choppers. The 
 choppers in the game are a real pain. You'll think you'll have lost them as you dart through a 
 thin wall in the building and then when you come out the other end, the choppers right in front 
 of you, shotting like mad and before you know it, your dead. A lot of the dying comes from falling 
 off of rooftops and buildings. Its hard some of the tricks and manouevers. The training teaches 
 you it though. The training is actually pretty hard. In fact, the whole gae is hard as hell, it 
 took me ages to complete it, about 12 hours, I know! Though that was including time trials and 
 stuff. Anyway, its a good game but could have brought on more options like being able to go on 
 the streets. It would have been good also if there was online play. That would have been good but 
 its still a great game and provides decent entertainment. You wont be playing on it for days though 
 like the online of Killzone and Call of duty. Anyway, its not a Call of duty fighting game in terms 
 of guns, its more a swing and shoot and run game with a bit of hardcore feautures thrown in. A 
 great game with smashing graphics, you need to have this game on your shelf cause this is one of 
 those original games that you need to have. A superb and unforgettable game with a few downsides 
 and no online but proves to be hard enough to keep you on it for 12 hours like me! Thanks for reading 
 my review o Mirrors Edge. Bye! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheJackpotter
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 7, 2009 8:26 am PT
Review:  This game is one of the best games I've played to date!
  In this game, you control Faith Connors, and you have an objective: To save your sister after being 
 setted up by commiting a crime she didn't commited!
  And then, the cops started to follow you, so they could get some answers! This list contains the 
 chapters in order:
  
  Tutorial: No explanation needed.
  
  Prologue (Edge) : Now it's time for you to test your skills! Try to get to the end of the level!
 
  
  Flight: You're going to talk with your sister about Pope's murder. But then, the cops start to 
 chase you, and you gotta get out of there!
  
  Jacknife: There is a possible murderer, so you try to get to him. You also recieve extra info in 
 the end of the level!
  
  Heat: You're trying to get some info about Pope's murder. After you got the info you needed, you 
 need to escape from the cops!
  
  Ropeburn: You're going to the place they mentioned in Chapter 3. But Ropeburn tries to kill you! 
 You didn't die, but he did when you were so close to get s'more info! The cops are informed you 
 were in the building, you gotta escape!
  
  New Eden: There's a new mall opening up, and there will be a reunion with Pope's murderer and some 
 other people. But it's a trap, and gotta get out of there!
  
  Pirandello Kruger: There's a place which contains info about the Runners, and you're trying to 
 get to them! But since PK is a cops company, you need to get out of there!
  
  The Boat: There's really no reason why you're there, but in the end of the level, you need to fight 
 someone!
  
  Kate: There's a sniper you're going to use to stop the convoy that it has your sister! But then, 
 the cops discover you and you need to gat out of there!
  
  The Shard: Merc (your informater) was killed, and you need to get through the level without any 
 help! But you find Miller (the Mayor, I think) and he helps you through most of the second part 
 of the level! In the end, you discover Jacknife (the guy you chased in Chapter 2) was the murderer, 
 and he takes your sister to a helicopter! You gotta kill him! Once you kill him, you get the final 
 cutscene and the credits!
  
  Yeah, I know, short game! But it's still a good game!
  Its longevity makes it lose 2 points!
  If it had 30 chapters, it would have a perfect 10! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dj_omid1
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 6, 2009 11:53 pm PT
Review:  FIrst that the game came out, I didn't like the game.
  So I rented the game, and surprisingly the game was AWESOME.
  It was actually one of the best 
 games I've ever played. It's a totally new style of gameplay.
  The graphics were awesome, and the music was groovy.
  The disarms, snipers, kicks, punches, walking 
 on the wall, and much more...
  It's like taking the best of the bests and mixing them together...
  Well all I have to say is 
 AWESOME JOB EA.
  There were some other games kind of like this, but none of them succeded.
  Anyway the game was surprisinly good, and I guess whoever play it will like it...
  The trophies 
 for the PS3 were really easy to get... Especially the hidden package ones.
  If you want to get some trophies for PS3, you got to have this one, it has like some many easy 
 trophies.
  Thanks and BYE! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: simon_levane
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 5, 2009 10:19 am PT
Review:  "Mirror's Edge" may lack a ton of gameplay, but what's there counts big. It's an innovative title 
 that blends "Matrix"-like chases within a vivid, imaginative game world. The art design is unique 
 to sound the least; the city presented in the game consists of white-washed towering buildings 
 that feature splashes of bright blues and reds. Those colored areas represent interactive parts 
 of the buildings and direction to your destination. Most of the game is designed for racing as 
 you dash from Point A to Point B to evade the police and the bad guys. It's very similar to the 
 way Trinity avoided the Agents in "The Matrix".
  
  Animated cutscenes tell the story and the professional voice acting (along with the score) goes 
 along way in conveying tension. It may not be a very long game, but it's games like these that 
 continue to push the industry's boundries into the art realm. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GameObserver
Rating: 7.5
Date: Feb 25, 2009 9:10 am PT
Review:  Mirror's Edge is something to keep your tattooed eye on. The game is not quite ready to be a masterpiece 
 but it might eventually get there if EA actually listens to critics. It's a slick journey through 
 a vivid world, but it is also encumbered with painfully frustrating hurdles and precarious gameplay. 
 Players beware: you will curse. 
  
  The main problem with Electronic Art's new baby is the pacing. We have a game based around freestyling 
 ("parkouring", for all you Euro-types) , which translates to large dozes of running and jumping 
 over urban trappings. And though the running part is decently executed the game also gives players 
 a healthy serving of "figure out what the designers were thinking". I personally hate figuring 
 out what designers were thinking, because it usually ends with me being scraped off the sidewalk 
 and being forced to watch the same level reload a hundred times. Mirror's Edge has a lot of "reloading", 
 mainly because pressure put on the player makes it hard to discern where you have to go and how 
 to get there. If you are expecting a fast-paced ballet of action, get ready to put in more hours 
 getting used to the levels than actually enjoying the game. A single playthrough isn't enough, 
 simply because Mirror's Edge is best played once you know what to do. 
  
  
  REFLECTIONS OF A NOT-SO-DISTANT FUTURE
  
  Electronic Arts does a great job staging a futuristic 
 world where dissident couriers called Runners are the last bastion of free speech in a perfectly 
 sterile society that controls all means of communication. The world is clean and comfortable for 
 those who abide by its Orwellian rules. Those who reject it are cast out. We never see the outcasts 
 but we know they are a happy lot. Runners are their lifeblood because unrepressed communication 
 means their freedom. Ironically, Runners live above both societies under the clean, blue sky, dashing 
 from building to building on the edge, leaving behind them but a reflection on the mirrored windows 
 of corporate sky rises. Hence the name: Mirror's Edge. 
  
  The story revolves around a nimble Runner, Faith, embroiled in a conspiracy that involves her sister, 
 a cop, who was framed for murder. As conspiracies go this one is your typical yarn with the expected 
 betrayals and twists -- in short, nothing extraordinary. But the plot is told through exquisitely 
 animated cutscenes worthy of a good anime. Electronic Arts does a wonderful job with colors like 
 few games before it, accentuating the sterile nature of the city in contrasting shades of white, 
 blue and red.
  
  Mirror's Edge offers an interesting feature called Runner Vision, which shows us the world through 
 the eyes of a Runner by painting objects of interest in red, like doors, pipes, beam and ramps 
 that can be used to parkour through. It helps. What doesn't help is constant pressure put on players 
 and tenacious first-perspective. 
  
  
  BETWEEN THE GLOSS AND THE REALITY
  
  Like its closest rival, Prince of Persia, Faith can climb, wall-run, swing on poles and bounce 
 off walls. But that's where the similarities end. Faith can also slide, zip-line, jump over objects 
 and bounce off specific items. Players can roll into a ball while landing from high up and spin 
 around 180 at a whim. Levels are cleverly designed around the game's running mechanics. You don't 
 simply jump over objects, you freestyle though them in sprint. We see Faith's arms, legs and body 
 as she flows through the levels. 
  
  All this running around in first-perspective without a HUD or life meter can be a bit dizzying 
 at times but it makes parkouring that much more fun and realistic. The game could have really benefited 
 from some third-perspective action, though, especially while wall-running and performing other 
 precise maneuvering. It almost feels like Electronic Arts refused to add a third-perspective feature 
 out of fear that Mirror's Edge would be labeled a Prince of Persia clone. Some advice: don't play 
 this game with your parents around. They'll be astonished at how many swear words you can string 
 together when you careen to your death for the X'ed time because you didn't give Faith the right 
 amount of time to properly pivot before bouncing off a wall, or because you didn't quite connect 
 with a wall before wall-running or walking a narrow ledge. 
  
  There were parts in Mirror's Edge were I stopped expecting to reach my objective and started counting 
 the new ways I would die. That's a not a good thing for a game that prides itself for being fast-paced; 
 dying sort of puts a halt on things. It's one of those games that requires you to die until you 
 figure out how to approach certain parts, or better, how not to approach them. This is clearly 
 the biggest flaw. Pressing the "Alt" button focuses Faith's vision at an objective, but that feature 
 still needs work. Your Runner will often aim at the final goal, ignoring the ones in between, giving 
 players the wrong idea how to tackle a level. 
  
  The environment is killer. One false step and the white settings below get a new shade of red. 
 But if falling to your death because of awkward controls wasn't enough, EA added rabid cops trying 
 to mow you down with everything but heavy artillery (actually they have that too in the form of 
 military choppers) . The result is Faith running for her life like a gazelle just about anywhere 
 she goes, crashing through doors to always escape in the nick of time. Again, it's exciting when 
 you don't die. And die you will. 
  
  
  "RUN FAITH RUN" 
  
  Electronic Arts has a good concept on their hands. The ultimate effect resembles the cult movie 
 "Run Lola Run", where a slim female character always manages to hit the elevator button before 
 the bad guys get to her. At times your heart will pump as fast as Faith's. Things unfortunately 
 often go wrong when you have bullets whistling past your ear. Jumping over structures like fences 
 and pipes is a pleasure in itself. Had the game omitted much the bullet action in favor of more 
 parkouring, things would have felt less tedious. Players will often find themselves looking for 
 a vent shaft or the next plank to jump on while gunners are practicing their aim on you. 
  
  Combat is designed around Faith's physical ability, not her skill with firearms. The latter 
 doesn't even let her reload. When a gun is empty she has to drop it and find another. Theoretically 
 Faith has all the skills needed to take on any adversary in hand-to-hand combat. In practice, though, 
 players will prefer blasting someone away -- much easier. In theory, our Runner can grab and disarm 
 an opponent at an opportune moment (when the weapon turns red) . In practice, your opponent always 
 has three or four mates watching his back. In theory Faith can wall-run and kick her opponents 
 into the ground. In practice, your opponents rarely stand next to a wall long enough for you to 
 perform any acrobatics. A time slow-down feature helps players perform the aforementioned moves, 
 though results may vary depending on the surroundings and opponents -- some enemies are harder 
 to time your grabs against. 
  
  EA should have changed the premise of most scenes. Most of the time odds are stacked a bit too 
 high against us. Having played through the entire single player mode I never had a chance to unexpectedly 
 disarm an opponent, even though according to the tutorial it is possible. 
  
  Ultimately, Mirror's Edge starts too quickly, especially with so much potential. How do Runners 
 perform jobs? How do regular citizens react to them? How do their employers live? How do cops behave 
 under "normal" circumstances? What does Faith do in her spare time? We don't know because the game 
 begins in "fugitive" mode. A few normal Runner missions and street-level stages would have set 
 the tone and deepened the world our heroine lives in. Not always having a target on her back would 
 have also allowed Faith to fully use her skills. 
  
  But despite the shortcomings, Electronic Arts still does a great job conveying this new playground. 
 Complimenting the clean graphics is an amazing futuristic ambient score. Voice acting is also superb, 
 though your guide, Merc, could have been more helpful and cops have a stupid habit of shooting 
 first then yelling "stop or we'll shoot!" Sound effects are detailed and plentiful. Faith sometimes 
 groans a bit too much, even while doing the smallest of things, but her presence is well established, 
 both visually and audibly. 
  
  The game is rather short, clocking in between 5 and 10 hours, however a second playthrough is recommended 
 to fully enjoy the experience. Speed Run mode is nothing more than rehashed solo missions with 
 a timer. Time Trial is where the fun is at. It allows players to run through checkmarks without 
 the cop presence. Too bad EA didn't expand on it, like adding NPC Runners to square off against 
 and creating open-ended "freestlye" races. One has to wonder if the game would have been better 
 off focusing more on Time Trial missions similar to Need for Speed or Midnight Club rather than 
 plain old Story mode. The latter almost seems inadequate. Multiplayer is reserved for the most 
 fanatic of fans. I wouldn't attempt any of the multiplayer modes before having mastered all the 
 levels; it's required to even have the slightest chance against all the young Runners out there. 
 
  
  
  SUMMARY
  
  Mirror's Edge delivers a solid performance for its first attempt but it wobbles in some parts. 
 The game can be infuriating at times due to trial and error. Too much is asked of Faith. She's 
 a Runner but the game treats her like an 80's action hero. Levels are well designed, unfortunately 
 there is always someone trying to kill you, and they usually have friends, which limits the player's 
 choices and reaction time. The concept would have been more interesting had it shown us more of 
 this futuristic world and less of the whole "conspiracy". It's recommended to hardcore gamers. 
 
  
  
  GRAPHICS 85
  Excellent levels with beautiful colors. The future never looked cleaner. Lack of HUD and seeing 
 parts of Faith's body adds to realism. Not enough street missions.
  
  GAMEPLAY 70
  1st-perspective can be frustrating. Cop pressure limits player choices resulting in needless trial 
 and error. Good controls and speed mechanics.
  
  PRODUCTION 72
  Great animated scenes. Future conveyed well but more could have been done. Missed chances to elaborate 
 the Runner lifestyle. Extra modes lack creativity.
  
  SOUND 80
  Nice ambient music and plenty of cool sound effects, especially when running. A few miscued voice 
 effects and missed chances to improve gameplay with Merc.
  
  LASTING APPEAL 75
  Solo lasts 5-10 hours but replaying the game can be fun, especially in Time Trial. Lackluster extras. 
 Online modes reserved for the best players.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Tamenese
Rating: 7
Date: Feb 23, 2009 3:05 pm PT
Review:  Well lets start with the demo, when this was released and the entire gaming, freerunning and online 
 culture was fapping to the idea of a game ascending from the heavens to deliver a realistic futuristic, 
 god-like freerunning game, it seemed like the PSN/ XBL loved us and cherished our subscriptions 
 by handing us this nugget of wonder and amazement.
  
  Then we played it. I wont handle the demo too much since... its a demo! and im reviewing the game, 
 not a tiny portion of it.
  
  For the good part it was a pretty awesome trip, main menu comes up and that almost erotic soundtrack 
 kicks in (you know the doooo dooooo do-doo doo do... yeh that doesnt work like this...) and the 
 whole red-white thing going on looks clean, crisp and amazing. Hit play now and your thrown into 
 the tutorial, given a few pointers on how to do various things like run, jump, slide and commit 
 near suicide, and it all seems great! Thrown into the first level afterwards, and your free to 
 run, jump and fly building over building oh what joy! First impressions are pretty good, characters 
 seem well made, dialogues... bearable, everything looks amazing. So we eagerly wait for the game 
 to come out.
  
  This is where EA decide to take those original aspirations built from the hype and demo of the 
 golden coated video descending from heaven and blah de blah, take it home for a loving candle lit 
 meal and massage and end up VIOLATING IT.
  
  So your thrown into the demo part which we've now played countless times because its so amazing, 
 complete it in the fastest possible time and most stylish way as we now know this like second nature 
 and we're about to see, the second level. And then to quote a certain Irish comedian "and then 
 the CAGE comes down!!".
  
  For a game built all about the flow, it really craps that up. Every jump, dive and hop throws you 
 off a multi storey building to become a pavement pizza. And then you have to break the whole speed 
 flow thing, you miss a jump, you realise this straight away, you have to wait for Faith (main char) 
 to realise this, then watch yourself plummet halfway to your death before the screen blacks out 
 with a rather admittedly well sounded body splatting noise, the you have to wait for the game to 
 change screens, load the nearest checkpoint and drop you off there - although it doesnt sound much 
 this really kills the gameplay for me! For a game about speed it really takes its facking time! 
 And its not just one or two hard jumps, the slightest misjudgement on your part and its this, and 
 the nerd rage builds slowly each time before the sound of Faiths fragile body hitting the floor 
 at high speed becomes a symbol of the games laughter of your failure. Some may call this a lack 
 of skill but for an average gamer this is unavoidable! What really would of worked here would be 
 some kind of save system or respawn similar to the new Prince of Persia game, how that would be 
 implemented is a different thing but that really would of gave this game a much better recommendation.
 
  
  Another problem of mine is that its a game set on freerunning, your jumping across buildings, fences 
 and running from the fuzz (who seem to have nothing better to do than send armed platoons after 
 you - is there no other crime!) , thats all good, however a large part of the game is based inside, 
 still fair, they have good sections that require a lot of skill and well made runs, but nearly 
 every level has you running through vents... slowly... which kinda undermines the whole freerunning 
 concept! Also there is the problem of freerunning being free and the advertisement giving it a 
 sorta run where ever you want to get to there way, but its all just linear paths and you can choose 
 whether you want to jump over a fence or slide down the side of building. To sum it up il take 
 the first level from the demo, when you first run away from the police and you get chased upstairs 
 and out an emergency exit, you turn and there is that pointlessly placed metal stairset thing, 
 you can make a choice of whether to run forward slide under the middle of it, mount the right side 
 of it and run down the steps, or run up the left side steps and jump over the rail the other side 
 - that sums this game up. All do exactly the same thing just a tad differently.
  
  Another main part of the hype was the whole your in the main characters head, you ARE the main 
 character, you see what they do kinda thing but... that doesnt really do it for me, I appreciate 
 its a good concept however a more Assassins Creed-esque third person view would look so much better. 
 The main problem is as you need to look to see things its hard to time jumps as you cant see your 
 feet or when your coming near to the edge and either jumping early or just end up running clean 
 off the edge.
  
  The combat is take or leave, I played two runs of this, first time on normal, without using guns, 
 i thought i'd really try for the whole running idea, outside this works, but many times your stuck 
 inside having to fend off a bunch of guys before you can move on, this becomes so hard without 
 guns, you need to sucker each one into a clean space before tearing his face off, the counter attacks 
 are usually good but sometimes the timing is really difficult, even with the slow mo runner vision, 
 and two misses and theyve knocked you to the floor dead. Annoying.
  
  Second time I decided to go on hard with guns, and I completed the game in a few hours, thats right 
 the whole game in a few hours on the hardest setting! Thats the main disappointment - its easy 
 and short, which is a terribly bad combination, its like telling your loved one your going to cook 
 a good meal, whilst they get all excited about, you come back ten minutes later with a microwave 
 pizza. Well thats the gameplay covered I believe, onto the story! The story is... loose (like aforementioned 
 loved one hoho!) . Basically your an underground delivery system who ironically works over the rooftops, 
 delivering what and to who is never really explained, admittedly I was expecting some kind of 'never 
 look at the load, oh damn I looked at the load and now everythings gone balls up storyline ala 
 The Transporter, but fortunately that wasnt the case.
  Basically you do this personalised Royal Mail thing, in the meantime the police run out of crime 
 to solve and end up sending large platoons of heavily armoured and armed officers after you and 
 have sentenced you personally to death. Stuff happens and you get framed for a murder and end up 
 up there with Osama Bin Laden as public enemy number one. SOoooo you run about... run about some 
 more, pretty much each level is a different area to run away from heavily armed mobs trying to 
 lynch you, rooftops, a mall, a sewer, more rooftops, a corporate office, an elevator shaft, a construction 
 site and thats basically each level named. In the end the government are creating a program to 
 create police with the same abilities and skills as the runners, and wear cyber gimp suits too! 
 In the end people are betrayed, Faith learns more about the aforementioned runners and it all sums 
 up quite nicely. Thats about all there is to say about it really, I dont quite know what they were 
 doing with the story but being EA they have to give a halfassed attempt at something and i guess 
 an intense story was the case. 
  
  One thing I dont get though is that you never really know the government is evil, okay sure the 
 backstory is that some blah happened in the past and now everyones under watch, but that just makes 
 them more security conscious than evil in my opinion. Infact if anything Faith is the evil one 
 as she runs through the world delivering secret messeges unmonitored from the government, similar 
 to say... certain terrorist groups? For all we know Faith is delivering mailbombs and anthrax! 
 Asides these problems EA have put quite a lot of effort into this, the levels are really artistic 
 and look extremely nice, the whole white and red goes much better than the gunmetal grey or cat 
 vomit brown that most new releases come with nowadays, the camera works more like a human head 
 as opposed to a camcorder hovering in the air. Some parts a really epic like sliding down a glass 
 building to escape or jumping on a helicopter or diving for a train before you become a bullet 
 sammich. 
  
  Overall i would give this a recommendation, definitely if you are a fan of or practicioneer freerunning 
 (as am i) as its a good experiance, after the first try you may want to replay a few parts but 
 the second time around doesnt seem as epic or interesting even on harder difficulties.
  
  Oh yeh it has time trials too but I do NOT have the patience to go through those without dying, 
 its impossible! Whoever sets the world records for these must have a lot of time and luck!
  
  Gameplay: 7
  Fun at first but eventually gets quite samey and expected, but still a fun venture 
 the first time round.
  
  Graphics: 9
  The whole style goes well with the game, white and red gives off a great well rendered sheen much 
 needed in a release storm of all dark grey/ brown shaded games.
  
  Sound: 3
  I dont like the soundtrack, although the theme tune goes really well during the game its quite 
 silent, realistic yes, however i played this game listening to rave, techno and rock bands and 
 they seem to go really well. Try this yourself.
  
  Value: 6
  I got this for 22, for what it is i think about five pounds less would be considered worth the 
 money.
  
  Replayability: 6
  Very little for me, played twice with and without guns on hard and got nearly all trophies with 
 little problem, but the more hardcore lover of this game there is - the whole time trial section 
 does seem interesting to those who are really interested, I personally didnt have the patience 
 to go through large seconds getting as high of a score as possible without dying etc, but others 
 such as the ones who set and challenge world records regularily there is. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hockeydudejp17
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 13, 2009 12:59 pm PT
Review:  To put this harshly, this game did not please me to the full extent. I was lucky and I looked ahead 
 for future games, and wanted to save my money and not buy the game and just rent it, and I was 
 lucky. This game was fun to try harder and harder for trophies, but some were way out of my league. 
 Anyways, the game has a fun but occasionally hard singleplayer mode. Although it doesn't last long, 
 you can get some things out of it. Time trials are fun, but time consuming, tough, and a bit confusing. 
 Really think about it before buying this one. Do you really think that this game is going to be 
 better than any other games out right now? Get Call of Duty 5, Burnout Paradise, or LittleBigPlanet 
 instead. Or even wait for Left 4 Dead, which all of us PS3 fans are waiting in hope for. Rent this 
 game if you want to just play and beat it and score a few trophies. But don't get it for the trophies, 
 they're way to hard to get. Go for another game and don't waste your time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MrFisty
Rating: 6
Date: Feb 14, 2009 7:36 pm PT
Review:  I probably wasn't alone in my initial thoughts of Mirror's Edge when I first saw the E3 trailer. 
 "A first person platformer? Like that would work." I probably also wasn't alone when I helped myself 
 to a slice of humble pie either.
  
  Amazingly though, the first person perspective is one of the lesser problems with Mirror's Edge. 
 The first person works surprising well. The levels, for the most part, are designed with this perspective 
 in mind and create a seemless, fluid sense of motion and an exhilaration you just don't get from 
 other wallrunning titles such as Prince of Persia and Assassin's Creed.
  
  The visual style, while a little clinical in parts, does a great job of portraying the game's oppressive 
 utopian city conjuring up vague similarities to the the sterile world of George Lucas' THX1138. 
 Paths are easy to spot and, as mentioned before, lead to a great sense of speed and rush. However, 
 these long stretches of uninterrupted parkour come at a price.
  
  The game is short, and for the most part, too easy, even on the tougher difficulties. If you ignore 
 the hidden bags, dodge most of the enemies (as the game often advises you to do) , you can finish 
 Mirror's Edge in around 6 hours. To be blunt, 6 hours just feels like a rip off for a full priced 
 game.
  
  There is some semblance of replay in going through and finding the aforementioned bags, completing 
 the speed runs and time trials, but as is becoming all too common in games lately, the old "through 
 some hidden collectibles in there" is just a cheap way of throwing a few extra hours in without 
 going to the trouble of giving you more levels.
  
  But mixed in to all this, and possibly the weakest part of Mirror's Edge, is the story.
  
  
 You play Faith, a type of rooftop courier outlawed by the crushing government that controls the 
 city. There's an assassination, you're sister is wrongly accused, a few backstabbings and double-crossings 
 thown in, but largely it's hard to care. The characters are flat, the more interesting parts of 
 the story, such as why the couriers are outlawed and why the government is so controlling, are 
 barely explored. The game's ending wraps it all up a little too neatly, while leaving gaping holes 
 in story. But oddly, I just didn't care that much about it in the end and was just thankful to 
 not be relentlessly pursued by helicopters anymore.
  
  By and large, Mirror's Edge is a great idea in too small a package. If the story and characters 
 were improved and the game were longer, they'd really be on to something. Unfortunately what we 
 have is little more than a great rental title. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: joelgargan
Rating: 3.5
Date: Jan 31, 2009 2:51 am PT
Review:  Mirror's Edge looked amazing; an Action/Adventure Parkour based Extravaganza, supposedly featuring 
 some of the best environmental interactivity found in a game.
  
  The end result was less than pleasing. Gunplay, while innovative, was poorly drawn out and and 
 allowed for nothing but repetitive action. The environmental interactions were stunning; they allowed 
 you to feel the city, but never really let you run free.
  
  The main reason this game only deserves a 5.5/10 is because i beat it in four hours. FOUR HOURS. 
 I borrowed it from my friend, played for 1 hour on one day, 3 on the next and beat the game. FOUR 
 HOURS. I didn't even find the game remotely difficult, and played most parts with runner's vision 
 deactivated.
  
  Please don't do this to yourself. My friend has since returned his copy and walked out smiling 
 with his resistance 2. its just not worth the time is takes to buy a copy. Hell, you'll probably 
 spend more time reading reviews than you will playing the darn thing, so please do yourself a favor, 
 and AVOID MIRRORS EDGE AT ALL COSTS. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xAbleAssassinx
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 27, 2009 11:56 am PT
Review:  Some hailed it as the next Assassin's Creed, writing it off as another victim of the hype machine, 
 I on the other hand called it EA's kinky little bit on the side, and boy does she live up to her 
 reputation. I recently purchased Mirror's Edge and let me tell you this was one of the best financial 
 decisions I've made in a while, trust me, no where else can u get 7 hours alone with an asian gymnast 
 for less than 40... except possibly communist China.
  Once the initial excitement stirred up when Dice gave us our first tantalising glimpses at gameplay 
 had died down, I will not lie, my interest was beginning to dwindle. As more footage surfaced, 
 the gameplay, although intended to immerse you in the action, seemed to distance itself from the 
 player; yes occasionally you saw her hands or feet, but that was it, and was it enough. After a 
 while, by simply watching the game being played, it began to come across as very underwhelming.
 
  
  But all that disappeared, literally from the moment I took my first jump, albeit not a very impressive 
 death defying feat, but in my eyes it was an achievement just the same. The game is far more visceral 
 than it lets on in visuals; like me you may be doubtful, but until you have that controller in 
 your hand, you really cannot judge it fairly. This is definitely a try and buy, it'll be converting 
 many a non-believer in weeks to come.
  
  The game sees you returning to the rooftops as Faith, a 'runner'; basically a free-running postman, 
 or a tracuer on speed with some shopping or top-secret resistance files and what not. Either way 
 it's pretty much the parkour game everyone has been waiting for. You have just recovered from a 
 fall that left you in a bit of a state, and so your taken on a little training run with a rather 
 nimble little latex-clad, dancer-bodied, blonde 'friend' of yours. The story then takes a turn 
 for the worst when you discover your sister Kate has been framed for the murder of family friend, 
 mayoral candidate and all round nice guy Robert Pope. You then set about on an extended jogging 
 session through a sparsely populated city trying to find out who's responsible and bring them to 
 justice. To be honest it's pretty standard, and unbelievably predictable stuff but it manages to 
 give you some kind of connection to the protagonist and purpose for your actions.
  
  So the gameplay is fairly simple, its basic fps stuff, the left stick controls movement, the right 
 stick controls your view/camera, L1 makes Faith jump, L2 makes her crouch. These are the most important 
 controls, but there are others like R2 for attack/open doors, R1 for a 180 turn and Triangle to 
 interact/ pick up objects. Jumping and crouching adapt your movements and actions depending on 
 your momentum and what type of obstacle your facing. In lamens terms you go over a pipe, or under 
 it, tis up to you.
  
  You can combine different functions like jumping and 180-ing to dive backwards allowing you to 
 shoot at your pursuers if it takes your fancy. Wall running, sliding, rolling, and the like, are 
 all intuitive; as in, if you can guess how to do something, it's pretty safe to assume that's the 
 way it's done. There are no invisible walls here, no waist high fence that magically stops faith 
 in her tracks, just an 800 ft drop to make her think twice.
  
  The meat of this first person platforming sandwhich are the Time Trial and Speedrun modes. The 
 main story will only take around 6-7 hours or a few days to complete so after that you'll spend 
 around 20% of your time trying to shave seconds off your times in the time trials and about 80% 
 starting and restarting your Speedruns due to their severely punishing difficulty. A speedrun consists 
 of you playing through one of the games levels, or 'chapters', as quickly as you can. This is only 
 achievable by taking the most efficient route with almost no mistakes and definitely no dying, 
 which is an unreasonable expectation considering that most of the action happens at death defying 
 heights.
  
  The time trials are what you'd expect, you race against the clock from checkpoint to checkpoint, 
 on a series of mini courses plucked from story environments and stripped off all enemies. It's 
 also possible to race against the ghosts of the world's fastest, this is useful for improving your 
 time by giving you something physical to try and catch, and also means that if your too crap or 
 too lazy to figure out the quickest route by yourself then you can just follow someone better.
 
  When it comes down to it though, across all three modes you'll still only find yourself on familiar 
 if not shaky ground, and the achievements actually force you to play through the story at least 
 three times in some shape or form, but the developer's, anticipating this may get a tad old, will 
 be releasing new downloadable time trial courses via XBL and PSN. To be fair this sounds quite 
 negative but i've been playing the game everyday for about 2 weeks and I'm still not even close 
 to bored.
  
  Your adrenalin fuelled activities all take place in a gorgeous, if not unrealistically empty, world; 
 even if they did cheat a little by painting everything white. Most surfaces in the demo are rich 
 with texture, everything gleams and shimmers pleasingly, particularly metal surfaces, i. e pipes, 
 rails, etc. The windows and skyscrapers are bathed in radiant sunshine, throwing shadows across 
 the snowy floor of locations and levels that show off sophisticated and intelligent level design 
 and detail, which always seems to be varied.
  
  Faith herself is well presented too, well what we do get to see of her, ignoring the lack of reflections, 
 the skin on her arms actually does look like skin; take a moment to look at her right arm when 
 hanging on to a ledge. Great motion blur and speed effects create an amazing sense of movement 
 and agility unmatched in any game of this type. Graphically the game holds up suprisingly well 
 under close scrutiny, and is, if not a bit bland at times, surprisingly close to photo realism.
 
  
  Basically everything makes sense in Mirror's Edge and that is one of the many reasons the game 
 is great, it really does feel like you are an angsty asian teen frolicking about on sun-drenched 
 rooftops. And who'd a thunk it? It actually feels pretty darn good. That said, the limited story 
 mode means that if your not besotted with the gameplay, or a bit of an achievement/trophy whore, 
 the alternative game modes may lose their appeal pretty sharpish, and if that's the case Faith 
 will have to hop into your life as rental rather than a purchase. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bluej33
Rating: 6
Date: Jan 25, 2009 12:16 pm PT
Review:  Jumbo shrimp. Larger half. Unbiased opinion. These three phrases have much to do with Dice's Mirror's 
 Edge  they're all oxymorons. They're nonsensical, and they don't work. And that's just how Mirror's 
 Edge rolls. It's a surprisingly innovative game, considering it was published by EA, that can only 
 be classified as a first-person platformer. While its intentions are true and its goal is ambitious, 
 execution stumbles significantly with Mirror's Edge. That said, adventurous gamers who have exhausted 
 their stock of excellent '08 titles might as well give Mirror's Edge a rent. 
  
  Essentially, the problem with Mirror's Edge is that its ambitions are twofold, and the two parts 
 just don't get along together. On the one hand, Dice wanted to give the player a relatively open 
 environment with multiple pathways through an area and lots of necessary exploration. On the other, 
 they wanted to create a platformer that revolves around the notion of speed and momentum. While 
 those two idea occasionally work well on their own throughout their game, when they both compete 
 for attention then Mirror's Edge becomes a real mess. 
  
  By far the most exhilarating and thoroughly enjoyable part of Mirror's Edge is when you are presented 
 with an obviously defined path and you just run. The controls are fine and the sense of speed is 
 great. Bounding over fences, sliding through gaps, and launching yourself from building to building 
 in death-defying displays of athleticism is purely, simply fun. New obstacles suddenly pop up fifteen 
 yards ahead, giving you just a second or two to decide how to overcome it. 
  
  Unfortunately, sequences like these are relatively few and far between, because of the quasi-open 
 world concept that Dice has implemented in Mirror's Edge. While there may be one path that you're 
 generally supposed to follow, there are also a lot of red herrings: buildings that you think you 
 can reach but actually can't, or fences that you search for ways around only to discover that you're 
 supposed to head off in some other direction. 
  
  Needless to say, this is really annoying. In a game that's so enamored with speed, it's awkward 
 and stupid to stand still for thirty seconds, slowly panning the camera looking for a jump you 
 can make or a path to proceed along. In attempting to give players a sense of space via lots of 
 open rooftops and a large, "open" city, the developers completely ruined the pacing of the game 
 and did more harm than good. 
  
  In an attempt to deal with the problem of having no freaking clue where to go next, there's something 
 called Runner Vision which allows you to tap a button and be automatically pointed in the right 
 direction. Unfortunately, this really causes more problems than it solves. Say you're running a 
 long the edge of a building and want a general sense of where you need to go next. It happens to 
 be the top of the neighboring building, but to get there you need to head in a different direction 
 and do some roundabout platforming. But hitting the button for Runner Vision points you to that 
 building, automatically turning you off the building you're currently on to meet a sickening death 
 twenty stories below. Believe me when I say this is really freaking annoying, and it does nothing 
 to solve the problem with pacing. In order to ensure you don't meet an untimely death, you need 
 to be standing still in order to use Runner Vision, meaning... yeah, there's still a pacing problem. 
 
  
  All these problems come together to create a trial-and-error style of gameplay. The checkpoint 
 system is serviceable, but there are some occasions where you'll find yourself ten minutes back 
 because you missed a particularly tricky jump. The controls don't to much to help, largely because 
 they aren't all that intuitive. Once you get used to them you'll find yourself pulling off wall 
 jumps and impressive platforming feats with ease. But for the first hour or so, you'll be treated 
 to the sickening crunch of Faith's body hitting the pavement several stories below because you 
 couldn't get her to do exactly what you needed. 
  
  Essentially, the platforming in Mirror's Edge suffers from massive inconsistency. A few sections 
 of the game have only one obvious way to proceed, allowing you to fly across buildings and maneuver 
 around obstacles with breathtaking ease. These portions of the game are absolutely amazing and 
 really do represent a lot of progression for the platforming genre. But these segments of the game 
 only make the confusing, "where-to-go-next" areas all the more infuriating. 
  
  There's never really much plot development, and all you really know is that there's some conspiracy 
 going on, your sister's been framed for a murder, and Faith, a Runner, needs to clear things up. 
 So she runs. And runs. And runs. All the while, she's under fire from the city's police force, 
 which brings rise to some of the most frustrating portions of the game. It's ridiculously difficult 
 to pull off a wall jump, turn around in mid-air, grab a bar, and use it to swing across to a nearby 
 rooftop when there's a chopper twenty feet away from you plugging you full of lead. 
  
  These moments may very well make you want to take the controller decimate it with your brother's 
 baseball bat. But your revenge comes in the form of Mirror's Edge combat system, where you can 
 gracefully take out on-foot police. The developers would like you to take down these "blues", as 
 they're called, with a variety of fairly complicated acrobatic maneuvers. But in reality, what 
 you'll find yourself doing is isolating a policeman, landing a flying kick in his face, then using 
 his dropped shotgun to take out all his buddies. 
  
  This might not actually be all that graceful, but it sure is fun. The gunplay and combat isn't 
 all that sophisticated or even particularly interesting, but it succeeds because it's consistent. 
 Stealthily hunting down a single soldier or kicking a guard off a building is exciting, even if 
 it may not really be in the spirit of Mirror's Edge.
  
  In addition to the inconsistent gameplay, Mirror's Edge other significant fault is that it's quite 
 short and the learning curve is relatively steep. After a while, you may have mastered all the 
 techniques and may find yourself having a lot of fun running through the different levels... only 
 to see the game end an hour later. It's difficult to justify purchasing Mirror's Edge, because 
 it ends shortly after it really picks up its stride. 
  
  What's sad is that there really is some replay value in Mirror's Edge. Once you've figured out 
 the fastest and most fluid way through a level, speed runs can be a lot of fun. But the first time 
 through, Mirror's Edge is a mess of false starts, disappointments, and bewildered head-scratching. 
 As a result, it's easy to just give up before you really see everything that the game has to offer. 
 
  
  Barely an hour into the game, I almost closed the book on Mirror's Edge. But ultimately I went 
 back to it, and I'm glad I did. Mirror's Edge is not a great game  it's not even a good game. 
 But ultimately, it's worth trudging through some of the really frustrating bits just to experience 
 the few moments of truly unparalleled excitement you get from playing Mirror's Edge. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: dniq_gamespot
Rating: 5
Date: Jan 23, 2009 11:44 am PT
Review:  Mirror's Edge is quite different from most others in that, while it allows you to shoot and kill 
 your enemies, it actually rewards you for NOT doing so.
  
  A lot has been said about the game. I just wanted to add a few things, mostly technical:
  
 
  1) Of the three versions, I think graphically the PC version looks the best. However, its PhysX 
 support doesn't add anything to the experience, because unless you actually know that it's being 
 used, and pay attention to tiny details, you will never know it's there.
  2) Of the two console versions, the Xbox 360 version looks and works better. Loading times on the 
 360 are about twice shorter than on PS3, plus if you install it on the hard drive - even faster. 
 Loading times on PS3 are a KILLER and sometimes might take up to a minute to load a level.
  3) Control wise, this is the one game that is better played with keyboard and mouse. Well, maybe 
 not with the keyboard, but definitely with mouse :) Using controller in this game is highly unreliable 
 and very difficult, as game has absolutely no compensation for its imprecision and sways left and 
 right from the tiniest of movements. This is very frustrating, especially in the speedrun and time 
 trial modes, as the game is very unforgiving to even the tiniest of mistakes.
  4) I think on the consoles, due to the difficulty controlling the game, rewards for completing 
 speed run and time trials are too small for the amount of effort it takes to complete the level 
 in the time good enough for the reward. You get a Bronze trophy for a single level in Speed Run, 
 and it might take you a full day to get it done.
  
  All in all, I loved the game, and while the controls are rather frustrating, I enjoyed playing 
 it and would definitely love to see more of this kind of games to come. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GamesMaster4Evr
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 18, 2009 12:46 pm PT
Review:  Mirror's Edge was a new type of first person game. No, it was not a first person SHOOTER, but it 
 did have guns every now and then. This was a First-Person-Platformer, in a way. You play as Faith, 
 a runner. You use mainly the shoulder buttons to play, and the gameplay itself is fun. Some things 
 about it though, is that while you have the thrill of performing tons of acrobatic tricks one after 
 the other, you will feel quite a slow down at some puzzle solving parts that I feel were quite 
 unnescessary. The games story is also quite a mess, and some parts just leave you saying, "Huh?". 
 There are also some puzzle solving and platforming moments that leave you frustrated. They also 
 decided to do the cutscenes in this anime type of style. They could have done regular 3-d cutscenes, 
 but I guess the 2-d ones were O. K.
  
  
  Pros
  --------
  
  * Fun
  * Good Gameplay
  * Feeling the awesomeness of landing a high jump is awesome
  * Good Puzzles, 
 if unnescessary
  * O. K. Action
  
  
  
  Cons
  ---------
  * The story is more messy than a little kids room
  * The Puzzles were unnescessary, and slowed 
 down gameplay
  * Multiplayer/Online isn't even multiplayer
  * Weird choice of cutscenes
  * Frustrating moments
  
  
  All in all, Mirror's Edge is pretty good. The online is fun to 
 do (it's all acrobatics) and the gameplay is fun. I won't reccomend it because there will be split 
 opinions on this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MadSomeone
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 18, 2009 4:41 am PT
Review:  Mirror's Edge isn't just a shooter. It's actually a sort of anti-shooter. Only with guns. It takes 
 the basic shape and feel of an FPS, but then ditches the focus on destruction and fury and instead 
 goes for elegance and style - and still does guns really well, when it feels like it.
  
  
  
  You're Faith, resident of an ominously sanitised near-future city. But the arctic cleanliness 
 masks political corruption and police brutality. Criminals and dissidents have been pushed underground, 
 resulting in the foundation of a covert network of runners - couriers carrying sensitive packages 
 of information out of sight from heavily monitored regular channels. 
  
  Faith is one of these couriers - impossibly athletic, sure-footed and fast - and she's about to 
 get tangled up in the city's darker side because her city cop sister's been framed for murder. 
 
  
  All of which is really just an excuse to get you running, picking routes over rooftops, scurrying 
 across walls and sliding secretly through the impeccable metropolis. The good news is that it works. 
 It really feels like you're running - or jumping, or shimmying, or skidding. 
  
  The other thing about not having a thunder-clapping gun smacked centre-screen is that it gives 
 you a chance to really take the world in. And in Mirror's Edge, there's a lot to appreciate. Like 
 the echoing rooftop silence, broken only by the hum and throb of distance traffic and an occasional 
 bird's flutter. 
  
  Or the game's stern, assured use of colour, breaking up the dystopic white with stark, single-tone 
 themed levels - the grimy green of a chasmous storm drain, the deep polished blue of an illegally-entered 
 office - and the streaking red of obstacles highlighted by Faith's heightened runner vision senses 
 (which is a bit of a cheat, strictly speaking, but adds to rather than spoils the game's looks) . 
 
  
  Maybe the most important thing of all is that the whole package - the controls, the responsiveness, 
 the perspective - works together to the point that when you mess up, it feels like it's your own 
 fault. When you fall it doesn't feel like you're struggling with a broken machine, it feels like 
 you're too clumsy to control it.
  
  
  
  The game's only real problems come when you slow down. You're chased constantly by either the cops 
 or city's sinister private security, on foot and in the air by chopper. They fire at you all the 
 time, which gives everything a zinging sense of danger and pace. Actually, more than just a sense 
 - slow up in the open and they tear you to shreds. 
  
  Mostly this is fine because you can run through and past them, and you're pretty much untouchable 
 at top speed. But on a couple of occasions - during one late-on descent down a series of stairways 
 into a office block lobby in particular - it feels like you've no alternative but to take everyone 
 out, which feels less fluid than the running and consequently properly hard. 
  
  Faith can disarm opponents with 'triangle' when their guns go red during melee attacks, but when 
 the enemies get tougher it feels imprecise and unfair. And even though the gun firing itself is 
 totally fine (and sounds brilliantly brash and loud) it feels awkward and wrong alongside what 
 else is here. 
  
  These few moments aside, though, Mirror's Edge is an extraordinary and special game. It's beautiful 
 and stylish like nothing else on PS3, and skews the over-worked mechanic of first person shooting 
 into a new, daring and - when it clicks - brilliant direction
  
  The controls are as simple as up and down. Literally, in fact - they're context-sensitive so that 
 any press of L1 makes you go up for jumps, wall runs, skipping over fences, and any press of L2 
 does the opposite, for sliding under obstacles, nailing smooth landings or dropping from ledges. 
 
  
  
  
  There's other stuff - like pressing 'X' to activate the odd switch or button, and R1 to whip around 
 180 degrees - but the key is the intuitive simplicity of the 'over and under' control mechanic. 
 With such simple-to-master controls it lets you concentrate on the more important issue of going 
 as fast as possible without stopping.
  
  The whole deal is about momentum. Run uninterrupted for more than a few steps and Faith picks up 
 speed, with her breath getting louder and her vision blurred at the periphery. The trick is keeping 
 it this way, preserving your momentum as you duck pipes, scale crates and leap from rooftop to 
 rooftop. 
  
  It's all in the timing - hitting L1 to vault for a handhold rather than knocking into a wall, or 
 L2 to roll out of a high jump without a screen-reddening crunch. It's all about speed, agility 
 and grace. 
  
  Stringing together a flat-out run with the wide-angled first person perspective is properly exhilarating. 
 You experience both tension and relief with every upcoming obstacle neatly dealt with and vertigo-spinning 
 gap safely crossed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: asian_pride69
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 17, 2009 11:57 am PT
Review:  Mirror's Edge gives players the intense, fast-paced, and exciting experience of parkour, but it 
 greatly stumbles on trial and error, and can give the player a frustrating experience as well. 
 But overall, it's a great game that is actually enjoyable, provided you can avoid the frustrations 
 and such.
  
  The game's plot is set in a city where a totalitarian government runs it with an iron fist. The 
 government keeps an eye on its people by keeping track of them through surveillance, watching their 
 every move so that they can reduce the city's crime rate, and keep anyone who's willing to challenge 
 their power, at bay. The heroine of this game is Faith Connors, a runner trained in the art of 
 parkour. Her job as a runner is to deliver messages to other revolutionary groups scattered throughout 
 the city, while staying out of sight of totalitarian authorities and move around as fast and as 
 flawless as possible. Also, an election for mayor is almost underway, and Mayor Callaghan seeks 
 to be reelected to keep his power, as well as government control in the city. A candidate named 
 Robert Pope seeks to bring change to the city, but Faith finds out from her sister Kate that Pope 
 has been murdered. Being accused of Pope's murder, Kate asks Faith to find out more on what happened. 
 Faith then embarks on a mission to find out more on the murder and attempt to clear her sister's 
 name.
  
  Gameplay is simply focused on giving the "ultimate parkour experience" to the player. It is mostly 
 all about speed and momentum, and how the player can put all of these things together to make everything 
 flow. The game is entirely in first-person perspective, although it is not actually a shooter. 
 It also brings camera and the player's movement, such as when the camera moves or bobs that depend 
 on Faith's current actions. Faith can jump, perform wall-runs, vaulting, rolling, etc. Faith can 
 also perform hand-to-hand combat controls, such as disarming an enemy and using their weapons against 
 them. The way the game progresses is by the means of "Runner Vision" to tell where the player needs 
 to go next. Objects that are highlighted in red are where Faith needs to go to get to the next 
 objective to the next. The game definitely gives you the freedom of movement in a way a runner 
 would experience.
  
  What brings Mirror's Edge down though, is the extremity for little trial and error. Mirror's Edge's 
 gameplay is all fun and fast-paced, but it can be too unforgiving in some or many times. When you 
 mess up at least once during gameplay, there's a big chance you miss a ledge, and end up falling 
 to your death. Many times the game can be frustrating because you have to get everything right, 
 and if you even slightly mess up the flow of things, you have to start over at whatever the last 
 checkpoint you were in. In gameplay, you have to get it perfect, or close to it, to even move to 
 the next level. Close hand-to-hand combat can be alright at times, though the gunplay is not even 
 worth trying. When Faith disarms an enemy, she only equips the gun for a brief period of time, 
 and then discards it. Although that particular part of the gameplay is weak, the game's main focus 
 is the parkour experience anyway.
  
  What makes Mirror's Edge fun though, is the speedruns and time trials. Time Attack Mode is where 
 the player can attempt to complete parts of the game as fast as possible. The game also has online 
 features, and can race ghosts to allow the player to beat these ghosts and find the fastest routes 
 possible and attempt to rise to the top of the leaderboards. 
  
  The music in Mirror's Edge is just great to listen to, and it is one of the many finer points of 
 the game. The game's soundtrack is composed mainly of different variations of the game's main theme, 
 "Still Alive," and it is just captivating to listen to. Some of the music provides the flow during 
 missions and can sometimes sound intense and even energetic. The game also has outstanding sound 
 effects. When Faith is or walking, you can distinctively
  hear her footsteps as you move her forward, and when running and performing acrobatic stunts, you 
 can hear her heavy breathing, or you can hear her grunt in pain sometimes when you cause her to 
 do something wrong, or whenever she's engaging in close combat, or even when she barely makes a 
 ledge and hangs on for dear life trying to get there. It gives you the thrill of how tense and
 
  exciting the experience gets.
  
  Mirror's Edge has an outstanding visual presentation. It is awe-inspiring to look at the entire 
 environment around you. The buildings around the city look realistic when looking at it as a whole. 
 Everything is so clean and organized, and has the similar designs and same colors, giving you the 
 feeling of what a dystopian or totalitarian-run city would look like in a unique perspective. Running 
 around and performing tricks from building to building gives you a fun and intense experience of 
 what parkour and free running are all about. With the game entirely in first-person perspective, 
 the game gives you that experience in ways you would find exciting as well as frustrating. 
  
  Every time the player hits "runner vision," everything in the screen blurs, indicating that 
 the player is picking up speed and gaining momentum when attempting to jump a long distance. The 
 player's gameplay movements when jumping, wall running, or even in hand-to-hand combat seem so 
 realistic that the camera bobs whenever Faith runs, jumps or performs any movement that would and 
 can disorient a player sometimes, but that's what someone would experience in real life, and that 
 is what the game is all about.
  
  Mirror's Edge is a great game that introduces us to a new kind of freedom never been experienced 
 before in a first-person perspective. While it lacks in combat, and features little room for trial 
 and error which can be really frustrating, it definitely makes up with its great visual presentation, 
 and an awesome soundtrack. It's highly recommendable to those who are looking for and want to enjoy 
 the total freedom of movement and its fast-paced experience. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Azuma_NarooN
Rating: 7
Date: Jan 15, 2009 11:06 pm PT
Review:  Mirror's Edge is a First-Person Action Adventure Parkour Free Running Escape From Cops Roof Jumping 
 Cyberpunk game where you play as Faith, a charismatic heroine who transports packages across rooftops 
 in order to avoid the town's massive surveillance network. She's a Runner, which is basically just 
 a group of people who run across roofs... transporting packages. The story itself isn't that great, 
 since all the story is either just a few short radio convos in-game or nice-looking comic-style 
 cutscenes. Much like the game itself, those don't last too long. No characters are given proper 
 backstory besides Faith herself, while most other characters simply weave in and out of the story 
 until they die or finish their role. The game can be beaten easily in a single day provided you 
 don't pass out from the guaranteed seizures you're bound to have. The game was advertised and expects 
 you to keep up momentum and speed but it quickly becomes evident this is only possible when you're 
 not in a monotonous and awkwardly repeating interior. The basic level structure has you sneak into 
 some area, get spotted for whatever reason, run your ass off across the city getting chased by 
 SWAT, Police, Anti-Runners, and attack-helicopters until you get away to safety. Outside of the 
 interiors is where most of the good action occurs and the only place where you won't get stuck 
 trying to figure out where to go thanks to the wonky level design. I don't know whose idea it was 
 market the game as a game where you can run non-stop through a whole level when in reality, you'll 
 be slapped with a ridiculous puzzle here and there.
  
  It's made worse by the controls, which are mapped nicely, but are broken at times. I don't remember 
 how many times I slipped off a building or got shot to death because Faith decided that she forgot 
 how to scale a 2 foot tall crate. You don't get that sense that you're in total control since you 
 basically just make Faith run places; she automatically will grab onto objects most of the time. 
 The game's combat was poorly done. Faith only knows about three or four different melee attacks 
 and most of them are a pain in the ass to do. Most enemies are hulking SWAT guys with MP5s and 
 Shotguns and they expect you do take them out with bullet time errm I mean "runner time" or whatever 
 the **** it's called. Faith is horrendously weak so she can literally be PUSHED to death. No, not 
 pushed off a building or ledge, just shoved out of the way. Enemies will shock you back when you 
 try to melee them head on later in the game so it's mostly useless. If you opt to take their guns, 
 the game feels like a low-budget brainless FPS game. Enemy AI is nothing remarkable or horrible. 
 There were a few scenes where you get chased by Anti-Runners which had me giggling in delight like 
 a recently-****ed schoolgirl on speed but usually you're just running away from oddly-accurate 
 gun-toting police bastards all day. You will die some dumbass deaths from unknown sources. The 
 soundtrack is excellent, and the visuals are amazing. This is a pretty game, and the Cyberpunk 
 feel is ever so present. I noticed some nasty screen-tearing when playing on an SDTV but it wasn't 
 enough to kill the experience. The cutscenes were nice although short, and it bothers me that you 
 never actually know exactly what the hell you're transporting that's so important, but oh well. 
 The animations and voice acting were pretty damn amazing as well. Obviously, don't expect any multiplayer 
 support. There aren't many extras besides some cool concept art and whatnot, but meh. The game 
 was over in a flash and tons of questions were left for anyone who paid attention to the story. 
 Characters had a nice tendency to randomly die or just disappear into nothingness after a while, 
 and the game ends abruptly, but overall, the game was fresh. We need more original IPs like this 
 but hopefully the next two games will refine the gameplay and allow for more open-ended gameplay. 
 No more cramped puzzle corridors, please. The game earns a 7/10 from me. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mamit13
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 15, 2009 2:37 pm PT
Review:  mixed of prince of persia with fps
  amazing music stylish graphics
  and i really cant undestand the gamespot it deserve more rating
  Mirror's Edge aims to "convey 
 the strain and physical contact with the environment", according to senior producer Owen O'Brien, 
 and to instill a freedom of movement not yet seen in the first-person genre. This is achieved not 
 only with the exercise of parkour, but also by tying camera movement more closely with character 
 movement, such that the rate at which the camera bobs up and down increases as Faith builds up 
 speed while running and the camera spins when she rolls
  
  
  Mirror's Edge features a realistic first-person view and hand-to-hand combat. Also, the arms, legs, 
 and even torso at times are prominent and their visibility is used to convey movement and momentum, 
 such that Faith's arms pump and the length of her steps increase with her gait, and her legs cycle 
 and arms flail during long jumps. [ With such a heavy focus on movement, it is imperative to maintain 
 momentum, which is done by a fluid flow of actions, creating a chain of moves. Failing to string 
 these moves together results in a loss of momentum, which can mean that Faith falls off or short 
 of an object if a certain level of momentum is required to traverse it. Controls are simplified 
 by being context-sensitive; the "up" button will cause Faith to traverse an obstacle by passing 
 over it-for example, by jumping, vaulting, climbing, or grabbing set pieces like zip lines-while 
 the "down" button will cause her to perform other manoeuvres like slides or rolls, or simply crouch
 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: upiter000
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jan 12, 2009 4:44 pm PT
Review:  First of all if you don't know about Parkour, let me fill you in real quick. Parkour is an activity 
 with the aim of moving from one point to another as efficiently and quickly as possible, using 
 principally the abilities of the human body. It is meant to help one overcome obstacles, which 
 can be anything in the surrounding environment-from branches and rocks to rails and concrete walls-and 
 can be practiced in both rural and urban areas.
  
  In Mirror's Edge, you take on the role of Faith Connors, a runner who uses Parkour to to stay out 
 of sight and to use rooftops and other means to help deliver physical messages between revolutionary 
 groups within the city. Without spoiling too much of the plot, let me just say that Mirror's Edge 
 doesn't exactly have a great story. The story does very little to grab your attention, and some 
 players may even just skip the Esurance-esque cut scenes. But with that being said, the lack of 
 an intriguing story doesn't do much to hinder the experience of Mirror's Edge.
  
  From a graphical standpoint, Mirror's Edge has its ups and downs. The simple yet brilliant art 
 design looks very crisp and clean. The vibrant colors give the city a unique look and feel. Unfortunately 
 the same can't be said for the graphics technically. It doesn't look horrible, but the player models 
 look plasticy and you'll come across blurry textures here and there. 
  
  Mirror's Edge truly shines when you're able to string together a segment of perfectly executed 
 moves. Sliding under a rail, walking on a wall, jumping from rooftop to rooftop, etc. in perfect 
 harmony just feels great. Sadly, you'll come across a section that requires you to try numerous 
 times before finally completing, or you'll run into a tedious jumping puzzle which can really slow 
 down the flow of the gameplay. 
  
  On the other side of the immersive first-person platforming lies the combat. Whether you're duking 
 it out with for fists and feet or picking up a gun and blasting the enemies, Mirror's Edge's combat 
 just doesn't feel good. Often times it feels clunky, unpolished, and just unsatisfying. While the 
 combat parts in Mirror's Edge are playable, consider yourself lucky that they chose to stick with 
 the fun side of Mirror's Edge the majority of the time, and decided to keep gunplay and combat 
 to a minimum.
  
  The story mode in Mirror's Edge is rather short, and should only take you around 6-8 hours to complete. 
 The good news is Mirror's Edge has more to offer. The time trials and speed runs can add a lot 
 more hours of play time. However, if you're not a fan of trial and error, you probably won't like 
 time trials and speed runs, because anytime you mess up you'll have to restart the entire race 
 if you want to get a good time. 
  
  You have to give kudos to Mirror's Edge in the sound department. Mirror's Edge has an excellent 
 soundtrack, with songs that vibe almost perfectly with the game. Sound effects are well done, if 
 you run for a long period of time, you will hear Faith breathing heavily, when you take a long 
 fall the impact with the ground mixed with Faith's cry of pain sounds very realistic. Small sound 
 effects like that are really noticeable and add to the gaming experience. The voice acting is decent, 
 but nothing spectacular.
  
  The verdict is, Mirror's Edge delivers fast-paced action, but falls short in some areas. It's hard 
 to knock EA Dice for trying something new, but it's hard not to wish that some aspects of Mirror's 
 Edge had turned out better. The eye-popping art design and innovative gameplay make this a game 
 you should play, but with it's short length and other flaws, it's hard to recommend Mirror's Edge 
 to someone for a full 60 bucks. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tryfe_lyn
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jan 12, 2009 4:00 pm PT
Review:  Mirror's Edge is a new IP created by EA DICE. Massive props to EA (can't believe I said that) for 
 attempting to be innovative and try something new in a world that loves to stick to the working 
 formula for a guaranteed dollar, pound, etc. Mirror's Edge is a first person action game that combines 
 parkour with platforming elements. This is a new spin on the first person genre as normally you're 
 aiming down a gun barrel and picking off multiple enemies. The game discourages the use of weapons 
 as you'll be handicapped by being less mobile (if carrying a weapon) and places most of it's emphasis 
 on running, performing insane acrobatic maneuvers and using you're momentum to platform along an 
 impressive skyline and other environments. 
  
  The main protagonist is Faith, a runner (futuristic courier) that is determined to solve a crime 
 involving her sister who was wrongfully framed for a murder. Without getting to deep into the plot, 
 you'll use all your acrobatic talents to solve said crime and determine who is the main culprit 
 behind this act and their reasoning for committing it in the first place. The story, although it 
 has some high points, isn't too engaging as you'll be eagerly be waiting for the next level to 
 load. The cutscenes are uninspired as they're delivered in a cartoon format similar to those Esurance 
 commercials (lol) :
  
  http://www. youtube. com/watch? v=oFYKHiWg-cE
  
  The gameplay mechanics are easy to get used to, however, gameplay elements can get very frustrating 
 at times as you'll be encouraged to perform a task multiple times in a trial and error fashion 
 before you succeed. As stated before, combat is discouraged and if you find yourself in a combat 
 situation with more than one enemy, you're almost assured to see a game over/death screen. The 
 audio is average and the graphics are top notch! In a world that emphasizes dull, dark, gritty 
 games, Mirror's Edge is quite the opposite as the vivrant landscapes and environments can be blinding 
 (especially on the rooftops) and just feels alive. 
  
  Mirror's Edge is relatively short and can be completed in under 10 hours. The game does offer several 
 speed trial modes, which extends it's replay value, however, troubling gameplay mechanics and elements 
 may discourage the average gamer from attempting these courses and may give up on them after a 
 period of time.
  
  Although Mirror's Edge is ambitious and a welcomed change up from the norm, it does contain several 
 flaws. This is expected in a new IP that is attempting to create a new genre and I'm anxiously 
 awaiting to see the direction that EA DICE takes the series in. If you're looking to pass the weekend 
 and want a change up from the normal first person shooter, give Mirror's Edge a rent. If you're 
 a hardcore fan that loves speed runs, then you may want to consider adding this title to you're 
 game collection.
  
  Final Score: 7.3 
::::::

::::::
UserName: king23_
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jan 10, 2009 8:39 pm PT
Review:  First of all if you don't know about Parkour, let me fill you in real quick. Parkour is an activity 
 with the aim of moving from one point to another as efficiently and quickly as possible, using 
 principally the abilities of the human body. It is meant to help one overcome obstacles, which 
 can be anything in the surrounding environment-from branches and rocks to rails and concrete walls-and 
 can be practiced in both rural and urban areas.
  
  In Mirror's Edge, you take on the role of Faith Connors, a runner who uses Parkour to to stay out 
 of sight and to use rooftops and other means to help deliver physical messages between revolutionary 
 groups within the city. Without spoiling too much of the plot, let me just say that Mirror's Edge 
 doesn't exactly have a great story. The story does very little to grab your attention, and some 
 players may even just skip the Esurance-esque cut scenes. But with that being said, the lack of 
 an intriguing story doesn't do much to hinder the experience of Mirror's Edge.
  
  From a graphical standpoint, Mirror's Edge has its ups and downs. The simple yet brilliant art 
 design looks very crisp and clean. The vibrant colors give the city a unique look and feel. Unfortunately 
 the same can't be said for the graphics technically. It doesn't look horrible, but the player models 
 look plasticy and you'll come across blurry textures here and there. 
  
  Mirror's Edge truly shines when you're able to string together a segment of perfectly executed 
 moves. Sliding under a rail, walking on a wall, jumping from rooftop to rooftop, etc. in perfect 
 harmony just feels great. Sadly, you'll come across a section that requires you to try numerous 
 times before finally completing, or you'll run into a tedious jumping puzzle which can really slow 
 down the flow of the gameplay. 
  
  On the other side of the immersive first-person platforming lies the combat. Whether you're duking 
 it out with for fists and feet or picking up a gun and blasting the enemies, Mirror's Edge's combat 
 just doesn't feel good. Often times it feels clunky, unpolished, and just unsatisfying. While the 
 combat parts in Mirror's Edge are playable, consider yourself lucky that they chose to stick with 
 the fun side of Mirror's Edge the majority of the time, and decided to keep gunplay and combat 
 to a minimum.
  
  The story mode in Mirror's Edge is rather short, and should only take you around 6-8 hours to complete. 
 The good news is Mirror's Edge has more to offer. The time trials and speed runs can add a lot 
 more hours of play time. However, if you're not a fan of trial and error, you probably won't like 
 time trials and speed runs, because anytime you mess up you'll have to restart the entire race 
 if you want to get a good time. 
  
  You have to give kudos to Mirror's Edge in the sound department. Mirror's Edge has an excellent 
 soundtrack, with songs that vibe almost perfectly with the game. Sound effects are well done, if 
 you run for a long period of time, you will hear Faith breathing heavily, when you take a long 
 fall the impact with the ground mixed with Faith's cry of pain sounds very realistic. Small sound 
 effects like that are really noticeable and add to the gaming experience. The voice acting is decent, 
 but nothing spectacular.
  
  The verdict is, Mirror's Edge delivers fast-paced action, but falls short in some areas. It's hard 
 to knock EA Dice for trying something new, but it's hard not to wish that some aspects of Mirror's 
 Edge had turned out better. The eye-popping art design and innovative gameplay make this a game 
 you should play, but with it's short length and other flaws, it's hard to recommend Mirror's Edge 
 to someone for a full 60 bucks. 
  
  Gameplay: 9
  Graphics: 8
  Sound: 9
  Value: 6
  Tilt: 7
  Score: 7.8
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: SelfTitledGames
Rating: 4
Date: Jan 8, 2009 11:51 pm PT
Review:  I was so excited about this game I could barely contain myself. I played and replayed the demo 
 at least 10 times the first night I downloaded it. I hate to say it but after having played it 
 for several hours I've never been so disappointed with a game before. Combat is broken and clunky. 
 Enemies in the game are already unnecessary but to give them guns makes it even more unnecessary. 
 Several times Faith would plummet to her death with the pipe right in front of her face, but apparently 
 1 or 2 pixels too far to the left causing yet another death. Collision detection is a joke, as 
 I'd try to get the game to realize I wanted to climb up something during a firefight only to have 
 it ignore such requests. An interesting experiment, but utterly **** execution. High hopes for 
 Mirror's Edge 2. 4.0 Same as my Eternal Sonata review: play the demo 5 or 6 times to get the good 
 while avoiding the bad. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Top-A-Gamer
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 4, 2009 4:30 am PT
Review:  1st i was in doubt if i should buy this game. i got it for 20.
  
  i find this game really fun even though at 1st i was getting a bit annoyed sometimes because it 
 seemed like faith didnt want to listen 2 me.
  
  the time trials are fun and exciting to do and makes you think of new routes to get to your destination.
 
  
  i havent done any speedruns yet so cant comment on that.
  
  the disarms are really cool and the game is really free flowing.
  
  not much else 2 say but 
 i definately recommend this as a must have game.
  no other game can give you dis experience.
  
  oh yh and the colours in the game are amazing.
 
  
  thanks for reading my review of mirrors edge!!!!
  
  llllll lllllllllllllll llllllllllll lllllllllllllll llllllllllllll llllllllllllllllll lllllllllllllllll 
 llllllllllllllllllll lllllllllll lllllllll 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gamereviews2008
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jan 3, 2009 7:25 am PT
Review:  If any game was going to win an award for being cool, Mirror's Edge would be it. From the title 
 screen onwards you're treated to a uniquely styled action game that exudes cool from every pore, 
 drips with cutting edge technical brilliance and never tries to deviate from its platforming focus. 
 The big question is whether or not all this cool and a remarkably simple control scheme is enough 
 to make free-running Mirror's Edge the game of the year candidate it always looked like being.
 
  
  Mirror's Edge sees you playing as Faith, a female runner in a near future in which security is 
 tight and every move is watched and analysed. While the general public comply, worried for their 
 safety and the penalties for breaking the law, the runners work above the law, delivering sensitive 
 data to people by using highrise rooftops as their road network. The storyline seems more or less 
 created to give a purpose to the parkour inspired action platforming gameplay, but it does that 
 perfectly and creates a convincing totalitarian atmosphere.
  
  Although viewed from a first-person perspective it would be wrong to call Mirror's Edge a first-person 
 shooter. For the most part you're weapon-less, with the first-person perspective giving you the 
 perfect view of the city and the exhilarating moves you're able to pull off. For a game that looks 
 incredibly complicated to control, developer DICE should be commended for managing to map most 
 of what matters onto the four shoulder buttons of the two next-gen console controllers. The key 
 to everything Faith does is really the way all upwards actions are mapped to L1/LB and all downward 
 actions are mapped to L2/LT. You'll need to play through the tutorial level to get a feel for it, 
 but once you do it makes perfect sense and never gets in the way of gameplay.
  
  Faith's movement is essentially controlled like any other FPS, with her running speed increasing 
 as you continue to move unobstructed by obstacles. If a small structure is in your way, tap L1/LB 
 and Faith will either leap straight over or climb up onto it; if a ramp of sorts is built out of 
 a small object leading to a larger structure, tap the same button and you'll use the first object 
 as a springboard to leap over both. Equally, if you see a gap underneath an object, tap L2/LT and 
 Faith will slide underneath. It might sound clunky spelled out here, but in practice it's tremendously 
 fluid and makes for some of the best platforming gameplay available on any platform.
  
  These little movements make up a lot of the game, but Faith is a thrill seeker, so massive leaps 
 of, well, faith, are always just around the corner. Runner vision (not available on the hardest 
 unlocked difficulty mode) highlights key objects in red, so you're always aware of roughly where 
 you need to go, be it off the edge of a ramp or down a zip wire. Faith isn't a super human, so 
 a big fall will hurt her, meaning a good landing is essential. Holding the down button just prior 
 to landing is the key to this, causing Faith to roll when she hits the ground, and letting you 
 continue your run without losing too much momentum.
  
  We haven't even touched on the more advanced techniques yet, like wall running (and jumping from 
 a wall run) , wall jumps by using the quick turn button and tucked jumps by holding the up button 
 while in the air. Although Runner Vision shows suitable objects to use and the circle/B button 
 points Faith towards her destination, there's not a single route through each level - far from 
 it. The levels have been built in a way to make the most of Faith's incredible agility, so the 
 obvious route is rarely, if ever, the best option. Of course, it's still great fun to play through 
 the game using nothing but what's marked out, but by the latter half of the game (which is disappointingly 
 short, we're sad to report) you're more comfortable with Faith's abilities and try more things 
 out.
  
  It's a testament to the gameplay that we even enjoyed opening doors, something that quite rightly 
 barely gets a mention in the majority of games. The way Faith smashes through them never gets dull, 
 and the transition from the sterile indoor environments to the stunning outdoors always impress. 
 Doors are fun, but smashing through glass is even better. It feels strange talking about such mundane 
 things, but when you're Faith, seeing the world with her eyes, even the most simple actions feel 
 good.
  
  If there's a part of the game that's likely to divide opinion it's the combat. Although developed 
 by FPS veterans DICE, gun combat in Mirror's Edge isn't good. On the small number of occasions 
 we felt it necessary to pick up and use a gun, things felt awkward, almost as if Faith herself 
 wasn't comfortable using guns as a way to tackle enemies. Gameplay flaw or deliberate design choice, 
 it works in that it fits in with the rest of the game. You'll focus on either ignoring enemies 
 completely or use Faith's close-quarters combat. Disarms are key to taking out enemies, with a 
 single button press at the correct time snatching a weapon and downing the enemy, but the system 
 isn't perfect.
  
  R2/RT is used for all combat in the game, with a press while on the floor performing a punch, a 
 flying kick while in the air and a ground kick while sliding. You can even combine a wall run with 
 a flying kick and link moves together, but there's one flaw that will irk some a lot more than 
 others. A successful attack will often stun an enemy for a few seconds, but during this time Faith 
 can't disarm them. Despite the enemy being out of action for that time, it's impossible to disarm 
 until he's back up and starting an attack animation. It's something you can live with, but better 
 combat is a must in the sequel. The best encounters occur when Faith is faced with more agile enemies, 
 able to scale buildings and follow her in ways standard cops can't. Here you'll have to make the 
 most of your newly learnt skills and the chase gameplay is about the best the game has to offer.
 
  
  While Faith is mainly running about on rooftops and inside office complexes, you get more than 
 enough variety thrown in. One area is set inside a massive underground storm drain, another sees 
 her jumping onto a train before leaping from one to another. It's thrilling stuff, and never lets 
 up. An argument could be put forward that the end is a little cheap (snipers aren't the best enemy 
 to come across when your main form of attack is up close and personal) , but every section has a 
 solution, no matter how tricky (or impossible) it may seem for those moments where Faith repeatedly 
 eats dirt. At times you'll moan about her slow bar shuffling and ledge walking speed and the way 
 enemies can spot you from quite a distance, but these are really only slight niggles in an otherwise 
 expertly made game.
  
  The modes likely to elevate Mirror's Edge to potential game of the year are speed run and time 
 trial. Speed run is, as you'd expect, playing through the main campaign levels as quickly as possible. 
 It's the enemy free time trial levels that have the potential to keep you hooked though. It's here 
 that the game's route variety shines through and your quality is shamed. By the end of the game 
 we felt we were pretty good, but our first time on the initial time trial stage showed just what 
 can be done. Our one star time was a good 45 seconds off what was needed for three stars. With 
 downloadable ghosts and online leaderboards, you could be playing this for a long, long time.
 
  
  There are times in Mirror's Edge when you'll be frustrated, replaying a section for the umpteenth 
 time with no solution in sight, but persevere; Faith always has a way out - you just have to find 
 it. Combine a thoroughly entertaining single-player campaign with a stunning and challenging time 
 trial mode and you'll soon forget that you managed to run through the story in six hours or less. 
 There's depth here that you'll only discover hours into time trialling a single stage, and as we 
 said, no other game released this year comes close to being as cool. We can't wait to see what 
 Faith gets up to next.
  
  Overall, 7.5/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lordsidious1121
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 2, 2009 9:26 am PT
Review:  Let me first start off by saying that I have read a lot of Reviews for Mirror's Edge. Some of the 
 reviews that I have read state that the combat in this game is broken. So just for the record in 
 my opinion this is NOT a game with the central focus point of combat. The combat in this game is 
 fairly decent when you NEED to get involved but only when you NEED to get involved. so folks if 
 you are looking for this game to be an FPS ( First Person Shooter) I would stay clear away from 
 this title. You will be disappointed. 
  With that said let me go on with my review. The game is a one of a kind when it comes to FP ( First 
 Person) action games. You play as Faith a Runner who is trying to help her sister Kate who has 
 been framed for a murder she didn't commit. The story is a very short one, but has a few twist 
 and turns in it. The vibrant colors and the BGM creates an environment that puts you directly into 
 the game. The control layout is very basic nothing to over complicated. So pulling off moves will 
 not require mashing a ton of buttons together. Some of the game mechanics are very time sensitive 
 so this is a game where at some points you have to be very precise on your movements or your going 
 to end up doing the part over again. not that this is a bad point to the game just one that can 
 become frustrating on some chapters ( for people who played the game I'm referencing Chapter 8) . 
 but not to worry the game starts you back near the place that you might have fallen off or died 
 so you won't have to redo a ton of stuff. 
  So if your looking to try out a decent game I would recommend you give Mirror's Edge a shot. there 
 is some replay value to it after you play through the story mode. You will have Time Trials, on 
 line leader boards, and other difficulties to beat the game on (Don't forget there are PS3 trophies 
 in this game as well if you care about that) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pedromaia
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 4, 2009 12:26 pm PT
Review:  In, Mirror's Edge, you enter in the skin of Faith, a talented Runner. At the tutorial, you learn 
 all you need to know on the game, like jump, move (d!!) , wallrun, combat, disarms and etc.
 
  
  As the "true" story begins, you just enter in confusions and fights. Your sister Kate is acused 
 of murdering Pope, the city's president. But you were in the scene crime at the wrong place and 
 at the wrong time: now, the Blues (the cops) think that you killed Pope. And begins the action 
 and the pursuits.
  
  You have 2 good things that will help you: the Runner Vision and the Reaction Time. The Runner 
 Vision will highlight plataforms and surfaces in red... The red things are the ways that you have 
 to go. The Reaction Time is, the ability that puts all things around you, including you, in slow-camera. 
 Its very useful for disarms of high jumps.
  
  Gameplay - 8
  Sound - 8
  Graphics - 10!!
  Story - 9
  Tilt - 8
  Value - 9
  
  See ya! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: llama89
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 1, 2009 1:27 pm PT
Review:  Mirror's Edge is very different and innovative look at platforming. We have all played the old 
 style of platforming, like Jak and Daxter, Spyro, Ratchet and Clank and I felt that this was just 
 a new version of some of those old concepts. 
  You play as Faith, a runner who gets caught up in a murder plot of which her sister is falsely 
 accused of. The game is played entirely in first person view which is really cool because you really 
 feel immersed in the game. It feels like you're actually jumping from rooftop to rooftop and sliding 
 under obstacles. It was very ambitious, but EA pulled it off very well. 
  The running controls are very tight and responsive. They are also very simple to learn, because 
 there are pretty much only three buttons you need during most of the game. It does have its shortcomings 
 though. It is sometimes very hard to disarm an opponent and it only takes two melee hits for Faith 
 to die, so you will probably getting killed many times. Some of the platforming sections are frustrating 
 because they require precise timing in very small spaces. Neither the melee combat, nor the gunplay 
 is very good so you are better off running from most of the enemies. I feel like EA should have 
 made more of the levels about just speed running instead of escaping the cops because it gets frustrating 
 always getting shot at and never being able to take your time exploring the beautiful city.
  The music is very good. It has sort of an urban techno feel which fits very well with the game. 
 The music adds nice ambiance, wether you are solving a puzzle or running from enemies. The voice 
 acting is solid, no complaints there.
  The graphics are also very, very good, although I am not a good judge, seeing as I was playing 
 this on a free T. V. which makes everything look like you are watching a VHS . . . . . . at least 
 it's in color . . . 
  During the game you can find yellow bags, which unlock artwork and music, which is accessed in 
 the main menu. Each chapter ends with a cell shaded cut scene, which are stylish but are sometimes 
 rather silly looking.
  Overall, when everything is said and done, I found myself enjoying this game even though it put 
 me on "edge" sometimes (heh heh) . I wouldn't pay full price though, wait until it goes down 10 or 
 so dollars. If you want a quick, immersive game, pick up Mirror's Edge today!
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Oblivionfan10
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 30, 2008 10:15 pm PT
Review:  Mirror's Edge is a first person action adventure from DICE, the makers of Battlefield: Bad Company. 
 Mirror's Edge focuses on Parkour action, an exercise that focuses being speed and efficiency. The 
 way you achieve this is by gaining momentum and scaling obstacles to keep the momentum and getting 
 to your objective. This is what sets Mirror's Edge apart from other action titles on the market.
 
  
  Mirror's Edge story takes place in a modern day totalitarian dystopia where everything is heavily 
 monitored, much like George Orwell's 1984. The only way discretion can be achieved is through Runners. 
 That is where the main heroine comes into play, Faith. 
  One day while listening to the police scanners, Faith comes across a transmission with her sister, 
 a cop, investigating a building nearby. When Faith hears a call for help, she runs to the building 
 in which her sister is in, only to find a dead mayoral candidate and her sister next to the corpse. 
 The candidate was shot with her sister's gun. Faith now must prove her sisters innocence. 
  
  In essence Mirror's Edge does not focus on gunplay and fighting much like you'd expect it to 
 be. The main focus, like mentioned before, is Point A to Point B with speed and efficiency. When 
 you do get into a battle with the police, you have three main buttons: PS3: R1, L1, and L2. Those 
 are the buttons that are used. Chain these together for a combo, which can cause major damage. 
 Some combos include a wall-run and jumping off the edge pressing R1 to kick the enemy in the face. 
 Another is sliding on the ground once again pressing R1 and delivering a devastating kick to the 
 face, once again. Almost all combos utilize kick. Some diversity would have been nice.
  
  The visuals in Mirror's Edge are breathtaking; the white gleaming city is crystal clear. The color 
 palette is rather unique, utilizing only white, blue, green, orange, and blue. Very little gray 
 is used and black as well. It only shows the necessity to set the game apart and also sets up the 
 city's background.
  
  Mirror's Edge is a very good game; the lack of fighting moves and the shortness of the game (around 
 8 hours or less) are what keep this game from being a 10. But, the uniqueness and creativeness 
 that went into the game are what makes it good. Another positive aspect is the lack of interruption 
 in the game, with tutorials and cut scenes. There is rarely a break in the action.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: plasmonic_squid
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 30, 2008 5:40 pm PT
Review:  Mirror's Edge is a visual masterpiece. The color layout, composition and beautiful angular lines 
 and corners will make you reconsider your definition of elegance. The game play is a loving tribute 
 to retro style jump timing, and button press combinations. However, the profound satisfaction achieved 
 by performing a perfect jump sequence in mirror's edge is unmatched by any other game. The sensation 
 of speed and desperation are exquisitely expressed through the use of blur effects and sound distortions. 
 Though the game may cause some frustration due to the repetition required to master some of the 
 more difficult jump sequences, it is easily forgiven in perspective of the overall experience. 
 There were times when I felt my eyes water in response to the radial blurring illusion of wind 
 rushing across faith's face. However, this game is not for everyone. First of all, this game is 
 not a first person shooter. In fact, the shooting mechanic is practically broken compared to other 
 first person shooters. Halo fans and Call of Duty players beware! This game was designed to provide 
 the illusion of grace and agility in evasion of combat. The gunplay seems purposefully discouraged. 
 For those who appreciate artistic visual composition and innovative game play mechanics, this game 
 is a must-play. Just make sure you reserve some patience for some of the more difficult sequences, 
 it is definitely worth it. Just witnessing the minimalist architecture and color design warrants 
 the purchase. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JediXMan7
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 29, 2008 8:42 pm PT
Review:  This game has a kind of "big brother" feel to it. You play Faith, a female Runner. Runners are 
 a group of people who deliver messages by foot, mostly for people who were wrongly sent to jail. 
 At some point during the game, you'll start a quest to uncover a conspiracy.
  
  The gameplay is unique. But it has a nice flow. Running and jumping is fun every step of the way. 
 There are a few puzzles, but most aren't very difficult. The controls are basic, but let you do 
 some pretty amazing feats.
  
  The fact that you are in first-person mode throughout might seem wrong for a game like this. Yes, 
 it felt weird when I first started. But I got use to it. Honestly, I couldn't see this game in 
 third-person. It just wouldn't have the same feel.
  
  Combat has been criticized somewhat. But this is not a fighting game. 70% of the game is spent 
 running, jumping, and usually avoiding conflict. So to criticize the combat system in this type 
 of game is just wrong. Probably anyone who buys this game would know what they're getting, and 
 it's not a fighting game. The fact that it has one attack button, and one disarm button, should 
 give a clue to anyone who's played a fighting game that this is not a fighting game.
  
  The story is interesting, and it even has a few twists. But it's somewhat short. Longer than some 
 games, but shorter than others. I feel it should have more levels, and chapters should be longer.
 
  
  In a game like this, I expected to have a free roam feature. I want to be able to run throughout 
 a city and do whatever I want. I'd also like the ability to make my own maps. Hopefully these things 
 will either be downloadable, or will be in the next game.
  
  Overall, this gets an 8.5 / 10 from me. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MangoLlamas
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 29, 2008 7:17 pm PT
Review:  Well, I've been thinking of something to write about this game for quite a while now... but I just 
 don't know where to start. Should I explain the beauty of the graphics? How every pole, pipe, wooden 
 or metal object... How every figure, piece of technology or framed glass seems to be real? Or maybe 
 i should introduce the simple, yet effective gameplay mechanics that permit wall jumping, wall 
 sprinting, disarming and sliding with the use of one or two buttons? In one word, i can definately 
 tell you that this game is 'Amazing' with a capital everything.
  
  So i'll introduce Mirror's Edge as what it is to begin with. Mirror's Edge is a new breed of first 
 person gaming, the kind that lets you jump, slide and glide as opposed to just shooting. Unfortunately, 
 the game is set on due course, which means that it won't prove much for customization or exercising 
 your freedom in off-map gameplay. However, this game is in it's own right a puzzle game... That 
 means it keeps you on your feet, thinking at all times how to get to the next ledge, above the 
 electric fence, or into and through the air vent suspended thirty feet up into the air. If you 
 like thinking and action, this game is for you.
  
  Another actively refreshingly aspect to Mirror's Edge is the feel it has for mystery. The plot, 
 that is the refreshing aspect. You are a runner in a city monitered 24/7. Runners are special messengers 
 employed to communicate freely. Guided by an ally, you will constantly be on the run, either chasing 
 someone or being chased yourself. The reason for this? You have uncovered a seceret mission being 
 carried out by your very own city, and now you... and your sister, are at risk.
  
  Onto gameplay mechanics, Mirror's Edge is very simple in these terms, be it good or bad. L1, that 
 is your life saver, your killer, whatever, just master it. It's the jump button, and that's basically 
 what you will need for the whole game... That, an analog stick, and R1... although you can put 
 more buttons to use. In short, you will be punching, jumping off buildings, shooting, etc... You 
 know, everyday stuff.
  
  Red Obstacle? Oh yea, i did say that in the 'Review Deck' didn't I? Well, in a brief summary, any 
 interactive objective will be highlighted red, as if to indicate "Climb me... Climb me" or, "Here, 
 Grab on Here!" Additionally, if you're ever stuck, without giving away any spoilers I can tell 
 you that later on, by pressing the O button you will be redirected to the next obstacle.
  
  Lastly, the graphics are pure, rich and fulfilling... they make perfect use of the PS3's capabilities. 
 After missions, the graphics will change from a real life looking game to a more animated looking 
 style. The graphics are amazing though, I promise. You might have seen better, you might have not... 
 But the graphics are amazing. No denying the fact.
  
  All in all, Mirror's Edge leaves a good impression, even if it may seem pretty short, and although 
 it can be frustrating at times. My Score: 10/10.
  
  "Innovative" 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Compilation
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 28, 2008 2:08 am PT
Review:  I've only been playing Mirror's edge up to Chapter 5 spread through until the end, Chapter 7. But 
 whilst I have been playing it, it's remarkably well executed plot just makes it a golden possession. 
 Something I can keep hold of. I'll go into detail of story, synopsis, enemies, reasons, but less 
 of the negative talk because there's far too much positive discussion to include which smothers 
 it's bad.
  
  
  Mirror's Edge is tremendous, and all of its elements pitch into the story you'll be playing. To 
 adapt and entice players with its graphically smart environments is also a thumbs up. It works 
 all too well. The characters are improvised to make sense of who they are, and building placements 
 never appear to clustered, more so that it's never a 'dj vu' effect.
  
  The Environment isn't completely firearm-free you see.
  Heroine Faith - A Parkour-style information 
 courier known as a Runner, can always refer to guns when needs must. But it'll only slow her down 
 when she uses her acrobatic free-running skills. So while she can and does use guns, they're hastily 
 ditched to enable better navigation. Assassin Creed's Altair will have to think twice on 'speedy 
 moves' towards Faith's cuter version of freerunning. Kate, Faith's sister who ironically works 
 as a cop, is framed for a murder she did not commit. Everything seems to go into sudden anarchy, 
 then this happens, you're running away endlessly to find clues and answers!
  It's a dilemma not to be missed. 
  
  The utopia is lush full of realism, and topped with so 
 much variation. As for the cops [and secret so called enemies] you act as a courier in the game, 
 working for a group network of runners, transferring information. (Demo version included Celeste, 
 another allied runner Faith knows.) 
  Set in a conformist dystopia, communication is monitored with extreme measures operated by a totalitarian 
 regime. It's up to Faith and many others of her couriers acquaintances to evade government surveillance, 
 while searching for her own goal: to find out about the origin of her twin sister's kidnapping. 
 If you are well hidden in any part of the game, perhaps you can try working out why they are after 
 you too for this matter.
  
  It's slightly clich, but push that aside! It's a brilliant adventure. 
  
  Inevitably then, 
 Faith, you, will be running away from the police, partly for the majority of the game. It's sounds 
 repetitive at first, but while you run away searching for truths and facts, you'll encounter something 
 more sinister in the works, and anonymous who set up Faith. It seems like a short adventure, the 
 plot being completed over the next two sequels of this trilogy blockbuster, but it's always fun! 
 Time trial in addition to the story mode, offering more entertainment for fans of the game. 
  
  -What else I noticed which help indulge the storyline
  
  You hardly ever see any citizens 
 of this fictitious dystopia, but when you do, they are blacked out only revealing silhouettes of 
 their forms, adding to the game's plot because they indicate what Faith possibly sees in first 
 person; such as runner's vision. 
  
  
  I highly recommend purchasing this game. Renting it or borrowing isn't advised; you must own a 
 copy despite its longitivity and storyline. Its lifespan will grow if you play to seek out Trophies, 
 and moreover to complete out the time trial mode, competitively or just to have plain fun. Sheer 
 moments will not get any better for you, so buy it now!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: altair4231
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 28, 2008 12:43 am PT
Review:  Mirror's Edge is an enthralling first-person action game set through the eyes of a Runner, by the 
 name of Faith. In this game, Runners are underground messengers used to transport secret information 
 from A to B, without the information being seen (the Runners try hard not to be seen, but what 
 can't news choppers see?) .
  
  Faith overhears police chatter and discovers that her sister (who happens to be on the force) has 
 been sent to talk to one of the senators, and decides to pay her sister a visit. When Faith gets 
 there she finds the senator dead and Kate finds her weapon missing.
  
  Kate has been framed for the senator's murder. You (Faith) must uncover this ongoing mystery, and 
 save your sister.
  
  This game features superb graphics, with music to match. Gameplay is balanced and fun, and Faith's 
 actions are very fluid and smooth. Mirror's Edge features Epic's Unreal Engine 3, the same engine 
 behind UT3 and Gears of War on the Xbox 360, providing a very beautiful experience.
  
  This game has been severely underrated by magazines and websites and if you truly call yourself 
 a gamer, you must play Mirror's Edge.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Cowb0ysFaN15
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 27, 2008 9:34 am PT
Review:  After reading the review of mirrors edge from gamespot i was kind of scared to play the game so 
 instead of buying it i rented it first and i must say that i made a mistake i should have bought 
 this game because The good
  -level designs are amazing
  -Gives you an adrenelin feeling
  -makes you feel like you could do it
  -graphics are fun -controlls are easy to pick up
  
 
  The Bad
  -Sometimes the jumps are not accurate
  -pretty short
  
  
  
  So if you are looking for a good game that will kill about 3 days time and will still want to keep 
 playing this is the game for you. If you dont like first person and you hate shooting games you 
 should still try this game because it is a great expericence and very fun so i recommend this game 
 to everyone.
   
 pure awesome fun 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Some_One_Plays
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 27, 2008 7:11 am PT
Review:  The city you once knew is gone that was pulsing with energy, dirty and dangerous but alive and 
 beautiful. Now to have a perfect world a totalitarian regime watches its citizens through surveillance 
 and anything thing else that will reduce crime and quell anyone who challenges the authority. Where 
 you come in a group of people who fight against the new government control where the city is seen 
 through a new perspective. These people are called runners that hind amongst the roof tops, skyscrapers, 
 or anything that can be of use to explore and deliver packages to other runners. Runners deliver 
 packages to prevent government surveillance so to keep everything in raps they physically carry 
 their messages around the city. You play as Faith someone who's allegedly caught up in a frame 
 up with her sister Kate where she too killed a man that wanted to meet up that also mentioned you, 
 Faith. The police have you fleeing the scene yet your sister Kate does not believe in runners so 
 chooses to stay behind.
  
  The cinematics are told through two dimensional cartoon representations of the three dimensional 
 in-game graphics. The two dimensional representations don't always have good animations and seen 
 better on TV shows. The story does get interesting as you move towards the ending and get a sense 
 of the universe created by Dice. There is good narrative with amazing music to compliment the storyline. 
 The voiceovers are well done even the in-game chatter because sometimes on the fly you'll listen 
 to what Mercury is telling you to get away. 
  
  Everything has a retro futuristic look even down to the furniture in buildings it reminds you of 
 the 50-70s furniture style. The backgrounds don't look so organic and look stiff without anything 
 really moving. When finding out that your sister Kate might be in trouble at the offices of Robert 
 Pope & Associate at 56, West Arland. The background doesn't look to detailed enough to make you 
 feel you're part of this larger world and there's a big lake that barely acts like real world water. 
 Another part when the water didn't really look right was when you get to the top of the boat to 
 reach an assassin. 
  
  Organic elements like tree are oddly white even down to the soil that's making me think that this 
 could be a sci-fi in an alternate reality this also includes wood. Ok, my theory might be farfetched 
 but is still peculiarly odd even in this totalitarian society. You will see adverts talking about 
 runners are the new threat giving people five signs that someone you know might be a runner is 
 a nice touch. Lighting is very impressive with some of the best depth of field I've seen considering 
 this is a first person platformer not a first person shooter. 
  
  There is no blood in the game and kind of takes away from the realism because once you meet up 
 with RopeBurn the Blues are hot on your pursuit. One of the ways you escape is by a subway network 
 and one time one of the Blues got clipped yet there was no blood. Also no blood when you use weapons 
 against your enemies. With so much emersion this game should have already been a mature title because 
 there will be other times when you die you can almost feel her (Faith's) pain. 
  
  There will be visual cues like weapons, cardboards, or even pipes turning red for you to make your 
 move on your enemies called Runners' Vision. You can turn this off and the weapon cue will always 
 be on at all times. There will be hidden bags discarded by runners a runners' glyph will indicate 
 a stashpoint is nearby. When using the sniper you can't even see the person driving in the vehicles, 
 it's a linear game yet distant environments can't even have the basics kind of takes me back slightly. 
 
  
  The animations in the game are amazing and make the game so fluid they really pulled of a first 
 person platformer, a city ninja. Some people might get disoriented and the reticle is there to 
 prevent that but with me the reticle was taking the immersion away from me so I removed it. 
  
  There are eight chapters in total; you mainly use the L1, L2, R1, and R2 to get by with most 
 of the puzzles thrown at you L1 is high attacks, L2 lower attacks, R2 straight attacks, and R1 
 is for turning 90 to 180 degrees. You can mesh these buttons into combos with a fluid motion keeping 
 in mind everything is timed. SIXAXIS is used to do a roll manoeuvre when landing, disarming enemies, 
 and tilt controls for balancing that actually adds to the emersion. You can toggle this off if 
 you feel like it so you're not forced to use it if you chose not to. Reaction Time is when your 
 awareness is heightened by slowing down the world around you making it easier to execute moves.
 
  
  Another key thing is that objects have to be in sight or Faith won't react to them properly so 
 wanting to jump on something to get to higher ground requires you to have that object on screen 
 until the last minute. In The Mall this was happening to me a couple of times until I realised 
 I wasn't keeping the objects on screen long enough. With that you also need momentum without momentum 
 it would be physically impossible for Faith to do certain things in the universe. 
  
  The only times that you have to fight would be when Marc (your trainer) tells you it looks like 
 you have to fight and even then you still sometimes don't have to. There will be times when the 
 game forces you to fight like when you first enter into the boat facing the S. W. A. T. Team. Timing 
 is key to success and looking for that brief weapons colour change can be tricky so looking at 
 the actions is what most people will do. Isolating your enemies is keyed to taking down groups 
 of enemies while still being agile and depending on what type of enemy you're facing will determine 
 your tactics. Some of the enemies are S. W. A. T., Pursuit Cops, CPR Patrol Cop, or a CPF Riot Cop. 
 A. I. isn't all that intelligent like when in The Mall finding your way back to the atrium Blues 
 are shooting at you but one Blue you thought would react first is still standing there as if nothing 
 is going on. This only happened once and for the most part I find that they never really get me 
 and most of the time I was dying because of carelessness. Don't get me wrong you'll die by your 
 enemies' hands because of their tactics and pressure 
  
  What's really interesting that this game is similar with a game called Breakdown and the loading 
 screens come up at the same times when leaving certain areas. Breakdown at the time for me was 
 a good game because of the emersion. This game is no different. 
  
  There is some value in the game besides collecting packages; Speed Run is where race against the 
 clock through a full chapter from the campaign and Time Trail is racing in selected course to increase 
 your skill rating. Ratings are stars that you get when you complete a race in order to rank up 
 higher by getting better times with three levels for each course one star (normal) two stars (hard) , 
 three stars (expert) that will add up to a total ranking with twenty-three courses to mess around 
 in. There will be colours to visually tell you how you're doing green (ahead) , red (behind) , white 
 (tied) , clear (incomplete) . There will be runners' ghosts and every move you make is recorded for 
 others to try to beat very similar to what you'll see in racing games. This is all connected to 
 leader boards where you can see the best times in the world to compete against. 
  
  You can unlock extras as in artwork, videos and music. The artwork varies to early concepts of 
 the pursuit cops to the genesis of Jacknife, with videos it will consist of cinematics to a teaser 
 trailer, to music used in the game.
  
  In the end this is one amazing game that sets the bar high for first person action-adventure platform 
 games. I haven't played Prince of Persia, as of speaking now this is one of the best action-adventure 
 games I've played this year. The concept is fresh; the style brings back retro looks with a future 
 looking twist, and created a universe that I wouldn't mind revisiting again. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: havokmaster
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 17, 2008 3:46 pm PT
Review:  Mirrors Edge is the latest game to be released by DICE. Famous for their development of First Person 
 Shooters such as the Battlefield series they take that genre, and reinject it with new life like 
 no other developer has done in the past. 
  
  The game is based on the free-running sport, Parkour, which originated in France. You play as Faith, 
 the female protagonist, who is a member of an elite running group called "The Runners"... Creative 
 or what? She is trying to clear her sister's name of a murder she did not commit. The game has 
 been described by DICE as being "TRUE First Person", because you play from the perspective of Faith, 
 and are able to see her legs and feet if you look down, similar to the Halo series. 
  
  The game is set in a sort of Dystopian environment, where the law enforcement control most doings 
 in the city. The surrounds don't change much, but there is alot of transitioning from outdoor to 
 indoor mid-level which creates a variety usually unseen in this type of game. Most of the game 
 is "Get from point A to point B" with numerous routes you can take, making the game feel not as 
 linear as it actually is. The combat system is refreshing, which consists mostly of hit attacks, 
 and a disarming system. The disarming system is unique, in the way its implimented. When you get 
 close to an enemy, he will attempt to melee you, and as he does, his weapon changes red. When this 
 happens, if you press the disarm button (Triangle on PS3) , Faith will grab the gun and commit some 
 bloody action to incapacitate the security guard or police officer, whoever it may be. This can 
 also be done alot more accurately in slow motion mode (initiated by pressing square on PS3) .
  
  The story on normal mode lasts a good 5-6 hours, which is pretty common for modern games, like 
 Prince Of Persia and Call of Duty 4, and is broken up into 8 chapters. Between each chapter you 
 are treated to a flash-type cutscene which fill in the gaps between each level. The story is good, 
 and you will find yourself wanting to play more.
  
  The real gem of this game though, are the Time Trials and Speed Runs. There are 3 time trials for 
 8 different maps based on each chapter of the story mode. The typical goal time for 3 Stars (The 
 highest rating) is about a minute, and you will find yourself restarting 100 times to reach this 
 goal. This may seem monotonous to some, but the gameplay makes it totally worth it.
  The speed runs are essentially the same concept, except its a speed run of the entire story mode 
 chapters, which adds quite a bit of replayability to the game.
  
  I would recommend this game to fans of acrobatics in games, such as Prince Of Persia or Tomb Raider. 
 Its a run game, and it has alot of replayability outside of the story mode, especially when the 
 new time trial maps are released via DLC.
  
  This review has been bought to you by Chris Coughlan.
  
  PSN: TotallyEpic 
::::::

::::::
UserName: toolzz360
Rating: 7
Date: Dec 16, 2008 6:22 pm PT
Review:  In Mirrors Edge you play as Faith, a runner who gets involved in a political scandal when a potential 
 mayoral candidate is assassinated. Faith is involved because her sister Kate is framed for the 
 murder, and somewhere there are a few hidden secrets around the death. Faith must solve the murder 
 in order to save her sister from a guilty charge. The story takes a few turns here and there, but 
 overall it is a little above average. The story is also told through cel-shaded cutscences that 
 look alright, but not fantastic. 
  
  The game is based on the single concept of running to a set location, and stringing together jumps 
 and other moves to get to position B. The game was meant to be played fast, but Dice throws in 
 jumping puzzles that slow down the game to a crawl. These puzzles will often involve many deaths 
 as you try to figure out where to go or try to pull off almost impossible moves. This game is 100% 
 trial and error, and that is what brings the game down. If you have always hated those games where 
 characters can't make a simple jump or can't pull off the double jump then stay away from Mirrors 
 Edge. It is the same as that except in the first person viewpoint. It is just another frustrating 
 platformer in disguise. There are points in the game that easily took 100 tries to get past. 
 
  
  There are many moves at your arsenal. There are basic jumps, wall climbs, wall runs, and pipe swinging. 
 The goal is to pull off these moves together to moves through the 9 chapters in the game. It is 
 tough to pull off a wall run, turn, then wall climb jump, but it is very satisfying when you do 
 pull it off. Trying out these combinations is cool, and two people will not play this game alike. 
 Upon watching someone else play, he used completely different moves and routes to get through the 
 game than I did. 
  
  To break things up the game throws enemies at you where you can choose to combat with them or simply 
 run by them. The latter is very hard on the hardest difficulty, and the combat is also difficult. 
 It is hard to time your attacks on enemies. The inclusion of too many enemies at certain points 
 is one of the failed parts of the game, as it makes the game more difficult than it has to be. 
 The weapons are second fiddle to the rest of the game as you can wield a pistol, machine gun, assault 
 rifle, shotgun, or sniper rifle. You can only get the guns that fall from enemies and have only 
 one or two shots in them. 
  
  The campaign in Mirrors Edge will run for about 6 hours, and it is more like 4 hours minus the 
 frustrating deaths. The game does encourage multiple playthrough, and extra time trials to beat, 
 but a 6 hour campaign is not nearly enough. Well it is in this game due to the gameplay.
  
  The best area of the game is the graphics. Dice meshes together the all white background with vibrant, 
 bright colors and it really works well. The interiors are mainly in color, and believe me the colors 
 are very bright, and maybe too bright in some points. There are no graphical hiccups, and the game 
 feels really polished in the graphical department. The sound in the game is average at best, as 
 some of the voice acting is good and some is bad. The soundtrack is also not very good as the same 
 two or so songs play all the time. The sound effects like gunshots are fine.
  
  Overall Mirrors Edge is a definite rent for its innovation as a first person platformer if you 
 can stand the frustration level. If the actual gameplay was better the game would get an 8.0, but 
 it is just too frustrating.
  
  
  7.0/10.0 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CraZySeahorSe
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 24, 2008 10:46 am PT
Review:  Gameplay
  There is no other game like this, it is simple as that. Mirror's Edge is, to my knowledge, the 
 very first true "free running" game. There is no stopping where one can go and what one can do. 
 Yes, there are games similar to this but are third person games. Mirror's Edge is a first person 
 game that actually makes you feel you are the character (Faith is her name) . It is short, but this 
 game will have you coming back for more until you defeat the story mode. A must play for both PS3 
 and 360 owners.
  Graphics
  Fantastic PS3 graphics. Jumping from rooftop to rooftop looks amazing and further adds to the incredibly 
 realistic feel.
  Sound
  Faith has a lot of noises that come with her: getting injured, jumping, and all of the great sounds 
 that come with landing, rolling, and climbing. Great music as well.
  Value
  This game will not keep you coming back very long. There are time trials but they do not do the 
 justice. The new downloaded material helps gamers come back but i haven't been able to play it. 
 Mirror's Edge would greatly benefit from a free running mode where the player could endlessly run 
 around and explore. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nickscho
Rating: 5.5
Date: Dec 10, 2008 12:07 am PT
Review:  Mirror's Edge could have been a great and exciting platformer, but instead stumbles constantly, 
 just keeping it from reaching its obvious potential.
  
  At its best, this game is rush, a wild ride of running, jumping, and doing batman and spiderman 
 style tricks accross rooftops, and inside buildings. The way you can interact with the environment 
 is often very smart, and satisfying. There will be moments where you'll forget you'll playing a 
 game. It really gets your adrenaline pumping. But then, it happens, the game trips on its own shoe 
 laces. For no reason, you'll miss a jump, not because it's your fault. You'll try it again, and 
 fail again. On a later try, you'll make the jump, even though you did the exact same thing the 
 first few times. Frustrating situations like this, are, unfortunately, not few, and not far inbetween. 
 Action constantly comes to a halt because of this. Combat is also an issue (more on that later) . 
 It's really sad that this game trips up constantly, because when this game works, it really works. 
 If this game was all around bad, this wouldn't be a problem, I'd just burn it, and laugh. Unfortunately, 
 since the game has such good aspects, you'll feel the need the play through. Because of this, you're 
 forced to deal with some very, very frustrating gameplay. This game will make you happy, frustrate 
 the hell out of, and test you. 
  
  The art style of Mirror's Edge is spectacular. The overexposed, saturated, and washed out style 
 of the graphics perfectly goes with the story. In the story, the future is uncertain one, one where 
 rules and morality have lost their way. The art style, pushing the boundries of what we normally 
 see and perceive as realistic, perfectly reflect that. The art style is probably one of the only 
 aspects of this game, that isn't severly messed up in some sort of way. The excellent sound design, 
 and the even better beautifully crafted, memorable, and sometimes haunting soundtrack, also takes 
 home this honor.
  
  The combat in Mirror's Edge takes a huge back seat to the platforming. The very nature of the game 
 wants you to avoid combat. The main character is a noble girl, taking a human life would cheapen 
 her character. Avoiding combat altogether is also a fun and exciting aspects of the game. The problem? 
 Sometimes you HAVE to fight. Not because the game wants you to, but because of poorly designed 
 mechanics. The artifical "intelligence," and I use the term loosly, is both a curse and blessing, 
 because the enemies are so stupid. There are points in the game where if you can find an object 
 (a car for instance) to stand in the way of you, and someone who's job it is to end your life, 
 you'll be safe, for eternity. That shows me that this game was rushed to release, poorly tested, 
 or both.
  
  The bullet time feature is a feature that let's you slow the action down. This is often fun, as 
 it lets you easily disarm enemies. You'll often have a great time doing so. Disarming an officer 
 and kicking him in the head in slow motion, is a good laugh. However, there are problems with the 
 way this is implemented. The bullet time is something that takes a few minutes to refresh, before 
 you can use it again. Obviously this is to keep the game from being too easy. If you're planning 
 on going through the game without shooting anyone for a trophy/achievement, you'll probably find 
 yourself hiding and waiting for bullet time to refresh. This slows the action down considerably. 
 The game backed itself into a corner with this. Either the game is too easy with bullet time, or 
 it's too frustrating. The concept should have completely redone, or scrapped altogether.
  
  Mirror's Edge is a game that has both good times and bad. During the good times, you'll be running 
 through, jumping, climbing, and having an absolute blast. During the bad times, you'll be frustrated, 
 and angry, because constantly, poorly designed mechanics in this game keep you from doing what 
 I think the game truly wants you to do. It wants to be an exciting and fast platformer, but so 
 many aspects slow it down, and keep it from doing so, in often frustrating ways. You may spend 
 hours performing Trial and Error. You may even feel like a game tester. Not a good thing.
  
  Test it please, then release it again. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Azeru99
Rating: 1
Date: Dec 9, 2008 11:12 am PT
Review:  Completely overrated - don't waste your time. This exercise in frustration is extremely tedious 
 and punishes per repetition ad nauseum. I'm all for challenging games, but this one is about as 
 enjoyable as the looping sound of a car alarm blaring in your ear. As for the game mechanics, they're 
 somewhat cool... if this game came out seven years ago. On top of all this, the cut scenes look 
 like those cheesy Esurance commercials, but at least the commercials are mildly funny and drawn 
 a hell of a lot better. Do yourself a favor if you're thinking about buying this game - download 
 the demo first. After that, if you're still thinking about buying or renting it, go climb up on 
 top of your roof, look for a hard surface to land on, and jump off. Now imagine what that would 
 feel like doing 100 times in a row - you've just captured the essence of what it feels like to 
 play Mirror's Edge! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: HAMODA
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 7, 2008 11:07 pm PT
Review:  Now more than ever, video games are trying to break out of their regular rut of genres. This game 
 succeded.
  
  I've never had the want to run as much as I have in this game. The sprinting is spicy, the puzzles 
 are tricky but rewarding, and the dialouge is better than in most games. I guess you could really 
 say that the best part is no doubt pulling off some of the craziest moves I've ever seen in a video 
 game.
  
  Pointing out the bad things makes me look like a sore thumb, but it would seem correct to do so. 
 During the end of the game, I felt it lost a bit of it's speed (no pun intended) . Some action and 
 whatnot got a bit clunky at times and the plot thinned out. Disarming is extremely hard, almost 
 seeming dang impossible. So when you get the chance, just beat the enemies across the room.
  
  I got this game for 18 dollars. I would pay another 60 if I had to. I eagerly await a sequel. 
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: joos2000
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 7, 2008 7:31 pm PT
Review:  Fun game, if a bit short. Since I am not a professional game reviewer, I never quite found it repetitive 
 at all. True, it doesn't have all the bells and whistles of other games released recently (Fallout 
 3 for example) but what it does, it has polished to a mirror shine.
  
  I guess gameplay is inspired by early platform games like Prince of Persia (the 2D one) set in 
 a 3D environment, much like Assassins Creed but played from a first person perspective rather than 
 third. And, instead of killing everything standing in your way, you have to use your superior agility 
 and speed to outrun your enemies through some pretty interesting environments.
  
  Bad stuff:
  
  A tad bit short, but some replay-ability in choosing different routes through 
 some stages.
  The white buildings in conjunction with a lot of bright light together with a rather overdone bloom 
 effect makes graphics indistinct in some places.
  You die a lot in a variety of ways, mostly falling to your death.
  2D graphics in cut scenes 
 aren't terribly inspiring.
  
  
  Good stuff:
  
  Completely new concept of play style. Running away from enemies gives a different type of exhilaration 
 than your average first person shooter. Running into a throng of enemies is a lot more interesting 
 in this game, since you can't just pull up your biggest gun and move them down; in most cases you 
 have yo run away or in some cases, lead them astray, disarm one or two and find away around the 
 others playing in your superior agility and speed.
  Interesting back story which is sort of relevant to us in a Big Brother is watching you sort of 
 sense.
  Even though you die a lot, there are no annoying load times between deaths.
  Course time competition where you can post your time online extends gameplay and is also a very 
 good training ground to improve your skill and bragging rights.
  Proves you can make awesome and fun games without making them super violent and gory.
  
  
 
  Verdict:
  Buy or Rent, this game is too interesting to pass. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Subterranean500
Rating: 7
Date: Dec 6, 2008 1:32 pm PT
Review:  Swedish developers Dice are usually known for their Battlefield games, this time though, their 
 trying something with new, the result of which is Mirror's Edge. The game won the Game Critics 
 Award for Best Original Game back at E3 2008, now that the game is finally released, does it really 
 deserve the award, or is the game gonna fall from the roof top?
  
  Story
  ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  You play as Faith, a Runner who usually delivers packages to people, in a city where the government 
 has control over everything. On one mission, the cops are a bit aggressive and Faith's sister Kate 
 is getting arrested, flamed for the murder of upcoming Mayor Robert Pope, a murder she didn't commit. 
 Now Faith's trying to rescue her sister and finding out who killed Pope. The story is pretty much 
 clichd and terrible, there's not a lot of character development and everything is easily predicted. 
 The game also never bothers explain why the government is so evil, the city looks nice and clean, 
 so the only reason why the government is evil is because Faith and her friends say so. Everything 
 in the story is seen before and there's nothing new to be seen in this regard.
  
  3.0
  
  Gameplay
  ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  The gameplay in Mirror's Edge is a typical platformer, except that it's viewed from a first person 
 view, you run around roof tops, jumping from roof top to roof top, running from the cops and etc. 
 Typical fare, but it's the first person view that makes the game so special, and it's handled so 
 well, that you'll feel like it's you jumping around in the game, it makes it exciting to jump from 
 roof tops and escaping from the cops. For the most the focus is on running, jumping and etc. and 
 that's where the game shines, however it does means there's a lot of trial and error, there'll 
 be times where you miss judge a jump or have a hard time figuring our just where you to. You can 
 hold down the circle button to see where you need to go, but how you get there can be hard figuring 
 out and it will take some time. Faith can use something called Runner's Vision, which lets her 
 see things that she can use in red, it looks cool and is really helpful, though it can be turned 
 off at will.
  
  The game also have combat, you can punch, kick and even shot with guns, it's simple and there's 
 only a few moves, which might sound disappointing, but considering the first person view, it doesn't 
 hurt the game. What hurts the game though, is that the combat is awful, even if you wanna beat 
 the hell outta your enemy, he can easily punch back and at some times it'll be enough to kill you 
 and then there's times where you hit the enemy and he hits you at the same time, which usually 
 ends up you being affected so he can easily kill you. The gunplay is ok, but it makes the game 
 pretty easy, the only way you can get guns is to disarm enemies and steal their guns, it works 
 like a charm in the beginning but later on in the game it becomes really hard and extremely in 
 precise, making the combat frustrating. The game really fails when it wants you to kill people 
 in order to advance, it doesn't work well, since the game most of the time is focusing on running, 
 instead of fighting.
  
  The game is 6-8 hours long on the first play through, but the game can be finished in around 4 
 hours or less if you know what to do. After the game is completed, there are secret bags to find, 
 art work, movies and music to unlock and time trials, there's also trophy support which helps a 
 bit.
  
  7.0
  
  Graphics
  ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  The graphics are really beautiful, every environment in the game are colorful, which is surprising 
 for a game that's set in the city. Character models looks great and their animation are realistic, 
 especially Faith's movements, which can make people get motion sickness. The game's story is told 
 by cartoonish cut-scenes, it's really cheap, since the in-game graphics are beautiful, it looks 
 really cheap and they don't look good either. Other than that, the frame rate takes a dip sometimes 
 when there's too much going on and the PS3 version suffers from screen-tearing when playing on 
 non-HD TV's, but it's a minor problem and doesn't hurt the game's looks.
  
  9.0
  
  Sound
  ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  The game's voice acting is solid, but nothing special, I found the dialogue is good though. The 
 city's ambience is good and the soundtrack really helps the atmosphere. People have probably heard 
 the game's main theme "Still Alive" which makes up for a great theme and is overall just a good 
 sound.
  
  9.5.
  
  Overall
  ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  Mirror's Edge is an experiment, sure it's original and trying to do something now, but it's an 
 experiment, which means that it has a lot to improve on. In the end, the game is fun and exciting 
 and it's original, however it's marred with a bad story and a frustrating combat system. It does 
 the running aspect great, but that's really all, it could be better, but what we have here, ain't 
 the worst. If time trials are your thing, you should buy it, if not, you should give it a rent, 
 as it's quickly finished. Here's hoping that the sequel will be better. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: melswick
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 5, 2008 8:02 am PT
Review:  I would rate this game at 8 to 8.5. The difficulty with combat is overhyped. It's only a problem 
 when you try NOT to kill enemies (even then it can be achieved with practice) . If you use a gun 
 and shoot they go down fast giving you a since of just how much damage Faith can take before she 
 dies (she's pretty tough on easy) . I work, so only have time to play after work, and I've been over 
 a week just finishing the main story mode. After that you have time trials, and runner bags to 
 find, if you want to get the achievements, trophies. So I'm confused about all the talk of too 
 short. Lot to do after you finish the game. Also if you finished on Normal, you have Hard. Also 
 you have the options to finish without killing. Lot of playtime to be had after the game is over. 
 If this game looks interesting to you don't hesitate to get it. It's worth your money, honestly. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Wildboy124
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 4, 2008 3:22 am PT
Review:  Mirror's Edge is one of the latest games which have come in along with an A-list of games, and 
 thanks to some innovative gameplay, fast and intense soundtrack, and brilliantly realised graphics, 
 Mirror's Edge is one of the possible dark horses for Game of the Year.
  
  
  The story is a simple premise, which is sort of characters and video clips wrapped around all the 
 jumping around in offline mode. You play as Faith who happens to be someone called a Runner. See, 
 in the future secure information cannot be sent around by normal means, such as through letters 
 or e-mails. So, now, if secure information has to be sent to another person, they have to hire 
 Runners to deliver messages on their behalf. Runners then run across rooftops and jump fences, 
 for example, to deliver the message. Anyway, some guy named Robert Pope, who was supposed to be 
 running for Mayor, is killed and Faith's sister is framed for the crime. So, Faith is now on the 
 run to find out why her sister has been framed and who wanted Pope Dead.
  
  Sounds interesting, doesn't it? At the beginning, it is appealing, but it does not really last. 
 People are probably just thinking I'm flogging the story for no reason, but let me put it like 
 this; at no point was I expecting this story to be as good as, say The Half Life series, or the 
 Halo trilogy. I never was, at any point, expecting that kind of storytelling, but with such a different 
 style of a first person game, I was expecting a little bit more. But, that's just me and what I 
 think, most people are not going to universally agree with me. In the end, I guess I was expecting 
 more from it after the way they put up trailers for Mirror's Edge's story.
  
  
  Ok, enough of the story. We have to move onto the star of Mirror's Edge, the gameplay. If you have 
 played first person shooters before, you will be pleased to know that the changes made compared 
 to others in the genres are very well known, especially because of the lack of actually using a 
 gun. Mirror's Edge is all about running and momentum, not sniping from a distance and using a handgun 
 to dispatch enemies, which, in story mode, comes in the form of Police and Security. The game will 
 let you use a weapon during gameplay, but you won't be as fast-moving as you are without one, and 
 you will lack the ability to jump from roof to roof or, basically, any move that can help you evade 
 bullets. 
  
  It's a good thing, however, that Mirror's Edge, at no point encourages you to use weapons, but 
 to run from them. And for all purposes, running really is the best choice. Not to only save your 
 skin, but for the sheer exhilaration of running itself. DICE have, let's say, give an over the 
 top feel for running in this game that works so well. As you leap across the rooftops, you almost 
 feel like Faith is actually the love child of Superman and Wonder Woman, and that Faith could actually 
 fly if she started flapping her arms about when you jump about. It's hard to believe that a sport 
 like Parkour, which this game is based on, actually exists in the world.
  
  The only downside to this game is the use of guns. As I said before, you are never encouraged at 
 any point to use one, but when you do, its feels weak. Really weak. You don't get the same powerful 
 feel when you unload a Shotgun into a cop, or a feeling of accomplishment for delivering a headshot 
 to a sniper.. But apart from that, it's all good.
  
  Next up on the list, graphics. This is a beautiful looking game on any television set up or on 
 any set up for a PC version. The simple contrasting colours around its environment (Which is just 
 white and red) come off beautifully, and really pushes what a real city would feel and look like 
 through a runner's eyes. 
  The frame rate never drops either, except for the occasional frozen image and a loading icon at 
 the bottom as the rest of that level loads. In the end though, the picture and frame rate always 
 keeps up with you in the game, and does not take anything away from the fast paced atmosphere of 
 Mirror's Edge.
  
  
  Finally, even though I do lack this option, Multiplayer will be my final test, and it is fair in 
 total. I'm sure DICE were wondering what to put into this part of Mirror's Edge, so they have adapted 
 a Leaderboard and a Time Trial mode. Time Trial is easy to grasp; just try to be the fastest on 
 a route and get your name into the number one spot. No deathmatch, no capturing flags, even no 
 races, just Time Trial. If you are looking for a good Multiplayer game, go and get Resistance 2 
 or Gears of War 2 instead. Because its pretty clear here that Mirror's Edge is focused on single 
 player gameplay.
  
  
  To sum up, Mirror's Edge is a rare game to come by, for its visual style or completely mental gameplay, 
 this game is deserving of praise it has earned from everyone that appreciates this kind of gaming. 
 While minor issues can arise, you always have the option to choose if you want to deal with the 
 problems or not. Mirror's Edge is worth a buy on any console, and is definitely worth a rental 
 for the undecided.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: pigsybum
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 28, 2008 6:30 am PT
Review:  Mirror's Edge great new gameplay to the gaming. So whats it's call? It's platforming combine with 
 first person. What results in is a game thats unique on it's own. I would recommand everyone to 
 at least try it, it's something new and it's done great.
  
  Graphics:
  Most of the time, you see two types of graphics, one is realistic and the other cartoonish. You 
 would get cartoonish graphics 90% of the time on cutscenes. For gameplay, you get full realistic 
 graphics. Both good great and the cartoonish graphics gives the game a easy to understand storyline. 
 
  
  Does cartoonish looks bad? In no way does it looks bad, depending on what you want, some would 
 find cartoonish graphics to be a form of art whereas some find it's a lazy job to get cutscenes, 
 either way, the cutscenes in ME looks great and you understand the storyline clearly as it's a 
 combination of dialogues coupled with actions.
  
  The framerate is pretty steady, but the graphics kind of makes you nauseous after some time. Well 
 it doesn't apply to everyone. I'm glad the graphics is such that it isn't too realistic, if not 
 on rooftops the sun would be a irritating factor. 
  
  Gameplay:
  The gameplay is the part where it's totally new. First person coupled with platforming makes for 
 a great combination. The downside, is getting dizzyness after playing for a prolonged period. 
 
  
  There's 3 modes for this game, firstly the storyline, secondly the time trial and thirdly, which 
 is available after you complete, some sort of time trial also but for the whole chapter if im not 
 wrong. Whilst the game modes is little, the game is still worth a second playthrough, don't worry 
 it won't be as hard since you will be skilled after a playthrough.
  
  Plenty of environments to play from, from prison cells, rooftops, ventilation pipes to server rooms. 
 The vehicles, sadly none. Only some stationary vehicles around for you to climb onto. The interactive 
 is also very limited, like pipelines, railropes, softlanding, ladders etc, but overall as the first 
 Mirror's edge, the gameplay is already a big plus you probably won't figure out the bads too much.
 
  
  Games like this stucks very often, so solve that, you have a sort of hint button where after you 
 pressed, it move ur screen to the position you need to reach. Even with the hint, you do lots of 
 trial and errors which at the same time makes the game a little frastrating, but with practice 
 comes skill, you won't be stuck for long if you do try hard enough.
  
  Weapons here are very limited and all are picked up when you kill a guard holding the weapon. The 
 bullets is a problem except for the machine gun, all guns you pick only has a clip, but if you 
 run out of ammos u can always discard it and pick another.
  
  Audio:
  The music is very nice, as always be EA. The backgroud music in game add to the excitment in the 
 gameplay, very well done job there. Gun fire sounds good and you often hear guard shouting to get 
 you. 
  
  The dialogues are clear with the options to enable subtitles. Dialogues sound great, lip-sync is 
 good. Most importantly, charactors sound like how they look at should. Like a wrestler sound more 
 deep voiced.
  
  
  Overall, Mirror's Edge is a well done job at a First-Person Platforming game. It's certainly a 
 game you should try. The bad part, is the lack of a longer storyline and lack of a better online 
 component. The storyline and weapons are fine in this game, i have no problem with them, since 
 weapons are supposed to be weak since this is a platforming game, not a shooter. It balances platforming 
 and shooting well such that platforming remains the major component. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: standarddamage
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 25, 2008 2:13 pm PT
Review:  It's hard to look at a game like Mirror's Edge and not be excited to play it for yourself. Not 
 only did EA Dice successfully combine a platformer with a first-person perspective, but they did 
 it with style to boot. Unfortunately, once you get your hands on the game, you quickly find out 
 that is a "love it or hate it" title thanks to some design quirks that will play very well to niche 
 gamers and totally alienate others.
  
  You play as Faith, a messenger (called Runners) whose sister has been framed for a murder she didn't 
 commit. It's now up to Faith to find out who is behind the conspiracy and clear her sister's good 
 name. 
  
  If the story sounds a little contrived, it is. While it's presented well, and the voice acting 
 is top-notch, the script itself is very lacking. Also, the cut-scenes between levels have a cartoon-like 
 style that will remind you of Esurance commercials, but they still manage to blend in with the 
 game somehow.
  
  You' ll be pleasantly surprised by how well the game plays most of the time, as EA Dice nailed 
 everything from the graphics to the controls to the in-game mechanics. But as great as all of these 
 elements are, it's the sound design that stands out over everything else. Whether it's the score, 
 the aforementioned voice acting, or the flawless sound effects, the sound not only does its job, 
 but it actually increases the immersion factor of this game dramatically.
  
  The only times the game falters is when it forces you to slow down and repeat certain sections 
 over and over again. Your reactions have to stay tight under pressure, and it does get to the point 
 of insanity in spots. This is truly too bad, as the game does such a fantastic job of sucking you 
 in, only to put you in situations like this where you're constantly reminded that it's only a game.
 
  
  Also, the game is very short; you will have the story mode mowed down in anywhere from five to 
 seven hours. This creates a problem, as the game ends just as you're truly starting to click with 
 its controls. It does offer replay value in form of a higher difficulty setting and several highly-addictive 
 time trials, but it does rob you of experiencing more new content just when things are getting 
 good. The cliff-hanger ending that simply screams "SEQUEL!" doesn't help in this regard.
  
  So when looking at this title, remember this: This game is not for wussies; its Trial-and-Error 
 gameplay isn't everyone's cuppa tea. Also, if you're not the type of gamer who plays around with 
 extra features or enjoys replaying campaigns, you won't get much value out of this title. But if 
 you love a heavy challenge, the satisfaction that comes with it, and feel you'll get extra enjoyment 
 running across rooftops in the time trials where your only enemy is the clock, then this one is 
 absolutely for you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dloheissej
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 24, 2008 11:04 am PT
Review:  Mirrors edge is by far the most entertaining and enjoyable game I have played on the PS3. From 
 the clean cityscape, to the smooth motion of Faith, this game rocks! Out of any 1-st person game 
 I have played Mirrors Edge was by far the most engaging. I really felt like I was running on the 
 rooftops, swinging on bars, and riding ontop of trains. The creators (Dice) of this game emphasized 
 game play and player experience, so many of todays games focus so much on graphics where Mirrors 
 Edge is not only a beautiful game but incredibly fun to play. If you were a fan of Assassins Creed 
 you will love Mirrors Edge. The only CONS I have for Mirrors Edge is that the combat system is 
 a little primitive and it is just too short. But it is easily over-shadowed by all of the many 
 many more PROS this game has to offer! Bring on #2! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DuncanJames15
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 24, 2008 11:00 am PT
Review:  Not to be harsh but once you have played through once thats IT!!! It was a very good game and i 
 have very few faults with the game but you had to looking for the fights to get them otherwise 
 you can i nye one every situation just storm through and get to the exit but i bought it and loved 
 it for about 11 odd hours but its just good to play it through a second time or do the races just 
 so that you can earn some trophies and say you have done it but apart from that I would look through 
 the bargain bin somewhere and you will properly find it for about 20 after Christmas! 
  if you are struggling on any levels you have to remember that the wall run is one of the most powerful 
 moves to get you from A - B as it saved me so much hatred for the game on Chapter 5 or 6 as you 
 never know how to do it but then you find out that that is the move that will save you and get 
 you closer to the final checkpoint also the last part of Chapter 9 disappointing as it is so short 
 and you expect the last chapter to be difficult as it is the last but honestly piece of cake i 
 had no problems with it what so ever and im not really that much of a gamer no the most logical 
 person ever but it truly was easy 
::::::

::::::
UserName: finalcross
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 23, 2008 8:44 pm PT
Review:  It has happened to everyone; a game you love but at the same time, can't believe how frustrated 
 you've gotten playing it. On the whole, it is still a great experience, but there are instances 
 when the game just has too many moments that make you wonder if continuing is really worth it. 
 Well, after playing Mirror's Edge, I have yet again felt that way.
  
  The plot behind Mirror's Edge is simple. You play as Faith, a runner in a dystopian future where 
 everything is monitored. She is part of group of 'messengers' who transport information from one 
 side of the city to other using roof-tops and other non-orthodox ways of getting around. While 
 your character is a parkour who relays messages, the game doesn't actually have you doing that. 
 
  When you begin playing, you control Faith after an unknown accident has put you out of commission 
 for a while. The game starts you off with a tutorial to give you an idea of the controls. The game 
 is played in First-person, but rather than this being a shooter, you're playing a first-person 
 action game where your movements and actions are done with both your hands and feet.
  
  Controlling Faith is done with the use of the shoulder buttons. The majority of the game has you 
 running and jumping from roof-top to roof top. You will have to wall-run, leap over or slide under 
 beams and figure out creative ways to get from one location to another. The controls when moving 
 are relatively simple, with plenty of variety of moves available to you. The tutorial you go through 
 in the beginning of the game gives you a good idea on how to use them, but it will take you a while 
 before you really master her move-set.
  
  As stated before, Faith is a Messenger, but in the game she never actually is doing any jobs other 
 than the first level in the game. You are brought back into the fray on a simple mission but when 
 police officers just randomly appear, you begin to ask questions. Shortly thereafter you encounter 
 your sister, a cop, but discover that she has been framed for murder and then the real story begins. 
 
  
  Now you will need to help your sister by gathering information to prove her innocence. Mirror's 
 Edge story goes for 9 chapters but there is little variety in them. They all start off the same. 
 You begin a point A, must reach point B but along the way you'll have to run, jump, climb, jump, 
 fight, run some more, avoid being shot and jump all before you get to the end of the level. While 
 the jumping and running mechanics work well, the fighting is where the game suffers a lot. Most 
 of the time, when you encounter a battle, the odds are really stacked against you. The scenarios 
 are always the same, you arrive at a location and a handful of enemies with weapons will be trying 
 to shoot you dead. In the beginning, the cops carry only pistols which are easy to disarm, but 
 as you progress, their weapons become more powerful and it turn out to be increasingly difficult 
 to disarm them.
  
  Your options are simple, you can try to disarm your first enemy and then use his weapon to get 
 by the area, or try to avoid conflict all together and either disarm or incapacitate your enemies. 
 Disarming is difficult, so you'll want to try to defeat them with your melee abilities, but unfortunately 
 they aren't always effective. Attacking becomes a button masher as you just begin to hit the attack 
 button over and over again until the enemy falls over. You can attempt to do a jumping or crouching/sliding 
 attack, but often you will miss the target, land with them facing you from behind and getting a 
 good hit or two. They typically only need to hit you twice in succession before you keel over, 
 so don't be surprised if you happen to die over and over again. The game wants you to avoid using 
 weapons, but at times you'll feel that it is the only way to get by. There will be a few areas 
 where you can run by without ever attacking, but those are few and far between.
  
  The biggest downside to the game is the trial and error that fills the game. There are markers 
 located throughout the levels, signified by objects appearing in red, but it doesn't always mean 
 the best way of getting by. Because of this, you will die a lot. A situation might require you 
 to do a wall-run and leap to grab a ledge to your left or right, but the timing required to do 
 so is so finite that you will often miss the jump and fall to your death. While the falling animation 
 is incredible, it does get boring after you've seen it 30 times. 
  
  The game's graphics are pretty incredible with a lot of great looking environments. There is plenty 
 of variety in the locations you encounter, but too much of the game is spent running around indoors, 
 rather than spending it outdoors, doing actually roof jumping. I would have rather preferred more 
 variety in the outdoor environments, but what hurts is that there are rarely bystanders in your 
 way. It would have been cool in some levels, especially those that actually have you running in 
 what should be busy areas of the city, if you had people in your way. It might have been too similar 
 to Assassin's Creed, but it is something you could see them doing in the future.
  
  The game's cut-scenes leave much to be desired. It is disappointing that even the few in-game moments 
 the characters seem too stiff and do not give off any realism. The chapter cut-scenes are done 
 in a weird animation style that again, throws off the experience. They aren't that well done and 
 the characters end up looking really different than how they do in-game. 
  
  Outside of the game's story, there are time-trails for those who want to see just how quickly the 
 can complete a section of the game. The times seem to be quite unrealistic to achieve, but that 
 is because, there are actually faster ways to complete each level that are not given away by the 
 game's red hints markers. If you spent time in this mode, you will probably play levels over and 
 over again as you try to shave or a few seconds to perfect your time.
  
  For the most part, if the game was more about exploration with the running and jumping and less 
 of the fighting, it would have been an incredible experience. It's still a good game, but there 
 could have been a bit more polish done. The way the game ends, is another disappointing aspect. 
 The last battle is weak and the ending itself doesn't really offer any closure. The experience 
 isn't long, but considering the amount of dying you will encounter, you should deduct about an 
 hour or so from how long it actually took you to complete it. There is definitely more to come 
 from this series, and hopefully for the next game, they go the more open-world sandbox route with 
 more variety since this game really craves it.
  
  I still suggest you give this game a try since there isn't anything quite like this around.
  
 As stating in the beginning, this is a frustrating game that will anger you at times. Because of 
 the amount of dying that will happen, if you are short-tempered, you might want to stay way. The 
 graphics and running mechanics save this game, but the dying and horrible fighting system restrict 
 this from being an excellent experience. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dragoon_Of_Dark
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 23, 2008 3:58 pm PT
Review:  Mirrors Edge is a game with a new look on first person games were the controls and movments all 
 blend togeter 
  
  
  
  first of the controls the controls are great and easy to use but you can also beat the game with 
 only four bottons and the anologe stick but there really user friendly so you wont be snaping the 
 game disk over this
  
  
  
  next up the grhaphics the grahics are great in this game now i will say that they dont look 100% 
 real they fit well with the game and its story but in the whole game there are only two cinamatics 
 the rest are done and a anime style drawing video
  
  
  
  Story well i cant say much about it without runing it but it good your characters sister is framed 
 for a murder and your trying to solve it and prove shes not guilty there are plot twists and clif 
 hangers even at that end which is seting us up for the next game in the serise but i find it was 
 still to short even if it is a three part game
  
  
  Other Stuff in the game is the time trial and art work you can unlock art work by beating the game 
 and getting bags this is a fun thing to do and there is the time trail which is ok over all the 
 game was good but depening on if you like long games over short ones you might not buy it but rent 
 it 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bastila19
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 22, 2008 3:24 pm PT
Review:  Mirror's Edge is a first person free-running game from Battlefield veterans DICE Studios. There 
 has been much skepticism about the game thinking the gameplay and controls couldn't work. Well 
 they do and Mirror's Edge is worth the money.
  
  Mirror's Edge is about a runner named Faith who is trying to find out who framed her sister for 
 murder. While the story isn't super deep, it does what it does well, with some decent looking 2-d 
 cutscenes.
  
  Like I said earlier, gameplay was a big question mark leading up to the release of the game. DICE 
 has managed to nail it perfectly. L1 is jump and L2 is crouch. While there are other controls, 
 L1 and L2 are the main controls for running... which is most of the game. They are tight and responsive 
 and couldn't have felt much better. Then comes the combat... which is unfortunate. The thing that 
 makes combat in Mirror's Edge is that you are not supposed to get into it. However there are times 
 when you are forced to N-GAGE (X-Play reference) . The part that sucks about the combat is that, 
 they have guns... and you don't. Sure you can pick up a gun after an enemy is beaten senseless 
 but, surprisingly from DICE, gunplay is not very good at all. I don't know if they did that because 
 they want you to avoid combat as much as possible or what but it is not good. There are some flashy 
 melee attacks you have that work well but just try to run by guys as much as possible.
  
  Unlike the gunplay, the actual running part of the game is breathtaking. Wall-runs, grabbing on 
 to ledges, shimmying up a pole, edging across a narrow edge hundreds of feet above street level; 
 you really do get a rush. It really needs to be experienced first hand but just know that running 
 and jumping from rooftop to rooftop is incredible.
  
  The artstyle in this game is striking. Instead of the grays and browns that many recent games have 
 adopted, the world of Mirror's Edge is mainly clean-cut and white exteriors with single, solid 
 colors on the interiors. Red is very important as it shows you where to go next (the option can 
 be turned off) . The graphics are all very good with the exception of a few jaggies on the character 
 models.
  
  Ambient music plays a huge role in Mirror's Edge and works very well. As you're running, the music 
 will be quietly on all of the time, sometimes changing to louder more dramatic music during battle 
 scenes. The sound effects for the guns and soldier speech is good and you can hear Faith panting 
 and grunting if she has been running for a long time or hits a hard landing. All of the voice acting 
 is also extremely well-done as well. Overall the sound in the game is fantastic.
  
  One of the biggest gripes one could have about the game is that it is a little bit on the short 
 side. There are only nine chapters in the game that take anywhere from 25 minutes to an hour to 
 finish. Sometimes it can take longer than that if you get stuck which will probably happen a few 
 times which can get very frustrating. There is also a time trial and speed run mode where you can 
 get ghost data from the best in the world and learn the best routes to get you through the level 
 the fastest. 
  
  Overall, Mirror's Edge is a huge risk that pays off for Electronic Arts and DICE. EA has said that 
 this is the first game of a trilogy so there will definitely be time to iron out the few problems 
 this game has. There are without question many good games coming out the last few months of 2008 
 and this is one of them. This is worth the money. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: syendell
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 22, 2008 1:52 pm PT
Review:  I was very excited when I played the demo for this game. The easy to learn controls let you move 
 around a large environment in ways no other game has allowed before. After playing the final version 
 of the game, I found the demo misleading. The demo made it seem like you could blow through enemies 
 and the run at top speed on the rooftops. There is plenty of trial and error in this game (dieing) 
 that can make it frustrating at times. Don't expect the gunplay and combat to be perfect as that 
 are not and can be just as frustrating as the puzzle portions of the game.
  
  That being said, I think it is worth a play through as Mirror's Edge provides a unique twist on 
 platform gaming. I found myself enjoying some of the puzzles after I had made my way though them. 
 I also enjoyed the the rooftop graphics, the colors really allowed things to pop. The story was 
 brief but interesting and I liked the music that played though the game.
  
  I haven't spent too much time using the time trial or speed run "online" features, and I don't 
 expect them to add too much to the game other than to see the unique routes others used to navigate 
 the environment.
  
  All in all, not all I had hoped for from this game, but I think it is worth a play though. I hope 
 EA can make some minor tweaks to the sequels when they are released (I'm pretty sure this game 
 is part of a trilogy) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: I-am-the-Panda
Rating: 6.5
Date: Nov 22, 2008 11:07 am PT
Review:  Mirror's edge is set in this really clean, idyllic, utopia type city. A lot of things are clean 
 white and is filled with skyscrapers. You play as Faith, a runner who carries sensitive information 
 around. However, you're sister Kate has been set up for a mayoral candidate's death, and you have 
 to try and free her. The story is pretty engaging and cutscenes are done nicely in this comic-anime 
 style.
  
  The first thing you'll notice when you first play the game is it's impressive graphics. Everything 
 looks great and polished. What really stands out is the colour scheme. The majority of the environment 
 is a polished white, which is handy with your runner vision. Runner vision makes things like ramps, 
 pipes, poles, doors etc. that will get you from A-B stand out in a bright red, so it's clear where 
 you need to go next. However, when you get into these red & orange buildings later on in the game, 
 you'll find things hard to spot, thus making the game harder.
  
  The game is basically built around getting from A-B via jumping, running, swinging, etc. The best 
 parts of the game are when it gives you a stretch to run about really fast, giving you huge jumps 
 over buildings and slick wall-runs to complete. However, these are few and far between. Surprisingly, 
 a vast amount of the game is indoors. Although this gives you a break from the usual skyscraper 
 humping, it hands you acrobatic puzzles rather than a straight A-B stretch.
  
  And that where the game fails in my view. It feels that challenging you to figure out how to get 
 from A-B using wall-runs, swinging from poles and wall jumps would be better than giving you lengths 
 of running ground. A lot of times, these are subjected to trial and error. One slip up and you're 
 back to the checkpoint. It relies heavily on timing and sometimes runner vision makes things harder 
 than easier. Sometimes you'll have huge amounts of speed and momentum and you'll be cut off with 
 a sort of puzzle, which is a real buzz-kill. 
  
  However, there are some great set piece cinematic moments, like jumping from train to train whilst 
 avoiding signs, then jumping off and narrowly avoiding an incoming train or one where you're sliding 
 down the side of a building whilst being shot at from a chopper, then make this huge leap onto 
 a building. However, this is also subjected to trial and error, and whether or not you can figure 
 out where to go in time. At the end of the game, you feel more relived than satisfied with yourself.
 
  
  Combat is basically a mix of martial arts and gunplay. You can kick, punch and drop-kick you're 
 enemies, as well as disarming them. When you do get a gun, it really slows you down and most of 
 the time you can't jump with one. there's a standard selection of sniper rifle's, assault rifles, 
 shotguns, sub machine guns and pistols. faith can't carry ammo on her, so you have to ditch a gun 
 once the magazine is spent.
  
  The online consists of speed runs, which takes levels and challenges you to beat them in a certain 
 time or time trial, where you're gives stretches to run around and get a certain star rating in. 
 You can follow player's ghosts to a quick victory, or just challenge yourself. This is a good addition, 
 but one downside is that it makes you realise you can beat the story mode in less than say, 3 hours.
 
  
  To add, I found there too be little load times, and the installation takes less than 5 minutes. 
 There's an autosave feature, so you're never left hanging.
  
  Overall, it's a fairly solid game, the idea of running around buildings in the first person is 
 pretty neat, and if they make it more speed orientated, then the game is bound to be a success. 
 I would say rent it, it's not worth full; retail price, and is fairly short at the end of the day. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Shrankenhiemer
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 22, 2008 5:49 am PT
Review:  Now more than ever, video games are trying to break out of their regular rut of genres. This game 
 succeded.
  
  I've never had the want to run as much as I have in this game. The sprinting is spicy, the puzzles 
 are tricky but rewarding, and the dialouge is better than in most games. I guess you could really 
 say that the best part is no doubt pulling off some of the craziest moves I've ever seen in a video 
 game.
  
  Pointing out the bad things makes me look like a sore thumb, but it would seem correct to do so. 
 During the end of the game, I felt it lost a bit of it's speed (no pun intended) . Some action and 
 whatnot got a bit clunky at times and the plot thinned out. Disarming is extremely hard, almost 
 seeming dang impossible. So when you get the chance, just beat the enemies across the room.
  
  I got this game for 18 dollars. I would pay another 60 if I had to. I eagerly await a sequel. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: virtua_dave
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 22, 2008 5:02 am PT
Review:  Mirror's Edge succeeds with its soaring acrobatics, challenging indoor platforming, and tense combat. 
 Once you get the hang of how the game plays and take a few speed runs through the stages, you'll 
 be flying across buildings and leaping from ledge to ledge. The trial and error game-play only 
 really makes you look around for better routes, and frequent checkpoints allow you to continue 
 on your way without lengthy retries. When indoors, looking around to find pathways to the bottom 
 or top challenge you to observe your surroundings. To help you get around, some objects have a 
 red outline. The red outlines help out in tense situations and larger areas, and I like that they 
 were not overused. Since the main character, Faith, is vulnerable, combat requires a few strategies 
 such as hiding behind walls, jump-kicking foes, and disarming them when they are stunned. It provides 
 a thrilling challenge. Although Mirror's Edge is short, this exciting first-person plat-former 
 deserves a play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Axcalay
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 20, 2008 6:35 am PT
Review:  My first impressions about this game were... WOW. It really is a great looking game and runs smoothly 
 but the overall look and level design can get rather repetitious. Character modelling is OK, but 
 perhaps the facial expresions lack a little emotion. Gameplaywise, it is really fun and gets your 
 adrenalin going whilst everything is flowing smoothly but on the first play of the game, you are 
 going to be stunted at every new corner you turn, which is infuriating as you keep dying over and 
 over when you get a bit lost and you have to keep doing the same bit again and again. It doesn't 
 feel broken, just very exigent. The combat side could have been a little bit more polished before 
 release, as you can get backed into a corner quite quickly and after a few hits, your dead, as 
 those punches, flying kicks and weapon disarments don't quite work as planned. You could argue 
 that this only adds to the realism, and although this may be so, it stops it from immersing you 
 completely into the game. The games' soundrack has been well worked and at some moments really 
 adds to the rushy feeling that the game has to offer+the voice acting is up to scratch.
  The chapters are divided by video cutscenes that have been done using cel-shading. Personally I 
 like it opposed to just doing the cutscenes using the graphics engine like most of the developers 
 do, but others may feel it gives the story a cartoony, infantile estetic. The multiplayer aspect 
 seems a bit empty and neglected as all you can do is race against other players ghosts and try 
 to beat their run times. The devs could have done so much with this games multiplayer but they 
 haven't... yet. Supposedly the PS3 version will have future exclusive downloadable content, so we 
 shall have to see if they are going to surprise all the multiplayer players, and give us those 
 online rooftop battles that this game is screaming out for. Until then, I give this game a 9/10 
 for graphics, a 9/10 for soundtrack, 10/10 for style and innovation, a 7.5 for playability, a 6/10 
 for duration (where sadly most games are failing in my opinion) and a 5/10 for it's current multiplayer. 
 VERDICT: The first steps towards a great series? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Anastassios
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 19, 2008 4:22 am PT
Review:  Innovation doesn't necessarily mean profit. On the other hand if it wasn't for games like that 
 we would still play clones of pac-man. 
  
  Mirror's Edge looks good and sounds really good. There is some sort of plot but even if there wasn't 
 it wouldn't make much difference. It merely connects the levels together. What makes Mirror's Edge 
 a great game is an excellent Idea that is very nicely implemented. 
  
  Assassin's Creed used the same element when the hero was being chased from rooftop to rooftop, 
 which was nice in that game, but it was not what that game was about. Mirror's Edge takes the same 
 element and changes the perspective to first person. And there is the magic! The game becomes immersive. 
 
  Faith, the main protagonist, is constantly being chased and is your role to guide her through the 
 levels at top speed. There are a series of tricks that can be used help you get from point a to 
 point b. There is an art to it a precise timing is needed to avoid falling to your death. But that's 
 a good thing and it is what makes the game challenging and interesting. You always want to come 
 back for more and make it perfect. 
  
  There are usually a few policemen in every level that will shoot you on sight. You can either avoid 
 them or take them on. Fighting is always risky business which adds to the game's realism.
  
  Realism is another element that makes this game feel fresh. In a setting of an Urban Metropolis 
 which feels like a large prison, where running becomes a sort freedom in itself. Every bullet can 
 be deadly, every enemy can become a fatal threat, Run! 
  
  The only criticism that can be pointed is that the Menus and Intro screen feel a bit simple and 
 there is not a lot there to be offered. A few more extra features would be nice. An option to see 
 yourself in replay in 3rd person perspective would add very much to this game.
  
  One can only hope that this example will be followed. And based on this other games will come to 
 add to this experience and a new genre will evolve. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rei16js
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 17, 2008 7:25 pm PT
Review:  There is good and bad in this game. I'll start with the bad. I found it very frustrating that I 
 would die and go back to the check point over and over in certain areas because of the lack of 
 guidance. Yes, there is the "runner vision" but that doesn't help until you're almost on top of 
 the clue. I found that I would get stuck on the puzzles indoors and the trial and error drove me 
 nuts! If you like repeating a section 5 or more times, then this is the game for you! Also, I found 
 the combat to be clumsy and typically ineffective when you're getting shot at by multiple enemies. 
 You don't last long enough to get out of the area. I guess what I'm getting at is that the bad 
 guys are way tougher than you are and you can't always just run away. 
  
  Now the good. The levels look amazing! I enjoyed the colors and layout of the city. The cut scenes 
 are brief enough to lay out the story and not inhibit game play. The controls are for the most 
 part intuitive and easy to learn. I think being able to see some of the more spectacular moves 
 played back in 3rd person would have added to a lot to this game.
  
  To summarize, I was expecting an open world where missions could be carried out taking multiple 
 paths based on the marketing, but instead it was completely structured and frustrating due to the 
 trial and error. With each section I finished I didn't feel a sense of accomplishment, but gratitude 
 that I wouldn't have to play that section again. I don't feel that EA really delivered their best 
 effort. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Uesugi-dono
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 16, 2008 11:20 pm PT
Review:  First let me say I normally agree with Gamespot reviews overall, but a 7 for Mirror's Edge tells 
 me that either A) Our reviewer doesn't have a whole lot of patience B) He was particularly bad 
 at this game OR C) Maybe it's cool to rip on amazing stuff. Hey, you decide, but for me I'm a little 
 disappointed.
  
  OK. I hate FPS. I really do. However I've been closely watching Mirror's Edge since I caught the 
 first trailer on PSN. Something seemed different, and boy is it ever. The sense of speed is unparalleled. 
 Do you hear? No racing game has ever come close to the exiliration of a good run in this game. 
 No flight simulator or Ace Combat can give you exactly what THIS game gives you. 
  
  Our reviewer complained about frustrating failures and repetitive restarts. Does it happen? Yea, 
 sure, but unlike nearly every game I've ever played the checkpoints almost seem intuitive. So far 
 I've never had to run more than about 10 seconds to get back to where I was. Literally, 10 seconds 
 or less. Most of the times I happen to fall pretty much AT the checkpoint. It's almost creepy how 
 they do that.
  
  He nailed it on music/sound/voice effects. The sound effects really do add to the experience and 
 amp up the speed. The wind alone can make you feel as if you're flying.
  
  Our reviewer lambasted the gunplay. Fair assessment I suppose, with a caveat... Mirror's Edge eschews 
 gunplay. That's not what it's about. In every preview this was stressed. You want gunplay? Gears 
 of War came out at the same time. The whole game puts you under pressure to MOVE. Not shoot. Run. 
 You're a runner, not a shooter.
  
  I'd give this game a perfect mark but for one thing: no 3rd person replay. I wanted that so bad. 
 Apparently so did the reviewer since he made mention of not being able to see Faith's cool moves. 
 It would make GREAT DLC. Just a replay mode with different camera angles available after your level 
 run. Think about it, DICE. Please.
  
  Gameplay: 10
  Music: 10
  Voice/Sound: 10
  Replay: 10
  Controls: 10 (Sixaxis)
  Lack of 3rd person camera in replay: -.5 to total
  
 
  Overall: 9.5
  
  If you're on the fence but interested, then get out there and buy this. Now. This game has put 
 Parkour on the map. If I, an avowed FPS hater, can be so in love with this game then you know you 
 can't trust a 7 overall score. This game kicks ass, just ask the Gamespot reviewer... it kicked 
 his. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PrimeLazarus
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 16, 2008 7:07 am PT
Review:  Mirror's Edge is a game that can be viewed as a combination of elements. On one hand, it innovates 
 the first-person genre by incorporating what is usually third-person action-adventure mechanics, 
 and on the other, it shows off a stylishly stark art direction that can only be described as unique.
 
  
  The game places you in the shoes of Faith, a 'runner' in a futuristic totalitarian regime. Runners 
 are responsible for passing messages between two parties that would prefer to avoid any government 
 entanglements. They use the rooftops to their advantage; hopping from spot to spot. Vaulting over 
 fences, sliding under pipes; running relentlessly. All without trying to break stride. It sounds 
 like leisure for the runners, but it usually isn't that simple.
  
  Once you start the game, you are immediately aware that this is an altogether different sort of 
 first person shooter. Faith runs with a certain realistic weight to her, a sense of momentum as 
 you turn corners and hop over fences and dash up walls. Combined with the excellent color elements 
 and just the overall feel of the graphics, the game is highly immersive. Faith feels like she is 
 very much in the world, and you the player see right through her eyes. Even details such as when 
 you run up to a wall or any other flat surface she can't run though or over, she puts her hands 
 up to it. That's a small detail, but it's absolutely important in the level of immersion. It really 
 makes you feel like you are in this world and taking part. The game isn't always an absolute sprint 
 from point to point however. Sometimes you're gleeful sense of speed will be broken by a wrong 
 turn or a dead end. Or by one to however many cops. Sometimes all these things are happening at 
 once. While it can be difficult, I think that this makes the game even more compelling. Turning 
 a corner to see four cops and looking for an out and running to it with determined fury is executed 
 in brilliance. For those that would really prefer to fight; Faith is equipped with a jump-kick, 
 a sliding kick, high and low punches, a one-shot slo-mo that recharges after a while and the ability 
 to disarm armed opponents and put their gun to use for a bit before running out of ammo or discarding 
 it altogether. Be careful though, guns are as unforgiving as they should be and when there are 
 four of them pointed at you, it's going to take some skill and some thinking to put the cards in 
 your favor. You must rely on Faith's ability to move. She's got plenty of weapons at her disposal, 
 but the world she is in follows the real-world a little more closely than most shooters. I found 
 it more entertaining to run except when it seemed absolutely necessary (or at least in my best 
 interests) to fight. If you are going to fight, try to divide and conquer. However you want to 
 go about the game, you've got to leave your ideas at the door about how most shooters operate. 
 The cops aren't waiting to be mowed down like Nazis in Call of Duty, they are usually waiting to 
 mow you down.
  
  The music and sound are remarkably atmospheric, from the hauntingly mellow main theme to the furious 
 electronic tracks. The game really sells it's mood with sound. If you are close enough to the ground, 
 you can hear the bussle of the city. Faith's weightiness is aided by the footsteps and loud clops 
 from jumping and landing, and the brushing sounds of falling from a high distance and executing 
 a roll when you hit the ground. It's an almost mesmerizing combination of sounds that fill this 
 world with life.
  
  The story is secondary to the overall mood and gameplay in this game it seems. From the onset, 
 the bigger part of the theme at hand is known. The story is interesting in that it is far from 
 Faith just working her day-job as a runner. The game strikes a postive chord with me on it's story 
 because it doesn't try to do too much, but it does open your eyes to the fact that even if you 
 are on the fringes of society sticking it to the man -- that doesn't mean you don't have other vulnerabilities 
 in terms of family members who may be too close to the enemy and through unfortunate events brings 
 you even closer to the enemy as well.
  
  In summary, the game is quality and innovative. It's art, and it's interactive. It's immersive 
 and enduring. It just bleeds style and originality. Above all, it's fun. The game presents quite 
 a challenge due to it's gameplay design and mechanics. Some will find themselves as fish out of 
 water but compelled, others will find themselves frustrated and annoyed. Others still might feel 
 right at home from the get-go. Jumping to and fro while running furiously through areas people 
 weren't intended to run through isn't meant to be easy, and the paths aren't set out so everyone 
 can just breeze through the game. Hopefully most will applaud the challenge and recognize this 
 as a true masterpiece from DICE. If nothing else rent it, but if you find yourself enchanted and 
 enthralled -- this game is worth every penny. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Readd1
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 16, 2008 3:04 am PT
Review:  Since viewing the very first trailer for Mirror's Edge, I realised that this game was going to 
 be something special. Upon receiving the game a few days ago and playing it to completion, I now 
 know I was not wrong.
  When the game first begins, a 2D animation cutscene ensues explaining the background to the city 
 and why Faith (the main character) has become a Runner (an illegal rooftop courier) . The idea to 
 use animation for a cutscene really works for this game as it goes well with the stylised look 
 of the city, which I thought was amazing. The skyline is very bright, with skyscrapers made mainly 
 of glass and white buildings covered in bright orange, blue and red patches. The modern use of 
 colour really makes the game feel contempory. 
  The story is not very long (roughly 6/7 hours depending on your ability) but is is very believable 
 and draws the player in. Each level is also well planned and gives a new experience every time 
 with new buildings to scale using a variety of Faith's free-running moves. My favourite was a subway 
 level which sees faith leaping from train to train. The ability to select chapters and even specific 
 checkpoints in that chapter once the game has been completed is also very useful.
  There is online play in the form of Time Trials where you run through certain sections of the map 
 and try and beat the set time. These are fun, but can be frustrating as the times required to qualify 
 are very low and hard to beat. This is the same with the offline Speed Run mode which is the same 
 as Time Trial just not online (and much harder) . 
  Overall, DICE and EA have certainly brought something new to the table with Mirror's Edge which 
 is extremely immersive and fun to play (occasionally you can feel yourself moving with Faith to 
 try and get her to grab ledges etc.) and with rumours of a sequel - I cannot wait for the next 
 one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Taoninja
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 1, 2008 1:24 pm PT
Review:  The last two years have been huge for the First Person Shooter genre. So many big titles have come 
 forth to try and "wow" us; accordingly, many have. With Mirror's Edge a certain sense amazing grace 
 is ever present and delivers that "wow" in so many ways. However, with some of the buzz currently 
 going on around about this game I fear that it will be under appreciated. While Mirror's Edge may 
 have some issues during its game play, what it is trying to deliver is something groundbreaking 
 in the video game world: this is the first time we get to see something like freerunning (Parkour) 
 become the focus of something like a First Person Shooter.
  
  What really caught my attention with this game was the physics during your characters' movement. 
 It is realistic in every way possible and will suck you into whatever scenario you may find yourself 
 in during Mirror's Edge. The controls are very smooth and for the most part easy to get down and 
 adjust yourself to. What may be difficult for you are the jump sequences that are littered all 
 over Mirror's Edge. Many of them can be a bit challenging the first few times around. This is due 
 to the fact that you must learn the physics and timing associated with the sequence of jumps in 
 a particular scenario and throughout the game in general: Mirror's Edge is all about FLOW. It can 
 be a bit discouraging for certain gamers; at any rate, it is supposed to be a challenge, not a 
 walk in the park. 
  
  The graphical detail is amazing all throughout Mirror's Edge. The lighting was done very well: 
 this brought many parts of the environment to life in perfect harmony. To go along with some beautiful 
 detail is the sound. These elements together really suck you into your characters role. DICE and 
 EA definitely came through on the clutch and were able to hammer the nail on the head with these 
 key aspects. What could have been touched up a bit more was the combat portion of Mirror's Edge.
 
  
  Combat is an important element to any FPS. With Mirror's Edge this can be frustrating at times; 
 on the contrary, that FLOW comes into play here as well. But even as you start to get the flow 
 down there are still many clumpy sequences you will come across. It will take some time to find 
 the best routes for taking out enemies. 
  
  Mirror's Edge is a great game for someone looking for something new with a touch of the old school. 
 The Trophies are a lot of fun to unlock and will add some additional game time to your experience; 
 moreover, they will touch up your skills as you try to unlock them. I enjoyed Mirror's Edge for 
 what it is bringing to the table: the future of gaming will forever change with the influence of 
 Mirror's Edge. Can't wait to see what they come up with next. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: sexymdlman
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 14, 2008 8:15 pm PT
Review:  After pre-ordering for my bag, I kept an eye on reviews that came out early. Boy does gamespot 
 never fail to mislead.
  
  Ok, those reading this, please NEVER listen to GS reviews.
  Think for yourself.
  
  Now, I will keep this review short.
  
  I really hate First person 
 shooters. Not my kinda game. But mirror's edge... AWESOME!
  
  I am rarely able to be immersed, but this game definitely accomplished that. I used to be in gymnastics, 
 and I can tell you, this game is accurate from Faith's perspective.
  
  Although the art style is really cool, the cutscenes remind me of E-surance commercials. 
  
 
  
  Gameplay is really solid. GS complained that there was too much trial and error. No offense but 
 DUH! That's what a game is! I had very few problems with this game. Even though I died a ton of 
 times towards the end, I never felt the need to strangle my nearest roommate.
  
  THIS GAME IS NOT SHORT! yeah it's a bit shorter than many games, but it is a solid chunk of game. 
 You will not be able to finish this game in one sitting, therefor, it's not short.
  
  Anyone who is wondering whether they should get this game, I say go for it.
  
  Not the best 
 review, but it's a great game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chaosisover
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 20, 2009 8:24 am PT
Review:  Before I begin, I must say, Mirror's Edge and Dead Space have without a doubt redeemed EA from 
 sucking lately and I was simply amazed by this masterpiece! Mirror's Edge is a nice change form 
 your awesome generic shooters *cough*Call of Duty and Resistance*cough* by bringing the Action/Adventure 
 genre to a whole new level. 
  
  The core game play of Mirror's Edge is phenomenal! Running around from rooftop to rooftop, in subways, 
 or somewhere else, this game shows that you don't have to constantly beat/shoot the crap out of 
 someone to enjoy a game. The graphics are beautiful, and the controls are also amazing. 
  
  Mirror's Edge was almost perfect. The cut scenes look like E-Surence commercials and the story 
 wasn't to good. Also the combat system is disgustingly annoying. If there were no guns though, 
 the combat system would have been better, and less annoying. The game's story mode is also only 
 6 hours long. 
  Although that might seem like a lot, the story isn't a big deal, the combat will hopefully be fixed 
 in the sequel, and though it may be short, the game has plenty of re-play value, along with Time 
 Trial mode to keep you playing for hours and hours.
  
  Mirror's Edge is a must buy for anyone who has a 360 or a PS3 this year, and I'm already awaiting 
 Mirror's Edge 2! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DominicanAG
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 14, 2008 2:45 pm PT
Review:  Ever since I saw the trailer for Mirror's Edge I've been interested to see how you would play this 
 game. All I can tell you is that this is something totally different from all the other first person 
 games out there that are usually shooters. Yeah there are guns in this game but if it were up to 
 you; you don't even have to use a gun all the way through the game. There's a lot of plat forming 
 involved. The game that comes to mind that I can compare it too as far as the looks is Portal. 
 There's a lot of trial and error in this game so prepare to fall to your death. 
  
  The game starts you off by showing you how to pull off moves; it shows you how to pull of acrobatic 
 jumps, slides, melees, and how to disarm your enemies. Once you're done with your tutorial you'll 
 jump right into the action. You've figured out that your sister has been framed for murder and 
 Faith your character wants to clear her name. The game is about 8 chapters long and it'll probably 
 take you about 8 to 10 hours depending how good are you on figuring out the puzzle elements of 
 the game and figuring out which way you have to go. You'll also have objects that are highlight 
 for you in red that will give you a hint which direction you have to go next. Sometimes it's not 
 as easy as you have to look around to figure out how to get from point A to point B. 
  
  One of the things that I love about this game is the free running. You'll be doing this a lot in 
 each chapter, but there will be times that you'll be swarmed by enemies so you have to decide if 
 you want to get rid of them or run away from them. Sometimes you'll have to just run away from 
 them in order for you to progress. It's up to you if you want to do that. The graphics in the game 
 are gorgeous. So simple and clean there just times I just want to look around the sky scrapers 
 in the city. The controllers will take a little to get use to but once you settle in you'll be 
 pulling off moves and attacks on your enemies effortlessly. 
  
  The game doesn't have online multiplayer but it does offer online leaderboard for time trials. 
 As you and other players try to beat the best time online. The game is not long but it is something 
 new innovative and it will immerse you in the world. I've had a lot of fun enjoying this game. 
 I see myself playing this one multiple times once I've done with it. I would recommend this game 
 to anybody that into first person shooters and platforming games. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Alvirage
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 14, 2008 7:01 am PT
Review:  Let's start with this.
  
  One thing is for sure... Mirror's Edge it's an original game that have never seen before. In it's 
 8-10 hours, you will feel all kind of sensations. In special one, freedom. With many paths to end 
 every episode of this game, the velocity, the easy controls... will make you feel like a little 
 bird flying across all the roofs.
  
  The graphics are great. With many bloom effects, the best thing of it is the colour code for every 
 area. The prominent white is sometimes mixed with red, yellow, green, blue or other colors. The 
 animations are perfect for every character.
  
  And the sound... that magnificient soundtrack of the game will acompany us through all Faith's 
 adventure, and specially the ending theme, Still Alive, it's simply great with the amazing voice 
 of Lisa Miskovsky.
  
  Mirror's Edge is a great game, not perfect, but at least, it's a game you've never seen before. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zxssded
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 14, 2008 3:04 am PT
Review:  Mirrors edge bring an interesting look at parkour. no it is not free running, free running is parkour 
 + flips. parkour is getting from A to B in teh quickest way. flips are exacly efficent at getting 
 over stuff. free running is getting from A to B in a fluid way. 
  
  Good: Its parkour. enough said. Puzzles arent great but arent crap as well. The graphics surprisingly 
 look really good. jumping around feels very easy and fluid. moves are easy to do, almost too easy 
 sometimes, yet sometimes not. runner vision points you in teh right drirection. animation of faith 
 is great.
  
  Bad: Gunplay is not great. but its a parkour game. story line isnt very good. quiet bland. Puzzles 
 arent great but not crap. the 2D animations are interesting but not bery good for me. still some 
 bugs in the game. got stuck int eh ground once and fell for no reason sometimes. the runner vision 
 is basically like the assassins creed eagle vision. runner vision supossed to show an object or 
 door in red, but sometimes it dosent show until you get at least in view of the object/door.
  
  Mirrors edge is a deffinet must play, but not a must buy. does interesting things with parkour, 
 but it still feels like it isnt parkour, it makes parkour feel very setrotipical, like the ones 
 seen on youtube, not parkour generations, but the homemade ones. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Takeshi1689
Rating: 6
Date: Nov 13, 2008 11:14 pm PT
Review:  I feel the need to start with this. A piece of dialogue in the game that made me wonder... is this 
 DICE's fault or EA?
  Jacknife: You need to be careful who you hang around with.
  Faith: I learnt that a long time ago.
  Yeah those twelve years of English really paid off right 
 there... Seriously..."learnt" isn't a word, right? Or did I miss that memo?
  On to the serious review: I tried not to spoil anything in this review. I am very sarcastic and 
 rant quite a bit during this, but all my arguments are sound.
  
  Game-play
  The game's strong points are also its flaws. You die quickly and repeatedly in combat and from 
 falls ---i. e. realistic. I respect that, yet the game is unforgiving. YOU DIE ALL THE TIME. You 
 jump; you die. You move; you die. You fight; you die. You die, you die, YOU DIE. Throughout it 
 all I must have died 200 or more times ---no joke. A better name for this game would have been "YOU 
 DIE" or at least "A Leap of Faith". That would be a better and more fitting title than "Mirror's 
 Edge". At least you restart from a checkpoint and not the chapter's beginning. Though... that can 
 be worse. In certain spots, I would die, get a little further and almost make it to a ledge... and 
 die only to get put back before the part that gave me the most trouble. 
  
  The game has horrible pacing. Going from fast running sequences and park-our (obviously the most 
 fun in the game) to one-sided gun fights that require you to either kill yourself dashing through 
 or fight and finally ending the sequence with very slow and tedious platforming puzzles. Well... actually 
 it doesn't end there, it repeats that pattern ---multiple times in each chapter. The action speeds 
 up and grinds to a halt. On a semi-related note, the gun fight is ridiculous. Gun have infinite 
 ammo for baddies, but maybe a clip of 5-10 shots if you pick it up. I understand why... but seriously... what 
 the heck?
  
  There were certain spots in the game in which I was at a complete loss. I died dozens of times 
 in certain places only to find that there was a much easier way of getting to my destination than 
 the way I was trying. I've come to two conclusions on these annoyances: 1) The game awakens the 
 player's suicidal tendencies and/or 2) The creators wanted the player to be suicidal through the 
 actions of Faith or their own actions.
  
  Visuals
  Overall, the game doesn't look awful. It doesn't look as great as it could for a next-gen game. 
 Textures are almost non-existent. The character models and clothing are the best looking aspects. 
 I'm mixed about the bland coloring. The white is blinding. The style and use of colors and the 
 lack thereof is a great depiction of the city's lifelessness. I do respect the artistic side of 
 it.
  
  Sound
  Probably the best part of the game: the music. The theme of the game is amazing. The levels have 
 certain themes as well. With combat, chase, puzzle, and ambient pieces all exclusive to each chapter.
 
  
  Story
  The story captivated me. I wanted to suffer through my constant suicides to see the ending. The 
 pacing was a tad too quick with the story, though it did match the feel of quickness and struggle 
 to try to stay alive. The ending also left the possibility of more games.
  
  Overall
  I have to admit, the game was fun despite all the struggles and massive suicides. Not worthy of 
 a 10 and nowhere near worth $60. I'd recommend people to rent it and beat the game at least once. 
 The two greatest parts of the game were the chase on top of the boat and the sniper part during 
 the final chapter. 
  I'd like to give the game a higher score... but I'm mixed up here. For as much fun as the game was; 
 it was equally as frustrating. Maybe it would have been better off as a movie and not a video game... Find 
 out for yourselves.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: zolo913
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 13, 2008 6:38 pm PT
Review:  Mirror's Edge is a fresh twist in the world of shooters. In the game, you play as Faith, a runner 
 that's trying to save her sister while running away from oppressive government officials. This 
 game has a nice sleek visual design and interesting plot. Although, this doesn't really save this 
 game from some really noticeable flaws. To begin with, the fighting mechanics have issues. The 
 combat system has some glitches and it's very weak. I know that this isn't necessarily a fighting 
 game, but it would be nice to have decent fighting mechanics in a game that's hyped up so much. 
 There are also quite a few running puzzles that trip up the game play and make the game move slower. 
 What makes it move even slower is the trial and error mechanics that can get very annoying and 
 repetitive through out Mirror's Edge. The dialogue is kind of cheesy and could use some improvement. 
 On the bright-side, the running mechanics are virtually flawless. The running is very fast paced, 
 making this so much fun and enjoyable. It's nice that you can move around so much in the game and 
 not have to vomit afterwards. The music and sound effects suit this game to a tee. They add so 
 much suspense and liveliness to the game that it's almost like you're in the world itself. Mirror's 
 Edge may not have leaved up to all the hype and excitement that was surrounding it, but it's still 
 a pretty decent game. I recommend renting it first and then buying it, if you like it. That way 
 you can still try it without spending 50 to 60 dollars on a game that you may or may not like. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RIDDICK_2005
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 13, 2008 6:18 pm PT
Review:  I dont know why Gamespot didnt like this game i couldnt put it down. the graphics were awsome, 
 like when u looking at a ll of anything of the envirnment it looks almost real. then when ur out 
 on the rooftops the city looks like the story tells. the gameplay..... this it whay gamespot didnt 
 like it it was new gameplay all you do is run and take out guys with a one to punch lol. the combat 
 is kindda repetative but you get over that... because it moves so fast. guys i found it fun so dont 
 just think on it guy you gotta play this, its fast, its chalenging, and its new. not to mention 
 the tophies are easy and fun to get. my first run through i got bout 26% of them i think.
  
  But ya anyways if ur looking for a great game that fun, fast, and has a bit of thinking to it 
 then this is it. Hey EA is finally making worthy games lol. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fmobliv06
Rating: 6.5
Date: Nov 13, 2008 1:55 pm PT
Review:  I was really pulling for Mirror's Edge to be one of the best games of the year. I mean, with a 
 concept this unique, the development expertise of DICE, and EA's deep pockets, ME should have been 
 superb. The harsh reality is that all the hype has built up to a game that is broken in more ways 
 than one, and more frustrating than entertaining.
  
  It really took a while for the full extent of this game's lack of polish to sink in. From the moment 
 I put my hands on the controller, ME just gelled with me. The controls felt great and very intuitive, 
 and i thought that the introductory level was pretty much amazing. The concept of a first person 
 free running game is borderline orgasmic in my eyes, and in the beginning it really seemed as if 
 ME would deliver.
  
  However, very soon after starting the game, little issues started to poke their heads up at every 
 turn. First was the graphics; ME has the worst aliasing and screen tearing problems I've ever seen 
 in a video game by far. Every movement reduces straight lines into wobbly, pixelated snakes. Sometimes 
 it's not much of an issue, and sometimes it looks downright horrid. This really isn't a huge problem 
 to me, as I am far from a graphics snob, but one would think an issues like that might get ironed 
 out before being published by a massive company like EA, or at least that there would be a patch 
 available for download to fix the problem. 
  
  Moslty unfazed by the graphical issues, I plowed my way through the rest of the campaign. By the 
 end of the second "proper" level (not counting the tutorial/prolouge level) I found myself cursing 
 the horrid combat. In the training exercise it was easy, but training is always simple. In the 
 field, there are always multiple enemies with guns shooting at you. On average, I've found that 
 it takes around two bullets to put Faith down, give or take a shot depending on the AI's accuracy. 
 In other words, they can put you down alarmingly fast when they travel in groups. This wouldn't 
 be much of a problem if the melee combat actually worked, but unfortunately it does not. Punching 
 anyone other than a normal cop actually hurts you more than it helps (it barely does anything, 
 and the officer will just smack you in the face with his gun afterwards.) The disarms range from 
 easy to impossible to pull off, which is where the prerequisite slow motion feature comes in. When 
 activated, this allows for easier disarms. Of course, there are problems with this feature as well. 
 Once activated, slow motion cannot be deactivated until it runs out, so if you mistime it you're 
 stuck looking at a cop lowering a gun to your face and firing, followed by Faith splaying out on 
 the floor dead, all in super slow motion. Also, this feature is basically pointless outside of 
 combat. When combat actually does work, it looks fluid and cool, but it only works about 1/5 of 
 the time.
  
  It also became apparent that it is easy to lose your sense of direction in the world of ME. This 
 seems almost impossible since the worlds are actually pretty linear, but the so-called Runner Vision 
 (a feature that highlights the correct path in red) never quite strikes a balance between being 
 too helpful and not helpful enough. When you need it, it's rarely there, but when you could easily 
 figure it out on your own, it's all in your face pointing you in the obvious direction. Of course 
 there are exceptions when it workes perfectly, such as highlighting a vent in red, but there were 
 many cases in which I did not know where I was supposed to go. Pressing the O button will point 
 Faith's head in the right direction, which is often more helpful. Still, in a game all about momentum, 
 losing your sense of direction for a second can kill the buzz.
  
  As I played ME, I found that the storyline gets increasingly rediculous and irrelevant as the game 
 goes on before crashing to a halt around six hours in. And that's it. The end. I never really expected 
 ME to be a long game, but six hours of storyline for $60 is a bit steep. Of course there are time 
 trials to beat, which are actually more entertaining than the story itself due to the lessened 
 amounts of combat encountered threin, but they can only last so long before most players get bored 
 of them. 
  
  While much of this review may sound like a rant against ME, there are a few aspects that I really 
 enjoyed that made me wish that I liked the game. The concept of runners delivering messages is 
 perfect for a parkour game, but the stupid story never capitalizes on it. Instead, players are 
 thrust almost instantly into a political conspiracy that doesn't really seem all that connected 
 to gameplay. 
  
  Another thing I enjoy about ME is the art style. Aliasing issues aside, the city is a place of 
 beautiful contrasts. The squeaky clean environments have a great style that really suggests the 
 presence of an oppressive government, and bright colors stand out amongst the mostly white backgrounds. 
 The music is just as impressive as the art style, and its usually relaxing style is often at odds 
 with the frustrating trial and error gameplay. 
  
  While the art style and music are great, the thing that I love most about ME is that it's just 
 unique. This type of game has never been attempted for consoles before, and the sheer novelty of 
 the concept carried ME for an hour or two. The feeling of speed and power delivered after a flawless 
 run are absolutely intoxicating. This is what makes the time trials so much better than the story. 
 
  
  Still, all of the flaws I mentioned before stand. And through all of this, I got the feeling that 
 DICE just didn't quite know what it wanted out of ME, like they didn't know enough about their 
 own game to make it fully entertaining. So often, the perfect run will be interrupted by a rediculous 
 leap requiring more luck than skill, or an army of cops shooting at you, or a rancid jumping puzzle. 
 If DICE had known more about their own game, they would have reduced the number of direct enemy 
 encounters and increased the number of paths that could be taken through an envirnonment, making 
 it more about the running and less about the fluff. ME demands (and is already getting) a sequel, 
 because if DICE had concentrated more on the running, ME could have been a masterpiece. As it is, 
 it's the very definition of a mixed bag.
  
  Graphics: 7.75/10: Great art style marred by the worst aliasing and screen tearing I've ever seen.
 
  Sound: 9.5/10: The music is great, and the little touches such as Faith's heavy breating as she 
 sprints really make the game.
  Gameplay: 7/10: Platforming great, everything else crap.
  Entertainment: 6.5/10: Could have been so much more. The frustrating combat coupled with the bitterness 
 of missed expectations make ME's campaign mode unpleasant. The time trials are fairly entertaining, 
 but overall this package is not even close to worth $60. If you must play ME, rent it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lbooth330
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 13, 2008 8:39 am PT
Review:  mirrors edge is a really great idea. and im surprised that EA could make a great game like this. 
 fast paced action off the wall bouncing (literally) combat is really smooth and for a game that 
 would seem very complex in controls is actually very simple. 1 of the most unique games of the 
 year. dont compare this to portal this is way more than just throwing portals around to solve puzzles. 
 there is many different ways that you can get to your objective its not just a 1 set course you 
 can find short cuts that r critical to completing the game. and ill just say the first time that 
 i kicked a guys shotgun out of his had and shot him and his buddy in the face with it i was in 
 awwww! the graphics in this game will not dissappoint either. it has a very cell shaded look but 
 very detailed at the same time. the colors in it are very well done and the textures look very 
 good. never experienced any lag in the game what so ever or any pop ups. everything is well done 
 and definetly worth a look at. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: convince73
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 13, 2008 3:00 am PT
Review:  when was the last time that you played a game and thought man this is different? when was last 
 time you played a game and thought this is fun and fresh? my first thoughts ran nice pun if you 
 missed it (ran) this way as i started to play this game. Faith rocks and she takes us along for the 
 trip. does tthe game has problems? for so but what game can you think of that dose not have problems. i 
 do like my fps lord knows that i spent enough on them this past year, this is a first person adventure! 
 for ea to bring this game out i think that we need to buy it. reason number 1 if we dont how many 
 new games like this will we see. number 2 at its core this is a really cool game that if you give 
 it a change might make you think how am i'm going to get over there. number 3 dont you need a change 
 of pace game? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Rookie_02
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 13, 2008 1:03 am PT
Review:  Mirrors Edge has a feel of reality in it, which I think it makes the game good. The game has good 
 camera views, not too many in-game movies, and its easy to get a feel of the controls. There are 
 many places where it may be a good chance if you could get screenshots. The story is simple, but 
 good in a theoretical way,
  and the story is sort of like a story of betrayal but a bit twisted.
  The places where you end 
 up, are carefully designed with a sense of stability. Also, there many times where you'll be getting 
 chased by police, or trying to figure out a mysterical puzzle, where it may take a bit of out-of-the-box 
 thinking.
  
  The only bad things I would say about the game is that its a bit too short and should have some 
 more ways in completing the game, like a choice out of two or three decisions which pave the end, and 
 or which may be good or bad. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tito0909
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 12, 2008 5:09 pm PT
Review:  I won't do a big review, all I an say is: ''The perfect match between Prince of Persia and Portal'', 
 2 great games. Controls are hard to learn at the begining but you get used to it pretty fast. The 
 great presents great action, good difficulty, and an addictive gameplay. The only negative point 
 I can find to this game is the absence of a multiplayer gameplay (there are great possibilities 
 for this game in multiplayer, believe me) and the crappy animations that reminds me of a kid's 
 tv show. Seriously, a sequel of this game with a multiplayer background would surely be a potential 
 ''Game of the Year'' 
  
  
  I don't give a f*** about the 800 minimum caracters for the review, i'll just say 10 times that 
 this is a game worth playing...
  
  It's worth playing... 
  It's worth playing...
  It's worth playing...
  It's worth playing...
  It's worth playing...
  It's worth playing...
 
  It's worth playing...
  It's worth playing...
  It's worth playing...
  It's worth playing... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: incredibilistic
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 12, 2008 3:38 pm PT
Review:  Trial and error gameplay. That's the best Gamespot can do? I've been playing games for nearly half 
 my life and don't recall ever running through any level without some sort of trial and error involved. 
 Maybe Sonic let you blast through but that was only the first level. Eventually you die and, like 
 life, learn not to repeat your mistakes if you can.
  
  Mirror's Edge is trial and error at times but when you get it right, in my opinion, you DO feel 
 a sense of accomplishment. 
  
  I love the sensation of running at full speed away from enemy bullets (be it human or from the 
 many helicopters that sprout up) hearing them zip past my ear or watching bullet holes appear just 
 in front of Faith. Nailing a difficult jump or wall-jump is really satisfying.
  
  I could easily see myself playing this game over and over trying to find the best line to run and 
 the fastest way to get from A to B.
  
  One thing Gamespot did get right was the sense of design, which is impeccable. I'm especially in 
 love with the music. If you're fan of ambient or downtempo tracks this'll be right up your alley.
 
  
  Overall, I think Mirror's Edge (I would write ME but it just doesn't look right) is a breath of 
 fresh air but also an homage to the best of platform and FPS games. If nothing else you can at 
 least hone your FPS skills with Mirror's Edge. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fox-orian
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 11, 2008 6:43 pm PT
Review:  Mirror's Edge is a bit of a different game compared to many of this years gritty action titles. 
 It's bound not to be in line with everyone's tastes, especially those who love the near monochromatic 
 grunge of games like Gears of War.
  
  However, it's worth a play-through, even if a rental to just check it out.
  
  Mirror's Edge 
 is one of those games that only seems to come around every once in a while. It's the kind of game 
 that offers a lot from very little and gives you an excellent taste before overstaying its welcome. 
 Some of the most enjoyable games in my memory have been similar to Mirror's Edge. Recently, the 
 best title that pops to mind is Portal. Portal focus on very specific things which they wanted 
 to pull off well. In Portal, they wanted the player to think differently by using two portals to 
 leap between. The player only had the ability to create a blue portal for the first half of the 
 game, then the orange portal with the device upgrade for the later half. It was all that was offered 
 to us, but it worked well. Portal's level design was great in that it was challenging the first 
 play through, if not frustrating at some parts. The game's artistic design never changed so that 
 we would learn-by-doing, so in the later levels we understood what to do to get to the exit without 
 having our hand held through the course. Friends would get motion sick watching you fling yourself 
 with fantastic acrobatics through the air, or falling endlessly through a loop in the floor, all 
 through a permanently first-person perspective. The game was over in practically one sitting. But 
 it was good, even though it seemingly offered so little. Valve made us want to go back to previous 
 levels and replay them as flawlessly as we could, and it felt awesome to actually manage to play 
 through a course without a mistake in record time.
  
  Another game is ICO. Remember ICO? In ICO, he could pretty much only swing a stick to fight. Yet 
 what kept us going through the whole game was the will to see Yorda to safety. In many situations, 
 the enemies weren't worth fighting because if you got Yorda to the exit of the room, she could 
 kill all of the enemies in the room for you. The developers of ICO wanted us to focus more on getting 
 Yorda to safety than beating up all the bad guys. If they had given us more ways to fight, it might 
 have made Ico seem to powerful of a character, and place an imbalanced emphasis on fighting over 
 escaping with Yorda. The challenging [and sometimes frustrating] platforming elements later on 
 in the game drive home the idea that Ico eventually cares more about Yorda's safety than his own 
 health.
  
  Now think about Mirror's Edge.
  We're given the ability to run and jump, and do it well [and intuitively.] We're given level design 
 that holds our hand to start with, showing us what to look for so we can be trained on how to find 
 our own routes in the later levels. Mirror's Edge wants the player to think about the environments 
 that surround them differently, using frankly mundane every-day things that you'd find in any city. 
 [For instance, we learn that an air-duct at body-height is one we should probably slide under. 
 A pipe jutting from a wall is something we can probably climb up. A fence blocking your path is 
 one you should probably vault over. Two boxes or air-conditioning units stacked next to each other 
 are probably something you should spring-board off of.] You play as a character whose primary strength 
 is agility and speed. She can fight, but only as a last resort to something blocking the way. The 
 game offers no crazy-awesome selection of guns or gritty gun battles -- as it's meant to be kept 
 mildly in reality. When your best offense is also your defense, (that is to run, jump, and go places 
 your enemies cant,) what need do you have for weapons? [DICE diminished the gunplay on purpose 
 for this reason. After all, as they also created the Battlefield games, they would've had no problem 
 turning Mirror's Edge into a "shooter."] Putting over emphasis on killing your enemies would have 
 offset the kind of character Faith is. You're not playing someone who's out to kill everyone in 
 her path -- just someone who wants to get her sister back and deal with who was responsible. Just 
 like in Portal, you'll have your fair share of mishaps and accidents on your first play through, 
 but it's all part of the fun if you ask me. Platforming games of the old days were practically 
 reliant on the player building skill to eventually blow through a level without stopping. And it's 
 amazingly gratifying once you become skilled enough to do so. [Remember how you always wanted to 
 flawlessly blow through courses in Sonic without stopping? It's kind of like that.] While the game 
 is finished in two to three sittings, it's my opinion that it tends to make the game stronger. 
 Just like Portal, you get to do a lot with very little, and feel as though you were left with something 
 good before it over stayed its welcome.
  
  [This of course leads to me admitting that unlike Portal, it would have been nice if Mirror's Edge 
 cost just as much.]
  
  Note about the graphics:
  It's about time a game has started to use radiosity light scattering in it's graphics engine. Brighter 
 objects, such as a bright yellow wall, illuminating dimmer objects with reflected light is something 
 that more games need to pick up on -- if only on a textural basis. There's something so awesome 
 about seeing bright colors spill from surface to surface from the games unbelievably realistic 
 sunlight. The next step, hopefully by the next generation, is to have a fully real-time radiosity 
 light engine that can calculate photon transport on the fly. Now that would be something. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nappan
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 11, 2008 12:58 pm PT
Review:  Mirror's Edge reminds me so much of the Xbox game Breakdown, that it I wonder if we'll ever be 
 seeing either franchise again. Once again, a truly fun and new game bursts on the scene, gets a 
 LOT right and some things wrong, and fans are left wondering if DICE will get a chance to perfect 
 this daring concept in a sequel.
  
  Mirror's Edge, played entirely from a fairly deep first person viewpoint, takes place in a world 
 of contrasting art styles, colours, and ways of life. It's strange when you realize early on what 
 an encumberance guns are to Faith (your avatar in ME) , and then if you're like me you start wondering 
 about how this view and mechanic could be focused towards pure adventure, or brutal combat (Breakdown) . 
 I wonder why more games don't chose this perspective. ME feels very immdiate, ALL the time, and 
 the perspective and way you move through space help solidify that feeling.
  
  So, it is with regret that I outline flaws, or perhaps just the nature of the game that will turn 
 some people off. First, this game is hard in a way only Shinobi for the PS2 has recently achieved. 
 This will turn some on, and others WAY off, needless to say, but even seasoned vets will feel dissapointment 
 when their "momentum" (a BIG deal in ME) is halted over and over again by their own mistakes, or 
 the need to experiment. It's the double edged sword that makes ME work, but sometimes it makes 
 you want to yell a little too.
  
  Graphically the game is stunning. I feel a bit as though I'm running on the rooftops of the world 
 Abstergo's offices inhabited in Assassin's Creed. This is the bleakness that exists in a stark 
 contrast to a game I am currently in love with, Fallout 3. You could have some quality nerd chat 
 (I'd be in for it) about the contrast between the desolation of total destruction, and the barren 
 landscape of sterile "perfection". While some have called the different art styles into question, 
 I would simply say "mirror's edge". What some have described as jarring, I would say is jarring 
 as though one is seeing both sides of the metaphorical mirror. Of course, that's a big matter of 
 taste, and some may not like it.
  
  The sound is great, and helps to establish tension, and a sense of speed. A gunshot really stands 
 out here, and so does Faith's laboured breathing and the sound of running. It's pretty impressive, 
 and I can't think of a bad thing to say about it.
  
  Replay value is going to depend on whether you see this as an average length "Story Campaign", 
 or if you approach it as playing an episode in a kind of static world, with an Extreme Sports game 
 at it's core. In fact, without going all the way into MMO land (which I loathe) , this game could 
 be made to contain MMORPG online experiences easily... but for now what features it has are great. 
 You can race ghosts of rivels, and more. Like SSX and other favourites of mine, this game BEGS 
 to be perfected... if that's your thing... 
  
  In the end, you'll KNOW that you want to play Mirror's Edge from the free demo... for some it will 
 become an obsession, and others WILL be instantly turned off. Be aware of the polarizing nature 
 of this gameplay style, and try the demo or rent before buying unless, like me, you know this is 
 your taste. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
