-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: MLB 07: The Show
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/ps3/sports/mlb07theshow/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Road to the show is a great addition.
 hitting is intuitive.
 franchise mode is incredibly deep.
 solid, albeit subdued, presentation and commentary.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Missing a few of the PS2's minigames.
 Some animation looks decidedly last-gen.
 Grass and turf look poor.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: May 16, 2007
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 8.2
Critic Score: 7.8, 29 Review (s)
User Score: 8.4, 693 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: SCEA
Genre: Baseball Sim
Date: May 15, 2007
ESRB: Everyone

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Though it doesn't take full advantage of the PlayStation 3 hardware, MLB 07: The Show is a great 
 game, and the new road to the show mode is fantastic. 

  Thanks to Sony's dubious track record when it comes to first-party sports games, its excellent 
 MLB series hasn't always received the recognition it deserves. But after the outstanding MLB 06: 
 The Show, people are taking notice of SCEA's yearly baseball efforts. MLB 07: The Show for the 
 PlayStation 2 didn't mess with success, and nor does the PlayStation 3 version. It's a prettier, 
 smoother iteration of what came out for the PS2 a couple of months ago. Though it's missing a few 
 minigames, it has the excellent road to the show mode, which offers a whole new way to progress 
 through a professional baseball career. MLB 07: The Show is a great value if you're looking for 
 a hardcore simulation or just want to play a few quick games here and there.  

          To speed things up, the only time you field in road to the show is when the ball is hit 
 in your direction.     

  MLB 07's game modes will be familiar to anyone who played MLB 06. You can play a quick game, call 
 the shots in manager mode, take on a friend and track your stats in rivalry mode, hop online, embark 
 on a career, run a franchise, and play a season. Unfortunately, there's no home-run derby or king 
 of the diamond mode, which is a letdown since they were both simple, yet entertaining diversions 
 if you didn't feel like playing a normal game. MLB 07's online offering is quite deep. You can 
 create an online persona, play a single ranked or unranked game, send instant messages, play in 
 and create leagues, upload and share your own game-setting sliders, check MLB news, and even listen 
 to audio highlights from important games. Our online experience was mixed; when lag wasn't an issue, 
 everything was great, but when lag became a problem -- and it often did -- the game was virtually unplayable. 

  Without a doubt, MLB 07's biggest feature is the road to the show mode, which is an evolution of 
 last year's career mode. It's great for anyone who doesn't want to play a franchise mode but still 
 wants a game mode that offers a lot of depth. You create a ballplayer, pick a position, and find 
 a team you think you can make. But instead of playing every pitch of every game, you play only 
 when you're directly involved in the game. For example, if you're a right fielder, you'll play 
 only when a ball is hit your way or when you're at bat. When your turn is over, the game simply 
 fast-forwards to the next time you're involved.  

  Your player improves by reaching goals that are given to you before each at bat. Pitchers will 
 be told to do things like strike out hitters or induce double plays, while hitters will have to 
 make contact, get a hit, or drive in a run. It's tough to succeed as a hitter, because you're given 
 such few opportunities to succeed, and also because your performance on the field doesn't seem 
 to have a whole lot of bearing on your value to the team. The lack of emphasis on defense is actually 
 a good thing, because the ball is so tiny it can be difficult to see. You earn points for reaching 
 goals, and these can be spent on training your player. If you're a pitcher, you can focus on improving 
 your stamina, ability with specific pitch types, and more. If you're a hitter, you can improve 
 your prowess against left- or right-handed pitchers, as well as improve your speed, strength, and 
 the like. If you play well enough in the preseason, you'll be offered a contract, which means you 
 get to keep playing and reaching new goals while trying to win awards and championships. And if 
 you're not happy with your team, you can request a trade. If you don't get a contract, well, you're 
 free to try out again next year, and the year after that, until you catch on with a team. It's 
 very rewarding to work your way up from a nobody to a big star, and in a lot of ways it's refreshing 
 to not have to deal with every aspect of a team -- all you have to worry about is yourself. It would 
 have been nice to play a shorter season, since you have to play most of the preseason to make sure 
 you get a contract offer and then play the entire season after that. But other than that minor 
 gripe, the road to the show is great.  

  Franchise mode is largely unchanged, but that's OK because it's probably the deepest franchise 
 mode in all of sports video games. You're given complete control of the franchise of your choosing, 
 and it's up to you to reach the franchise's goals. If you're with a high-profile team like the 
 Yankees, expectations are higher and your goals will be more difficult to achieve. Take over the 
 mess that is the Tampa Bay Devil Rays, and your job requirements are a tad less lofty. Not only 
 will you be in charge of roster moves, but you'll also need to manage the budget, improve team 
 facilities, arrange promotions, sign television contracts, set vending prices, monitor players' 
 and fans' moods, negotiate player contracts, draft players, and keep tabs on your organization's 
 farm teams and scouts. This sounds complex, and at first it is, but you're able to delegate as 
 much or as little of this responsibility to the CPU as you'd like. The mode has gotten so deep 
 that it can be a little difficult to find information quickly, but for the most part, the menus 
 are well organized and pertinent information is disseminated clearly.  

  As good as franchise mode is, some things could be improved. You can, of course, play the games 
 or simulate them in whole or in part, and it's nice to be able to jump in and out of a game as 
 you see fit, but there's no option to play anything less than a full season, which is disappointing 
 if you want to play all of your franchise's games but not necessarily 162 of them.  

          It doesn't get much better than MLB 07's hitting mechanic.     

  MLB 07's pitching 
 mechanic has gotten some attention, but the basics are mostly unchanged and still great. To throw 
 a pitch, you press the corresponding face button, pick your location with the analog stick, press 
 X to start the meter, X again to set power, and then X a third time to determine accuracy. Your 
 pitches are organized onscreen by your ability to throw them, and they each have a small meter 
 that raises or lowers depending on how effectively you're throwing that pitch during a specific 
 game. Throw strikes, and the meter fills, which makes it even easier to throw that pitch; throw 
 balls, and the meter empties a bit, and it's even harder to find your spots. The effect feels a 
 bit exaggerated, but it does a nice job of getting you to pitch realistically and not throw garbage 
 all of the time. You'll need to throw a variety of pitches, not only because you get better with 
 each throw, but also because your catcher will call for specific pitches and locations based on 
 the current game scenario. Sometimes your catcher asks for some questionable pitch locations, but 
 for the most part, if you hit your spots, you'll have success. Hitting your spots is also key because 
 you never know exactly what will or won't be called a ball or strike, thanks to umpires that have 
 their own specific strike zones. While this is certainly realistic, it's more frustrating than 
 fun when you strike out looking at a pitch that was clearly a ball. This can be turned off, though, 
 so it's not a big deal if you don't like it.     

  Hitting is once again outstanding. You can choose to take a normal swing with a press of the X 
 button or a mighty hack with the square button, and you can even influence where you hit the ball 
 with the right analog stick. To improve your chances of success, you can guess the pitch type and 
 location before the pitch, and if you're correct on the pitch type, the strike zone flashes red. 
 If you're right about the general location, the ball's outline appears where it's going to cross 
 the plate. However, MLB 07's hitting really shines because it finds the perfect level of difficulty. 
 The pitches are fast enough that you've got to be quick when deciding whether or not to swing, 
 but they're not so fast that you simply don't have time to react. If you pay attention, it's not 
 terribly difficult to judge whether a pitch is going to be a ball or a strike. You never feel like 
 you're just guessing, and you really feel like you can work a count because you can actually see 
 the pitches clearly. There are quite a few home runs -- probably too many -- but it's not an absurd 
 number, and you'll need to learn how to manufacture runs if you're going to win regularly.  

          Mix up your pitches and throw strikes to make your pitches even more effective.     

 
  Many baseball games have a hard time getting fielding down, but MLB 07 does a pretty good job 
 here. It's easy to maneuver outfielders under fly balls, and it's just as intuitive to control 
 the infielders. The only thing that's sometimes difficult is figuring out who you're controlling. 
 Sometimes you'll be controlling the pitcher after a short bunt, even if the catcher is closer to 
 the ball, and sometimes you're given control of an infielder who has no chance of making a play 
 on a ball when there's another infielder who does have a chance. It's a piece of cake to control 
 all of your base runners at once, but controlling them individually is a bit too complex, especially 
 before a pitch. Between setting leads, telling people to steal, and then guessing pitch types and 
 locations, there's just not enough time to get everything done. There are some motion-sensing controls, 
 but they feel tacked on and don't add much to the experience. You can actually tilt the controller 
 to dive while playing defense if you want, and you can tilt the Sixaxis to determine which side 
 of the bag you are going to slide to, but neither works well.  

  MLB 07's graphics are obviously much better on the PS3 compared to the PS2, but they're not exactly 
 mind-blowing. The game still looks good and the player cards look sharp, but other than some great-looking 
 fans and an improved frame rate there's not anything that screams "next-gen." There's a nice variety 
 of player body types; player likenesses are pretty good, but not outstanding; and many of the players 
 have weird-looking eyes. There are some great player reactions, particularly when a hitter glares 
 back at the umpire after a dubiously called third strike. Fielding animation is particularly well 
 done, and players will gracefully execute double plays, dive for balls, or apply a tag. There are 
 a solid number of individual player animations, be it on-deck routines, swings, or pitch deliveries. 
 You'll occasionally get a player like Gary Sheffield, who obnoxiously waves his bat in front of 
 the pitching meter, but most of the animations add to rather than detract from the experience. 
 One nice thing about all of the player-specific animations is that they're not overdone. Sure, 
 it shows tremendous attention to detail if a batter steps out after every pitch and adjusts his 
 gloves and taps his bat on his cleats, but it makes the games take forever and doesn't add a whole 
 lot to the overall package. There's even a fast-play mode that skips all the little stuff and lets 
 you just play. MLB 07 keeps it simple, and it works. That doesn't mean that it couldn't use more 
 in the way of conveying player emotion, and it might also benefit from a more TV-style presentation. 
 The stadiums are all accurately re-created and look fantastic; there are a ton of little details 
 to notice, right down to how the grass is cut -- though don't look too close, because the grass is 
 as flat as a pancake and players' feet never look like they're touching it. The crowds are some 
 of the best in any sports game, which is impressive given how big they are.  

          The stadiums look great.     

  MLB 07's audio lives up to the same high quality as 
 the rest of the game. San Diego Padres announcer Matt Vasgersian calls the play-by-play. His commentary 
 is accurate and timely, and for the most part he does a fine job. Dave Campbell and Rex Hudler 
 provide color commentary. They're OK, and thankfully Rex isn't as overbearing as he used to be, 
 but they repeat themselves fairly often and don't always have the most insightful comments (though 
 they occasionally offer some in-depth team- or player-specific nuggets) . Even without commentary, 
 the game would sound great. Fans holler at players from the stands, umpires emphatically call players 
 out, organ music plays between pitches, players have walk-up music, and there's a PA announcer 
 who introduces hitters and makes general announcements.  

  Even though it doesn't have a flashy presentation and doesn't do much with the added power of the 
 PS3, MLB 07: The Show is the best baseball game for the PlayStation 3. There's a seemingly endless 
 number of ways to enjoy the game, and the road to the show is a fantastic addition to the series. 
 Be it a wealth of online options or the deep franchise mode, there's something for every type of 
 baseball fan here.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (52 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: GeoffZak
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 18, 2008 6:53 am PT
Review:  Graphics: 8/10: I wasn't so impressed when I saw the game on TV, they looked like slightly improved 
 PS2 graphics. But when I got the game, I saw that the graphics were worthy of being considered 
 current gen. The textures are solid and smooth, the grass and dirt look realistic and there are 
 low to no jaggies. The player animations look solid, realistic and stable. In most MLB 2K games, 
 when players run around, they look shaky and it ruins the experience. MLB the show's animations 
 are solid and I love looking at the instant replays because it's like watching a real game, but 
 with some sort of weird video effect.
  
  Gameplay: 9/10: Let me start off by saying Road to the Show is a great idea for a career mode. 
 Instead of controlling a group, you control one guy like you do in most video games. You only have 
 to worry about yourself, the rest of the team is taken care of by AI. But you can still talk to 
 your manager about the team and how you think they're doing; but you're not faced with huge decisions. 
 But playing games in road to the show is fun. It's a good idea to be fastfowarded to the next time 
 your player is involved, that way you don't get bored standing there for when you're not involved. 
 It's fun to be on first base, watching the next batter bat, steal when you want, dive back to avoid 
 being picked off, or round the bases on a good hit. It's a fun experience and you feel like a part 
 of the team. Playing exhibition when you control a whole team is still fun. But I hate how baserunning 
 isn't perfect in this mode, I hate having to tell everyone to advance or retreat. It's not so easy 
 just to have one person run. Making contact is harder in this game because the strike zone disappears 
 after the pitcher begins his motion. It's hard to tell when a ball is in or out of the strike zone, 
 you need a good eye. But MLB the show still has very solid gameplay overall. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bigAAce24
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 7, 2008 9:30 am PT
Review:  Got it from Gamestop used for $20, Worth all of it and theres a whole lot of game for your money. 
 First off, there is just so many things to do, the game has a lot of depth. I like hte new Road 
 To The Show feature, you only have to play when your player is involved in the game, it lets you 
 work on just what you have to do instead of playing a whole game. Its nice if you dont have enough 
 time, personally i like the classic carrer better. Next is the graphics, very well done. The only 
 problem i have with the graphics is everything outside the park. The buildings and especially the 
 flag, wtc the buildings look like last gen, and the flag looks like its from the original playstation. 
 But besides those two minor texture flaws its great. The people look amazing and there movements 
 are so lifelike. THe soud is really good, it feels like you are at a real game. The gameplay is 
 flawless, theere is no problem with the frame rate. Ive had this game for a few weeks, and play 
 it just about everyday. I feel bad for people with 360's, because all they has is 2k baseball, 
 and will never have the chance to enjoy a great game like the one that sony makes for the ps3. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fizzlegloop
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 14, 2008 4:06 pm PT
Review:  I just got this game about 2 weeks ago. Its a very fun game to play. I love how there is the season 
 mode and career mode. The season mode is definantly very fun because you actually get to see what 
 every person on your team is hitting. Career mode is the best mode by far however because you make 
 one person and you are that one person forever. When you are on the free agents you can choose 
 how long you want your contract and how much you get paid. However just because you want that does 
 not mean that you get it. When your finally on a team you have to gain skill points to make your 
 character better. When you have played for like a couple days you have the opportunity to join 
 the major league. If you keep your avg up you can even stay there. When you get your character 
 to be very good you can make him hit home runs a lot faster and be a better player. Overall I think 
 that its a great game but I still don't like the fact that it does not have home run derby 
::::::

::::::
UserName: courtdeze
Rating: 7
Date: Mar 5, 2008 10:17 am PT
Review:  This game does not feel like a ps3 game. Graphics are subpar, slightly better than the PS2 version. 
 Gameplay is still good, but could use some improvements. The stadium detail is good, but the field 
 looks like something out of a cartoon, the grass being a neon green color that seems more like 
 the old astroturf.
  
  Online play is laggy, with frequent disconnects. I just cant understand how in this day and age 
 problems like this can exist with online connectivity.
  
  There are some good offline features, especially the new road to the show. Franchise mode is as 
 good as ever, though it is still too easy to pull of trades for any player you want.
  
  This is a good game but there is alot of room for improvement. Lets hope sony fixes things for 
 The Show 08.... I dont want to have to switch to 2k... please dont make me switch to 2k Sony! Please 
 make things right! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gifteddie
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 3, 2007 1:52 pm PT
Review:  Wow where to start? I loved the gameplay. It felt like a real baseball game where when you were 
 up to bat you couldn't swing at every pitch and hit a home run off every one. You had to wait patiently 
 for your pitch. And let me first say when I started this game I struck out A LOT! Pitching feels 
 more realisitc than ever. If you are Carlos Zambrano Or Josh Beckett you can't throw a fastball 
 every time right down the middle not worrying about it. These players will get a hit off you and 
 maybe a pop up or ground out if yuo are lucky. The graphics weren't amazing but that is not saying 
 they are bad. Alfonso Soriano, Aramis Ramirez, Derek Jeter, and every other baseball player or 
 at least most of them looke just like how they do in real life. Fielding is solid especially throwing 
 around the bases. It's not like you can turbo up all the way and know its going to be accurate. 
 You have to be careful because you can over or underthrow that launch to first base. If you are 
 a a die-hard baseball fan and looking for realsim and you have a ps3 or ps2 or psp look no further 
 and buy this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sgthalka
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 21, 2007 10:01 pm PT
Review:  I previously reviewed the PS2 version, so the common highlights are copied below. If you're currently 
 playing the PS2 version and haven't jumped to the PS3 yet (or picked up the PS3 version of the 
 game) , here's what you should know:
  
  * The PS3 version fixes all of the glaring franchise bugs on the PS2 game. There are two patches 
 I've seen on the Playstation Network, which address the deleted coaching staff bug and the locked-bullpen 
 screen bug.
  
  * Graphics, sound and animation are noticeably improved. While there are a few PS2-era artifacts 
 visible in some backgrounds, this is largely a great-looking game of baseball. Lots of new fielding 
 animations and unique batting/pitching approaches. Detailed faces look realistic with decent clothing 
 textures. Commentary is expanded with even more game- or situation-specific commentator dialogue, 
 as well as unique statistical highlights.
  
  * Awesome updated rosters with new players like Alex Gordon with new face/body models. You could 
 also see live game scores from real-life streamed into the game during menus. (Currently playoff 
 games, previously season game scores.)
  
  * Unfortunately, the CPU still has wonky trade logic, giving away top players too easily for players 
 in demanded positions. The CPU still doesn't sign free agents during the season. And you still 
 can't extend contracts during the season.
  
  What The Show Does Right:
  
  1. The pitching mechanic. This is the best pitching Ive ever seen. The breaks, speed and location 
 are fantastic. Its a real joy to pitch and youll look forward to working the corners, striking 
 guys out or inducing popouts or grounders. Its nice to see breaks with variance and you cant 
 paint the corners with pinpoint accurate breaking balls like in MVP 05.
  
  2. In-game commentary/presentation. What makes it so cool is how unique it is to your players. 
 If youre in the top 10 for steals or on a 8-game hitting streak, the announcers might mention 
 it or it will be highlighted in your stat display. Commentary is also really tuned to whats happening 
 on the field. I dont think Ive ever heard a line that was out of place or made no sense. In fact, 
 most comments are very realistic and draw you into the game even further.
  
  3. Default settings. This is a very realistic game of baseball with minimal slider tweaking needed, 
 which is refreshing. Youll tweak things according to preference, of course, but the default settings 
 feel very authentic and simulated games dont have ridiculous stat output.
  
  4. Ease of editing players. Youre never going to be 100% happy with player ratings or development. 
 You can edit any player on any teams roster during the franchise at any point. The flexibility 
 is a season-saver if youve ever dumped MVP franchises to start over with tweaked rosters.
  
  What The Show Does Wrong:
  
  1. [UPDATE: These bugs are all fixed.] This is really disappointing 
 because it all boils down to bugs. This game is as close to perfect as you can get ... until the 
 bugs set in. And these are not minor little bugs. They are incredibly annoying and Im afraid I 
 havent even seen them all. To date:
  
  * [FIXED IN PS3 VERSION] Going into your bullpen to warm up a pitcher at the same time the CPU 
 is making a pitching change can lock up the game. It will ask you to replace the CPU teams pitcher 
 on the mound, which you cant, and you cant get out of your own bullpen screen.
  
  *Injuries can screw up your line-up orders because you cant just click off injury warnings as 
 you sim minor league games before your major league game. It will force you to auto-fix or leave 
 on bench or put on the DL. The problem is if the player is a hitter in a starting lineup, and you 
 either put him on the DL or bench, the CPU will re-order ALL of your lineups. Theres no do nothing, 
 ill fix it later myself option. And minor league injuries happen a lot -- like every 3-5 games. 
 So youll be re-ordering your major league lineups every time a minor league starting hitter gets 
 any kind of injury. Which is incredibly annoying.
  
  *Somewhat minor ... but the CPU will not sign free agents during the season. Roger Clemens will 
 sit in the free agent pool all year if you dont sign him. The CPU also will never offer trades 
 to you. Semi-related, the trade logic is also incredibly wonky. It doesnt seem to account for 
 players age -- its too easy to acquire blue-chip young players for veterans just b/c the overall 
 stats perceive the deal to be fair. The overall ratings are a bit inflated for some players if 
 they have good defensive skills -- which makes someone like Juan Uribe very high overall and you 
 can trade him for Jose Reyes b/c their overall ratings are so similar. If a team has a position 
 of need, say, center field -- it will entertain ridiculous deals to get a center fielder, including 
 trading away premier talent at other positions. I was able to trade a 26-year-old minor league 
 center fielder to the Devil Rays for Carl Crawford.
  
  *You cant sign contract extensions mid-year. As far as Ive seen, you have to wait until the season 
 is over and the contract runs its course before you can offer a new deal. This sucks if youre 
 not sure how much money a player is gonna ask for in the new contract. You have to wait until the 
 contract expires, so it makes trading players in their final contract year a bit of a gamble b/c 
 you wont know for sure how much money they really want in a new deal or whether you can afford 
 it or not.
  
  * [FIXED IN PS3 VERSION] This is one of the dumbest bugs -- each time you restart a saved franchise, 
 all of your coaching staff is deleted. And not just your coashing staff -- the coaching staffs 
 of every team in baseball disappears. You can re-hire the staff, but as soon as you save and restart 
 later, it will disappear.
  
  2. [FRANCHISE MINI OPTIONS ARE QUITE EFFECTIVE IN PS3 VERSION] Useless micro-management. I'm sure 
 there are people who enjoy the litany of silly financial tasks like setting promotions, ticket 
 prices, ad sales, travel and rehab accommodations ... but I'm certainly not one of them. MLB has 
 all of that stuff with no clear benefit on your players. You'll set budgets for all these team 
 resources that claim to help your pitchers, hitters, defense and overall health, but there's no 
 real cause-and-effect I can see.
  
  Overall, this is certainly a game worth picking up if you loved MVP and want an update. Just be 
 ready to deal with all the wonky franchise bugs in order to play a great season of baseball. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: yatusabeps3
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 21, 2007 9:21 am PT
Review:  MLB 07 THE SHOW got nice graphics u could make your own character field ur position bat and a new 
 feature run the bases up close i was playing 2k7 for ps2 idk if its onli for ps2 but melky cabrera 
 from the yankees is a lefthy he throws with left onli in 2k7 he is throwing righty and thats something 
 a game dotn want to get mix up with the player who is recordnice every where in mlb it got better 
 graphics better fielding umm players dotn throw goofy and of course all players throw with there 
 real life hand like melky cabrera hes lefty in mlb o7 the show and it looks real and thats why 
 i give it a nice ass rating beacause it deserves it 
::::::

::::::
UserName: survey77
Rating: 6.5
Date: Oct 9, 2007 11:31 pm PT
Review:  The game for casual gamers is pretty good, but the longer you play the more you notice dumb **** 
 that never happens ever in real life ... when you strike out a batter with a sinker ... it calls 
 it a slider moves away from a lefthander .. even if its a right hander batting.
  
  There are far too many dives for balls that end up missed ... the strike zone moves when you get 
 close to that statistic driven system ...
  
  The commentators often misread players names with others... they always say a fly ball to strait 
 away right/left/center ... ect
  
  I had a no hitter going ...14k's with Chris Carpenter .. and the manager pulled me out in the 8th 
 inning barely breaking 75 pitches .. and we lost 6-5.
  
  There are farrrrrrrr too many bunts ... another thing of which the computer does to fill its statistics 
 when you strike everyone else out ... catchers do it ... dh's do it ... doesnt matter.
  
  All you gotta do is spend 3 hours playing the game for real .. and youll understand what it is im 
 saying. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chasman99
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 11, 2007 8:18 am PT
Review:  I haven't played baseball games as religiously as some and as such I find myself more forgiving 
 of different issues in these games. When you only buy a game like this every three years or so, 
 you tend to be so amazed at the advances that you over look the issues.
  
  The best thing about this is that it feels so real. The stadiums are all gorgeous and realistic. 
 The music, commentary and animation is phenomenal.
  
  To me the best thing about this game is the various ways to play. I was never a big online gamer 
 but the online flow is decent. It can get choppy from time to time, but I think that has improved 
 since the release of the game. The Road to the Show is by far the most addictive part of the game. 
 Choosing to play as only one player speeds up the gameplay and season immensely. What used to take 
 months to complete a season and each individual play can be done in 1/4 the time. Creating your 
 own player is fun and it's very realistic to try and improve that player over time. Some of the 
 worst things in the game are the little errors it makes. From time to time in RTTS you will throw 
 to the wrong base, essentially because the controls for throwing get flipped in this mode from 
 the normal season controls. You can steal on the pitcher because the pick off move is a bit slow 
 in coming to fruition. The worst part is the manager and how he uses you. You'll bat clean up one 
 day, go 3-4 with a HR and then be on the bench. You spend a lot of fruitless time in the game being 
 called between AAA and the bigs. I solved this problem by using the sliders and increasing my attributes 
 somewhat artificially, but just the same, once you are up, you should be there more consistently.
 
  
  The smaller bugs are laughable, and easy to ignore. Playing RTTS as a pitcher gives you a much 
 easier way to gather points and improve your pitches, whereas a hitter does not get rewarded for 
 fielding and you can only get 100 points per game.
  
  All the negatives aside, this is a beautiful game, and I am glad I bought the PS3 so i could enjoy 
 it. Definitely worth the $60.
  
  ***Update***
  Since my initial review I have noticed some items that were previously missed. The landscape of 
 the parks in AAA is a bit flawed, if only because these parks look so similar.
  
  More disturbing is the field itself. Disturbing may be a bit strong but the ground does not funciton 
 like actual dirt and gras does. There is no wear and tear through the game or a series or games 
 at home. It gives the feel of playing on astro turf all the time.
  
  As for the sliders, I utilized them to gain a speedier increase and solidify myself as a great 
 hitter. I was simply too tired of being sent down to AAA. Now I am the greatest hitter the game 
 has ever seen and may need to drop my sliders. It takes away from the achievement of the whole 
 thing because the management AI is so flawed. While it may be hard to jump from the minors to the 
 bigs so easily, I doubt the Cardinals were ready to send Albert Pujols down to AAA just becasue 
 it didn't seem likely that he was a statistical monster. 
  
  In that way the game is lacking. All AI reacts to your skills and rating, and does not take into 
 account recent or overall stats.
  
  Just the same, it's still a great game but I have switched t a pitching careeer to enjoy it more. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: creepster32000
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 20, 2007 5:18 pm PT
Review:  This game hit it off with me pretty quick but, thats me i love baseball games an this one is special 
 to me. The gameplay is to much fun i play a few games an take a little break an run the stadium 
 with the bussiness management option. make sure the guy i made (ME) gets the fame he deserves. 
 The games batting pitching an fielding is the best to date graphics are great and I'm still not 
 bored. The games goals range alot from franchise goals to player goals. Theres a carreer mode that 
 i haven't even touched yet. If you love baseball an the feel of being at the game your gonna love 
 this title. Throw yourself some created family member players on the opposite teams an see how 
 fun it is shutting them out if you can. I give this game a 9.0 this is definatly a keeper and a 
 must have. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: djdevon101
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 5, 2007 9:41 pm PT
Review:  if you love baseball games than this is the best one so far better than regular mlb, s and the career 
 mode is awesome, the game is so realistic the umpire make some bad calls and you have to time your 
 swing unlike 06, the career mode does take a while to get good on career but if your thinking about 
 renting not worth 4 extra dollars buy it good game this game is aawesome buy have to put 100 words 
 so fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a 
 a a aa a a a a aaa a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a 
 a a a a a a a a a aa a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a  
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hyofinkl
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 1, 2007 10:06 am PT
Review:  MLB 07: The Show is a very solid baseball game. It plays like you'd expect and want a baseball 
 game to. The game does a good job of giving the stars of the game the abilities they have in real 
 life. Players such as A-Rod and Albert Pujols can take the ball out of the park very easily. If 
 the ball is anywhere up in the strike zone and you get a well-timed swing on it with any of these 
 power hitters, you have a good chance of hitting it out of the ballpark. That's a good thing because 
 it gives you the feeling that one player can change the game for you with a big homerun and that's 
 what you expect from them in real baseball. The Road to the Show mode is extremely addictive. The 
 gameplay is fun and building up a career is exciting. It does have problems because the teams don't 
 give a rat's ass about your avg. or the things you accomplish, they just care about your overall 
 stats. So for many years, you'll have to play in the minors no matter how high your batting average 
 or if you're a pitcher, how low your ERA is. There are a few glitches in the game and they can't 
 be helped but they are annoying when you see them. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: snwboardn08
Rating: 8.7
Date: Aug 13, 2007 11:16 am PT
Review:  Welcome to the show. Get ready for some real baseball. The game features some amazing game play 
 as well as some new and some old features. The Show will defiantly not leave all you baseball fans 
 hanging.
  
  The Show has packed on a few extra features that really make the game stand out. The new Road to 
 the Show mode is something that will keep you hooked for some time. You start off by making your 
 own player and customizing him. Once your done creating your personal looking player is when the 
 real fun begins.
  
  You start out as a rookie picking your team affiliation. You'll now be able to go to spring training 
 with that team hoping to make a spot. Depending on how you do you may make the Bigs or start off 
 down in triple A. In order to get a spot in the Majors you'll have to prove yourself. Along the 
 way you can interact with your coach and team and even get contracts which will have a goal for 
 the season. The more of the goals you make the more you prove yourself. Aside from Road to the 
 Show, MLB 07 features some of your basic features as well such as Season mode where you dont have 
 to go through all the stuff as a rookie on Road to the Show. They also have your usual Franchise 
 and casual Career. Rivalry mode is also a nice touch to dive into. Manager mode puts in place of 
 the manager for the team in a game. You can choose your camera angle to view from but you never 
 actually play in the game. You simply watch a simulated game which can be tweaked by your actions 
 (pitcher changes, telling players to play aggressive, etc.) Of coarse they have the usual Exhibition 
 game as well.
  
  The main menu is very nice and well set up. With the main square on the left part of the screen 
 and a nice compilation of player pictures going by on the right its nice and clean cut.
  
  The menu also features a news bar on the bottom of the screen which is updated with info from MLB. com. 
 You can also connect to SportsConnect which takes you to the online mode. Here you can find news 
 from all around the MLB as well as play other people online (imagine that)
  
  MLB 07 plays nice and smooth. You have your nice pitching meter and nice user adaptive controls. 
 The graphics are not all that amazing. On a standard definition TV you will have to turn up your 
 brightness a little bit to really get a nice sharp picture. On HD the game is best set at 720p. 
 If you were looking for graphics you should go with 2K7. But if your looking for game play, you've 
 come to the right place.
  
  The Show gives the user the ability to do basically anything you could do on a baseball field. 
 From diving catches to amazing home run takeaways. You feel like you can do anything. The six axis 
 is even used to determine your slide which actually does make a hug difference to the out or no 
 out.
  
  Overall the game is one to be played. If you want amazing game play with amazing features this 
 game should be one for you. If your all about the graphics you should go with 2K7. The game will 
 keep you wrapped up and keep your attention going. If you get a little bored however you can always 
 simulate to the end of the game : )
  
  The Show is at least worth a rent so if your a baseball fanatic this is a perfect game for you.
 
  
  ~Ryan Johnson 
::::::

::::::
UserName: HK-47-M4
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jul 27, 2007 1:10 pm PT
Review:  MLB 07 The Show is the best baseball sim. so far, beating out 2K's Major League Baseball 2K and 
 The BIGS. While this title may not look as good as those, everything else is better on MLB 07 The 
 Show. The gameplay is very good with an intuitive batting system and the fielding is by far superior 
 to any other baseball sim. The graphics and sound are above average. This is definately a worth 
 your money and unless you hate baseball, you should enjoy it.
  
  This is definatley at least worth a rental but I recommend you purchase this PlayStation 3 exclusive. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: S0lidSnake
Rating: 3.4
Date: Jul 26, 2007 10:47 pm PT
Review:  I am a MVP series player, have been since 2003. This year after playing the college world series, 
 I wanted to play as a real major league team so I had my brother who works at blockbuster rent 
 it for free. I played a good 30 some games and then I realized if I played some more, I'd probably 
 go on a killing spree. it was that frustrating. the retarded part on me was that a month later, 
 I bought the game thinking I could work around the frustrating game design but ten games later 
 I had it enough.............. again. Now I am trying to trade it in. as for whats wrong with the 
 game. I will start with baserunning. The classic baserunning controls are tougher to pull than 
 a Devil May Cry combo. The new baserunning controls are even more retarded because they have you 
 select the runner with your left analog stick and THEN send him to the appropriate base. It might 
 sound simple to some, but its virtually impossible to control multiple baserunners because they 
 never advance on their own and selecting and routing each runner gives you no time to advance the 
 other. the devs are either retards or pot heads for screwing up such an integral part of the game.
 
  
  Then comes the pitching, also a very important part of a baseball game which is pretty obvious, 
 no? well not for the devs. because in trying to make pitching more realistic they fudged it up 
 instead, and boy did they fudge it up good! how you ask? well, they have this meter for every type 
 of pitch in the arsenal, which loses its effectiveness if you throw balls with that certain pitch. 
 sounds pretty intriguing, right? well, they screw that up too. how? well, every time you throw 
 a ball, the meter goes a quarter of a way down. oh and did i mention the pitch almost NEVER ends 
 up where you want it to. yeah, its supposed to be realistic.............. if done right. Give me 
 the control, if I screw up with the pitching meter, by all means let the pitch end up where ever 
 you want, but not when I ace the meter. oh, and the breaking balls will end up being balls 80% 
 of the time, no matter what. oh and they end up on the dirt 50% of the time and 90% of the time, 
 it goes by the catcher. Umpires are way too inconsistent, they will screw up a corner call 60% 
 of the time.
  
  Also forget about pitching with your no.4 and no.5 starter because their stuff' and thier stamina 
 is supposed to be really low. so they will only last you 4 innings 90% of the time and the rest 
 of the time they will only go 3.
  
  the feilding is ok, but diving for balls is done very poorly. you can only press down to dive, 
 you cant press left or right, but down. does that make sense to you? hitting is ok, but boring. 
 Also, the guess a pitch or locating meter absolutely kills the online play since all people do 
 is guess location and pitch before every single pitch, and just like that your pitch is given away. 
 wow, that is realistic, only if you dont know jach sh$t about baseball. The devs need to get fired. 
 I want my f***king money back!!!! I would like to mention the good things now, there are some. 
 graphics while not mind blowing do the job, great ballpark models. awesome crowd. a lot of modes 
 to keep you busy. great commentary. slick menus. a lot of stats. but see, most of these things 
 are superficial and since the gameplay is unplayable, you cant really enjoy these things.
  
  P. S. each game takes 45-50 minutes to complete. by comparison, MVP 05 games took 25-30 minutes. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: the_black_one
Rating: 5.5
Date: Jul 25, 2007 6:42 pm PT
Review:  I've noticed that most (if not all) ps3 games emphasize solely on single player game modes. This 
 game is a testament to that. This is nothing more than an average game. There isn't much to do 
 besides Road to the Show. And while it is a great game mode, it can't be the only thing you can 
 really do in this game. But unfortunately, it is. It still has that ps2 feel, but it's a ps3 game. 
 So obviously I'm not too impressed with it. No Create a Team, No Create a Stadium, No HR Derby, 
 Just RTTS. This game, like many other games, lacks overall versatility with it's options. I mean, 
 don't you think if you're paying $60-70 for this game that you should get a little more than a 
 simple RTTS mode? Which is just a flashier version of career mode? Why not create your own team? 
 Why not have the HR derby to play? Why not create your own stadium? If you've read some of my past 
 reviews, you would know that customization is a HUGE criteria when I rate these games. Games that 
 lack real customization are NEVER going to get good grades from me. Especially games that are being 
 sold for damn near $80. The SCEA company doesn't make very good sports games anyways, so this isn't 
 much of a shock to me. But I thought that since they completely suck at making NBA games, they'd 
 at least put more effort into their baseball games. I guess I was wrong...... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BlueAtlas
Rating: 8
Date: Jul 18, 2007 12:11 am PT
Review:  Not a lot has changed since MLB 06 The Show made its' debut. You'll find almost all the same features, 
 but I'm really disappointed that some features are missing. I noticed that the King of the Diamond 
 feature is missing from the PS3 edition, whats up with that? Other than that everything seems to 
 be present. The Franchise mode seems to be just a copy of MLB 06 The Show and literally untouched. 
 I've rarely played Franchise mode since it is pretty much the same thing from last year, and I've 
 logged in 20+ hours of it from last years copy so whats the point. The new Road to the Show mode 
 is what made this game a buy for me. I like how the game fast forwards to your next appearance 
 so that you don't have to sit through the whole game. Overall this game is almost the same game 
 from last year. However, since it is on the PS3 the graphics are really good, but thats basically 
 thats it and the new Road to the Show. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gatorforlife07
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jul 17, 2007 5:56 pm PT
Review:  MlB 07 The show is a great game that you should definatly pick up if you are a baseball fan. It 
 is a game that has great game modes like career where you make your own baseball player and you 
 make it to the big leagues and try to make your character great. There is also season which is 
 just like a season in any other sports games. And Franchise where you are bassicly the owner of 
 your own team and you can do everything in that gamemode from your players transportation to how 
 many Peanut Guys you want in your stadium. So if you are a baseball fan you should definatly give 
 this game a try. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pigsybum
Rating: 8.3
Date: Jul 14, 2007 7:48 am PT
Review:  yo everyone, this is my first baseball game i've had for all my ps systems. this game is surprising 
 good, am able to feel the excitement althought it's just a game. There's a lot of teams to choose 
 from and also nationals teams. However there's no tutorial at all, other than the tips so it's 
 kind of hard for a new comer like me to adapt to it. anyway i've tried learning by watching videos 
 from youtube.
  
  Pros: Good excitement as a sports game Audience and crowds look realistic and good Great speeches 
 and sound enjoyable music during the starting screen
  
  Cons:
  no tutorials
  graphics of grass are pretty bad but i wont blame since there shudn't even be standing grass on 
 a baseball stadium
  little facial expression
  unbalanced AI
  not a very good system for batting. always miss
  online looks very bad, connection error always.
 
  
  OVerall it's a good game especially if ur a baseball fan and own a ps3, it's a must get. some things 
 might disappoint you but it's an overall good experience. SONY first party game had nv fail me 
 yet. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mattzz10
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jul 13, 2007 1:11 pm PT
Review:  I have been waiting for a baseball game like this for years....... and here it is! The Road to the 
 show mode is a great addition. The on-line play could use a little work, but when you get in a 
 working game, its great! The other mode are great, but nothing too overwhelming. I recommend this 
 game to anyone that loves baseball. The commentary in this game is great, and it does not get boring. 
 This is the greatest baseball game I have played, and with the list of ps3 games still small, seems 
 like I will be playing this game for a while. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: johanperez76
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 10, 2007 8:49 am PT
Review:  I have only owned for a little over a week and am amazed to say the least. I graphics aren't what 
 sold me (Great as they are) The online Multiplay is what sets it above all the rest. I really can't 
 wait to see how easy it would be to go from HOME in to this game and play against countless people. 
 The Road to the Show is a bit lame, You barely even play an inning. It prefers to skip around alot. 
 I think SCEA should release a patch or something to fix this. I prefer to go through a whole game 
 to really feel what players do. I do like the player create mode that has been a standard in previous 
 games, but they do improve with randomizing options. To make the announcer say Chubby to the plate 
 or The Great Bambino I would like to critisize the Meter pith mode. It is aweful, simply terrible. 
 I'm not to happy not being able to swing with the SIXAXIS like 2k7 lets you do. By the way sometimes 
 for no reason at all multiplayer games just drop out or lag really bad. I have my PS3 non wireless.......... 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: magoo1967
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jul 5, 2007 7:09 am PT
Review:  SCEA know how to do baseball games right. If you are a true baseball fan, it will be very obvious 
 fairly quickly when you start playing, that this game was created by people who have a thorough 
 understanding and passion for the sport. No other video game has ever captured the actual feel 
 of Major League Baseball to this degree before. That's not saying that there isn't room for improvement 
 here (there always is) , but SCEA are definitely on the right track and I look forward to seeing 
 where they can take this game on the PS3 over the next few years. I get the feeling that this year's 
 installment is just a hint of what's to come, and as life long baseball fan I am extremely excited 
 to see what improvements they make to this game franchise over the next few years. Also, if you 
 like to keep your rosters accurate and up to date, SCEA does an awesome job with frequent roster 
 updates. For the most part (outside of a few weeks here and there) they release a new roster update 
 EVERY WEEK THROUGHOUT THE ENTIRE BASEBALL SEASON! These days it seems that many games are only 
 supported for a month or two after it's release and then abandoned, but this is definitely not 
 the case here, SCEA should be commended for this level of support which adds great overall value 
 to your $60 purchase. I know I haven't really discussed any specific details in this write up, 
 but there are literally too many awesome details about this game to get into specifics. The bottom 
 line is if you are a baseball fan and you are looking to get your next gen ballgame on, look no 
 further and... WELCOME TO THE SHOW! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: theycallmeryan
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jul 3, 2007 9:36 am PT
Review:  The gameplay is very fun, but it is too easy once you know how to play. I give gameplay a 9/10. 
 The graphics are awesome except for the fans and the flags. The fans and flags look like they are 
 from a video game in the late PS1 era/early PS2 era. I give the graphics an 8/10. The sound is 
 great but it is not worthy of a 9 because the commentators don't say enough. I give the sound an 
 8/10. The value of this game is great and you will be playing it until the next one comes out. 
 All in all I love this game and if you like baseball then this game is for you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: boss130
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jun 27, 2007 7:13 am PT
Review:  Alright, I was one of those who bought the game the first day it came out. I was also one of those 
 who had to wait for countless delays and the uncertainty of whether or not this game was even going 
 to get done before the next season. Well it was certainly worth the wait! If you are a fan of semi-realistic 
 baseball sims than this is the game for you!
  
  PROS:
  1. Nice looking game with realistic ballpark representation.
  2. Great gameplay controls (although 
 I dont do the whole sixaxis thing) The baserunning is the only confusing thing.
  3. realistic gameplay (you dont hit a HR every at-bat)
  4. The statistic interface that you would 
 expect from the franchise.
  5. The faces of the players look very realistic.... eyes are a bit spooky but better than 2K7
 
  6. Road to the Show was an welcome addition!
  
  CONS:
  1. I have the Oakland glitch and was too lazy to return it (for those of you who dont know all 
 the early copies of the game will not load any Oakland games played in OAKLAND at night) .... Totally 
 LAME!
  2. There are a great deal of quirky glitches such as playing as the Redsox and having an opponents 
 coach as a first base coach. I have noticed a great deal of these. They are annoying but not all 
 together detrimental to the game.
  3. Delayed almost to the point of making it pointless to make a game for this season. Sony you 
 need to tighten up and get this game out by opening day next year!
  4. Some of the players bodies like Papi's do not look very realistic but this is more for individual 
 players and most are great.
  5. Online is a bit too laggy for me! Its hard to blame the game for this though.
  
  All in 
 all easilly the BEST baseball game for the PS3 and a must own for any fan of the genre. This game 
 makes 2K7 look like a pop out to the pitcher. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tlutz12
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jun 26, 2007 10:01 am PT
Review:  MLB 07 The Show is a very good, albiet not perfect baseball simulation. The graphics are nice, 
 but not exceptional. The commentary is both good and varied, and even after 50+ games I'm sill 
 hearing new things. I really enjoy both the Franchise and Road to the Show modes. The Franchise 
 mode is the most in-depth of any I've ever played, much more so than the similar mode found in 
 Madden football. You can set/change just about anything you can think of, from prices of concessions, 
 tickets, parking, you can manage both your AAA and AA teams, call up/send down players who are 
 doing well/poorly, you can also adjust your scouting practices and pick which advertisements and 
 game-day promotions you would like to run. The Road to the Show is a very satisfying career mode 
 in the vein of Madden's new career mode. The gameplay itself is very good, and the pitching system, 
 while challenging, is also very rewarding. Overall the game is definitely worth picking up for 
 anyone who enjoys baseball games, and is worth renting for anyone else. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Daxequa
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jun 23, 2007 8:46 pm PT
Review:  I'm a HUGE baseball fan, so hearing that the greatest game of 2006 was making its way to the PS3 
 was just icing on the cake. C'mon, the PS3 has always been considered the graphical giant of gaming, 
 so I figure if MLB 2K7 on the 360 looked sick, this should blow it out of the water. Unfortunately, 
 I think I may have set the bar too high, perhaps not understanding the differences between the 
 2 series. MLB 2K7 has always shown pride in their graphics, while The Show always excelled in the 
 simulation aspects. But again, this is the PS3 right?
  
  Nevertheless, from the moment I played this game I couldn't help but want more. The graphics are 
 mediocare and very reminisent of PS2. The gameplay is above average, but not fluid like MLB 2K7. 
 The sound is pretty much taken directly from last year's entry and the overall AI is pretty predictable 
 which is disappointing. Focusing on the good, the gameplay, the game does prevent the insane catches 
 that MLB 2K7 has too often. I also found that hitting a HR is more challenging, which makes me 
 very happy considering I hate when a game pads stats like a bad habit. Again, it's not a bad game, 
 just not the game I expected. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: carneyfolk
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jun 16, 2007 9:41 am PT
Review:  When i first bought my ps3, one of the reasons i did was for this game, I was not disappointed. 
 This is hands down the best baseball sim i have ever played. Controls feel solid and the AI is 
 one of the better in any sports game. Graphics are good, but wont knock your sucks off; in HD the 
 details, especially in the uniforms, really come out. The sounds are well done, even down to the 
 crowd shouts when certain batters are at the plate. This game is a must own for any sports genre 
 fan; it really does justice to the MLB license. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pauln353
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jun 15, 2007 8:24 am PT
Review:  The graphics are horrible but the gameplay is slightly better then 2k7 and it is a lot more fun 
 to play. Getting your career guy through to the majors and into the hall of fame is more difficult 
 depending on the position you choose for him. A pitcher will make it to the show in about 3 seasons 
 and will always be a hall of famer but a hitter can take as long as 7 seasons to earn a starting 
 spot and will get demoted even when he is better then his replacement. All in all the game is better 
 then 2k7 but the graphics have to improve because it looks a lot like the ps2 game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AncientDragon4
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jun 14, 2007 11:37 pm PT
Review:  I been playing this today And its like a real baseball game you
  can play online in leagues. I been playing Franchise And I get
  to manage and play minor league 
 teams. It's realist not perfect
  though but still an edge over All star baseball 2k7. Can't go wrong with
  this game as a baseball 
 game for the ps3 it's fun and easy to learn.
  Meet some nice people online and get this game it's a great choice
  to make with this game. Won't 
 be sorry, MLB the show 07 is highly
  the best baseball game for the ps3 and 360. Plus you can fix your
  budget to get what you want 
 and buy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: austinite04
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 8, 2007 4:37 am PT
Review:  I have only owned for a little over a week and am amazed to say the least. I graphics aren't what 
 sold me (Great as they are) The online Multiplay is what sets it above all the rest. I really can't 
 wait to see how easy it would be to go from HOME in to this game and play against countless people. 
 The Road to the Show is a bit lame, You barely even play an inning. It prefers to skip around alot. 
 I think SCEA should release a patch or something to fix this. I prefer to go through a whole game 
 to really feel what players do. I do like the player create mode that has been a standard in previous 
 games, but they do improve with randomizing options. To make the announcer say Chubby to the plate 
 or The Great Bambino I would like to critisize the Meter pith mode. It is aweful, simply terrible. 
 I'm not to happy not being able to swing with the SIXAXIS like 2k7 lets you do. By the way sometimes 
 for no reason at all multiplayer games just drop out or lag really bad. I have my PS3 non wireless.......... 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: canteenssol
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jun 7, 2007 9:19 pm PT
Review:  MLB 07 The Show is a great game. It satisfies the needs for everyone. It gives first person, managing 
 a team, and online play. The road to the show is a great additon to it, althought the defense part 
 could be a bit more hands on, on the other hand batting is almost perfect. Managing a team is alwaays 
 fun and this game makes it even better diving even deeper into what it is really like. Online play 
 is the normal stuff yet is still fun. Gameplay is deffinently the best part of this game, graphics 
 hold it back a little. the graphics in this game is one of the only reasons this game did not score 
 higher, grass and turf could much more reall, while the stadiums themselves could also. Teh only 
 on bad thing is this game ( well at least mine) hae some glicheslike runnign through walls and 
 people but still is a very fun game that is sure to please anyone who purchases it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: knockouts72
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jun 6, 2007 1:10 pm PT
Review:  First I Would Like To Say The Game Is Very Good Especially For The First Try On The Ps3 System 
 The Graphics Are Good But Look Even Better On A 1080 HD Tv. The Issue I Have Is That The Player 
 Models All Look The Same So Theres Really No Way To Tell Them Apart At First Glance. The Torso 
 Is Too Big And The Legs Are Short. The Feet Are Also Too Big, But Who Gives A Darn. But I Must 
 Say The Faces On The Players Blew Me Away.. Overall The Game Is Good The Fielding Is Great ,The 
 Pictching Is Good And The Batting So If I Had A Choice To Tell Somoeone To Pick It Up I Say Get 
 It You Will Have Fun With It An Online. Its A Go Getta Like Young Jezzy Says 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sweetpinoy2k1
Rating: 6.1
Date: Jun 4, 2007 4:33 am PT
Review:  SCEA didnt really do that much the graphics are more better but the model it's still like the PS2..... 
 i just hope that they make the model more realism because the model look like a stick that cant 
 bent so i hope that next time when there making the 08 the show change the model more accurate 
 and more real to make the game more exciting the faces are more deform the moves are ok...... well 
 i dont have anything to say because the game itself was ok but not smpress i think they should 
 have taken advantage of the power of PS3 but not quite as nice it is so i'm really not happy but 
 i'm still ok with it 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheCarl
Rating: 7.9
Date: Jun 3, 2007 4:43 pm PT
Review:  MLB '07 The Show makes it's first appearance on the PS3 to solid results.
  
  Graphics are a more crisp and more detailed version of The Show '06 and this years PS2 version. 
 Recycled commentator clips from last year are good enough to express the situations that arise 
 in the game. Sound effects are solid as well.
  
  Batting, fielding, base running and most of the pitching gameplay is a direct carry over from last 
 years effort. All of these portions are designed well and play well. Pitching, this year, benefits 
 from a pitch calling system that helps if you are not a baseball nut and have no idea that inside 
 stuff sets up outside stuff, etc.
  
  Sony added some SIXAXIS control with fielding and sliding but these are just novelties and added 
 pretty much because they have to.
  
  The most notable upgrade to the baseball franchise is the Road to the Show career mode. This mode 
 is a much needed update to the career mode present in previous games. It allows you to play just 
 when your player is directly involved be it batting, fielding or base running. This is not limited 
 to normal games but also pinch-hitting and base running. With online play and of course local multiplayer, 
 you've got a solid package of a baseball game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: j2theboogy
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jun 1, 2007 12:17 pm PT
Review:  I'm not even going to mention MLB 2K7 any futher after these first two sentances. 2K7 has better 
 graphics, and by about two inches, that's the only advantage. The Show is the best baseball sim, 
 and rivals MVP 2005 as the best baseball game ever. I'm on the second hardest difficulty level 
 and the game plays like a real baseball game. Pitchers are wild, batters are patient, games are 
 close. A couple of cons: baserunning could've been done a little better, PS3 could've done a little 
 more with graphics. pros: animations are great, you never see a player do the same thing twice, 
 commentary is out of this world. I've yet to hear things repeated. Simulation depth is amazing, 
 not just ingame but franchise development is crazy deep. Get this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: patriotsgene
Rating: 9.1
Date: May 31, 2007 10:21 pm PT
Review:  Just by watching the commercial I already knew this baseball game would be the **** MLb 07 is a 
 baseball game that has every single thing that makes baseball great. They have the plays at home, 
 the catch that robs the HR, the Grand Slam, and the Game winning home run Big Papi Style. I' ve 
 never played a better game that perfectly sims the game of baseball. I know baseball pretty damn 
 well and this game can be enjoyable to any sports fan.
  
  Well, lets talk about the game. The game has the dynasty mode which plays out pretty well if your 
 into playing a game everyday keeping up with the season this year. The game has online play which 
 can be pretty intense when its close and its actually faster than i expected by inning to inning. 
 This mode is where the game really shines. The Show mode is where you start in the dumps to the 
 Bigs leagues where you work yourself up to fame. I have had the most fun in this mode b/c you work 
 yourself up kinda like a campaign mode from level to level.
  
  The sound is good, graphics look sweet in 1080, and the game play is fantastic. The hitting mechanics 
 and pitching really are improved from 06. It kicks 2K7 pitching mechanics in the azz.
  
  The game is one of the few games I recommend for Ps3 so dont miss out on it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fuman3
Rating: 8.6
Date: May 29, 2007 6:52 pm PT
Review:  After waiting an extra month for this game I was hoping that it wouldn't disappoint. For the most 
 Part, it hasn't. Though some things I missed such as vibration telling me Im going off the strike 
 zone when pitching or guessing the pitch when batting but you forget about it after playing the 
 game for about an hour. MLB 07 the Show for the PS3 plays and feels just like last year's installment 
 on the PS2. Which is a good thing If it ain't broke don't fix it . The new Career game mode is 
 a pretty neat change from last years version as you could just play only the situation that your 
 character play part in which makes the game go by faster. It would have been nice though to just 
 be your character and play the whole game. Franchise mode is pretty just the same as last years 
 version. I haven't gotten into a full season yet so i could be wrong. Graphics:
  
  I dont understand why game sites are so critical of this games graphics. The graphics are definitely 
 next gen. Especially the crowd animations which are excellent but could be less cookie cutting. 
 meaning the same person animation wearing the same clothes and doing the exact same thing should 
 be spread out more. They probably will add more crowd characters as the next game installments 
 go by..
  
  Sound:
  
  It pretty simple here. All sounds are great. Maybe better reactions from the fans during certain 
 situations like home team home runs. Fans should be louder and more excited. Same thing with say 
 the home pitcher has 2 strikes on the opposing batter. IT would be nice to hear the crowd whistling 
 and yelling. maybe even standing up like in real life to help the pitcher give him the 3rd strike. 
 Give it more touch of realism. Play by play and commentary is still the best ive ever heard in 
 any sports game to date. There still the same database of words and sentences from last year with 
 a bunch more this year for less repetitive talk.
  
  Value:
  
  Like most sports video games, the value here is the franchise mode, in addition to the shows Career 
 mode which give it huge replay value. Ive only played 1 game online and to be honest here it just 
 a horrible experiance. The lag is awefull making it difficult to time pitches. Time dive plays 
 and pretty much time everything. Perhapse if there were minimal lag it would be a greater experiance. 
 Online Leagues are available this year but you cant create a league unless your account is older 
 then 15 days. Since the game hasn't been released over 15 days ago, there are no leagues out there 
 yet. This might be a good thing to make people get used to online play or for Sony to fix the online 
 bugs before starting League play.
  
  Overall This game has the excitement of the Show. Its the best baseball game out there for the 
 PS3. In my opinion alot better then MLB 2k7 Wiich I purchased but traded it in only 1 week after 
 i bought it.. Some people are different. If youre still undecided on which baseball game to get, 
 rent both first. but I would perfer MLB 07 the show: hands down. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: elmetfano
Rating: 9.2
Date: May 27, 2007 8:08 pm PT
Review:  If you played MLB 06 the Show last year, and you got a PS3 then you'll be surprised to know that 
 this game is great. Before i bought this game i tried out MLB 2K7 from blockbuster and i hated 
 it, when this game finally came out without doubt this is the baseball game to beat. Its a blast 
 and it may be no MVP 2005 to most people (never played it b4 but hey im happy with this) but this 
 is the top baseball game out there. Road to the Show is one of the new features and it is a great 
 one, Its like career but insted you soly play as him in every situation.
  
  9.2 easily 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CubsFan1989
Rating: 9.4
Date: May 27, 2007 6:42 pm PT
Review:  MLB 07 The Show is a great game. The gameplay beats 2K7 by a long shot. Graphics are great at 1080p 
 resolution. Cannot wait for next years version to harness the full power of the PS3 on the graphics 
 side of the game (crowds, footprints, weather conditions, dugouts/bullpens, etc.) Overall gameplay 
 is as if you care watching/playning a real game. Franchise &amp; Career modes are great also! The 
 overall presentation of the game is top notch and is the best baseball sports game I have ever 
 played period. People are now saying about EA Sports MVP 2005 was the best game. Move over, we 
 have a new champion. Go Cubbies! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: aternativo
Rating: 9.6
Date: May 21, 2007 11:27 am PT
Review:  the show has everything u need to have, this game is the best game play out there, maybe the graphics 
 are not like 2k7, but is getting there. the number one thing is the show has the most importing 
 and that is the game play. and this year the game has some very good things add for the game this 
 time and it make it very good and more fun to play it. if u don't have it go get it. it was worth 
 the way good call. ohh and one more thing why the don't put chipper jones in the cover of the game 
 ... mets suck!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mustangforlife
Rating: 8.7
Date: May 20, 2007 7:38 pm PT
Review:  I was fairly impressed with the ps3 version of 'the show'. Graphics were decent in some aspects 
 but lacked in other areas. The fans were much more impressive than the 2k7 version but didn't go 
 after foul balls. The grass could have been a little more detailed. The players looked pretty good 
 but not as detailed as 2k7 which I think is hard to beat. I like the controls much more than 2k7 
 yet both games seem to have a problem with infielding ball handling. It might only be me but I 
 have a heck of a time trying to get the infielders to catch ground balls. At least the show has 
 auto fielding and i'm able to throw the ball where I desire. The game feels a lot more fun to play 
 than 2k7 and if your in the market for a baseball game I would choose 'The Show' over MLB 2k7. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jameschok
Rating: 9.1
Date: May 18, 2007 9:29 pm PT
Review:  I've been waiting for a sports simulation game to come along for the PS3 that would capture my 
 attention. With MLB 07, it has finally arrived. While I wished the graphics would be better (hopefully 
 next year they will be) , the gameplay of this game is great. Having never played this series, I 
 found myself frustrated at first trying to understand the controls (especially base running) . However, 
 after my 2nd game, I began to appreciate the nice blend between the excitement of big hits and 
 guessing pitches, as well as the laid back feel of our nation's pastime. This game captures the 
 feel of a baseball game. As corny as it may sound, I enjoy kicking back on my couch and doing some 
 work or reading a magazine as I have a baseball game on in the background. That comfortable setting 
 of being in the ballpark has been blended very nicely with the elation that can be experienced 
 when you put together a string of hits to win the game or blast a ball out of the park in the bottom 
 of the 9th. I really like this game and look forward to next year's version. If you are hoping 
 for a more arcadey baseball game, wait for the BIGS; however, if you're in the market for an exciting 
 simulation with a great presentation and great controls, this is the game for you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DagetAwayMaN421
Rating: 9
Date: May 17, 2007 6:07 am PT
Review:  After playing both MLB 07: The Show and MLB 2K7, it's evident that The Show is superior in many 
 ways, but still, some modifications can be made.
  
  Pitching:
  Pitching is better in The Show than 2K7. For starters, in 2K7, you can't control the power of your 
 pitch, whereas in The Show it is part of the game. Another key difference is that in 2K7 you can 
 improve pitches by hitting certain spots for the payoff pitch compared to The Show which improves 
 the pitch during the course of the game if you're hitting the strike zone with it or decreasing 
 when you're missing, which is more realistic than in 2K7, although I would personally like to max 
 out all my pitches at 99 in 2K7, can't do that here. Also, the umps have their own strike zones 
 which gives me more of a challenge than in 2K7 where you're given a zone and you just gotta get 
 the ball in there when painting corners, sometimes though, it can be frustrating as a batter.
 
  
  Batting:
  The hitter's eye in 2K7 would increase and decrease from pitch to pitch, allowing the player to 
 feel for the where the pitch would be. I haven't found a hitter's eye in 07, don't know if there 
 is one, but I go by zone which i feel is what real batters would do. Look for pitches inside, outside, 
 down and away or up an in, etc. Then on top of that, you can guess the pitch which makes it more 
 fun if you get both the pitch and the zone right, making a hit so much easier. Although hitting 
 for power is a bit difficult when you get them both right, for some reason I keep hitting grounders. 
 I hit a ton of Home Runs in 2K7, but that makes the game too easy.
  
  Graphics:
  I think some graphics are better in 2K7, like the batter and pitcher, but the stadiums and people 
 look much better in the The Show.
  
  Just in general, I think The Show is a better game for those who want more of a challenge, if you 
 want to play an easy baseball game, go with 2K7, but if you want to take some time to learn how 
 to play and really have some fun once you get a hold of it, go to your local video game retailer 
 and get a copy of The Show. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Hades_30
Rating: 8.3
Date: May 17, 2007 4:30 am PT
Review:  Last console baseball game I played was 2K6. Even though it was flawed, I enjoyed it, but I never 
 felt so deeply tied into the game as I do with MLB 07: The Show. Thanks to the Road to the Show 
 gameplay mode, I can finally play as my created player through the season, career, and franshise, 
 and not have to decide the fate of the entire team.
  
  Of course, I'd like there to be a heavy burden on me. I want to carry my team to the World Series 
 and win it, but I want to do it as a single player who came up through the ranks and made it big. 
 That's what The Show is all about, and the game pulls it off quite nicely.
  
  Starting in Spring Training, you have to win a spot on the big league roster. Do this by completing 
 goals that the manager sets for you. Some can get repetitive, and some are just plain stupid when 
 you look at the game situation, but I always listen to my coach!
  
  After completing these, you earn point in which you can spend on improving many different parts 
 of your game. You can shape and mold your player into exactly what you want him to be. I am going 
 for the A-Rod type of player, and so far, things are progressing well (I am striking out alot, 
 but wait until the fans get on my case, I'll pull through) .
  
  The graphics are good, but nothing spectacular. The solid gameplay is what makes this a great game. 
 Sound it really done well, though. The crowd noice is fantastic. Commentators are fine, and the 
 crack of the bat and sounds of the ball whipping into the catchers glove puts you right there in 
 the game.
  
  The stat tracking is deep, menus and interface have been easy to work with, and I am really looking 
 forward to getting into an online league with people from my PS3 buddy list.
  
  I'd recommend MLB 07: The Show to players who like a good simulation of baseball, with just the 
 right mix of hands on action and strategy, but don't need the eye candy that a 2K7 will bring. 
 This was worth the wait. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TriangleHard
Rating: 8.5
Date: May 17, 2007 2:07 am PT
Review:  MLB 07: The show is very well made baseball game that does have some minor problems. Let's start 
 with graphics. Graphics is actually one of the aspects that is very underrated on this game. Few 
 parts of the graphic does lack compared to other PS3 games, such as overall texture of objects 
 in the game. However, it does provide other things to balance it out, such as excellent crowd, 
 great animation, solid frame rates. Yes the players look like plastic model, but overall graphical 
 presentation is very well done and looks very similar to Virtua Tennis. It isn't eye popping, but 
 it looks neat and it works. Still, the textures really kills the game from looking realistic. The 
 plastic faces and very flat looking field sucks out the visual realism. Also in a large stadium 
 like Shea, the frame rate does dip down a bit. It isn't anything serious, but it is noticeable. 
 Now let's go to actual baseball. The pitching mechanic is pretty much the same as previous MLB 
 games. It is old school pitching and it works. Same goes with batting as you bat with one button 
 and it is more about timing than anything else. Of course with guess pitching, umpire's personality 
 thing, and other minor but important aspects of the game, the game isn't simple press a button 
 at right time. The many subtle aspects of baseball is all in here. However, there are some camera 
 issues when you play Road to the Show mode, which is probably be the most popular single player 
 game mode. When you field, the camera focuses on the ball, so too often it is difficult to know 
 where you are actually going when you try to get to bases. I play pitcher in the Road to the Show 
 so after my pitch, I try to run toward first base to get the double play going, but often I find 
 myself way past the base or somewhere completely off due to awful camera angle. Also when you are 
 at the base as a runner, the camera doesn't focus on the ball, so it is difficult to make the judgment 
 whether you should run or not. Too often I was out because I couldn't tell if the ball was fly 
 out or not. But then again, I should have stopped to check before I decide to run like many baseball 
 players do, but I'm sure baseball players are looking while moving to make such decision, so I 
 think this is just another camera problem. Other than that, I haven't noticed that many flaws in 
 the game. Well the bat is broken way too often, but everything else seems to be in right balance. 
 You don't catch home runs with crazy catch often (it is very rare) , the number of errors players 
 seems to commit seems realistic, and A. I doesn't make stupid decisions like giving up double play 
 to throw it to the first (which is what I've heard) UNLESS it is impossible to get both then they 
 would settle for getting one definitive out. Which is very realistic (And difficulty isn't the 
 issue because I play in rookie mode) I haven't mentioned sixaxis because I haven't used it and 
 not planning to do so. However, there seems to be use of sixaxis with fielding.
  
  As for baseball itself, MLB 07 does excellent job at realistically portraying the sports into a 
 game. Most problems of MLB 07 lies in else where. One of the very minor problem would be the menus. 
 It is rather confusing and need some time to get used to it. Unlike NBA 2k7, the menus aren't very 
 organized. It looks slick and everything seems good, just slightly disorganized. After few minutes 
 of looking through things, you will get used to it quickly, but for the sake of being thorough 
 I have to mention it. Online function is quite well done with IM and buddylist being present for 
 you all the time, even when you are just playing single player. There is leader boards etc etc 
 etc. In other words, just about anything you can think of, they have it. Another problem, would 
 be create a character mode. You cannot make your own face and must use number of existing faces. 
 There aren't good enough number of faces to satisfy your needs especially when all of them look 
 hideous. Sure there are some skin and wrinkles you can adjust, but you cannot adjust the face of 
 the facial features. I'm not a good looking individuals, but I certainly look better than them, 
 and when I make virtual me, I want to look better than the real me. Also commentary does have some 
 problems too. There is 1 play by play person and 2 commentators. And 2nd commentators often repeat 
 same thing over and over again to the point that he doesn't seem very needed and makes the commentating 
 feels unrealistic. It is more like add-on to original commentator, but they couldn't hire him back 
 so they used another person. Quite annoying. Also to many baseball fans out there, you will be 
 glad to know Daisuke and Goyaball (?) is in the game. Overall, MLB 07: The Show is rock solid baseball 
 game. There isn't many to dislike about it. With incredibly number of single player modes, excellent 
 online modes, and realistic gameplay, MLB 07: The Show just have extended the baseball season. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rludeman44
Rating: 8.9
Date: May 16, 2007 8:52 pm PT
Review:  If u like sim baseball this is ur game. The realism is awesome bouncing throws to first, hit and 
 runs, snap throws from the catcher and great commentary. The graphics are a little bland when it 
 comes to neck down but the faces look lke ur watching t. v. Th crowd looks great and so do the stadiums. 
 A few peoblems hold this game back are the catching glitch (sometimes the ball does not even come 
 close to the glove) , and sometimes fielders run right by the ball on one hoppers in the outfield 
 and bouncers up the middle in the infield and a lot of the pitchers hrow some wierd looking overhnd 
 delivery... most of which are not even overhand throwers. The game is still all around great. Every 
 game has problems, the show is no exception. If u are debating which to buy i will say this... the 
 show is like t. v. baseball and 2k7 is for the pick up and play gamer. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: firpi
Rating: 5.9
Date: May 16, 2007 8:28 pm PT
Review:  Already spent the 62 dollars just hope the can atleast fix the online. Was trying to get a game 
 for about 2 hours when finnally got the game going something about traffic and the game did not 
 start. The graffics are terrible looks worse than PS2 more like PSP. When fielding the ball you 
 can't see the players faces as a matter of fact you can't even see the pitchers face when he pitches. 
 You want to dive for a ball up the middle good luck because if you miss it will be a double because 
 the center fielder also takes a dive. When you hit a homerun don't even see the ball or the runner 
 rounding the bases. Overall game could had been a lot better just hope like i said that the can 
 fix the online because if I tade it in the will only give 20 dollars if I am lucky. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: protek_0813
Rating: 9.4
Date: May 16, 2007 6:29 pm PT
Review:  I play a quick game with my cousin, and this game is fun. I heard abouth the PS2 version was good, 
 but instead I waited for the PS3 version. And I must say its really good. It took me a while to 
 figured out the controls but after 10 minutes I got simple. Cant wait to try it online. Never bought 
 a baseball game for a console. So far this is the best to me. I only played for an hour, because 
 I had to go work. But can't wait to get home and play again and maybe try it online. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: loogs
Rating: 7.8
Date: Jun 4, 2007 6:38 am PT
Review:  I was going to write a huge review on this game, instead I will make it short. This is an excellent 
 baseball sim. It makes me excited to see what theyll do for next years installment, but for now 
 this is definitely the game to play.
  
  The graphics arent great but heres the reason. The player models all look the same so theres 
 really no way to tell them apart at first glance. The torso is too big and the legs are short. 
 The feet are also too big, but who cares. The game looks beautiful in HD. The crowd looks nice. 
 The faces on the players is what surprised me the most, they are very accurate.
  
  As for the sounds, the only thing I dont like is the way the ball sounds traveling to the plate. 
 The commentary is ok. Not nearly as good as 2K7, but still good. The crowd sounds sick. Its in 
 the game the whole time and really makes the game what it is because you get the feeling that whatever 
 the situation is in the game at that time the crowd is reacting very realistically to it. Great 
 job there.
  
  The fielding is smooth. It was a joy to see balls bounced to the first baseman, something you never 
 see in 2K7.
  
  The best part for me is the collision detection. Its 99.90% perfect. It was a disaster in 2K7 as 
 the ball would never react properly to where it made contact with the bat. You would see balls 
 fly out of the park that were just ridiculous. Fielders do pass thru each other, but again who 
 cares. If you swing too early or too late the ball will react accordingly if you make contact. 
 There will be plenty of foul balls as a result of this great programming.
  
  A lot of stuff has been said lately on message boards so I really lost my urge to do a full review 
 for this game. The bottom line is that while 2K7 is very enjoyable and has the best graphics ever 
 in a sports game; it is highly flawed and cannot compete with this game. All they have to do is 
 fix the graphics in this game just a little and well all have a true masterpiece of a BBall game.
 
  
  If you have both systems I will say that you must experience 2K7 for its strengths, but this is 
 definitely the best baseball game and franchise. I also am proud of my boy David Wright and cannot 
 stand Derek Jeter. Man I just got goose bumps from the radio sounbytes they have in this game. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tytomes9
Rating: 9.6
Date: May 16, 2007 2:20 pm PT
Review:  best baseball game on the market. you cant get much better graphics then this game. if u have to 
 choice between 2k7 and the show , buy the show because it is so much better. maybe the best sports 
 game on the market right now. this is my favourite game rgiht now and probaly will be better then 
 football and hockey. wow i dint think it would be this good but it is amazing i cant stop playing 
 it becasue it is so good. have fun playing this game because if you dont , you must be **** in 
 the head 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DominicanAG
Rating: 8.7
Date: May 15, 2007 4:33 pm PT
Review:  Finally a REAL BASEBALL SIM game on the PS3. This is the game I've waiting for to play on the PS3 
 as far as Baseball games goes. Even thou the Show doesn't have the authenticity of 2K7 the game 
 looks and plays much better than it's competition. If you were looking for a baseball game to buy 
 for the PS3 than this is the game you should purchase for your system if you haven't already done. 
 Now on to the graphics the game does look a little better than the PS2 version on a huge leap but 
 a little better. I'm pretty sure come next year the game will be on par to it's PS2 version. All 
 the previous feature from the PS2 make on to the PS3 version exhibition mode, career mode, franchise 
 mode, and online league. The game sounds and looks great the excellent commentary is still there 
 from the previous PS2 version as well. If you're been a fan of the previous Sony baseball games 
 than I wouldn't see anybody being disappointed with this game. Also there's a lot of room for improvement 
 come next year version of 08 the Show. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: b_wilcox
Rating: 8.6
Date: May 15, 2007 12:28 pm PT
Review:  ... the first baseball game for the PS3 is part of the ever-improving The Show series from SCEA. 
 When EA Sports lost the ability to put Major Leaguers into its MVP series (it now releases a somewhat 
 half-baked NCAA baseball game for the PS2) , this became the only game in town.
  
  Fortunately, it's a damn fine monopoly. MLB '07: The Show debuts on the PS3 with plenty of next-gen 
 panache, but at its heart is a terrific, mostly accurate representation of the actual game. It's 
 the first truly banner sports title for the console, and it again proves to be vastly better than 
 the 2K Sports counterpart.
  
  Controls are refreshingly simple. Stadiums and players are well rendered. Sound effects and commentary 
 are lifelike and, for the most part, interspersed nicely into the action. The online play will 
 assuredly take off and the standard options and mini-games are in place.
  
  Can't go wrong with this one at all. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
