-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: MLB 08: The Show
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/ps3/sports/mlb08/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Hitting, pitching, and fielding feel great.
 Tons of different ways to enjoy the game of baseball.
 Visuals get the little things right.
 Commentary is top-notch.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Road to the Show can become tedious and still has some issues.
 Not many new, notable features.
 Load times in Road to the Show are excessive.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Mar 18, 2008
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 8.5
Critic Score: 8.6, 34 Review (s)
User Score: 8.8, 1,371 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: SCEA
Developer: SCEA San Diego
Genre: Baseball Sim
Date: Mar 4, 2008
ESRB: Everyone

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
MLB 08: The Show does very little new, but most everything it does is done very, very well. 

 
  Sony's MLB series has been top dog for several years running now, and that hasn't changed in 2008. 
 MLB 08: The Show doesn't have much in the way of new content, but it improves upon last year's 
 game in almost every department, and it's  the  baseball game to get if you're a PlayStation 3 
 owner looking to play America's Pastime.  

  Its play on the field is where MLB 08 shines the most. Everything -- the pitching, hitting, fielding, 
 animations, and atmosphere -- is sublime. Hitting is similar to what it was last year. You can guess 
 pitch type and location, and are rewarded with a red indicator just before the ball is delivered 
 if you guess correctly. There are two swing types: power and contact. Initially you may find yourself 
 swinging at every pitch with a power swing, but you'll quickly find that picking the proper swing 
 for each situation is paramount to your success as a hitter. What MLB 08 really gets right about 
 hitting is the timing; there's just enough time between when the ball is released and when it gets 
 to the plate to determine what kind of pitch it is and if it's a ball or a strike. This might sound 
 insignificant, but it's something very few baseball games get right. From frozen ropes to ground-rule 
 doubles to seeing-eye grounders, there's an incredible variety of hits, and what's more, they all 
 come off the bat naturally, which is yet again an area in which other baseball games have difficulty. 

           Pitching's button-pressing mechanics feel a bit dated, but they get the job done.     

  Pitching eschews the trend of using the right analog stick and sticks with four button presses. 
 The first button press is to select your pitch, then there's one to start the meter, one to set 
 power, and one to determine effectiveness. Your catcher will call for a location based on the hitter's 
 strengths and weaknesses, so you'll often find yourself taking a little something off of a pitch 
 to make sure you hit your spot. You'll still make some mistakes, and your placement will suffer 
 for it, but you're not punished overly harshly for making one little mistake. This method might 
 not feel quite as natural as using the right analog stick, but it's effective and accurate, and 
 that's what matters most.  

  One thing that tends to get overlooked in baseball games, by both the people who develop them and 
 the people who play them, is fielding. That's not the case with MLB 08. Fielding just feels right. 
 Players move at the proper speed, the fielding animations are incredible, and the controls are 
 tight. Anyone who has watched Omar Vizquel turn a double play in real life knows how elegant and 
 effortless he makes it look. Now you too can do the same, and it's a blast. That's right: Fielding 
 is fun here.  

  Most of the changes made in MLB 08 are minor but go a long way toward making the game play better. 
 One area that has seen some improvement, but not quite enough, is Road to the Show. In Road to 
 the Show mode, you create a player at any position and try to lead him from the minors to (hopefully) 
 the Hall of Fame. Whether you're a pitcher or a hitter, you're given a goal by your manager before 
 each at-bat, and you're awarded points for achieving that goal. A hitter might need to drive in 
 a run, get on base, or simply take a strike. A pitcher might need to secure a strikeout, induce 
 a ground ball, or get ahead in the count. Thanks to new and more forgiving goals, you're more likely 
 to earn points, which is a good thing because applying said points nets a minimal amount of improvement 
 to your attributes.  

  Road to the Show has several strengths. For starters, you play only when your player is at-bat, 
 pitching, or directly involved in a play. This makes games go by much faster than they would if 
 you were playing every pitch of a nine-inning game. It's also nice to be in control of one player 
 from the first pitch to the last pitch of his career. The player editor is extremely robust and 
 there are hundreds of announcer-voiced names to choose from, so you really feel a connection with 
 your onscreen persona; you'll be thrilled when he does well, and you'll get frustrated and start 
 to press when he's mired in a slump.  

  That said, Road to the Show falters in a few areas that make it significantly less enjoyable than 
 it could be. The biggest issue is that it can take a very long time to work your way from the minors 
 to the bigs. We created a second baseman and signed with the Cubs because they were weak at the 
 position. After a mediocre spring training, we were sent down to be a bench player in AA. After 
 about a month of tearing up the league, we took over the starting role, and that's when the mode 
 got frustrating. A few weeks later, the player we had supplanted was called up to AAA, even though 
 we had fulfilled all of the objectives, such as hitting for a certain average, not striking out, 
 and improving specific attributes during the evaluation period. Undaunted, we plugged along and 
 found ourselves among the league leaders in every major statistical category, but time and time 
 again we were told we weren't ready.  

  After 100+ games, we were hitting .417, led the league in hitting, hits, doubles, and triples, 
 and were in the top five in home runs, steals, and runs batted in. We had also fulfilled every 
 objective in the previous three evaluations, and the players above us were hitting about .240. 
 The organization recognized that we had the skills and were in the midst of a great season, but 
 we were told to stick it out in AAA. We asked for a trade and were rebuffed. Checking our scouting 
 report, we found that what it was saying was based purely on our attributes and not our production, 
 given that it chastised us for being poor with the stick even though we were leading the league 
 in hitting with a batting average over .400. Furthermore, it said that we were a poor fielder even 
 though we had made one error in our entire career. Eventually, frustrated at having played every 
 at-bat in more than 130 games (including spring training) , we simulated the rest of the season 
 and got called up on the last day because of an injury, but we didn't get an at-bat. Going into 
 the next spring, we declined our option because we were making only $30,000 a year and wanted some 
 more cash. We went back to camp with the Cubbies, and after simulating spring training, we found 
 ourselves back in AA. Yes, this is a somewhat plausible situation in real life, but people play 
 video games to escape from the everyday grind, not to experience more of it. You may have an entirely 
 different experience with Road to the Show (pitchers seem to have an easier go of it) , but ours 
 left a lot to be desired.  

           If stats like these can't get you out of AA, what will?      

  There are a few other 
 ways in which Road to the Show could stand to be improved. Although the games in this mode take 
 less time than a normal game, they still take too long. This is partially due to the excessive 
 load times before and after each game, but it's mostly because of the time you waste standing on 
 the basepaths watching and waiting for the hitters behind you to make contact. It's achingly boring 
 to get on base as the lead-off man and then stand there for another 20-30 pitches with nothing 
 to do. It's realistic, but it's terribly uninteresting. Fielding (which is fine in the traditional 
 mode of play, but was problematic in Road to the Show last year) has been improved, and you can 
 now see the ball easily and earn some points for positive plays, but it's still far from perfect. 
 The artificial intelligence hardly ever throws anybody out, so running to cover second on a steal 
 attempt is pointless. There are also too many ground balls. In the 100+ games we played, we handled 
 exactly five pop-ups and one line drive. Lastly, your play in the field doesn't really seem to 
 matter. You can go the extra mile and make a diving catch, or you can let the ball trickle through, 
 but it never comes back to help or hinder your career.     

   

  If slogging your way through the minor leagues isn't your cup of tea -- and unless your name is Crash 
 Davis and you're trying to woo Susan Sarandon, it probably isn't -- there's plenty of value to be 
 found in MLB 08's franchise mode. Here you pick the team that you'd like to run and then you're 
 presented with a series of goals that you must reach during the duration of your contract. Goals 
 include: have a team batting average of .250 over two seasons, win two division titles, turn a 
 profit, or make the playoffs. These objectives vary from team to team, so if you're taking over 
 the sorry Tampa "maybe if we drop the Devil you'll like us more" Rays, then you won't have the 
 same expectations placed upon you that you would if you were with the Yankees. Speaking of the 
 Yankees, MLB 08's franchise mode lets you micromanage your team to such an extent that Hank Steinbrenner 
 would approve. The draft, training, rehab, contracts, facilities, marketing, and banking -- all the 
 day-to-day aspects of running a ball club -- are in your hand. We're still disappointed that you 
 can't play anything less than a 162-game season because of the serious time commitment involved 
 if you play all of your games, but Sony has added the ability to save midgame, which is a big help 
 when you don't have time for a full game but still want to make some progress.  

           Like an outfielder fielding a lazy fly, MLB 08's gameplay is as smooth as butter.     

  One area in which The Show stumbles a bit is multiplayer. You can play a single game, play in a 
 league, download rosters, share sliders, instant message, and more, but lag makes the online experience 
 less than ideal. If you're serious enough about baseball to commit to an entire online season, 
 you're going to have to be willing to concede a few plays a game because of the lag and periodic 
 hiccups that occur during most games. Two-player games on one system aren't really an ideal substitute, 
 either. Given that the Dual Shock 2 lacks rumble, you have no way of knowing where the edge of 
 the strike zone is when you're pitching, unless you pick your location while the indicator is still 
 visible. Of course, that gives the pitch's location away to your opponent, who can guess its location 
 before it's thrown. This is a problem because guessing a pitch's type or location correctly causes 
 the CPU to automatically throw the pitch for you, which means that you're left as a spectator. 

  MLB 08's presentation isn't flashy, but it's beautiful nonetheless. Player likenesses are the best 
 of any baseball game, and there's no shortage of individualized swings, stances, and pitching styles. 
 The ballparks all look fantastic, and not just the big-league parks, either. Even the minor-league 
 stadiums look great and are full of character and style. Players and stadiums are things that most 
 sports games do well, but it's the little touches that The Show gets right that make it so attractive. 
 You won't notice many of these instances right away, but you'll come to appreciate them as you 
 spend more time playing. You'll see fans batting beach balls around in the stands, players will 
 pull pranks on each other in the dugout if you leave the game sitting for a few minutes, and third-base 
 coaches will tap-dance out of the way of foul balls hit sharply in their direction. Player animation 
 is outstanding and the transition from one to the next is generally seamless. Here, too, the game 
 does the little things right. Not only do players react to and field a ball in a lifelike manner, 
 but they also follow through in a manner equally as accurate. If you scoop up a lazy ground ball 
 and casually toss it to first, it looks just as realistic as a player scrambling for a hot shot 
 and then firing it off to first base while he's off balance. It's rare that you'll be 20+ hours 
 into a sports game and still find yourself impressed with new animations, but it happens here. 

  The Show's audio sneaks up on you and then continues to impress in a similar way. At first the 
 commentary comes off as accurate but nothing special, and you'll probably be a little annoyed with 
 Rex Hudler's non sequiturs. Then, as you continue to play, you'll notice how Matt Vasgersian is 
 always right on top of the action; how Dave Campbell has an uncanny knack for recalling previous 
 at-bats for players; and even how Rex is right when he chastises hitters for laying off pitches 
 at which they should have swung. Their commentary even helps the gameplay. MLB 08 has realistic 
 umpires, each of whom has his own unique strike zone. The broadcasters are all over this and quickly 
 point out when an umpire has expanded or contracted the strike zone. It not only makes you aware 
 that, yes, the umpire did just call that strike a ball, but also that you need to be aware that 
 this will probably happen the rest of the game and adjust accordingly. The rest of MLB 08's audio 
 is of a similar high quality. Fans have specific chants for their team and react realistically 
 to what's happening onscreen. The sounds of the game -- the crack of the bat, the sound of a player 
 sliding into a base -- are all spot-on as well.  

           It's the little things, such as players goofing off during breaks in the action, that 
 make 08's presentation stand out.      

  Instead of adding new content or reinventing the wheel, the developers at SCEA San Diego refined 
 things they were already doing right, and in the process made a great game even better. Hitting, 
 pitching, and fielding all look and feel fantastic. There's no shortage of ways to stay busy, whether 
 you want to run a whole team, follow the career of a single player, or manage a game from the dugout. 
 It's a shame that, even after another year in development, Road to the Show isn't quite as refined 
 as the game's other aspects, but it's still an interesting mode that generally manages to be enjoyable 
 in spite of its flaws. If you're looking for a great baseball game that covers all the bases, look 
 no further than MLB 08: The Show.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (103 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: canhead101
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 23, 2009 5:19 pm PT
Review:  Mlb 08 the show has the best graphics yet in the Franchise. The player movments are outrageous. 
 They actually make it look like you are watching a game live. I would recommend this game to any 
 baseball player or fan. The road to the show has improved so much over one year. Now sometimes 
 you can actually recieve signs from the third base coach. In Franchise mode you can go from playing 
 the game to trading for the number one pitcher. King of the Diamond is alright. It is not the best 
 thing they have came out with over the years. The Manager mode's cameras view has tremendously 
 improved. Creating a player has also improved so much. You can make has jaw a different size and 
 everything. If I was a all around sports fan, which i am, i would pick up this game immediately, 
 which i did. Well thats my review for MLB 08 The Show. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: alexchapman25
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 22, 2009 12:19 pm PT
Review:  What can I say about this game? Well if you have the time and patience to stick this out, it is 
 well worth it. The season and career options are fantastic if you like the realism of the sport 
 and conversely if you just fancy a single game against a mate then the enjoyment factor is there 
 also.
  
  Theres a few little snags when it comes to accuracy of rosters (for example me being a Cubs fan 
 I did initially want koske on the game and he was signed early in the off season last year, but 
 there is no sign of him on the game)
  
  As for gameplay itself, the controls are fantastic and once you sort out the rhythmn and timing 
 of hitting its highly rewarding to hit a game winning grand slam out of the park. The graphics 
 are pretty good but I feel dont use the full opportunity that next generation consoles provide, 
 so I'm hoping that next year this improves. The AI is average and occasionally you get misfields 
 on both sides that really shouldnt happen, but most of the time you get accurate gameplay. 
  
  This game completely kills the opposition of MLB 2K8 and so i thoroughly recommend getting 
 this game (or waiting until MLB 09 The Show comes out in March!!) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BTL2
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 17, 2009 1:28 pm PT
Review:  Absolutly the best baseball game released so far the graphics will blow you away, cant imagin what 
 MLB 09 the Show will look like, The Show is a million times better then the 2k versions of the 
 game, better in graphics and gameplay.... what else is there. The controls are so much easier and 
 better, the graphics are crisper colourful and just so much more real, gameplay is smoother and 
 AI is pretty challanging on HOF mode, if you can't decide between MLB 08 or 2k8 think about it 
 wuts better a fresh apple, or a rotten one, if you get 2k8 your basically getting an apple that's 
 home to a MILLION worms and bugs, MLB 08 The Show is like a fresh fully grown ripe apple that you'v 
 just taken clean of the tree, nothing gets better then that. Past MLB games 2k and Show were all 
 about statistics and strategy, in 08 the Show all that still applies, but something new has been 
 added, something you wouldn't expect.... baseball. In past games you'd mostly have to play the percentages 
 to pretty much garentee success, in MLB 08 the show you can still do that or you can just pick 
 up you bat, ball glove and play the game the way it was ment to be played, in Real time graphics 
 and with the essance that your on the field pitching beside your Gold Glove Hero. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: WARLOCK234
Rating: 4.5
Date: Jan 2, 2009 10:43 am PT
Review:  MLB 08 The Show is the newest in the series. This is terrible, i haven't played previous versions 
 but this game just sucks, even for twenty bucks. The controls are very hard to learn, especially 
 when the booklet gives you no help or control help and there is no tutorial at all. Learning how 
 to pitch is the worst. After about an hour of trying to figure out how the pitching worked, i just 
 gave up and pressed the button randomly, hopefully getting a good pitch. Also, when you do finally 
 hit the ball, batting is difficult also, you can't even control your player running to the base, its 
 run by CPU, only the outfielders can be controlled. Baseball games are very difficult to make but 
 it could be much better than this. The best thing about this game is the graphix. They are beautiful 
 even though its not 1080p, though it does say 1080p on the box, it only supports 720p output, like 
 most PS3 games, it only says 1080p so people who have TV's that only output 1080p won't be worried, so 
 its kinda false advertising. The menus are terrible though. There are like four different screens 
 and then a sub-menu on the bottom which is very confusing and probably adds something to the game 
 which is completely useless. But overall this game is uber boring with really nothing that makes 
 it exciting or fun because there's only a certain level of control in any baseball game which makes 
 you feel like your only playing half the game and the rest is just all CPU controlled making it 
 really boring and not even worth 20 bucks used from gamefly, i immediately sold on eBay. So not 
 really worth it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chrismx193
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 14, 2008 10:04 pm PT
Review:  There isn't much of a difference between the 08 and 07 version, but this one just looks MUCH more 
 realistic. Road to the Show is very addicting. If you're a fan of baseball, this game mode can 
 keep you playing for hours. Literally for, as in FOUR, hours. I've done it. I'll finish a game 
 and then just want to play another one, just to get my stats and skill points up. Sometimes you'll 
 get into little slumps (well, I did) and want to try to hit your way out of it. The only frustrating 
 part was the beginning to RTTS. They start you in the minors, and depending on how well you do, 
 you could be there for 2-3 full seasons. But this "unfortunate" thing actually makes you want to 
 play it more so you can work your way up to The Show.... the majors.
  
  So yeah, the gameplay and graphics are cool. It offers difficulty levels that work well for beginners 
 and experts. Hall of fame mode offers a very realistic life-like gameplay, and is challenging which 
 makes it fun. 
  
  Now online play, it's pretty cool and competitive (sometimes ;) ) , but there is a bit of a lag problem. 
 I don't know if it's just MY internet connection, but when that lag stuff starts happening, it 
 sucks. It messes you and your opponent up and isn't any fun at all. But other then that, it's pretty 
 cool.
  
  So I highly recommend this game. I know it's after baseball season already, and that MLB 09 will 
 probably come out, but MLB 08 was very impressive and is a game EVERY baseball fan should at least 
 try out.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: BallOBaseSimmer
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 13, 2008 5:24 am PT
Review:  I held off on this gem because of the hefty price price tag and got it used before the holidays. 
 But this game is so good that I would have easily paid full price had I rented it or known beforehand.
 
  
  I've always been in the habit of playing MLB series games at the plate in guess mode and living 
 and dying by the home run so that every game is a nail-biting testament to the nuances of clutch 
 performance. And I also stack the deck in trades and often play with a club of journeymen against 
 a superstar dream team so that a win requires the most difficult game possible.
  
  This is the best way to play for serious gamers who want a real challenge. Because you don't get 
 any cheap victories and must gut and grit out every pitch. Play a powerhouse ball club with a team 
 of scrappers and just being competitive in a close fought game can be a monumental task. 
  
  What separates this 08 release from previous annual volumes is that umps' fickle strike zones 
 can hinder or hamper even good pitching and locking onto a sitter mistake pitch in guess mode is 
 far less forgiving and never an easy guarantee of a big hit. So this demanding game-play combination 
 makes for ultimate realism in the AI department. 
  
  First game out of the jewel case I found myself in a classic pitcher's duel vs. a team of All Stars 
 including Al Pujols batting cleanup and Frankie Rodriguez who just signed a 3 year deal with the 
 Mets as closer.
  
  It went down to the bottom of the 9th. I was down 3 to 2. Since I am an Angels fan and know KRod's 
 repertoire somewhat, I expected sliders down in the strike zone and cutters away.
  
  With one out and a guy on first who singled off a low slider, I step up with Rocco Baldelli and 
 jack a cutter away out of the park to right field. I almost felt like the game had confirmed my 
 scouting report as a fan. The realist end result was that unexpected yet gratifying. 
  
  Of course, if you play this style the game can be so difficult that walk offs like the latter can 
 amount to one in a hundred. 
  
  Still, overall I can't say enough about this game. It's like going to a MLB contest in your living 
 room and jumping through the LCD to get in on the action. 
  
  The interactive realism is so awe inspiring that game-play is a endeavor of accomplishment beyond 
 video gaming. Graphics are so good that you get a feeling of actually being there that lets you 
 rise to the occasion even if you're outmatched or have just average hand-eye coordination.
  
  Get this game. If you can't afford good seats to the real deal, this is the next best thing. 
 Plus you get to hit and pitch, yell at the ump and do the unexpected. And when unpredictability 
 is the name of the game as it with this show, playing it never gets old. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: marklovesbaseba
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 3, 2008 7:27 pm PT
Review:  the graphics are amazing....
  the cround is great and makes maddens look like a joke
  player animations are amazing....
  pitching could be better but very realistic...
  road to 
 the show is amazing and makes all other careers in other games unplayable kind of like maddens 
 lol
  online is fun if there is a good conection....
  overall a great game everyone should get mlb 09 the show becuase they should be adding much more
 
  franchise is amazingly deep u can even edit the amount of seats in the stadium
  and they make very good roster updates unlike madden so really if ur impressed what so ever by 
 madden and u like baseball this will blow u away
  i need to add more to my review so im typing random stuff here . . . . . 
  worth playing and 
 made me get a ps3 cuase 360 sucks and cuase this game is only for ps3
  fhgjbfgb fgh fd d 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NYuuRaKuS
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 30, 2008 1:46 am PT
Review:  First off, I'm not a fan of baseball. Sure, I'll watch it from time to time, but I'd much rather 
 watch other stuff. I don't follow baseball, yet I love this game. This game has taught me many 
 things about baseball...
  
  Graphics: Pretty amazing. There's a lot of detail. Players are recognizable, usually, and locations 
 are detailed. The crowd could use more models and have different actions, but it works. Replays 
 are amazing to watch, though a tad off when rotating the camera. Really a nice game. Since people 
 often mistake me for watching a real baseball game.... 10/10
  
  Sound: The crowd sounds real. Commentators sound legitimate, but are a bit redundant at times. 
 Music selection is fairly good. The sound really adds an authentic touch to the game. 10/10.
  
  Gameplay: I must admit, I'm not that great at batting but it is none the less fun (and infuriating.... but 
 in a challenging way) . Rumble is awesome while blind pitching. I only hate the "realistic" touch 
 added to the game, where umpires make mistakes and such. Sure it makes me happy when its in my 
 favor, but its horrible when its not. (Ex. the AI was running to 2nd base... the umpire ran across 
 base to get a view towards outfield... while he ran over, 2nd baseman caught the ball.... then the 
 runner slid in (all while the umps back was turned) . He then blindly calls "SAFE!". Major WTF!) . 
 9/10
  
  Controls: Perfect. I really like the setup. 10/10
  
  Replay factor: There's just so much to do. Play a season as your favorite team. Road To The Show.... where 
 you make your own character and lead him to fame and a happy retirement. And other modes that I 
 haven't even gotten to yet. There's more than enough of content to last you until 09's edition 
 of the game. Or for me.... until HD is considered obsolete :D 10/10
  
  Random bads: Long load times... but I usually don't solely focus on playing so its not a problem 
 for me. Some positions in RTTS can get boring. Batting coaches are a bit demanding (forgive my 
 pathetic batting TT. TT) . Still... these don't dent my opinion on the game. 
  
  Note: I put difficulty "hard" because I'm junk at batting. Some people are really good at batting 
 however, and this game will be a cake-walk.... even on higher difficulties. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dan65
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 5, 2008 4:06 pm PT
Review:  This game is great. The game modes are very nice with Road to The Show and a very very deep franchise 
 mode in which you can feel like your really the owner of that team. The frame rate is so smooth 
 in comparison to 2K8 which is the buggiest game ever alive. The road to the show mode is very nice. 
 The player customization is good and the new skill improvement thingy is a nice addition to. I 
 think a flaw is that when you've created a pitcher it can be very frustrating at times when the 
 guys just get hit after hit when you throw where the catcher gives the signal to throw it. And 
 hitting can be hard at times to. The franchise mode is great. Except for one little thing. If you're 
 a guy who likes to play the games and not sim them like me, then it's gonna take you a very very 
 long time to complete just one season. Fielding is kinda boring except when a fielder makes a stupid 
 throwing error even if the runner's prince fielder. The developers could've changed the throwing 
 errors in the infield a bit into catching errors in the outfield while they're on the run. Except 
 for these little things MLB 08 The Show is a great game and wins by 20 runs against 2K8. BUY THIS 
 GAME IF YOU'VE GOT A PS3 AND YOU HAVE TO DECIDE BETWEEN 2K8 AND THE SHOW 
::::::

::::::
UserName: yankees_14
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 20, 2008 3:18 pm PT
Review:  MLB 08 The Show is the best baseball game around! The game play is so smooth! It actually makes 
 you feel like you are really in a baseball game. The Home Run rob indicator is so cool. Also, Road 
 to the Show is even better. The graphics look really great! You can even personalize the players' 
 wristbands with numbers! The rosters are so current. The online play is pretty good also. The players 
 batting stances are so much like the in real life. The in-game saves are cool also. If you are in 
 franchise mode or season modeand have leave somewhere, you can save right from where you picked 
 up from. The new soundtrac feature is awsome. You can edit your own custom playlist. You have to 
 have music saved on your hard drive though. This game is definetly worth however much you pay for 
 it! Overall, MLB 08 the Show is the best baseball game around! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jagsman
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 4, 2008 7:32 pm PT
Review:  MLB 08: The Show allows most young males to fulfil one of their major fantasies, namely; being 
 a pro athlete.
  
  Sure, there are plenty of other options available, but basically the only thing The Show does markedly 
 different from the competition is the "Road to the Show" mode.
  
  You take your rookie (designed, of course, by you) and you sign on for a team in time for Spring 
 training. You'll go on to negotiate contracts, move up the divisions and kick up a fuss when you're 
 not happy for whatever reason. You'll spend points on your player's attributes gained through good 
 play on the field, and you'll advance up the ranks via "advancement goals." These are a little 
 annoying in reality, as your team will often ask you to blow points on the most useless of skills, 
 reacting angrily when you don't.
  
  Also, while the gameplay is generally excellent, there're flaws in a few areas. You'll often find 
 yourself bored as you sit on base watching the second teammate in a row strike out, but then, little 
 can be done about that; it's the sport's flaw, not the game's. Also, at times your coach will foist 
 ridiculous instructions upon you, and you may well be punished for not succeeding with them, even 
 if it was hardly possible to.
  
  Despite these problems, you'll find yourself living with them as, at the end of the day, this game 
 (or more specifically, this mode) is a cracker that should be experienced even by those not well-versed 
 in the ways of America's pastime. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Colin789
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 28, 2008 12:09 pm PT
Review:  This game is amazing. I am not a huge baseball fan but i have alway been a fan of the games.
  
  The graphics in this game are decent. The texture look good and it does feel like a next gen 
 game. 
  
  The road to the show mode is the best part of this game. It is so fun to increase the stats of 
 the guy you create and try to reach goals. It amazing working your way up through AA, then AAA 
 teams to the MLB teams. The best postion for this mode is the pitcher becuase then you get the 
 most action. Sometimes it can be boring playing something else. 
  
  The sound is this game is perfect. When the bat breaks in a game it sounds exactly like it. Also 
 how loud the fans are like when you a pitching the last strike in a game or when a good batter 
 of the away team is up to bat. The sound track in this game is good giving a variety of sounds.
 
  
  Overall a great game that i will keep playing untill MLB 09: The Show comes out. 9/10! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rlw500
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 22, 2008 7:21 pm PT
Review:  One word,"Amazing". The visuals a stunning. Game play, is just right. Great game to add to your 
 collection. One word,"Amazing". The visuals a stunning. Game play, is just right. Great game to 
 add to your collection. One word,"Amazing". The visuals a stunning. Game play, is just right. Great 
 game to add to your collection. One word,"Amazing". The visuals a stunning. Game play, is just 
 right. Great game to add to your collection. One word,"Amazing". The visuals a stunning. Game play, 
 is just right. Great game to add to your collection. One word,"Amazing". The visuals a stunning. 
 Game play, is just right. Great game to add to your collection. One word,"Amazing". The visuals 
 a stunning. Game play, is just right. Great game to add to your collection. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: racemaster1
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 15, 2008 8:26 am PT
Review:  I was blown away when i got this game home and began to navigate my way thru the first season as 
 a chicago cub. I have played baseball games in the past (I'll be it a long time ago) and have never 
 seen anything like this. The graphics are great and the gameplay is even better. There are a lot 
 of controls to figure out when you first start playing, but after an hour or so the basic concept 
 is picked up and the game play gets pretty intense. I can't wait for the next installment of MLB 
 the show to come out, I will be picking it up for sure. I'm not exactly sure how they could improve 
 on this game tho. Sony has done a great job with this game, but that is what I have come to expect 
 from the Sony group. If your a fan of baseball and gaming you have to give this a try, it will 
 be the best baseball game you've ever played, its fantastic!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: arthas242000
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 7, 2008 11:43 am PT
Review:  ~Intro~
  With the introduction of new consoles an inevitable upgrade for all genres is bound to occur. This 
 current gen: Ps3, 360 and Wii has seen the weakest iteration of sport titles ever. I mean, when 
 the best baseball game on the market is a Japanese arcade game you know you've got problems. Mlb 
 08 the Show is back to defend its title of "Best Baseball Game around". The only real competition 
 comes from 2k's iteration which is way below average. So, Mlb wins... YEA, 
  "... we can all go home now, well I'm not going home;
  I'm going to get on my boat, and I'm going 
 up river and I'm going to kick that soooonn off a fitch Bison's a$$ so hard... that the next Bison 
 wannabe is going to feel it. Now, who wants to go home or who wants to go with me!! 
  http://www. youtube. com/watch? v=avXsM2n2oqg ... greatest monologue EVER!!!
  
  ~Graphics~ 
  
 Graphically, MLB has the whole 9: stadiums look unbelievably realistic, most character models mimic 
 their real life counterparts perfectly, jerseys have physics but not crazy physics like 2k's game. 
 I mean even the umpires look just as fat and disgusting as their real life caricatures. There really 
 is no disappointing feature graphically; animations look quite realistic though can be buggy at 
 times. Every big name baseball player has his face mapped perfectly, I mean you won't see Fukodome's 
 pretty mug but Derek Jeter is still as ugly as ever.
  
  
  ~Features~
  Besides MLB Power Pros you won't find a meatier baseball game. Every type of mode (minus home run 
 derby) has been accounted for in 08 the show. The meat and potatoes being road to the show and 
 Franchise mode both having slight improvements but nothing major. The biggest feature added I think... 
 (Didn't play 07) is online leagues. Unfortunately, online leagues have a high cost of admission 
 since you really need to gather a solid group of individuals that will frequently participate in 
 the action. Dropping sixty clams is definitely worth it if you enjoy diving knee deep into simulated 
 baseball goodness.
  
  ~Gameplay~
  Gameplay wise nothing has really changed since 06, pitching mechanics still used the tried and 
 true button presses which is 40 times better than 2k's analog mechanics, unless you enjoy inaccurate, 
 laggy responses. Batting still has the amazing Guess a pitch mechanic which grants the ability 
 to sit on pitches like real baseball players. The biggest improvement comes in the elimination 
 of annoying bugs. Namely, players running over ground balls when they can clearly reach down and 
 snag them. There hasn't been any massive changes gameplay-wise which is definitely a good thing 
 though the lack of innovation will probably turn off some people since most will see this as a 
 glorified roster update!!
  
  ~Sound~
  The soundtrack that currently exists within the game is one of variety and semi-tasteful music 
 that is if you disregard the horrid musical travesty Low Rider by War is alright. Sound effects 
 fall along the typical norm of balls being hit with large wooden objects. Everything is pretty 
 standard within the sound department.
  
  ~Online~
  Playing Mlb online can be a mixed bag, unless you have a core group of individuals that will constantly 
 provide some competition. You'll find yourself running into some pretty bad lag; apparently most 
 haven't gotten the memo that Dial-up doesn't really work for online play. Unfortunately, there 
 isn't any regulation on people's connection so most likely then not you'll run into a couple of 
 unbelievably laggy games that depending on you love for the show may indeed drive you away. Having 
 online leagues takes the online experience from just alright to pretty sweet. Again, the price 
 of admission is pretty high: cheaters, quitters and lag, but if you can find a group of friends 
 you'll have a great time with online leagues. 
  
  ~Conclusion~
  This is you're standard sport game iteration, not much in overall improvements but still enough 
 new meat to justify a purchase. Those that own a ps3 and favor a realistic version of America's 
 favorite pastime won't go wrong with MLB 08 the show. I'd say that overall this is the best sports 
 game this current gen, though based on the competition, it isn't really saying much.
  
  Gameplay - 8.0 ~ Gameplay is extremely solid but nothing has changed since 06
  
  Sound - 7.5 
 ~ Sound effects are solid, license soundtrack is decent but user create playlist are better
  
  Graphics - 8.9 ~ best looking sport game so far
  
  Features - 7.0 ~ Typical array of features 
 nothing new, no home run derby for some reason
  
  Online - 7.0 ~ Online is fun but online leagues have a high cost to really be enjoyable
  Overall 
 - 7.68 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thegodfatherIV
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 6, 2008 1:23 am PT
Review:  MLB 08: The Show is quite simply one of the best baseball games I've ever played...
  
  Franchise mode is my personal favorite mode in the game. This mode is surprisingly deep, in that 
 it lets you take complete control of your own Major League/Minor League franchise. You will get 
 to add upgrades to your stadiums, buy vendors so that people could get something to eat and drink, 
 set food and ticket prices, find a suitable primary sponser for your team, acquire TV and other 
 media contracts, promote your players and team via newspaper or TV, and so on and so on. 
  
  The Road to the Show mode lets you take control of yourself, as a professional baseball player 
 whos ultimate goal is to make it to the World Series. This mode can take forever actually, if you 
 don't perform well on the field. You start off in the minor leagues, and if you are lucky you get 
 drafted or traded to a major league team. I personally didn't enjoy this mode as much as the Franchise 
 mode quite simply because I didn't get put on my favorite team the Yankees :) .
  
  All in all this game is a winner. It will keep you playing for hours. Plus there's an online mode. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Yankeese411
Rating: 6.5
Date: Jul 30, 2008 4:17 pm PT
Review:  This game is full of bugs and gets on your nerves very easy. I once stole home and the runner kept 
 on running around the diamond. The first thing you know ps3 freezes. I hit a sac fly and runner 
 on first wouldn't go back to first base. The game gives you lots of responsibilities to complete 
 if you are in Franchise or Road To The Show mode. In Franchise you buy your team transportation 
 from bus to team jet. You are given responsibilty to get promotions for games. You upgrade the 
 field and rehab centers and food stands for fans. Although this is found in most of previous games 
 it still gives you reason to play single player. Road To The Show mode can be annoying at times 
 but also very fun. u can be best pitcher in AA but still have to say in minors. Online mode Lags 
 and the online leagues hardly ever get any games played. Most stadiums look fantastic but lots 
 of stadiums can be better. For instince Angel stadiums rock fountain the rocks look terrible. ivy 
 on wrigley field looks bad to. Not the best game ever but its Okay. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: weddlecm
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 14, 2008 9:32 am PT
Review:  Sometimes, disappointment can be an extremely good thing because of the response it creates. Take, 
 for example, MLB '07: The Show. While it was held back a month and a half later than the PS2 and 
 PSP, the first step of SCEA's baseball franchise on the PS3 felt more like a port than a leap forward. 
 The development team took much of the criticism for that title and within ten months cranked out 
 the latest installment of the series, MLB '08: The Show. But instead of simply patching the visuals 
 or fixing some of the AI problems, just about every facet of the game has been improved on radically, 
 making this the best version of The Show on any system to date.
  
  Last year brought a lot of attention to pitchers and their skills with its focus on the Pitch Command 
 System and Adaptive Pitching Intelligence. These two systems have returned to MLB '08, but this 
 time around, MLB '08 focuses more on the Pitcher/Batter duel thanks to its new pitcher/batter analysis 
 tools. These tools provide a wealth of information on just about anyone that's prepared to step 
 onto the mound or into the batter's box, so you can exploit their weaknesses or know an opponent's 
 tendencies. By hitting the select button, you're given the option to view the stats of both the 
 pitcher and the current batter. For instance, you'll be able to find out how a pitcher does against 
 right and left handed batters, or the percentages that a batter hits to right, left and center 
 field.
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: DagetAwayMaN421
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 10, 2008 4:32 pm PT
Review:  There's some new stuff added into MLB 08: The Show. Other than the annoying umps who keep changing 
 their strike zone from game to game, the improvements are pretty good. No longer will my hitter 
 max out at 100 points a game or my starting pitcher max out at 500 points per start, it goes even 
 further. Accumulating points to build up your character has become easier, but not because the 
 game is easier, it's just that there's so many things you can do to get points to beef up your 
 player in Road to the Show. The goals are also a bit more forgiving and not as difficult. For example, 
 in 07, I'd have an in-game goal to have 20 triples while I'm in the middle of a game. But in 08, 
 season and career numbers don't actually come into the game. Whenever I get 20 triples, I'll get 
 my points for it instead of only when it comes up as an in-game goal. The pitches are mostly the 
 same and the hitters are the same. I did not notice anything new other than the better career mode 
 which made the game all the more addicting because I needed less time to build up my players. There's 
 a few random events during the game that will make it humorous but other than that, it's the same 
 solid game that I've come to expect from The Show. But the improvements in Road to the Show made 
 it pretty addicting. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Brewhawk
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 9, 2008 9:02 am PT
Review:  This is my new favorite baseball game. It just does so many things right. I thought I was left 
 out in the lurch again this year with 2k Sport's disappointing 2k8, but Sony stepped it up a notch 
 and stole the show!. This game has excellent graphics and animations. The stadium models are highly 
 realistic along with the player models as well. The only gripe I have with the visuals is the crowd.. go 
 figure. There is a new fielding and pitching/batting interface that is quite good, but I still 
 prefer the original, so I switched it back. The game is also very immersive with a wonderful franchise 
 made and a killer mode where you take a young star and play your position through the minor leagues 
 all the way to the big leagues. I have had an absolute blast playing this game and this game was 
 actually the reason for me picking up a PS3 when I did. There is nothing like taking a rookie all 
 the way through the system and actually living that dream.. awesome indeed! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gamerbrad1
Rating: 8
Date: Jul 5, 2008 1:30 pm PT
Review:  MLB 08 The Show is probably the best MLB The show there is so far. The game has amazing graphics 
 which makes you feel that your on the field yourself.
  
  In Road to The Show it Does Not have many improvments (Except the rosters are different than last 
 year) When your playing road to the show it gives you a great experience of trying to work your 
 way from the Minors to the Majors. When you are making a player it gives you way more options than 
 MLB 07. You play what ever postion you choose and if a player who is playing your postion has come 
 back from an injury you will often be put to your secondary postion. If your infield square is first, 
 X is Second, O is third and triangle is home.
  
  Hitting, Batting: When your up to bat in MLB 08 it's mostly the same routine in MLB 07. Although 
 you do hit the ball often it seems very hard to hit home runs. When I was playing the game I hit 
 a home run about every 7 games or so, AND THEY WERE RIGHT OVER THE MIDDLE!!. And if your a speedy 
 player you will often get on base.
  
  Fielding balls: In MLB 08 the fielding routine is the same in MLB 07. When somebody hits the ball 
 it switchs to the closest player to field it.
  
  On the Main menu it has very few improvements but great songs! 
  
  If I were you I would rent 
 the game before buying it to get the hang of things
  Although like i said good graphics and Probably the best MLB Game so far.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Wiggyman_basic
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jun 18, 2008 4:10 pm PT
Review:  MLB 08: The Show shows very well that a baseball game can be done well, with great realism and 
 good controls on a next gen console, while not having been made by a 3rd party developer. The graphics 
 are truly a site to behold and while they are not photo realistic completely, they are very impressive. 
 The gameplay is very enjoyable and not frustrating as it is in MLB 2K8. The players do not simply 
 run by a fast ground ball as they do in 2K8 and the player motion is very fluid and natural looking. 
 The game modes are also to be enjoyed with a few minor gripes.
  
  The Road to the Show has a few problems with it, namely that the points system for upgrading your 
 player have not been good since The Show 06. The decreasing values for your attributes go down 
 far too quickly and make it impossible to make your player a lot better in any decent amount of 
 time. The other modes are very good and highly recommendable, as is Road to the Show. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CrashMacKenzie
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 18, 2008 1:48 pm PT
Review:  Ok, ok. So maybe it wasn't much of a fight this year. What with MLB 2K8 being absolutely unplayable, 
 and all.
  
  Nevertheless, MLB 08: The Show is a remarkable game that mixes solid gameplay with excellent presentation.
 
  
  Anyone who has played 06 or 07 will not have much of a learning curve, as 08 plays much the same 
 way. 
  
  The graphics and animations have been upgraded, though.
  
  The game also boasts several modes; season, franchise, home run derby and of course, the return 
 of Road to the Show.
  
  However, the presentation is the game's true strength. Memorable radio calls from 2007 play on 
 the menu screen, the soundtrack is solid and your own music can be added.
  
  In-game, crowds will chant 'MVP' at your best player and 'overrated' at the visiting team's best, 
 a beachball will be bounced around in the seats and the play-by-play is really impressive.
  
  Only a few bad things stick out, Road to the Show can be pretty dull with your player having 
 to make the same play over and over. Anyone who has taken a first baseman to the Show is a better 
 man than I.
  
  Also, is it really too much to ask to be able to control what uniforms your team wears in franchise 
 mode?
  
  Retro uniforms are worn far too often for my taste. Have you seen the Astro's throwbacks? Yikes.
 
  
  Those minor complaints aside, MLB 08: The Show is the best baseball game I have played since Triple 
 Play Gold. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dutch777
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jun 12, 2008 10:09 pm PT
Review:  Not being an American, i wasn't sure about buying this game however, Playing MLB 08: The Show makes 
 one thing rather apparent: Sony is focused on beating down the competition to a point that it becomes 
 written in stone: Sony's MLB franchise is without question the best baseball sim money can buy. 
 Admittedly, I expected marginal improvements for 08, so when I first looked at the new feature 
 set of the game, my eyes watered up. The tears came because 1) there was just so much stuff packed 
 into the game, that reading all of it felt like a chore, and 2) I was genuinely happy to see a 
 sports game receive such an enormous host of improvements over its past iteration. 
  
  In terms of features, MLB 08: The Show offers the most customizable experience you could ask for. 
 Every little feature has a slider attached to it, and so you can adjust its properties and frequencies. 
 And if it doesn't have a slider, it'll have settings that can be toggled across various options. 
 For instance, I prefer to have a few assists enabled, particularly fielding. In manual mode, I 
 often react wrong because I can't see which player has been activated, and end up running in the 
 wrong direction. That, in turn, can make me drop or miss the ball. With an assist enabled, my fielder 
 will sprint towards the ball, even when he's briefly out of my view, before I take control of him 
 myself. I can also set the setting to Auto and let the game do the work, but I'd rather not. 
 
  
  Bottom line, right now, MLB 08: The Show is about as close to baseball perfection as you're going 
 to get. All developers should take note: *this* is how you do a year sports game follow up. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 40ishgamer
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 12, 2008 7:03 pm PT
Review:  Bottom of the ninth...... Cleveland (me) vs. Boston (Computer) ....... two men on, 1 out, bottom of 
 the ninth.. Bos leads 3-1.. Papelbon on the hill.. Martinez (me) at the plate...... the crowd is on 
 its feet...... I correctly guess the high heat, and swing for power......"there it goes!!!!! This 
 could be the game!!! It is.............. Outta here!" 4-3 final....
  
  Welcome to The Show.
  
  The above scenario actually happened to me. This was the first time 
 EVER I actually stood and cheered after doing something great in a video game, Madden included!
 
  
  Having being new to the PS3 as well as baseball games, this was my first such MLB purchase.
  
 After reading numerous positive reviews and playing the demo, I just knew I had to have it.
  
  Graphics: Simply stunning! The players, fields, etc. all come to life. Even the base coaches 
 jump out of the way on foul balls!
  Little things, such as uniforms getting dirty and STAYING dirty..... the beachball in the crowds.......... simply 
 unbelievable!
  Contrary to what some may have said, this doesn't play in 1080p HD, but it looks great nonetheless 
 in 720p on my big HD tv...
  
  Sound: Great! Whenever my man, Travis Hafner, steps up to the plate in a visiting stadium, I hear 
 the crowd chanting "Overrated! Overrated!" Ridiculous, but in a good way!
  The crack of the bat..... the sound of a 98mph fastball whizzing by........ everything is done to 
 perfection. Just like being there!
  The crowd gets louder when something is about to happen, and if the game's a blowout, they go silent. 
 They are also pretty animated; I swear I saw a lady behind home plate using a cell phone!!! (At 
 least the motion of using one!!)
  The announcers are spot on, although to be honest, after 45 games in, Hudler is getting on my nerves. 
 If I swing at the first pitch, he criticizes. If I sit on the first pitch, and it's right down 
 the middle, he criticizes. Overall, they're right on in crucial situations, and they even flashback 
 to when the hitter may have hit a homerun earlier in the game. Also, they give suggestions on what 
 to do... ( "as an infielder, you must know where to go with the ball with the bases loaded")
  
  Gameplay: I'm still getting my feet wet on this one, so I have auto defense.... auto running..... etc. 
 All I do is pitch or hit.
  Sometimes, my players will overthrow to first base, sometimes a little too much, but overall, not 
 bad.
  Pitching took some time to get used to, like I said, this was my first ever MLB title, and the 
 game I bought didn't have a manual. (Used at Gamestop)
  So I was left to figure it out on my own, although thru Youtube, I got some pointers.
  Hitting 
 is tricky as well, but then, a real life non-baseball player wouldn't be able to step into a MLB 
 park and hit 98 mph fastballs everytime.
  Timing is everything, just like it should be. And the guess pitch feature is nice. You'll get a 
 red square (right pitch) and a red triangle (right location) .
  If you get both red, you guessed both correctly.
  Also, another nice touch is after you swing 
 and miss or hit a foul ball, you press the left analog stick down, and it'll tell you what you 
 did wrong (swung early/late... pich was over/under.... etc) Very nice for beginners like me!
  The umpires, when set to different personalities, will shrink/expand the strike zones, just like 
 in real baseball. So, if you let one to many outside sliders go by, eventually you may be caught 
 looking, so you have to be aware at all times.
  
  This sim (not really a game, in my opinion!) will not bore you. I look forward to going home after 
 work and playing nine innings! There's still stuff I'm noticing as I go along that makes me drop 
 my jaw...... I've even seen a player from the other team get ejected! He argued that he was safe 
 at first, then, the umpire gave the signal, and bye-bye! 
  
  Overall, this sim is a ten in my book!
  
  The only minor glitches I've seen so far is players 
 running thru each other. Also, once the other team hit a homerun, right below the score it said 
 "Home Run Tigers!" which is good. BUT -------when I was up, the banner now said "home run Indians!" 
 and I hadn't hit one yet. And it stayed like that throughout the game.
  
  I have not tried RTTS yet; just playing as my fave team is good enough for me right now.
  Also, 
 I'm playing in Veteran mode, so I can utilize the swing for contact and guess pitch features.
 
  
  Bottomline: if you're looking for a real MLB sim, and are wanting as real as it gets gameplay, 
 this is the sim for you. Thank you, and Go Tribe!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: baseballa4life
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 7, 2008 9:41 am PT
Review:  I think this game is amazing but there is one or two problems with the game such as when you are 
 rounding second to go to third or rounding first to go to second, now this has only happend to 
 me a few times, but the few times that it has happened it has ruined my experience with this game. 
 Although I do have to say that The Road to The Show is a great experience to create a rookie and 
 take him through the experience of becoming a pro baller. I hope everyone buys this game because 
 your really in for a suprise. Its an incredible game so buy it!
  
  Thanks,
  
  Superballa
  h h h h h h h h h h hh h h h h h hh h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h hh 
 h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h hjjjjjjjjjjjjjjjjjjjjj hhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhh ggggggggggg ffffffff ddddddd 
 sssssss j jjjjjjjjj kkkkkkkk koloooooo ggggggg eeeeee yyyyyyy jjjjjj kkkkkkkk llllll hggfggff fddddd 
 saaa uuuuuu hjjjj llll iiii gggg ddds dddddd hhhhh jjjjj kkkkkk lllll kkkkk hhhhh gggg fff ddd 
 dssss yyyyy rrrrrr eeeeee ooooo mmmm nnn n no pppppp qqqqqq aaaaaaa sssss bbbbbb mmmmm nnnnn vvvv 
 bbbb nnnn j jjjjjj lllll kkkkkkkkkk hhhhhhhh fffffff ddddddd hhhhhhhh jjjjjj kkkkkk kkkkk kkkkkkk 
 hhhh dddddd. idk why i did that i had to make the review complete! :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kurtrusselshair
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 7, 2008 2:42 am PT
Review:  I never expect much out of baseball games or baseball for that matter in terms of excitement, but 
 something about MLB 08 the show has kept infront of my ps3 for over 200 games. What is it you ask? 
 depth, fun, and a real desire to make your players better. There is something to be said about 
 games that use player moral to make you want to pitch those middle relievers, but there is far 
 more to say when you're pitcher is a few inning away from learning a new pitch and you can start 
 using that young guy as a starter just like the yankees are working in joba chamberlain you can 
 too. The entire franchise mode of tis game makes me excited to actually play the meat of any sports 
 game, and that is of course the games themselves, its well balanced and purposeful and makes all 
 those games seem more important than they normally would be. 
  
  The gameplay mechanics are very good, rather intuitive, and can deliver some legitimate baseball 
 action. the gameplay just feels right in that way my old favorite mlb franchise did, mvp, and it 
 is a blast to pitch a 123 inning with the pinpoint accuracy the game has. With that said pitching 
 is something to take a few games to get comfortable with, its easy enough to start winning out 
 of the gate but to get into perfect game range your gonna need a few games. Also this is a baseball 
 game you will, as frustrating as it is, strike out (adjustable sliders of course for all you newbs 
 and casual players so dont fret) . hitting can be done a few different ways, and I personally prefer 
 using the games default way, it adds more to the hitting experience and lets you place some some 
 hits to the gap not just launch long balls in the games simpler hitting setup. The baserunning 
 is the only mechanic id like to see improved upon, but its still better than most games, and its 
 something i personally adjusted the sliders to give it a better feel on. 
  
  All the other features in this game are there that you would expect in the end, and the required 
 online play is ok, not great, but im not much of a online sports fan, and baseball quite frankly 
 with only two players is nothing like I would like and here really falls behind the other sports 
 games you can play. 
  
  This is a great long term sports game, one that causes you to invest time in not just a franchise 
 but its players, has phenomenal depth, and great gameplay. Buy it, you will play it far too long 
 to make renting cost effective. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 417alum
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 5, 2008 11:24 am PT
Review:  MLB 08 The Show is the best choice this season if your a true baseball fan. With the most realistic 
 stadiums, players, stats, and more the show give you what it promises which is a real-life MLB 
 experience. Now the game is not for the casual gamer and getting used to it may be difficult to 
 some but not for me. I remember playing this franchise a few years back when it was suppose to 
 be a one or two year experience by Sony but now look here we are an it is the best game on the 
 market. It blows away 2k8 and the 360 in almost every aspect and the franchise mode is so cool 
 but really not that unchanged from last year so an upgrade will be need by Sony before next season. 
 The online mode, I can't say enough about b/c sportsconnect and sony updates the rosters at-least 
 once a week and it keeps up with the MLB on a day to day basis. In laymens terms BUY THIS GAME 
 and if you think it is too difficult maybe shouldn't be playing baseball games but seriously it 
 is worth your money and then some.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: woobert10
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jun 4, 2008 2:28 pm PT
Review:  First off I want to say this is a very fun game. RTTS is addicting, graphics looks good, you can 
 see the stitching in jersey's and hats, game play is relatively smooth. The sounds while in a game 
 are beautiful. Broken bats, music uploaded through your HDD will play with an echo like you're 
 in the stadium, fans will even address some players by their name. Scenery outside the stadium 
 makes me think I'm on my PS2 though. Yawkey Way looks horrible.
  At times (not many) this game makes me think, did the MLB over see the making of this game? So 
 many baseball technical issues need to be addressed. Outfielders take their time throwing the ball 
 back in on fly balls (If you're not in control of them like in RTTS) , allowing the base runners 
 to advance easily. Also, if their momentum carries into the wall, outfielders will give the wall 
 a big ol'e hug before throwing the ball in sometimes allowing base runners to move up 2 bases on 
 fly balls (Again, only if you don't control the player) . I have seen some of the slowest attempts 
 at a double play, even a sharp hit 6-4-3 sometimes won't go so smoothly. In RTTS, I come over to 
 cover 1st on balls hit that way. All of a sudden my pitcher will stop, do a 360 and then field 
 the throw from the 1st baseman while even David Ortiz could have made it down the line. It doesn't 
 happen all the time, but it does happen too much. When a 1st baseman is pulled off the bag to field 
 a throw he'll make a swipe at the runner, no matter if his glove goes through the base runner he 
 will be safe. The computer AI needs a lot of work. Chone Figgins broke the stolen base record (+130 
 steals) , a little too much seeing as the best only get 45-60 SB in a season. There were times in 
 my franchise with the Braves when I'd simulate a game and they would have Chipper Jones batting 
 7th against LHP. Same issues on other franchises I had played. A couple months ago I had a perfect 
 game going with Jon Lester, in the top of the 8th w/ 2 outs a ground ball was hit to Pedroia's 
 side. I moved him over and the ball went THROUGH his foot. I won the game with a 1 hit shutout.
 
  Update 1.10 for The Show only seemed to change some batting stances and failed to address any 
 main glitches that I have noticed. Manny Ramirez's stance looked to get less accurate in the update.
 
  Online needed some work. I have only had 5 games online total, 2 on a DSL connection and 3 on 
 Cable connection (wired, not via wi-fi) and experience decent lag on each game. Hitting is about 
 timing and the lag will kill you. Also, there would be times where it seemed if you looked at the 
 swing button wrong, he would swing. I had a pop up behind the 1st baseman and none of my players 
 would move. The other guy got an in the park, almost in the infield, home run. He tied in the late 
 innings and forced extra innings, I should have won. No big deal though.
  RTTS can be annoying, especially as a pitcher, as you will have to wait for it to display a goal 
 about 75% of the time. Can be annoying when they give you obvious goals (i. e. Don't let the run 
 score) . Not so bad as a position player. Sometimes the opposing batter will get a "do over" for 
 some reason. (playing SS, I'd notice that the computer wouldn't swing at the pitch, then a cut 
 scene and he'd be walking up to bat again with a 0-0 count again) . Don't get me wrong though RTTS 
 is still fun.
  Overall this is a fun game. Lack of home run derby still is disappointing but I would suggest it 
 to anyone who likes baseball. I mean what else would you buy 2K8 or The Bigs? Haha
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: cupydo
Rating: 9.5
Date: May 30, 2008 7:26 pm PT
Review:  The feature I loved in the previous version was the Road to the Show. You build up a minor leaguer 
 and work your way to a team in the majors. Let's start off with the revamped player creator. You 
 can spend hours changing a large number of aspects in terms of your players appearance. While the 
 previous version's options were limited, you're presented with a plethora of new ways to customize 
 your player in this year's version. Some of the things you can customize are cheeks, forehead wrinkles, 
 lower lip, upper lip, lower ear, middle ear, upper ear, and so on. You can even simulate taking 
 HGH by expanding the head. There are over 30 pages of batting stances your batter can mimic. Some 
 current and old players stances are here for you to use. Suffice to say, there are an overwhelming 
 amount of options now available to customize your player.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: bringndaheat08
Rating: 8
Date: May 29, 2008 8:17 pm PT
Review:  The Show is a solid baseball game. I have tried baseball games on and off since MVP 05, but none 
 have been as good as it. MLB 08 does not have that problem. 
  
  The visuals are really stunning. This is a PS3 exclusive, so it looks like the developers spent 
 time on using the PS3's full potential. The players look very nice, and the emotions are lifelike. 
 
  
  The fielding is very realistic. Sometimes if feels like the game is fielding for you, but when 
 you turn a super-smooth double play or throw a runner out at 3rd, the players really move like 
 the pros would.
  
  Batting took me some time to get used to. I couldn't time the fastballs very well, but i realized 
 i was late and not reacting soon enough, so I started swinging earlier and started getting some 
 good hits. It takes some time to get used too, but its rewarding when you get the hang of it.
 
  
  So if you consider yourself a baseball fan, at least rent MLB 08. Its got enough modes and depth 
 to last a few years, so its worth the admission for this day at the ballpark. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: j_n_16
Rating: 9.5
Date: May 25, 2008 8:55 pm PT
Review:  While The Show might not have come out swinging with new controls located on the thumb stick like 
 2K8, it managed to perfect almost everything that was wrong with last year's model to make this 
 game spectacular. Road to the Show mode has been improved drastically. Instead of requiring 100 
 points for training, you now only need 40. Your player is very involved within each game, and you'll 
 get notices from your manager and general manager about your performance and your track to success. 
 The post-game menu is a great feature which shows you what you did right and wrong in the game, 
 along with any notices of streaks, milestones, records, etc... The only downfall for this year's 
 Road to the Show mode is that no matter how good your player's ratings and stats are, you are guaranteed 
 to spend your first year in Double-A, which is annoying if you have a batter who's miles ahead 
 of the competition for Double-A and is setting records. The Franchise mode has a great amount of 
 depth to it. You control every aspect of the team including rosters, ticket prices, stadium management 
 and maintenance, advertising, promotional days, minor league teams and more. The game itself is 
 fabulous. Pitch recognition isn't that hard, but isn't too easy either. The fielding is great, 
 except when the AI makes a bad decision (which happens quite a bit in the infield, too many errant 
 throws on routine plays) . There are spectacular wall catches you can make, and lay out to rob an 
 opponent of a hit is a great feeling. Batting is just as much fun also, with the ability to change 
 which version of pitch guess you use, and the instant feedback on your last swing, along with pitcher/batter 
 analysis at your fingertips gives you the feeling of a major leaguer, with all the scouting you 
 could ever need. If you love baseball and own one of the members of the playstation family, this 
 is a game you need to get. Unlike 2K8, the team at MLB 08: The Show minimized their glitches and 
 maximized your ability to enjoy the game, leaving you spending countless hours playing this game, 
 until you've played the greatest game, made a HOFer and outmatched the Yankees dynasty with the 
 team of your choosing. This game is a must have for all baseball fans. I traded in 2K8 for this 
 game, so take my advice on that, if you're fortunate enough to own a PS3. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SnitGTS
Rating: 5
Date: May 18, 2008 7:37 am PT
Review:  Judging by the number of good ratings this game got, I'm in the minority here, but I have not had 
 fun playing this game. Sure the game looks great, the players are beautifully rendered and the 
 parks look amazing, but that is nothing if the game does not function properly. Here are the major 
 issues I have with the game:
  
  Base running (part 1) - After every hit I get, not matter what I do, my guys only advance one base. 
 According to the game "L1" is to advance all, but not matter how many times I've hit L1, nothing 
 happens. I've tried L2, pointing the left stick towards the base I want to go and L1, pointing 
 the left stick at the runner I want to advance and L1, smashing every button on the controller 
 and no matter what they only advance one base. It is very disheartening to see a liner to the gap 
 and have a player that could push it into a triple, but have him stop at first for no reason... 
 This means the only way I can score is if I get 4 hits in an inning to push everyone around or 
 if I steal second and third after a hit and then get a second hit (or a sac fly) . This sucks.
 
  
  Base running (part 2) - Occasionally this works, but in 10 games I have only gotten a sac bunt 
 to work twice (out of at least 6 or 7 tries) . I've had a triple play recorded against me and several 
 double plays when trying to bunt, this is because the runner (s) stop halfway in the base path and 
 just stand there, allowing the defensive team to pick them off. Not all of the time, but most of 
 the time their is a force so they have to run, but they don't. I never hit the button for them 
 to stop, the bunt was not a pop-up, and there is absolutely no reason for them to stop like that. 
 Again, this sucks...
  
  Home runs - If you noticed in base running part 1, I did not mention home runs as a way that I 
 could score. This is because in 10 games I have not hit a single home run! I always play the Mets, 
 they have 4-5 guys in their line-up who can hit home runs on a consistent basis. I have hit at 
 least 20 balls that have gotten to the warning track, but never once has one gotten over the fence. 
 I've seen the opposing team hit home runs, but never have I hit one myself. This sucks!
  
  Other than this the game is great! But when you're constantly losing a game 2-0, or 2-1, or my 
 last game 1-0 in the 14th inning, it's no fun!
  
  I'm not saying not to buy this game, but I'm saying that I have not enjoyed it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gen_Warbuff
Rating: 9
Date: May 14, 2008 8:55 am PT
Review:  After being a MLB2k sports fan for the past few years, I was forced this year by a extremely sub 
 par MLB2k8 to switch over to MLB08 The Show. Man, I had NO IDEA what I had been missing.
  
  
  The Show, is such a GREAT baseball sim, it is very difficult to find fault with it. However, 
 there are a few small things that keep this game from being perfect. I will now go through the 
 good, and bad aspects of this game.
  
  
  
  Controls: 
  
  For the most part, there are no issues with the controls. Batting by guessing pitch location and 
 pitch type is made easy by using the left bumper and stick. Running the fielders is smooth and 
 easy, the only thing I don't like is sometimes I feel the infielders don't react quick enough to 
 get to easy ground balls, which leads to a few to many base hits that should be outs. Pitching 
 is easy, pick the pitch type by selecting it with the corresponding button on the controller.
 
  
  
  Graphics:
  
  Although not as crisp and clean as MLB2k8, the graphics here are simply beautiful. There are small 
 things that may be left out, or missed in some stadiums, but over all each stadium is represented 
 in beautiful colors and small details. Player models are clean and smooth, and you can easily identify 
 players by just looking at them. Even the crowd is done well in this game, with small groups of 
 people standing and reaching for foul balls when hit near their section.
  
  
  Audio:
  
  Ever been to a real game? No need to if you have a decent surround system to use while playing, 
 the audio is AWESOME and the play-by-play announcers are quick and on top of most every play. It 
 seems like this is the first BB game where the crowd actually follows the game, and gets loud and 
 quiet at the right moments.
  
  
  Depth Of Game:
  
  As I mentioned above, this is a baseball sim, and not an arcade game. If you know baseball, you 
 can follow pretty much ANY stat you like. In franchise mode, you control the day in, and day out 
 functions of the team. Setting vendor prices, buying stadium upgrades, making sure you players, 
 and fans are happy, it's all here in this game. Want to make sure your players are well rested 
 for road trips? Buy them a private airplane to travel on. Want to make sure fans don't have to 
 wait in long lines to buy food or souvenirs? Add more concession stands and places for kids to 
 play. 
  
  
  
  Road To The Show:
  
  This is one reason why a lot of people buy this game. It's basically a create a player where you 
 pick a position, and start out as a rookie in double A. You then play in games at your position, 
 and take your at bats when you come up in the lineup. As you play more games, you earn points which 
 you can put towards increasing your talents and abilities. Assuming you do well, you will get called 
 up to AAA and then make it to the MLB team. This part of the game is very fun, and a nice break 
 for those that don't like to play full team seasons or are just looking to do something different.
 
  
  Of course there is a online feature, but I have yet to try this out 
  
  
  The little things in this game are what make it great. Not every diving attempt will end up in 
 a catch or great infield play. Not every crushed ball will go over the fence, and not every wall 
 climb will end up in a highlight play. There are broken bats, awesome plays, errors, over thrown 
 players, wind conditions, ejections, injuries, walk off celebrations, inconsistent umps behind 
 the plate and many other things that you will find in a real MLB game.
  
  The little things that take away from the game are things like to many passed balls, or wild pitches 
 from the computer, to many close plays at first that NEVER go the runners way. The lack of energy 
 loss by bullpen pitchers, it seems they are always ready to go the next day, no matter how much 
 they are used. And, it seems that the announcers don't have enough lines, sometimes you hear the 
 same thing over and over and over again.
  
  
  Over all this is a GREAT game, I give it a 9/10
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: crazyhorse_0411
Rating: 10
Date: May 9, 2008 5:56 pm PT
Review:  This is really a great game. not much needs to be said about it, it is easy to learn, but not so 
 easy that it gets boring. I dont know what everyone is complaining about with road to the show, 
 it seems fine to me. the graphics are much better than any other baseball sim to date, and the 
 audio is so in depth and detailed that you almost never hear the same comment twice. it still has 
 franchise and manager modes, which is a great for serious baseball fans, but road to the show is 
 the showpiece attraction and is really great. i would definately recommend this game to anyone 
 who is looking for a great baseball game, it has all the ingredients to be a great game, and while 
 some say it doesnt have the features to entice owners of previous versions to upgrade, if you dont 
 have a previous version, this is the way to go. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: goosey7683
Rating: 9
Date: May 7, 2008 3:26 pm PT
Review:  This game is so much fun to play! The graphics are just like if you were right the watching the 
 baseball game! Its defenitly what you would expect from the next generation of gaming systems! 
 The gameplay is very real like the pitches acually break a lot not a little (mlb baseball 2008) . 
 The sound is just like MLB 07 the Show which that is acually a good thing because that game is 
 great also and the sound was just perfect. The players all look very real and they have all the 
 updated rosters and there probably going to update them on your ps3 so there always up to date. 
 All the stadiums
  look like you are right there watching the game and if you watch the replay when they show it the 
 littlest things will just amaze you like you will see fan jump and grab for balls that are near 
 them or they will hit a beach ball around the ballpark. The players will play little tricks or 
 games in the dugout and a lot of other stuff theres just so much that I dont feel like sitting 
 here typing it all out lol.
  
  I would defenitly reconmend this game to any ps3 owner even if you dont like baseball I guarentee 
 you will like this game.
  
  thanks for reading. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: designedfailure
Rating: 8.5
Date: May 4, 2008 9:28 pm PT
Review:  There is always a hit or miss (no pun intended) element to sports games, especially baseball. I 
 think part of it has to do with the fact that baseball just has so much that goes on with hitting, 
 pitching, fielding, and general strategy. The Show has been building a reputation as a solid baseball 
 game for a few years and it finally delivers a truly great experience in 08. Not only are the graphics 
 great, but the modes are fine-tuned and work exactly how they should. Road to the Show has been 
 polished and is very in-depth, which really makes the player focus on their training a lot more 
 this year than in previous installments. The home run derby is gone in the PS3 version, but it 
 really isn't missed. 
  
  The only rival baseball game is MLB 2K8, and it doesn't do much this year. PS3 owners will definitely 
 want to go with The Show because of its simple, yet effective gameplay and overall solid modes. 
 2K8 introduced a whole new playing style this year and although it adds to the game, the rest of 
 the game seemed like it was an afterthought. With all that said, The Show will provide many solid 
 hours of play and will look very good doing it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gamergeek545
Rating: 8
Date: May 3, 2008 1:08 pm PT
Review:  The MLB 07 game was just in one word addicting you want to get to triple A then MLB then starter 
 then hall of fame and well lets start over again at another position. MLB 08 isn't any different. Which 
 isn't bad but not good. The graphics are very smooth and really no glitches in it. But I don't like 
 that you just go through the other players. The online is good but I encountered some lag while 
 playing and its hard to play online baseball with even a little bit of lag. There is a lot of replay 
 value not just because of road to the show but the franchise is still fun and addicting until tou 
 run into the game freezing, which is outrageously frustrating. There is some difficulty to this one 
 I don't really know why but its just harder to me. The rosters are good and up to date Miguel Cabrera 
 is playing with the Tigers and so is Dontrelle Willis and Barry Bonds is well no where to be seen 
 what a shocker! This game does so many things right, but still has some issues. For baseball fans 
 this is a buy but for others I would rent first. I enjoyed it pretty well.
  
  Real score:8.2 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bentrink
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 30, 2008 3:46 am PT
Review:  MLB 08 The Show is awesome. The gameplay is what really makes it satnd out compared to other Baseball 
 games. Even if you arent that good, or dont want as much of a challenge, you can change the Sliders 
 to anything you want, to make the game how YOU want it. Road To The Show is a bit tedious, but 
 once you finally go up at least one division, its a breath a fresh air. It changes your whole mindset 
 from AA to AAA to the MLB. I love the pitchiong controls, not too hard, abut so old fashioned that 
 i feel like im playing an old game. One thing absolutely love about this game compared to previous 
 ones, is that you wont hit a home run every at bat. Its more realistic than anything. The Batting 
 controls are nice. I think they could have made them a little different and still got away with 
 it. The graphics a step above any other MLB game ive seen, sometimes I forget that Im playing a 
 game. Overall, MLB 08 The ShowI think any Baseball fan needs to get this game due to its addictive 
 style of play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: oahu_nyy_fan
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 22, 2008 8:04 pm PT
Review:  Baseball season is finally here and many questions are waiting to be answered like can the Red 
 Sox repeat as champions, will the three young pitchers of the Yankees live up to the hype, and 
 will The Show continue to be the best baseball series to date? I can't answer the first two but 
 the last one is a yes. Last year the graphics was disappointing but this year it looks great some 
 of the players look very close to the actual player while others not so much but the gameplay did 
 not change that much. The only problem with the gameplay is that instead of guys like Jeter hitting 
 30 homers per season, guys with the speed of Jose Reyes will easily steal 100 bases per season. 
 
  
  Franchise mode is exactly the same except there is a newspaper feature. Road To The Show mode is 
 also pretty much the same with advancement goals which is a great idea but poorly executed. The 
 reason for that is because sometimes if you ignore like your bunting ability, your manager will 
 bench you for not improving that.
  
  The show is still a great game and next year it should get even better. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bluewrxman
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 9, 2008 11:42 am PT
Review:  First of all i just have to say that this game was very well made. The graphical upgrade from last 
 year alone almost warrants the purchase of the game. 
  
  I liked that they stuck with hitting a button to hit and pitch. I tried the demo for MLB 2K8 and 
 i just didn't like how the pitching and batting mechanics worked. I know i would get use to them 
 after a while, but i just didn't like it.
  
  Now the main thing i loved about MLB 08 the show was the road to the show mode. It was fantastic. 
 I loved the view you had of your player while fielding. Its taking me a while to work my way up 
 to the majors, but i think it's realistic. My character was a second baseman for the cubs and i 
 started in AA. I started there because they already had two good second basemen, but after i finished 
 a season in AA my characters stats were high enough to move up to AAA. Now my character has to 
 excel in speed and power in order to get a call up to the majors. The road to the show mode was 
 done very well... realistic, but well non the less.
  
  But there were little things I didn't like about the game though. One thing was that there was 
 a lot of clipping with characters and walls, or characters and other characters. Another thing 
 I didn't like was when your in the road to the show mode, when your contract ends you choose the 
 team you want to go to and then after spring training that team offers you a contract. I think 
 it would have been better if at the end of your contract you had teams bidding for you. Also, there 
 were some issues with base running in the road to the show mode. It is pretty hard to guess whether 
 some hits are going to be fly balls or if they are going to land and if you wait to long trying 
 to figure it out your usually picked of at the plate.
  
  Whoo.... i didn't know i had that many things i didn't like about the game, but non the less they 
 are minor things that never ruined the game overall. I suggest you buy this game because it is 
 the best baseball sim out this year. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jin_man
Rating: 7.5
Date: Apr 7, 2008 5:42 pm PT
Review:  Baseball 08: The Show shows what the play station 3 can do, it shows that they can have the best 
 graphics ever and show that the gameplay is also great. I am a Baseball, Soccer and Football fan 
 so thats why this game is the best! People who haven't even played this game or doesn't like baseball, 
 it would still be good for you.
  
  In Baseball 08: The Show has showed great graphics, these graphics make it look realistic. When 
 you are playing the graphics look so good that you can see the fans moving not just 2d wooden objects 
 that move up and down. These are one of the best graphics for baseball.
  
  Story is alos great or should I say career, in this I won all my games but lost 3 games in my season, 
 it was so good, the graphics made it look great and how the realastic makkes it a great game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Xun_Jiaxian
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 4, 2008 10:37 am PT
Review:  I don't watch or play much baseball but I can not seem to put this game down. Very nice High def 
 graphics and realistic game-play makes me understand why I don't play baseball. =)
  
  Maybe this is because I'm not a huge fan of the game but this game was extremely hard when I first 
 popped it in. So many factors can determine how you hit the ball. I did manage to finish off my 
 first season of RTTS (road to the show) with a batting average of .340.
  
  Road to the show is a mod that allows you to create a player and play through his career. You will 
 start off in the AA minor leagues and have to work your way up to AAA and then the Majors. You 
 will be given short term goals to fulfill that can range from increasing one of your attributes 
 such ans fielding to batting a certain average until the end of the goal deadline. I'm so hooked 
 on RTTS that I havn't even played Franchise mod or and online games ( will probably get my butt 
 kicked anyway.)
  
  I hate to write reviews this short but when a game i didn't expect to like very much gets me this 
 hooked I just have to recommend it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sony-tha-champ0
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 3, 2008 5:51 am PT
Review:  MLB 08 is way better than the last one, and its very addictive in ways. if your familier with "the 
 show"there is no way your gonna be disappointed with this game
  
  firsy, you can only play in the game when you're doing a task or you're up to bat which is cool. 
 This years the show is jam packed with features you also get your own custom tracks to play in 
 the game but they are only limited to the menu screens. You also get this new feature called the 
 replay vault which has all the highlights of the game saved and it shows you every out, homerun, 
 and hit that happened in the game which is another pretty cool feature.
  
  Now the graphics what kind I say about they look so much better from last year's 07 the show. The 
 players looked good last year but they just look much better and more detailed. The stadiums are 
 a big improvement from last year as well. The controllers didn't change much but they did add some 
 new ways to guess pitches within the strike zone but you can always have the options to change 
 it back to previous mlb games from the past.
  
  If you only own a PS3 you have 2 choices unlike some that don't own a PS3 and have only one choice. 
 So far it looks like the show has it locked down for this year's best baseball sim game out so 
 far. 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: biller88
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 1, 2008 7:33 am PT
Review:  Sony's MLB franchise takes some minor improvements over the '07 game, and turns in a very enjoyable 
 baseball game. The Show brings back the popular Road to the Show feature, where you create a player 
 and being your career in the minors and work up to the majors.
  While I have gone through the Season modes and the RttS, I am still pleased by how well the game 
 plays.
  The graphics are really nice, and while the controls may take a bit of getting used to (especially 
 if you haven't played a Baseball game before) you will definitely get used to them. The inclusion 
 of the sixaxis for sliding is a very neat and intuitive feature.
  An often understated feature of the game is how intense it can via multiplayer. Whether it's someone 
 in the same room, or across the country, there is so much strategy involved in the game and it 
 makes for a very interesting and fun game. The Rivalry mode takes this a step further, allowing 
 you to play a variety of games against your friend, and the stats from all the games will be compiled 
 so you can see who is leading the rivalry in HR's and stuff.
  I don't think the game is as deep as say EA's MVP baseball franchise, but I have loved every minute 
 of playing this game and definitely recommend it over the 2k franchise. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: corian_331
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 30, 2008 2:22 pm PT
Review:  I have written reviews on a lot of baseball games. There have been some really good ones too. MVP 
 still hold a place in my heart that no other game can take. I remember when I played All Star Baseball 
 I almost cried at the The menu music, (from "The Natural") . When I played this years version of 
 "The Show" I felt nostalgia from ALL the great babseball games. MLB 08: The Show has managed to 
 combine some of the finest essences of other games and the real game of baseball fantastically. 
 A lot of the game isthe same from year to year with this title, but the polish is maintained from 
 year to year unlike some of the new iterations from 2K's MLB series which seems to try too much 
 new stuff and ruin their great ideas. The road to the show is quite fun still and has now truly 
 emulated how hard it is to get to the majors. Last years game allowed you to get too good, too 
 quick. An enhanced requirement system now forces players to think a bit more about their training 
 and choices defensively. The franchise mode is the same as last year, but is as deep as you need 
 it to be. Still absent is the king of the diamond or comparable mode made only for PS3. I wish 
 the the franchise mode would be changed to something more like MLB 2K7's GM mode which is the best 
 in the game. This is a great game that is called on point from Matt, Dave and Rex. The animations 
 are beautiful and there are many of them and allowing for user music was a great idea. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GD-1369211121
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 29, 2008 4:25 pm PT
Review:  This game is probably the best baseball game ever made. First off, the graphics are the best I've 
 seen on the PS3. The best feature though is the Franchise mode, it is a complete franchise with 
 so many things you can do with your team. Although it hasn't really added any new features that 
 last years game didn't have, but it also doesn't lack any.
  The Race To The Show is a great mode as well, but can be fustrating at times since it can take 
 a LONG time to accel in the big leages. If you didnt play last years game, I will tell you what 
 it is. In Race To The Show you creat your own baseball player and try to make it to the big leages 
 and eventually retire as a Hall Of Famer. 
  Now I will get to the things that may not be so bad but can still sometimes be frustrating. I've 
 found that the umpires can be a little in-acurate on strikes and foul balls. Also the commentary 
 is amazing but sometimes gets repetitive after playing a few games. Gameplay is amazing no flause 
 at all with gameplay, just expect the basic controls with a few Motion Cencer add-ons make the 
 controls very costumizable.
  All and all, this is just a great baseball game, and probably the best ever. Get out and rent this 
 game you wont regret it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: adamgolomski
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 25, 2008 7:40 pm PT
Review:  Last year I went and bought 2K7 having never been a big fan of The Show, but after this year, it's 
 going to be really difficult to get me away from it. For starters the graphics are nothing short 
 of amazing. There is no lag to speak of, everything runs smoothly, it just seems like the real 
 thing presentation wise. The gameplay is great as well. Unlike 2K's games, you can definitely tell 
 whether or not the pitch is a ball or strike. That is something really important to the game of 
 baseball. Fielding is great too, there isnt any helping you, if you want to dive, you have to time 
 it and hit the buttons at the right time, and unlike 2k7, you dont rob every ball possible at the 
 outfield fence, it takes practice and timing, Ive only done it once. Everything is spot on, even 
 deciding to throw to the base over the cutoff can cost you runs if not done right. The little extras 
 in the game are pretty sweet too. I look for those things to complete games, I like that I had 
 a game stopped for a second because a beach ball form the stands ended up on the field. The announcers 
 talk about previous at bats during the series and give stats as well. The one bummer about stats 
 is you dont get credit for walk off home runs, you get the HR, but you only get the amount of RBI's 
 it takes to win the game, so if you hit a grand slam being tied, you the HR and one RBI, no run 
 for the hitter either. This game is a blast, Im at the all star break and Im no where near being 
 bored with it. Great game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RyusMaximus
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 24, 2008 7:52 pm PT
Review:  First off, there is no other baseball game out there that can top what MLB 08: The Show gives you! 
 This game is simply amazing! It offers amazing gameplay as well as great graphics and smooth gameplay! 
 
  
  Sound: 10/10
  
  The sound in this game is great! The crowd cheering sounds very realistic! The newly added feature 
 where you can create your own soundtrack for the game is absolutely perfect! i love how i can put 
 my fav songs in the game! The commentators are also very cool. i have hardly ever heard them repeat 
 anything more than twice!
  
  Gameplay: 9/10
  
  Gameplay is great in the Show! i just wish that it wasnt as hard to hit homeruns! it is very hard 
 to get the ball into the air in this game. pitching on the other hand is very realistic. if your 
 pitcher is startin to lose energy or his composure, he will start to throw wildly! very realistic! 
 
  
  Graphics: 10/10
  
  The graphics in this game are amazing! every single player in this game looks like they do in real 
 life! mlb 08 is also one of the first games with a great crowd! the crowd looks very realistic 
 with their faces and the way they interact to the game with the beach balls flying every where!
 
  
  
  Online: 8.5/10
  
  Online gameplay can sometimes be a little bit laggy,. sometimes the server wont even let you log 
 in when it says you cant connect to the server. but it is still very fun to go online and have 
 the chance to play real people and download the latest roster updates!
  
  
  Overall, MLB 08: The Show is a must buy! If you are into baseball video games, pick this game over 
 MLB 2K8! you wont be disappointed! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MetalMilitia93
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 23, 2008 10:07 am PT
Review:  MLB 08 The Show is a great game. The new features such as the Road To The Show advancement goals 
 are more realistic and make it tougher to advance without getting better. The game looks great 
 in High Definition and it looks great with all of the customization options you can do for your 
 player. The Online play lags a bit and it very slow in between pitches and sometimes freezes the 
 game though and is not so great for gameplay, but the other online features are great. Another 
 dropoff is that the Home Run Derby and the King of the Diamond mini games are no longer in the 
 game and takes some of the fun out of it. But overall I give this game 2 thums raied way up and 
 a 10 for everything except online play. I recommend this game for anybody with a PS3 and an HD 
 TV that likes sports games and especially baseball. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Airjarhead
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 23, 2008 7:12 am PT
Review:  This is by far the best baseball game I have ever played. It is almost perfect. This game has superb 
 graphics, smooth gameplay, and is very realistic. I can't think of one category where this game 
 falls short of the 2k series. My son and I love baseball games, and we are both so happy with this 
 game.
  
  I am so sick of the 2k series. They have had 3 years to perfect their series (on the Xbox 360) 
 and 2k8 is choppier than 2k6! I am so glad there is an alternative now (too bad there isn't for 
 the Xbox360 too) .
  
  The only negative thing I have found so far is that when you try to change the position of a created 
 player from SP, it changes which arm the created player throws with, and you can't change it back. 
 Therefore, I have not been able to create a left handed 1st baseman.
  Other than that, it is perfect!
  I just got a PS3 as a Blu-Ray player, and this is the first 
 game that I have purchased (I've played a lot of the demos though) . 
  Well done Sony!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: sweetpinoy2k1
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 23, 2008 6:19 am PT
Review:  i thought i would have to skipped this one but it keep calling me i like the way playing to minor 
 league and built up my player to be called up to major.... it's really challenging... but my music 
 that i put on was very limited in use... i understand that this is just a new features for sony... 
 i hope though it would be more accesible and more durable when the actual game is on..... i just 
 can't believe that i almost skip this for MLB2k8
  the game play for this is really great but i'm not used to the winding thing when you pitch so 
 i'm still trying to get a hang of it..... every year baseball sim are getting more more realistic 
 this game aint for kids anymore.....
  but suggestions to the developer...... get the home run derby in next year it really adds more 
 fun and not to get bored playing the regular season..... just don't forget the HOME RUN DERBY next 
 year pls... the other thing the BD is pretty big i don't know why you left the HR Derby out... 
 anyways great game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: selkey
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 20, 2008 3:27 pm PT
Review:  MLB 08: The Show is the best baseball game I've played. I was a big fan of the MVP series from 
 EA and was sad when they lost their license. This game gets what that series had right and improves 
 upon it.
  
  The graphics are wonderful, a little better than 2K8. The player animations and plentiful and realistic. 
 The character models look amazing. The sound and commentary are practically perfect except for 
 a few cheesy one liners that get old after you hear it the 30th time. But that's to be expected.
 
  
  The game play is great on offense and defense. It takes a while to pick up but once you get the 
 hang of pitching, fielding and batting it is all so rewarding and fun.
  
  The franchise mode is very detailed and the offseason activities are fun. I have not played Road 
 to the Show mode but that's just more to do.
  
  If you have a PS3 and like baseball get MLB 08: The Show. If you get MLB 2K8 you are just dumb. 
 The Show is either on par or better in every category. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MichaelCheritto
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 20, 2008 10:13 am PT
Review:  Wow man, what can I say about this game?? It's truly an unbelievable gaming experience. After buying 
 MLB 2K8 for my 360 I was very disappointed to say the least. I love baseball and I have always 
 enjoyed playing baseball video games. After playing MLB 2K8 I decided that I would unfortunately 
 have to do without a baseball game this year because MLB 2K8 was pretty much unplayable. One day 
 I was reading some reviews about The Show and decided I was going to buy a PS3 just so I could 
 play a good baseball game. I am so happy I decided to do that. It was a drastic move, I know, but 
 that's how important a good baseball game is to me. 
  
  The attention to detail in The Show is awesome and the game play, which is the most important part 
 is astounding. No lag, no frame rate issues. Smooth transitions from the pitcher batter interface 
 to the infield and outfield. Player models are spot on and their stances are too. I could go on 
 and on, but I don't have the time. I will just say this. If you can't decide between MLB 2K8 and 
 The Show...... decided no longer. The Show is the game to go with hands down!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: knockouts72
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 19, 2008 6:49 pm PT
Review:  I know there are alot of people who have this game but i must say this game looks great on a hdtv 
 an it plays smooth, the fielding the pitching an the batting are all good. when i play this game 
 i feel like im really playing baseball an thats what you want when you buy a game you want good 
 control an a great time playing it. the online play can sometimes be a little laggy but what games 
 arent online an its fun to play people who think there just as better than you. and the new features 
 like xmb is great sometimes you do get bored on hearin music you dont like an adding my own music 
 to the game works out great for me. so if there is one thing i have to say this is not a renter 
 this is a must purchase an this yr mlb the show took home the crown mlb2k8 cant touch the show. 
 i would rate this game a 8.5 to a 9 nothing less. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CBCstillmatic
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 19, 2008 3:00 pm PT
Review:  This is not only the funnest and most realistic baseball game to date on any system, it may also 
 be the most realistic sports game on any system to date. The developers definitely let their love 
 of the game show through. The way they paid attention to every little detail is amazing. Its unfortunate 
 these guys are not allowed to develop a first party football game as well cause i think it would 
 be fantastic. Just the thought that this is their first real baseball game for the PS3 is staggering. 
 The last outing was great but really just a port from the PS2. Next year will only be better as 
 the devs will get better and more familiar with the PS3 hardware. I own both a PS3 and Xbox 360 
 and I feel bad for fellow 360 owners who are stuck with a sub par MLB game like 2k8. My friend 
 has it and is very envious of MLB08 and now wants a PS3 for this and Blu-ray. How any site at all 
 could review this game lower than 2k8 is beyond me but if you love baseball and have a PS3 this 
 is a no brainer must buy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sdkingsht
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 19, 2008 1:20 pm PT
Review:  First... let me say that i am NOT a baseball fan. I enjoy PLAYING the sport in real life and being 
 from San Diego i love a reason to visit Petco Park but i watch Sports Center and typically see 
 what else is on when they're showing baseball (or hockey) highlights. The last baseball game i 
 played (and enjoyed) was EA's last baseball game several years ago. I bought MLB 2K7 but LITERALLY 
 FELL ASLEEP while playing it one night. 
  
  so... needless to say i was skeptical about picking up a baseball game this year. i downloaded both 
 demos on the PSN and was again disappointed by 2k's game (wtf is with all the analog stick nonsense?) 
 i then downloaded MLB the Show demo (with low expectations based on the fact that Sony's first 
 party basketball game is GARBAGE) and enjoyed it. 
  
  i bought the game and LOVE IT. everything is fun, intuitive, easy to pick up with room and bonuses 
 for mastering the little things in regards to gameplay. the pitching, batting, fielding and overall 
 presentation all work well together. 
  
  i was actually impressed by the graphics (again... low expectations based on NBA as a series) and 
 the parks and animations all look beautiful. the player models are detailed while not looking weird 
 or overly plastic (2k anyone?) and the sounds are all excellent. 
  
  another cool feature was the ability to make your own playlist and listen to your own music while 
 playing (PS3 supports custom music and playlists but it's up to the programmers to make it available 
 in the game) . 
  
  if you're into baseball or just a fan of video game baseball then hopefully you have a PS3 because 
 the only baseball game on the market worth getting this year is a PS3 exclusive. incredible graphics, 
 great gameplay, outstanding presentation and more game modes than you can count make MLB the Show 
 the must have stickball game to have in 08. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kaypro1234
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 19, 2008 8:13 am PT
Review:  MLB 08: The Show, with it's simulation game play, ability to save without penalty at anytime during 
 a game and complete lack of silly, childish mini-games, make this a title that adults (the majority 
 of gamers) can really get into. 
  
  The bad stuff first: A few animation glitches occur now and then, but most of them are during cut 
 scenes. There are occasional animation transition hiccups during game play, but they are rare. 
 When the Umpire throws a new ball to the pitcher it ends up quite far away from his glove and then 
 disappears off the screen (vacuum glove effect) . Hud's colour commentary is repetitive. Some set 
 pieces in and around the stadiums are not to scale (the picnic tables with umbrellas, which are 
 quite visible at times at several parks, are much too big for example) . Player models can be a 
 little bottom heavy with over sized legs. Collision detection is spotty with base runners sliding 
 right through players.
  
  That's pretty much all of the single player problems. The positives far outweigh anything mentioned 
 above. The pitching, fielding and batting interfaces are rock solid with a lot of control options. 
 The graphics are phenomenal. The textures are very high resolution at all distances and the frame 
 rate is high and stable with only very occasional dips. Hitting and fielding animations are the 
 best of any baseball game I have ever played. The ball comes off the bat dozens of different ways. 
 
  
  All of the little details are here. The catcher throws back to the pitcher, the plate umpire hands 
 the catcher a new ball after a foul into the stands, the batter, pitcher, and, frankly everyone 
 on the field runs through all of their pre-hitting, throwing, fielding movements with life-like 
 realism. During game play, pitchers are visible in the bullpen. 
  
  A. I. is very good with realistic fielding errors by the computer making the game play very realistic. 
 With the variety of hits ( plenty of foul balls, cuts into the dirt and clumsy hacks to stay alive 
 at the plate) combined with the realistic fielding, no game plays the same way twice and you are 
 never sure how a game will play out. 
  
  Difficulty is spot on with the default sliders and there are so many of them that you should be 
 able to tweak the game to suit your tastes. 
  
  Audio is very impressive with play by play commentary that is shockingly quick, accurate and never 
 seems to be repetitive. Sound effects and ball park atmosphere are very well done and the overall 
 presentation is so good that it is more enjoyable to let each batter walk-up and cut scene play 
 out instead of button pressing through it.
  
  Highly recommended and well worth the money.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: kz1den
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 19, 2008 5:31 am PT
Review:  Haven't really been much into video baseball games since the ill-fated Triple Play series (of EA's 
 glory years) from back in the day. But I must say that this game has undoubtedly rekindled my interest. 
 As most have already commented, this IS the premier baseball game of 08. The graphics are by far 
 the best that I've ever seen in a baseball game. Even though it maxes out a 720p, it's still quite 
 a treat for the eyes. The animation is top notch. The players move fluidly and react as if you're 
 watching an actual broadcast. The controls are very intuitive, not too complicated by trying to 
 add in excessive controls (i. e. right analog stick) . And the gameplay is dead on - doesn't leave 
 you with a generic or arcade-like experience. However, it's the presentation that's the biggest 
 money winner of this title, and is perhaps the best that I've seen in a sports game since ESPN 
 NFL 2K5. Ironically, it's 2K's edition of baseball that fell short. Another minor (on the grand 
 scheme of things) , but huge plus is having the ability to create your own game tracks for the menu 
 screens. This gives the game a right-at-home feel and adds to the overall presentation. All things 
 considered, if you're a baseball fan, or just a sports fan in general, and own a PS3, you owe it 
 to yourself to purchase this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JaStarz9
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 19, 2008 12:12 am PT
Review:  Hands down the greatest baseball game ever. The details are top notch... from the animations to 
 the PA announcer to the sound effects of the stadium. It is like you are at Camden Yards or pitching 
 in Yankee Stadium. Rent this ASAP... or just save some money and buy this game now!!
  
  The game has improved everything about it from last season... which was also top notch.... so you 
 can imagine how good this year's game is. It boggles the mind to think about why other sports games 
 cant be this immersive or pay this much attention to detail. The designers of this game need to 
 be commended for putting out a game that brings baseball... real authentic the experience... baseball 
 to everybody. Wow.
  
  The online play has also been improved. Last year it seemed like people could quit and not be penalized. 
 This is no longer the case with quitters getting credited a loss... as it should be. The GB has 
 been altered with the location no longer being a red dot and being easily smashed. Now, if you 
 guess the location and pitch right you will see a red area light up... but it could still be a ball 
 and you dont know. This makes the game more fun and less about getting a lucky homer now and then 
 to win. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MrSchmo
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 18, 2008 7:30 am PT
Review:  Been a long time since there was a good baseball game out. This one is by far the best available 
 out there.
  
  Graphics
  Top not notch. Only 720p, wish there was 1080p option but I'll live.
  Great, realistic animations.
 
  
  Gameplay
  Pitching too realistic for my taste, but works well with the game. If you paint the corners you 
 may not always get the call. An your pitcher can be come frustrated adn miss easy pitches. Batting 
 is just all about timing. Classic swing with 'X' is there over the dumb right stick swing.
  
  Presentation
  This is what won me over with this game. I felt like I was playing a Baseball 
 telecast. Announcers are the best I have ever heard, ever. There are spot on with calls, argue 
 over ball/strike calls, and can have some humor in them. If your patient and watch the cut screens, 
 it just adds more realism to it. The pitcher will play the hidden ball trick with the 1st or 3rd 
 baseman, batters will throw there bats or helmets when they strike-out, timeouts are called cause 
 a beachball ends up on the field. Of course you'll never see these if you hit 'X' after every play 
 but I like it.
  
  Overall
  Best Baseball came out there. All needed modes are there. On-line is workable. Rosters, stats, 
 and skills are updated weekly via a roster download. So if you want your season to mirror what 
 happens in real ife, trades, hot streaks, etc, this will keep it updated. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gatorforlife07
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 17, 2008 4:04 pm PT
Review:  MLB 08 The Show is finally here and it is great. First off the graphics are way better than last 
 years game and the player movements are alot better and realistic. The reveamped road to the show 
 is amazing with new advancement goals and batter perfomances. Online is alot better this because 
 of finally fixing the traffic delay problems and there are less glitces and lag. The franchise 
 mode is way more realisticbecause you can manage your team and the teams stadium. Even though this 
 isn't a flawless games because of some occaisonal games this game does not dissapoint and should 
 not be missed. Overall MLB 08 The Show is an awsome game that should not be missed by and should 
 be bought by die hard fans and casual fans. The online mode is also very well put together and 
 user friendly and competetive. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mysterious
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 16, 2008 1:17 am PT
Review:  Been playing this game at least 7 to 9 hours a day, and losing a lot of sleep!
  
  This is the best sports game of the year, and the best baseball game ever made!
  
  Thank you 
 Sony! Now put these efforts into a basketball game!
  
  Has its flaws and glitches, but the complete package of simulations MLB.
  Graphics and Presentation 
 are the most dedicated areas of this game. Infield and outfield controls are superb. Not to mention 
 the interaction with the crowds with the action on field is just remarkable.
  
  Road to the Show is one of the greatest features in sports franchise, and gives you a way of being 
 a true baseball player! 
  
  With its only competition being MLB 2k8. Sony wins by a landslide. 2ksports fell short in all categories, 
 controls, graphics, gameplay and presentation! This game is just truly what a baseball game should 
 be!
  
  The online is plaqued at the moment. But I blame on PSN servers, they aren't up to the standards 
 of XBL. But they are good on certain games. Lets hope that is fixed and we can go from there! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tommyv44
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 15, 2008 11:39 pm PT
Review:  First Impression: wow
  I initially purchased 2k8 and quickly tired of the poor frame rate and constant glitchiness. I 
 traded it in for the show after having played the demo and I've been thoroughly impressed. As soon 
 as the game begins, you'll notice the great player models, accurate stadiums, smooth framerate, 
 smooth animations that transistion very well with each other, and great sound. I LOVE when the 
 game is booting and they have great moments from the 07 season such as Frank Thomas' 500th HR and 
 Trevor Hoffman's 500th save. Also, as part of the default soundtrack, they have radio broadcasts 
 of great 07 moments such as Buehrle / Verlander no-no's, Rockies clinching a playoff birth, Mets 
 elimination from playoff contention. . . As far as first impressions go, you'll be picking your 
 jaw up off the floor.
  
  Pitching and hitting are challenging and exciting dynamics that work very well. Pitching is an 
 MVP-esque meter that fills up as pitch effort increases, and must be stopped in a sliver-thin accuracy 
 zone for maximum effect. Batting includes an intuitive and fun pitch-guessing system that makes 
 for some satisfying big hits, especially when you guess right on a full count slider of the corner 
 and let it go for a base on balls. Guessing right on a fastball down broadway and pumping it 15 
 rows deep is good too. Plate discipline is a must, and they have several available camera angles 
 that can help you find a comfort zone, as well as sliders for pitch speed, movement, etc. As it 
 stands, the difficulty is challenging but realistic and exciting. Baserunning confused me a little 
 bit, as the instruction here is somewhat lacking, but I've never had any major problems. Fielding 
 is fairly simplistic, and it's very nice to have the L1 cutoff option to throw to from the outfield. 
 Inexplicable fielding gaffes don't happen; no balls bounced off foreheads or anything, so look 
 forward to consistency here. Menus are a little complex, but in game they are very useful and intuitive. 
 The scouting service thing available in-game by the select button is a big help in determining 
 pitch selection for tough batters like Jim Thome or Paul Konerko.
  
  Now I'll nitpick a little bit. Pitching control is somewhat difficult. Even when you time the release 
 perfectly, the ball doesn't seem to go right where you aim it. Kudos, however, for realism, as 
 not even Javy Vasquez has a laser guided arm. You try hitting a corner with a 98mph fastball. I 
 can't, and Josh Beckett can maybe 1 out of 4 tries, so that's ok with me. Clipping is a minor issue. 
 If you steal a base (like you will with Jerry Owens) , after the slide the player will stand up 
 through the defender. But the game looks beautiful so it's again hard to complain. Inconsistent 
 umpires suck sometimes, but you can turn that off. As you can see, there's not much to speak of 
 in terms of annoyances, as they are abundant in 2k8.
  
  Career mode is deep and rich with fun content, though it takes a significant time commitment to 
 play it all out. Road to the show is fun, and the create a player is comprehensive and precise, 
 so you can really make a player that looks just like you. I personally am terrible at it, so it 
 never worked out that well for me. Other player models are pretty good. Vlad's and Manny's hair 
 are a little off, but they do both have their dreads going, so that's fun to see. Character face 
 models are brilliant. The effort here really shows, as even some minor league call-ups like Lance 
 Broadway and knuckleballer Charlie Haeger from the White Sox have their own faces, and not some 
 generic Joe Shmoe face. Stats are kept thoroughly in game and replays are saved from every play 
 in an active game and can be viewed at the end of the game in the replay vault. They also have 
 between-innings highlights featuring replays from game-breaking plays from earlier in the game. 
 I must confess I have yet to play online, so read somebody else's or ask in the forums about the 
 lagginess. I know 2K8 was awful and unplayable in that regard, so this is a guaranteed step up.
 
  
  All in all, the game is just plain fun. It's realistic, challenging, exciting, and visually stunning. 
 As a pleased owner of MVP 05, 2K5, 6, 7, and even 2K8, I didn't know how good baseball could be 
 until now. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: meetah13
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 15, 2008 1:44 pm PT
Review:  The Bad: The worst thing about this game for me is that there is no homerun derby or king of the 
 diamond. Every game online for me lags really bad. It doesn't matter much for me because this game 
 is so great offline. Career mode is kind of boring. You have to do every defensive play in game 
 and can't fast foward. The plays are not a big deal and take up a lot of time. Don't think about 
 fast fowarding in the beginning of your career either because your player will not get called up. 
 MLB 06 The Show had the best career mode for me.
  
  The Good: Of course, season and franchise modes are deeper than ever. There are so many screens 
 to show all of your options for what you can do. It's like having your own team. The sound track 
 is so good that you don't even need the make your own sound track thing with your iPod that they 
 offer. The game is hard so it is more like playing an actual game of baseball. The best thing are 
 the graphics! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nirvana0511
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 15, 2008 12:43 pm PT
Review:  This is a great game, this is also a terrible game, this is the game that has everything you could 
 ever imagine and more, and it also doesn't have everything that you'd expect it to have.
  
  It's the best baseball game since MVP 2005 for the original X-Box, but it lacks very important 
 options in the process. Something that it lacks is fundamentals and every baseball enthusiast should 
 be aware of the factor that plays in baseball, well gaming it should be no different.
  
  The Bad:
  
  You can't search by Stats when drafting players, somehow they rank Derek Lee better 
 than Alex Rodriguez. They give these overalls just like every other baseball game, and once again 
 it's far from perfect. You can't argue calls with the manager.
  
  When your team is at-bat your dugout is empty.
  
  The Base-coaches don't wear the helmets, 
 they better come out with a download for it.
  
  Players that were Major Leaguers last year still don't have real pictures. Joba Chamberlain doesn't 
 have a picture? How long did they develop this game for?
  
  The manual fielding controls are some of the worst I've seen/used in a baseball game. A slow rolling 
 ball on the in-field is hit between 3rd and Short and the game is supposed to let you control the 
 closest person/player to the play and somehow you start controlling the left fielder and before 
 you know what's happening a sure out at first has become a triple.
  
  The online is incredible but the lag (depending on who you are playing) can be frustrating and 
 annoying. I've played Unreal Tournament and Resistance online and rarely ever get any lag in multi-player 
 deathmatches and yet this game has delays and all it has to process is the batter and pitcher. 
 And the one game you don't want lag in is a baseball game. The pitcher throws and you go to swing 
 and all of a sudden it's delayed and you've missed or checked your swing on a pitch right down 
 the pipe. Its even more frustrating when you have runners in scoring position with 2 outs and you 
 know you would've gotten a hit. One thing I still can't figure it is how the heck to put the players 
 you unlock into a game or season, it starts telling you that the rosters are invalid.
  
  The directions they give you for playing the game are awful, what you are supposed to do and what 
 you actually have to do rarely ever seem to be the same. WHAT GOOD ARE DIRECTIONS IF THEY AREN"T 
 RIGHT? I had to teach myself how to pitch because the instructions on the in game tips were wrong. 
 It's says to hit the button three times, when you actually have to hold the button, release it 
 and then hit it again.....2 times, not 3.
  
  The game has many glitches, not all the time, but every once in a while you press to throw to a 
 base and it throws to a different one, It's extremely frustrating.
  
  And probably the most aggravating thing is the button you use for enter in the game is not X on 
 the menu screens. Every PS1, PS2 & PS3 games have used X and all of a sudden this game is using 
 the circle button. Even the PS3 system menu uses X, it gets confusing, the first time I played 
 an online game I actually exited after I played before saving on that voting screen because it 
 DIDN'T tell me what to press to vote.
  
  The Good:
  
  Despite all the problems it is still an amazing game, it's a love-hate relationship. You love all 
 the little stuff and hate some of the little things you can't do.
  
  Like the dirt staying on the player troughout the whole game. The graphics are the best in any 
 sports game. Period. The jerseys really move. You actually see the wood splinters as the bat breaks. 
 The fans look real and aren't flat. Every player looks like he really does and acually has his 
 real stance. Even Jeter, who never in any baseball game before this has had his real stance to 
 a T.
  
  When you break your bat, the batboy will come give you a new one and the player will check the 
 new one.
  
  The fans will throw around a beach ball.
  
  The batting is sick, depending on when you take your swing is where you'll hit the ball. The online 
 is great despite the lag, scout for a person in your area and you'll see less of it. If it weren't 
 for the bugs I mentioned this would be the greatest baseball game ever made, but it has to settle 
 for 2nd.
  
  MVP 2005 may never be topped, well not until next year. If the The Show fixes the problems, next 
 year it will unseat the champion and win a ring, but this year it gets the Pennant. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: avsrule89
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 13, 2008 5:00 pm PT
Review:  This is by far the best most well defined baseball game I have ever played. The animations and 
 the flow of the game is so smooth and graphically alluring. This is a MUST BY for the people that 
 are never to sure to by baseball games but this is a huge exception. The Road to The Show is so 
 much fun. It will have you hooked and once baseball season comes around even more people will by 
 this game. The batting mechanics are also very well made. The batter can guess the pitchers pitch 
 by holding down R2 and X, O, triangle, square and L1 or R1 and the position on the plate of the ball 
 such as inside, inside low, low, high, outside high. If you get the pitch right and the positioning 
 wrong the batters box will glow red. If you get the pitch type wrong but the position right there 
 will be a red triangle displaying where the ball will be. If you get both right both will glow 
 red and it sometimes results in a home run for you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Inspiron69
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 13, 2008 3:51 pm PT
Review:  I own both a 360 and PS3 so I had my choice between 2K8 and The Show. I waited a couple if days 
 and read both forums to get a gauge on how good each was. Well it was clear 08 The Show was more 
 well received so I bought it, Now I have owned previous versions of both franchises and I can say 
 without a shadow of a doubt that MLB 08 The Show is the best of any I have previously played. Does 
 it have minor flaws? Yes all games do, but this game excels like no other. Graphics are top notch. 
 Player mannerisms are unreal. Game commentary is very well done. The few stadiums I have seen so 
 far look amazing. Mind you I have only played season mode so I; m unable to rate or tell you about 
 the other features. The best thing I like is that I don't always win and my games scores are realistic. 
 Now I did not buy 2K8 so I'm not going to blast it but I can't imagine it being any better than 
 The Show. If you have a PS3 than to me this game must be purchased. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: huskerman34
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 12, 2008 10:02 pm PT
Review:  I had rented 2k8 in hopes of a challenge. I got one in a verybad way. I tried and tried to like 
 this game but 2k8 seemed to piss me off in every facet ways possible. i lke the idea of street 
 fighter moves to pull of pitches and the hit stick. It takes some time but man it seems llike the 
 Ai is on steriods. every player cracks a homerun or hits into the gap for double and triples. your 
 infielders and out fieldes are feeble minded at best. Here comes mlb 08 the show. Man what a show 
 indeed. 2k8 excells in every thing from roster to online real baseball scores to gameplay . the 
 game runs smoothly. The character modellng is subperb compared to 2k8 . A very thought out baseballl 
 game .mlb the show has calmed my nerves for now. I only wish they could make football games look 
 as smooth as mlb the show. Im blessed that i have two consoles so i dont have to suffer like all 
 the 360 owners do when playin 2k8. I would definently buty this game a go through a full season 
 with my dodogers. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ckcsox
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 12, 2008 1:28 pm PT
Review:  Again Sony came out with the best baseball game on the market, utterly crushing MLB 2K8. After 
 playing both of this years baseball games It's obvious that 2K sports has no idea how to produce 
 a decent baseball game. I loved everything about this game from the new road to the show, that 
 has been revamped so it doesn't get so boring and tedious as it did last year, to the new online 
 setup, even if it is a little buggy. 
  
  The graphics are crisp, the announcing is considerably more extensive so that it doesn't get annoying 
 until at least the 20 hour or so and the sound track is as masterful as you can make it since you 
 put your own music in it. While the game play is pretty much a retread of last years game but it's 
 not difficult and there are no glitches that are in MLB 2K8. Ultimately this is the easily the 
 best baseball game out there. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bighou
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 11, 2008 7:40 am PT
Review:  This is a very good Baseball game. I like that they focused a lot on Gameplay. Yeah, the players 
 could look a little better but that's only one of the games few misshaps. Not only is the Gameplay 
 great, you can actually almost edit anything you want in this game. And I mean anything! There 
 also so many options to choose from, it's mindbogling that other Baseball games haven't thought 
 about this. I'm a true baseball head that played the game all they way up to 3 years in college. 
 I love to watch it now. So, that means I need a game that plays like I'm watching it on TV. This 
 game does not dissappoint. The Pitcher and Outfield views for Pitching and Batting sold it for 
 me. I LOVE THOSE CAMERA VIEWS! This is the only game I'll probably buy on PS3. Yeah, I know, I'm 
 an XBOX 360 head but this game is worth the $500 I spent for a PS3 and this game. Oh, did mention, 
 THEY GOT MINOR LEAGUES!!! Yes!!! Next year, just make the players look a little better, add Home 
 Run Derby, and something that hasn't been done since Hardball on Sega Genesis, BATTING and PITCHING 
 PRACTICE with (Pitcher and Outfield) view available for those modes. Update those for The Show 
 09, GUARENSHEEED this game will be a 10 rating NO DOUBT!!! 
  Thanks again Sony. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: allen775
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 10, 2008 6:09 pm PT
Review:  let me just open bye saying one of the first baseball games ive played was the old ea triple play 
 baseball series i havent missed a year of playing baseball games i played all the mvp games then 
 moved on to 2k the last 2 years this year i actually preordered 2k then change my mind and went 
 to the show and im glad i did this game is great graphics are top notch and it does so many little 
 things great attetion to detail is key in this game... a few of the bad notes are the trading is 
 too easy to rip off the comp and why cant any baseball game make running the bases easy... i also 
 think they need to add the prospects in the minors more accuratley i know they cant use there names 
 but they can come close i mean i like the phillies and no where can i find greg golson.. anyhow 
 these are little gripes overall the game is awesome the players even will argue with the ump and 
 get tossed... the soundtrack is strong the annoucers are the best ive heard in a baseball game and 
 the franchise mode is the best ive played cant wait to see what they do next year 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Droidekadroids
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 15, 2008 5:01 pm PT
Review:  With another year comes another MLB game, and this year the show made quite a bit improvements 
 that made last years game seem like an advanced ps2 game. This is what fans wanted last year out 
 of this game and this game delivers in almost every way. 
  
  Gameplay 9/10- Same great stuff as last year but better features and improved Career Mode, ability 
 to replay innings with a camera is cool and the presentations are now more like real baseball than 
 before. Although there are no new modes, you can now have your own music play instead of the selected 
 soundtracks they have. Saving in the middle of a game is very helpful and will inspire me to finish 
 those long games unlike last years. I haven't played online but it looks very promising and should 
 be fine. My only problems are lack of home run derby and king of diamond modes and sometimes difficult 
 goals on career mode and it does seem almost the same style as last year, minus better graphics 
 but if you can ignore the feeling of deja vu, then you will agree that the new features make up 
 for the same stuff. 
  
  Graphics 9/10- A pretty big leap from last years, most player models look great although there 
 are a few that don't look exactly on par but most players look like their real selves. Stadium 
 graphics are slightly improved and the fans are still one of the most realistic fans in any sports 
 game. Overall the graphics could still use a little upgrade but are a lot better than last years. 
 
  
  Sound 8/10- The new comments and presentations by the same great announcers as before and same 
 great sound effects of the ball being hit and caught make the game seem as if it were actually 
 on T. V. The crowds cheers are realistic and the organ music is good. Although they pretty much 
 reused the same organ music from last year, I would like to see more variety in organ effects but 
 besides that and some lack of extra announcer comment on plays, the sound was almost perfect.
 
  
  Value 10/10- So many modes and games to play in those modes and Career Mode will make you play 
 this until next year's game. Online only adds to the addiction.
  
  Tilt 9/10- Overall this is one of the greatest baseball games out there and again beats 2K. This 
 is a must own for all baseball fans that have a PS3. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mayham88
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 10, 2008 11:39 am PT
Review:  I must say this game is fantastic. I bought 2k8 and got rid of that one as fast as possible. I 
 bought the show on PS2 and I figured with tax refund coming I would upgrade to a PS3 and WOW this 
 game is fantastic! 
  Where do you begin with this game. The graphics are awesome, the presentation makes you feel like 
 your watching a real live baseball game. The stadiums look awesome, and the Mets stadium with Citi 
 Field being built behind it , is awesome! 
  I love how they put spring traing in this game, that is one thing that i can never figure out why 
 2k never put it in. But lets face it, they have no clue what there doing over there. 
  The crowd reacts to what is going on in the game and when you hit a fould ball, they jumo trying 
 to reach it. I also saw them playing with beach ball. ARE YOU KIDDING ME! The show is an awesome 
 baseball game and it is a must have for all baseball lovers. 
  If your thinking about trading in 2k8 and getting a PS3 like i did, you wont be dissaponted! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rsoxguy12
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 9, 2008 2:19 pm PT
Review:  MLB 08 The Show is by far the best baseball game on any console right now, t presents itself to 
 be impressive in a number of ways.
  To start off, the first thing you notice is a game is the graphics and visuals. When i played my 
 first game, (Red Sox vs Yankees of course) I was stunned by the player models. I could tell who 
 each player was by looking at them in the game without any sort of name. The batting stances, pitcher 
 windups, etc. were all matched up perfectly. These are some of the best graphics ive ever seen 
 AND i only have an sdtv. I cant imagine how HD will look.
  Gameplay. Smooth and easy to learn. Hitting is not too hard or too easy and pitching is the same 
 way. When fielding, everything just seems to fall right into place. No more of diving and making 
 the catch where the ball somehow takes a weird angle into the glove. Its perfect. The gameplay 
 is so realistic, it blows any other game out of the water. In the middle of the game, there had 
 to be a slight delay because a beachball had fallen on the field and it showed Manny Ramirez picking 
 it up and kicking it back into the stands. The new Road to the Show mode is awesome and very realstic. 
 Franchise is very deep, you can upgrade your stadium, your transportation, how your team advertises 
 n much much more. 
  This game's sounds are perfect.. The commentary was very very nicely done and it was nice break 
 from the radio guy in madden. From the crack of the bat to the fans shouting in the stands, it 
 all sounds great. I played in fenway park as the Sox and when Jeter came up to bat, i could hear 
 a fan screaming WITH a distinct boston accent. Crazy.
  The ONE problem I have with this game is the lag in online play. Either your online experience 
 is smooth or bad. It really throws off your timing as a hitter =/ BUT the developers are coming 
 out with a patch to fix it all up. The only other problems is that if theres a grounder between 
 the 3rd baseman and shortstop, it may choose the wrong player to field it with and you may accidentally 
 run the wrong direction because you thought you would be the other position. Its something that 
 happens maybe 15% of the time, but when it happens it is irritating. 
  All in all, if your a hardcore or a casual baseball sim player, GET THIS GAME! 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Fyoung
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 9, 2008 1:25 pm PT
Review:  I bought the game two days ago. I've played 5 games so far. To me the graphics are a 10. The gameplay 
 is good. I've only played season mode so far. This is the best looking baseball game I've ever 
 played. The player's actions are like real players in real life. To me this makes the games seem 
 more realistic. Night games look really good. If you are a baseball fan I think you would really 
 like this game. The presentation of the game seems more like a real game to me. I like the way 
 the announcers run down the game stats during a game. Reminds me of the way games are broken down 
 in real life. I like to play with old time players, you can unlock Babe Ruth, Lou Gehrig, Johhny 
 Bench, Reggie Jackson and other legends. I haven't unlocked the alternate uniforms yet. This game 
 is some what to me like MVP baseball. I would rate this game a 9. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dipuccio
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 9, 2008 8:35 am PT
Review:  I just picked up a Panasonic 42" 1080p Plasma, a PS3 and this game. I played the previous 2 releases 
 of this game on PS2 and they were amazing. This one blows them both away. The gameplay is very 
 similar to last year (which is a GOOD thing) but its actually a little more difficult against the 
 AI (also a good thing) . When you play this on a 1080p HDTV, the game comes to life. I cannot stress 
 enough how fun it is to play because its like being a part of a real baseball game. The major reason 
 I recently stepped up to a PS3 was because this game was being released and I couldn't wait to 
 try it out. And really, the only MAJOR area of improvement that was needed was the graphics (I 
 know there were a few glitches as well) and its safe to say the graphics were amazing enuff to 
 make me say "Hooo-Ly Sh! T!!!!"
  
  My friends have been stopping by and they cannot believe how good its looks, which has a good deal 
 to do with my new HDTV, but I know a guy who plays this on a standard definition TV and he says 
 that the graphic are still pretty damn sweet.
  
  Bottom line: If you like baseball - go get this game. Go get it NOW. I used to play MVP back in 
 the day, but this beats it like a rented mule. It's the holy grail of baseball games.
  
  One final note: If you are considering getting an HDTV, get a 1080p. I know that there are no broadcasts 
 that have a 1080p feed, but the PS3 is capable of it and the 1080p games (like this one) along 
 with Blu-Ray movies are truly out of this world. You won't be sorry!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: reic25
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 9, 2008 6:34 am PT
Review:  First off, the graphics are amazing!!! Best in any next gen console game I've seen to date. But 
 I think this game was released before they got all the kinks worked out. For instance, on more 
 than one occasion I've hit a ball and the AI fielders just stood there. One time, the catcher actually 
 ran out to the outfield to get the ball. There are slight video glitches and screen tears rather 
 frequently. If you dive for a ball and miss, for some reason, you can't pick up the ball with that 
 same player. My pitcher got a base hit one time and the announcer said he had just tied for the 
 most base hits of all time.
  Now, these may seem like a lot of glitches, but to me, they can easily be overlooked because I 
 am a rabid baseball fan and the unbelievable graphics make up for the less than perfect gameplay. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheCarl
Rating: 7.5
Date: Mar 8, 2008 6:39 pm PT
Review:  MLB 08: The Show is the perennial baseball offering from the Sony of America San Diego office. 
 This years package can be easily broken down into three distinct groups. First is offline or local 
 two player. Secondly is online competitive play and lastly is the simulation feature set, Road 
 to the Show.
  
  The offline play consists of the standard gameplay types; quick play, season, franchise, manager 
 and local two player in various forms. Nothing extraordinary here. 
  
  Online play is as you imagine. Go online and play people from around the country (anyone outside 
 America playing this game?) . Added this year is the ability to filter the game settings and player 
 skills so you can avoid any superior players and settings you don't care for. Wins and Losses are 
 tracked along with a points total which can vary according to the skill (or lack there of) of your 
 opponent. All of this top level information can also be tracked using The Show website. Unfortunately, 
 The Show is still a bit unstable online (for me and others) and when lag pops up, usually when 
 hitting, it can be extremely frustrating.
  
  Road the the Show, actually, Road to the Show 2.0 is a deep simulation package in which you bring 
 a rookie up through the minor leagues, hoping to break into the bigs. There are dozens of customizations 
 you can make to your character prior to even taking the feild. From facial features to clothing 
 and stances. Your ability to customize many facets of your character is nice but will be lost on 
 many. After joining a team via free agency, you being playing and earning points. Earning points 
 is done by executing on various offensive, baserunning or pitching tasks set forth by your manager 
 prior to the play. You also get rewarded for having productive at bats and solid defense. An example 
 of this would be "reach base safely". You would gain positive points for achieving this or negative 
 points if not done. You can also gain points with more broad goals which can take up to a month 
 of in-game time to reach. All of these points can be put into character progression via the dozen 
 or so attributes you can train when in between games or during the off season.
  
  Presentation wise, The Show 08 improves on the 07 offering. Character models and facial models 
 of the big leaguers has improved and they all look great. Stadiums are nicely detailed and even 
 the minor league parks have a lot more variety in them. Many animations have been added and the 
 result is players moving more smoothly and looking nice. The music and sound are another issue 
 though. Disappointingly, instead of following the lead of the other The Show games and going out 
 and getting some great indie stuff, they settled for some mainstream OLD rock music with a dabble 
 of well known hip-hop. The announcers are back from last year but either didn't show up for work 
 or mailed it in because almost all the blurbs issued by them existed in last years game. Loading 
 times are also a bit rough. Prior to any game, all information for each player and stadium is loaded 
 and can take a while and is quite noticeable. There is no loading time in the course of a typical 
 offline or online game.
  
  In conclusion, The Show '08 is a good offering but still doesn't separate itself from its previous, 
 last-gen incarnations. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bigboy31
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 8, 2008 3:25 pm PT
Review:  I thought mlb 2k7 had a chance last yr but is living in a myopic world. 2k had too many glithches 
 and the frame rate was horrible. The crowd looked horrific and there were far too many great catches 
 and homeruns by sub par players. I've been debating for weeks on what baseball game to purchase. 
 I just rented mlb 2k8 and let me tell you it's even worse than last yrs. I've been reading the 
 positive responses foe mlb the show 08 so i decided to download it and let me tell you it's the 
 best looking sports game i have ever seen and i've seen them all. If the whole game is as promising 
 as the demo then we have a new champion for sports gaming. The player models are outstanding. The 
 crowd looks great (unlike mlb 2k8) and there responsive to key situations. The commentary is supurb 
 and the physics of the game are the most realistic in a sports game. If your on the fence about 
 what game to buy , let me tell you there is no comparison mlb the show 08 should be your choice. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MiltaJay
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 8, 2008 6:29 am PT
Review:  I'm reviewing this game out of my humble opinion and not to lure anyone into buying this game over 
 2k8. I used to play 989's MLB baseball back in the day and it was great fun. Along came 2k baseball 
 and with it's superb graphics and slick gameplay, completely lured me into the Franchise. I've 
 been devoted to 2k baseball and ignoring sony's new MLB series all along. I was even tempted to 
 get MLB 07 but the graphics, despite being somewhat of a graphics whore, turned me off somewhat 
 compared to MLB2k7. Wow, this year's version of MLB 08 in my opinion is the greatest baseball game 
 ever created, and you know what? so are the graphics. MLB2k8's player models are a bit better proportioned, 
 but overall MLB 08 is better. Player facial features are the best I've ever seen, on par with NBA 
 Live 08 and the stadiums are perfected to unbelievable realism. But the gameplay, I cannot believe 
 how I missed out on 07 and games before it, but the gameplay is the most authentic alongside NBA 
 2k8. From accurately batting stances to pitching windups, this is like watching a televised game. 
 Pitching/batting interface is much more user friendly than 2k7 or 2k8. I personally think the swing 
 stick is a gimmick and takes you out of rythm, whereas The Show is simple but deep. The audio, 
 presentation and commentary are spot on, the animation is fluid and best I've seen in a baseball 
 game, with a slick smooth framerate. The options are numerous with Road to the Show being an addicting, 
 realistic and straight out fun mode. MLB 08 is one complete package. All I hope for is that 09 
 don't mess with the graphics and just tweak the body type to look better proportioned. Other than 
 that I don't know how they're going to top this. In summary, MLB08 is the most authentic and best 
 baseball game I've ever played. I personally cannot go back to 2k baseball. Thank God I spent my 
 hard earned cash on this game and not 2k8, It's worth every penny. Thank you Sony for a great baseball 
 franchise and sorry for ignoring you all these years, but I promise I won't anymore. MLB The Show 
 rocks. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lo_Rising
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 31, 2008 6:53 pm PT
Review:  When i played the demo to this game I could not believe how polished it was. Now that I have played 
 the finished product and explored all the options available, there is not a single baseball game 
 out now that can compare to MLB 08: The Show. The depth that this game has with its Road to the 
 Show mode is unparalleled. The graphics are some of the best that I have seen in any game. The 
 animations are spectacular, turning a double play feels very satisfying when watching a replay. 
 The biggest part of this game is the little things that you notice, like the crowd punching around 
 a beach ball, or them fighting for a foul ball, or the guy going through his routine in the on 
 deck circle. The game is easy to learn and play, but can be tough to master. If you own a PlayStation 
 3 and you love baseball the way I love baseball, this is the only game that will satisfy your appetite. 
 I cannot say enough good things about this game. thanks. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: alln2themusic
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 7, 2008 9:04 am PT
Review:  This game has the perfect balance between being a baseball simulation and arcade style of game 
 play. The controls and the general fun gameplay make this game very easy for casual and newbie 
 baseball/sport gamers to get into. The amount of detail that went into the game is simply amazing. 
 The sheer number of animations and detail in the behavior of the players is something to behold. 
 It has an unbelievalbe amount of content and can easily last all the way into next year as far 
 as different features in the game. The Road to the Show has a very immursive feel that really makes 
 you love the moments when your player you created (with one of the craziest model creation systems 
 around) really makes all the way from the AA League Ball all the way to the majors. I highly recommend 
 anyone who has always wanted to get into a sports game or who enjoys baseball to seriously consider 
 purchasing this game. You won't be disappointed!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jerrycee
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 7, 2008 7:42 am PT
Review:  Wow ! i played 2ksports for years on the xbox360and i just bought a playstation 3.. I went out 
 and bought both mlb08 the show and mlb2k8
  on the 360 plus i have HD and i must say !The show blows 2k8 away with
  out a doubt. I never realize 
 how powerful the playstation 3 was until i played
  the Show.. On Hd the graphics are beautiful and the presentation is also great. This game reminds 
 me of MVP Baseball but an update version of what it might of been.. This is the 1st sports game 
 this year i enjoy playing
  i just hope sports games can continue in the right direction as the show..
  The gameplay is just 
 right , the only thing i still see that still has a problem
  from 07 is when the ball is hit for a grounder ,the fielder runs right by the ball without catching 
 it ,But other than that its very minor. This game is worth the 60bucks Good Job Sony !! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: f50p90
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 6, 2008 9:33 pm PT
Review:  I have been a sports fan and a baseball fan since I was around 5 years old. I have been playing 
 baseball games since Big Hurt Baseball on the Super Nintendo, since then I have gone through quite 
 a bit of baseball simulators, my favorite series being the Triple Play series. But I must say that 
 MLB The Show 08 is not only the best, most realistic, best looking baseball game ever, it's one 
 of the best sports games ever. The best this generation. In terms of baseball video games this 
 is a perfect 10. In terms of sports video games The Show is a 10. In terms of overall video game 
 experiences, it's not an epic game, but it does what it's supposed to better than any other sim. 
 If you have a Playstation 3 there is no contest. 
  The game has it all, the best graphics and player motions you have ever seen before, smooth game 
 play. Fun game play. Online is solid, for the most part lag free. you really couldn't ask for more 
 from a baseball game. 
  
  If you're a baseball fan, buy this game. If you're a sports fan with some interest in baseball, 
 buy this game. If you think it looks cool, buy this game. It won't disapoint and is well worth 
 it and will last. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lethal_NFS
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 6, 2008 7:52 pm PT
Review:  The last baseball game to capture my heart was World Series Baseball on the Sega Saturn. Thats 
 right. Its been roughly 11 years since I have played a truely great baseball game. Let me break 
 it down for ya.
  
  Graphics
  Outstanding character models and stadium detail. The fans in the stands even come to life while 
 your playing. Even better, the frame rates never drop when playing. Unlike 2K8 lol
  
  Sound
  The announcers are actually good in this game. They call the right plays and make sense 
 when talking about........ well whatever it is they feel like talking about. Crowd and stadium announcers 
 are clear and when playing in 5.1 is really sounds like a real game.
  
  Gameplay
  Batter and pitcher controls are very well done. Its not easy to pin point a perfect pitch so that 
 really makes the game feel more realistic. Batting is nice as you can try to guess the pitch which 
 can really help out in times of need. Fielding is done well and for the first time in a long long 
 time there arent 10 HRs being hit in a game nor are your HRs being robbed by miracle catches over 
 the fence (ala 2K7) .
  
  Overall
  This is the best baseball game I ever played. Sony really nailed it with this one and if you want 
 the best then you better get this game. You wont be dissapointed.
  
  
  Online
  Online leagues are great and I havent seen any lag when playing. The top player of the day is also 
 posted on the main screen. I havent spent a lot of time online so this is all I can review for 
 now. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: slinkys_delsol
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 6, 2008 3:01 pm PT
Review:  First and foremost, I love baseball and MLB 08: The Show is an OUTSTANDING game. I switched from 
 the EA Games to this Series back when MLB 06: The Show was put out for the PSP.
  
  Graphics: Are Beautiful. The overall look of this game on the PS3 with an HD set can not be compromised. 
 If you are playing this on anything buy an HDTV, you are missing out.
  
  Content: The fact that you can download updated rosters and use them for your current Season / 
 Game is a big plus. In years past you could ONLY use updated Rosters for Online Play.
  
  Play / AI: This meet all my expectations. Play is fluid and sharp on the PS3. Controls have not 
 changed, so anyone familiar with the MLB: The Show series will pick it right up.
  
  Complaint / Glitch: I have noticed one Glitch so far. I was playing as the Phillies and with a 
 guy on Base, Jimmy Rollins (Current MVP) hit a walk off HR for me to win the game. Well, when the 
 final stats came up, he was not given credit for the HR or the RBI's. When I looked, the base runner 
 (Who was on 2nd @ the time of the HR) was given the Stat of the RBI. Ok, well, were did the HR 
 go then???
  
  Overall the game is outstanding. If somehow this "Glitch" or Online Content can be made for the 
 game (Like a Mini Game or some Mod. Maybe added Stadiums) . Advid Baseball fans will want it, true 
 Baseball fans will NEED it!
  
  Hope this helps!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: webproserv
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 6, 2008 10:59 am PT
Review:  I am an owner of both a ps3 and a 360 and when I purchased MLB 2K8 for the 360 I knew I made a 
 mistake. For my review of how TERRIBLE 2K8 was check out the my user review page of 2K8 and you'll 
 find out. I was fortunate enough to have the great guys at gamestop give me a giftcertificate for 
 my return of my new copy of 2K8 being that you can only return a new item for the same item with 
 no refunds, but they understood how terrible 2K8 was they gave me my money back. Thanks GameStop. 
 
  
  Now on to MLB 08 The Show. After taking back 2K8 I had a hard time finding a copy of the show at 
 my local gamestops and a day went by until i had to drive 10 miles out of my way to find a copy. 
 When I did I took it home and played the hell out of it. I finally new why many reviewers gave 
 the show so many great reviews. The game is damn near perfect. The graphics where built from the 
 ground up to utilize the PS3's power and it shows from the amazing looking crowd to the little 
 things that pop up within the player animations. The stadiums are all done very accuratley the 
 animations again are done smoothly and unlike 2K8 there is NO FRAMRATE ISSUES in this game what 
 so ever. The game runs at an amazing 60 frames per second and you will fall in love with the way 
 the game of baseball is portrayed in this title. The presentation is stellar with mayking you feel 
 like you are watching a real baseball game on tv. The guys at sony took the good advice of "if 
 its not broke not fix it" as regards to the gameplay. All I have to say is this game is a must 
 buy for a baseball fan or casual fan of the sport. If you dont have a ps3 this is the soul reason 
 to buy one because its the first time I seen a game on the ps3 thats better than anything the 360 
 has to offer as regards to a baseball title. Please take my word for it MLB the Show is a much 
 better and smarter buy than the garbage they call 2K8. 
  
  Go out and buy it now you wont regret it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GP1mil
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 6, 2008 8:31 am PT
Review:  MLB 08 is a fantastic baseball game as well as a sim, graphics are nice, commentary is great even 
 the stadiums are well done. Big improvement over 07 which was still a great game nonetheless. It 
 has you start out at Spring Training where you play your games and if successful the team will 
 land you with a contract, after that you either start with Single A or Double A teams and work 
 your way up to through the minors until they finally call you to the big leagues.
  
  Character development is also fantastic when your doing Road to the Show, lots of options and different 
 accessories right down to the dimples on your face. I would recommend this game to any baseball 
 fan out as opening day is right around the corner and MLB 08 The Show should not be missed by any 
 true fan of Major League Baseball.
  
  Go Cubs!!!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SHSMoss30
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 5, 2008 10:15 pm PT
Review:  This game has definitely lived up to all the hype. Road to the Show mode is just as addicting as 
 last year if not more. Franchise mode remains to be one of the deepest in video game history. Not 
 only do you control your rosters, you also have to control the marketing aspects of your franchise 
 as well as keep your player morale up. One of my favorite things about the game is the ability 
 to do a fantasy draft when you enter Franchise Mode (I know this has been in a bunch of games already, 
 but it never gets old) . I started a Franchise with the Chicago Cubs and drafted an extremely young 
 team. I want to play through the first season (hopefully win the World Series, and break "The Curse") 
 and then simulate after that. I have spent hours and hours playing this game and discovering the 
 little things that make it so great. Overall, the game play has improved. I have a feeling that 
 I will be playing the game from now up until the time that MLB 09: The Show comes out next year. 
 Definitely a "must buy" for any fan of baseball! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rob046
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 5, 2008 7:18 pm PT
Review:  I really enjoyed PLAYING The Show '07 for PS3 and PS2, but honestly the PS3 graphics were just 
 a smoother version of the PS2 visuals, not totally next gen.
  But given it was just the 1st of hopefully many PS3 installments, I didn't really complain, as 
 long as this 2nd installment was improved in the areas that needed it.
  And when I played the demo and saw early reviews, my hopes were up. For the first time I actually 
 bought a PS3 game (this one) the day of its release, not caring about the $60 tag. Well, it was 
 $60 well spent as it met my expectations.
  
  The gameplay is relatively untouched, but the few additions/improvements made are all good. First 
 and foremost, the ability to now save a game at any point is a lifesaver. Now you don't have to 
 be late for life because you are in extra innings!
  The replay vault is cool, at the end of a game you can now go back and view all your highlights, 
 so you don't need to stop the game mid-game to be in awe of your towering homer, you can now wait 
 until the game is over.
  
  You can add your own music tracks, sweet. Also, the sixaxis controller is well implemented for 
 sliding, diving, and jumping. The fielders' "throwing strength" meter is improved upon. With more 
 different colored rings it seems much easier than before to decide just how hard you want to nail 
 a guy running to 1st, not to mention that throwing errors also seem more likely this year when 
 putting too much zip on a ball, which is good and more realistic.
  
  While I might be forgetting a few other new features, I don't want to forget the addition to the 
 piching display. Now you have arrows showing where your curveball or slider will end up, for example 
 on a slider the arrows show how far to the side the ball will likely go, but it also shows how 
 far the ball will drop as well. This is nice because each pitcher throws a bit different so its 
 nice to have a better idea of what their pitch movement is like (which you didn't have in '07) . 
 However, after you are familiar with your pitchers you really don't need this display. Not to mention 
 that it can make pitching a little to easy.
  So basically this year it seems like it should be, in general, harder to hit and easier to pitch, 
 which is fine by me since that kind of resembles recent real MLB seasons, like last year, where 
 pitchers are seeming to dominate a bit more. m
  
  Graphics...
  
  The graphics now have the "blur" effect (for example the crowd is slightly blurred behind a player 
 that the camera is focused on) in areas of the game, and some HDR type effects seen in a few other 
 newer PS3 releases. I like it! It does smooth things out a bit and you start to see effects previously 
 only found on good, next-genish PC games on higher end rigs.
  
  I don't necessarily notice detail improvements with the crowds and stadiums, aside what I mentioend 
 above, at least nothing really notable, but that isn't a huge deal to me anyhow. The crowd, much 
 like '07, consists of the same 10 or 15 people multiplied 1,000 times, and it sticks out like a 
 sort thumb to me. I'd almost rather see nearly non-animated crowd textures to give a more diverse 
 effect, like the last gen days. But to each his own, I guess.
  
  There are seemingly some slight, but not very noteworthy stadium details. Although ball physics 
 on a foul ball or home run seem better. Him a home run earlier today and the ball very realistically 
 bounced off of a step near a hallway that leads into the stands/stadium, then it bounced off at 
 a correct physics angle, hit the other side of the hallway wall, bounced again off the other wall, 
 then rolled into the hallway, into the darkness! Thought that was a pretty cool detail.
  
  But let's get to the more important stuff, the in-game stuff that you really have to look at all 
 the time. The players are definitely looking better, the animations are better (for pitching, fielding, 
 throwing, batting, ect.) , and the players just look smoother and have a little more detail. Oh, 
 and the annoying (and scary) glowing player eyes from '07 are gone!!! They have real looking eyes 
 now!
  
  The sound/commentary is pretty much same as '07. You'll hear a lot of the same phrases, with some 
 new stuff that has to be thrown in (like when they talk about player stats, team records, ect., 
 they obviously have to update that stuff for '08, and have) .
  
  There are tons of different modes to play, like last year and maybe some new stuff, but to be honest 
 I really don't mess with much other then season mode so I won't comment on that stuff. I'm glad 
 season mode is still there in an age where sports games all want to just have franchise modes. 
 I just want to play ball, I don't care about hot dog prices or player salaries!
  
  Overall, I give this game a 9. There are a few glitches and other things I did mention that keep 
 this from being a 10, some of which I think will be fixed in updates. So the game can only get 
 better.
  But given the improved graphics and detail in parts of the game, which are notable improvements 
 in a 1 year span, along with a few improvements to what I think is already fantastic gameplay and 
 great fun, I have no problem giving this game a 9 and recommend this game to anybody looking for 
 a next gen baseball game.
  While I think the 2K versions are OK, I definitely like the show better, and I have 2K7 and demo'd 
 2K8.
  
  EDIT: Can't forget to mention, my copy of '08 The Show came with a coupon thing for a FREE New 
 Era baseball hat! So I assume all copies do as well. Although I think this game is still worth 
 $60 for anyone remotely into baseball, this free cap definitely gives you more "bang for your buck". 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hatmantc
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 5, 2008 1:39 pm PT
Review:  So yesterday i picked up my copy of MLB 08 the show. I have to say so far i am pretty pleased with 
 my purchase.
  
  Visually the game looks nice. players look realistic and move pretty fluidly. only visual hiccup 
 i have seen so far has been when the UMP throws back the ball to the pitcher (if the cam is postioned 
 behind the pitcher) the ball doesnt actually get caught by him at times.
  
  Sound wise the game is decent. nothing to spectacular. only sound i find some what unrealistic 
 is the sound of the bat breaking from a pitch. you can tell that they used celery to recreat that 
 sound instead of actually breaking a wooden back, but thats being overly picky. the crowd is pretty 
 responsive. the commentry is pretty spot on and seems fairly in-snyc with whats actually happening 
 going on in the game.
  
  Game play once again is solid, nothing realy new with the mechanics of the game. PCI is a nice 
 touch in the lower settings, can make the game a bit too easy if you start to get to know the pitchers 
 habbits. Pitching can be a bit frustrating if you get a picky ump (who can have their own personalities 
 if you want them to) some times you can throw a strike that will be called a ball or vice versa.
 
  
  I have yet to play the online mode, so i cant say how that is. i did sign on to it to see easy 
 it was to get to. which is pretty easy. there seems to be too many menus to go through in that 
 mode. 
  
  one of my only gripes is you cant choose which uniform you want to wear for that days game in Franchise 
 mode. i would have liked to have that choice.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: courtdeze
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 5, 2008 9:04 am PT
Review:  To say I was disgusted with MLB 07 on PS3 would be an understatement.
  The graphics were disappointing, with the stadium detail and crowds barely improved over its PS2 
 predecessor. Gameplay was solid, but only in singleplayer mode. Playing online was ripe with stuttering 
 framerates making gameplay nearly impossible. Frequent disconnects had me turning the game back 
 in after a few weeks, wishing I still had my PS2.
  
  With The Show 08, Sony did not right the ship so much as they completely rebuilt it. In comparison, 
 if The Show 07 would be like The Titanic (lots of hype and expectations, only to crash and sink 
 into a frigid grave) , then The Show 08 is a Carnival singles cruise, sailing smoothly through the 
 bahamas, with hotties everywhere free drinks all night long.
  
  The most noticeable difference is the graphics. Sony obviously put in the work to address last 
 years deficiencies, and the end result is one of the most beautiful sports games ever made. Last 
 years grass looked like turf from an 80's NES football game, and the stadium detail was decent, 
 if unspectacular, falling short of expectations. The best part about the graphics in last years 
 game was the crowd, yet Sony recognized the possibility for improvement and did so accordingly... the 
 best addition being the fans fighting for foul balls. The graphics have been improved upon in every 
 aspect, from the field and stadium to the player animations, jerseys and emotions.
  
  The sound quality is as strong as ever. The commentary is some of the best in any sports game ever, 
 with past and current player performance refrences aplenty. When you swing at a bad pitch, you 
 will hear it from the announcer. The crowd taunts can always be heard in the background, and it 
 is best experienced in 5.1 surround. You feel like you are truly at the ballpark on a Sunday afternoon 
 with the spectacular sound experience this game provides.
  
  Online play last year was by far some of the worst in any sports game ever. Out of about 30 attempts 
 at playing online, I finished only about 7-8 games. The rest dropped connection after no more than 
 three innings, frequently before the end of the 1st, if I even got connected at all. Even a few 
 of the games I did finish I was forced to play with frequent pauses and the dreaded 'waiting for 
 opponent' message. I ran a high speed cable connection with a 20mb download and 5mb upload bandwidth, 
 so my connection was not the problem, Sony was.
  This year those problems seem to be fixed, so far. I have played 4 online games and only 1 had 
 a few stuttering problems but did not affect gameplay enough to make me want to pull out my hair 
 (im bald by the way) .
  I chalk it up to a bad connection and my opponents subpar internet service.
  
  Single player 
 modes are once again fantastic, and still the strongpoint of the game. Road to the show is improved 
 in nearly every aspect and the franchise mode returns with its usual depth and excellence.
  
  One of the best new additions to this game is ability to add your own music to the playlist. 
 Music in past MLB Show games has, for lack of a better phrase, sucked my black ass. Im all for 
 rock music, but their collection of indie butt rock was just atrocious, and frequently had me considering 
 taking an ice pick to my ears to ease the pain. 
  What few tracks they have on the playlist this year are some good classics ranging from rock to 
 old school R&B/Soul and hip-hop. But adding your own tracks to a sports game is a feature I have 
 always dreamed of and Sony made my wish come true. Ive got everything from Tupac to Audioslave 
 to Kanye West to Franz Ferdinand to keep my head bobbing. It is easily the greatest video game 
 soundtrack ever, and I owe it all to me! OK, and to Sony for adding the feature.
  
  In closing, SONY has given us this year what we all had hoped for last year.
  Great graphics, 
 Solid Gameplay, a myriad of offline features and steady Online play. This is the baseball sim gamers 
 have been waiting for their whole lives. As with any game, there is room for improvement, and there 
 are a few issues with graphics and gameplay that need to be worked out, but they are too minor 
 of issues to go into any detail (and Ive gone on way too long as it is) . 
  
  This game makes a PS3 worth owning if you are a baseball fan. It is, IMHO, the BEST baseball sim 
 ever made. Even if you a not a fan of basball video games but love the sport, you will not be disappointed 
 in its realism, authenticity and endless options to enjoy Americas Pastime! GO MARINERS!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: UngaDupa
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 5, 2008 8:02 am PT
Review:  This is simply the best baseball video game ever created. Sony has made a huge step forward from 
 last years PS3 version. I played MLB 2K7 on XBOX 360 last year for most of the baseball season, 
 then switched to The Show on PS3 at the end of the season. While last years version of The Show 
 on PS3 felt unfinished, this years version feels complete. One of the most awesome features, to 
 me, is the authentic ball physics. When playing at Fenway in MLB 2K, the ball would always hit 
 the wall and drop straight down in a very predictable manner. When a ball hits the green monster 
 in The Show, it bounces off in a realistic and random manner, thus yielding most frequently doubles, 
 less frequently singles, and least frequently triples. The rare triple results when the ball bounces 
 off the monster in a violent manner, requiring the fielder to chase after it for a short time. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sectshun8
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 5, 2008 6:42 am PT
Review:  Once again the MLB franchise doesn't fail with providing an outstanding game that allows you to 
 develop your career from teh ground up. Two negatives to note. The Rookie mode is substantially 
 more difficult than the two previous years... it plays more like Veteran. And also the framerate 
 gets demolished during the transitions between CG cut scenes and normal play. There is also lag 
 when wanting to press X to continue (at least for the PS3 version) .
  
  But these are very small quirks that don't really detract much fro the overall game experience 
 which is as solid as it has ever been... plus it has pretty graphics, haha.
  
  There are tons of customizeable features not available in previous years. But seriously, you may 
 need a physics degree to be able to understand and tweak them all. 
  
  If you are a fan of the MLB games, or better yet a baseball fan in general looking for a great 
 simulator, pick this up. For arcade style stick ball pick up The BIGS. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sbauer318
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 5, 2008 5:53 am PT
Review:  MLB 08 The Show delivers an exciting game of baseball that truly puts you right in the stands. 
 
  
  Most noticeably, MLB 08 was given a huge upgrade in the presentation department. Refined player 
 models, stadiums, colors and cut scenes deliver a believable experience. Better yet, these additions 
 do not cause the frame rate to drop during the game. 
  
  Road to the Show also received a few updates, including coach signals as well as fielding impact. 
 Last year, playing defense didn't mean a thing. You were essentially taking up space/time as it 
 just didn't matter what you did (or didn't do) . That's changed. You earn points for playing good 
 defense and you lose points for bad plays. Don't forget to cover the base during a double play 
 or steal.
  
  Franchise mode is basically the same with the exception of additional stat overlays and displays. 
 Franchise is still very deep as it was last year.
  
  Online play is great, but remember, these games are peer-to-peer. IF YOU PLAY SOMEONE WITH A SLOW 
 CONNECTION, YOUR GAME WILL LAG. IF YOU LAG ALL THE TIME, IT'S PROBABLY YOUR CONNECTION. Games are 
 lag-free (again, assuming you play someone with a decent connection) . As of last night, there were 
 many players online. You shouldn't have any problems getting a game going. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: persia316
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 5, 2008 5:27 am PT
Review:  Ok I don't like sports games but I like sports. I thought no game can get me into sports until 
 I played MVP 2005. I loved this game & when I heard that there was no more I was heartbroken. I 
 played MLB the show 07 & other than the graphics for PS3, it was a good game. I just got 08 & I 
 haven't put the game down. From presentation to game play, this game is just pure perfection. It 
 great that the solid game play hasn't changed much. I play with the Yankees & there's a new stadium 
 being build & there's even mention of it during the game. Even the new Mets stadium is mention. 
 I felt like it was a real game than a video game. This is by far the most fun I've had with a sports 
 game. I also have an import dual shock 3 for PS3 & when I'm about to throw out of the strike zone 
 it vibrates like MVP for the PS2 does. I don't really get excited over any sports games but MLB 
 the show 08 has me hooked. If you own a PS3 then get the show. You won't regret it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: coachdorman
Rating: 5
Date: Mar 5, 2008 4:50 am PT
Review:  I am trying to be as objective as possible. Single player is outstanding, however, the multiplayer 
 as of today is broken. Worse than last year's edition up to this point. Can it be fixed? Not if 
 it's a netcode issue. Hopefully, it is a server issue. Shame on Sony. Has video game production 
 come to making money strictly on launch day? Don't get me wrong, as a single player game this edition 
 of the Show could be the best. But for $59 and a broken multiplayer component up to this point, 
 this game is another major disappoint for Sony and this system. What an opportunity to make strides 
 against Microsoft who has customers on the fence with their goof at Christmas concerning their 
 connection issues. If you enjoy a single player baseball game, then yes, this game is superior, 
 but for online play, it is broken as of its day 2 release. Half great, half broken... my review 
 a 5. I will keep it with hopes and prayers of it being fixed for online play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KevinConklin
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 4, 2008 9:37 pm PT
Review:  So, just like everyone else who picked up this game on its release date, I rushed out to my local 
 GameStop right after school, flew home, and popped it in. I had already played the demo, but I 
 like neither the Red Sox or the Rockies, so it didn't do much for me.
  
  After loading up the main screen, and jumping right into an exhibition game, my jaw dropped. I 
 am a Chicago White Sox fan, so naturally I play as the White Sox versus the Cubs. The opening cinematic 
 to US Cellular Field is breath taking. (and I assume all other stadiums are spectacular)
  
  What I love about MLB 08: The Show is that while playing, I feel like I am actually watching my 
 TV, not playing a game at all. I zoomed in on all the players faces and I felt as if I was looking 
 at their picture. Another thing to point out in the game is the crowd. In past games, the people 
 were just cut outs whos arms moved a bit. It is completely different in the game. Not only are 
 there thousands of unique crowd members, but they actually interact with their surroundings! When 
 a foul ball floats off into the audience, a group of people actually stand up attempting to catch 
 the ball! It just adds to the experience... also, I even saw a beach ball bouncing around the crowd! 
 AMAZING!!
  
  So graphically this game is amazing, and equally amazing is the sound. I cranked up my volume (getting 
 yelled at by my mom twice) and I could hear ever gust of wind, crack of the bat, thud of the ball 
 as in lands in the mitt, and roar of the crowd as if I was standing on the field! The sound just 
 completes the entire experience.
  
  Along with graphics and sound, how is the gameplay? Unexplainable!!!!! The game runs so smoothly, 
 and fluently I feel like I am playing the sport myself. The characters interact quickly, and the 
 picture is clear as day.
  
  A new feature that they added that I love is the "rob-a-homerun" feature. In previous games, you 
 just had to go to the wall and follow the shadow, hoping you would jump and catch the ball. Well 
 not in MLB 08. When a ball is hit in a "robbable" area, a red circle fading to orange appears. 
 And you time your player so when you reach the wall and hit the jump button, the last concentric 
 circle is fading, I snagged a homerun on my second game!
  
  I have played about 4 games so far, and I have not found one single glitch. I even went and played 
 in "Northern Arizona" in the spring training field, and even the mountains in the background make 
 you feel like you are in the crowd.
  
  Also, the entire menu has been revamped. It is much more accessable, including the online menu.
 
  
  One thing about controls that I don't like, is their "new" baserunning controls. But all I had 
 to do was go into the settings and change it back to "classic." Problem solved!
  
  Now on to multiplayer!! I only played one online match (where I played as the White Sox and my 
 opponent played as the Yankees (probably because they're ranked 2nd not because he's a fan!!) and 
 I won 5-2, so I was happy!)
  and there was only a little bit of lag during the game, but it was only during the cutscenes or 
 the prepitch sequence. So not a big problem. But overall I give the onilne a 8/10! It was really 
 well put together. And there was a message on the board, informing us gamers that they are still 
 working out a few online aspects.
  
  Over all, this game is spectacular. If you have ever played the MLB The Show series in the past, 
 don't even bother renting this game... buy it! I have neglected homework for five hours now playing 
 this game!! 
  
  Here are my final thoughts:
  
  Gameplay - 9/10
  Graphics - 10/10
  Sound - 10/10
  Replay Value - 9/10
  Online Multiplayer - 8/10
  Offline Multiplayer - 9/10
 
  
  Go out right now, and buy this game. You will not regret it
  
  Note: I played MLB 2K8, and it has to be one of the worst baseball games I've ever seen for next 
 gen systems. Don't even bother renting it!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: earlaps
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 4, 2008 8:37 pm PT
Review:  Show for 08 is a very good baseball game. I am sure that I will play dozens of games and enjoy 
 every one. Unfortunately, there is no giant leap ahead in gameplay since the PS 2 version or the 
 2007 game for PS 3. I also encountered some glitches in the first game I played, such as when two 
 outfielders of the opposing team stood around and did not field my ball. The catcher of all people 
 went out and fielded the ball.
  Of course, the graphics are good and the pitcher batter interface remain excellent. Perhaps I was 
 hoping for too much. I admit, I am not into on line play or seasons, franchises, etc, and just 
 like to play a single game from time to time. So the good stuff about those features is beyond 
 my experience. A very good game, but not one that pushes the potential of the PS 3. I would like 
 to see a litle more depth, perhaps things such as interactive mound visits, playing the game from 
 the catcher's point of view, etc. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sgthalka
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 4, 2008 3:00 pm PT
Review:  The last few years of The Show have been incredibly promising glimpses of how good a baseball game 
 can be and made stabs at overtaking EA's MVP '05 as Best Baseball Game Ever. While gameplay in 
 The Show has always been top-notch, the overall package has been tarnished by sub-par graphics 
 in last year's PS3 version, or poor online performance, or wonky bugs in the PS2 releases.
  
  But this is the year where The Show has finally put it all together. This is the best baseball 
 you'll find on any console anywhere and easily lays the legendary MVP 05 to rest.
  
  The core of the game is how great the pitching/batting duel works. Pitching is even more fun this 
 year with the addition of new pitch types (moving fastball being the most common) and statistical 
 analysis in-game that shows your location tendencies and what pitches are/aren't working. Same 
 goes for batting. It's a bit unforgiving at first as you learn how to stay patient at the plate 
 and read incoming pitches and time your swings, but once you become acclimated, it's extremely 
 satisfying to hit. Ball physics also seem much tighter this year, with more realistic and varied 
 line drives/bloopers/flyouts to the outfield.
  
  The most noticeable improvement is how good the game looks now. Detailed textures on grass, dirt, 
 uniforms, helmets and stadiums all help bring the realism to near-photo quality, while improved 
 real-time shadows and depth-of-field effects put the players in what feels like real space and 
 a real broadcast on your TV. The game runs perfectly smooth at 720p. If you want higher resolution 
 in the distance and infielders, you can play at 1080p, but the frame rate will dip during busy 
 sequences and you'll lose the depth-of-field effects, which really improve the look of the game 
 dramatically. It's not worth the tradeoff, in my opinion, to play at 1080p unless you just must 
 have the sharpest picture possible.
  
  Overall atmosphere is also amazing. Stadiums have much more life. Fans leap for foul balls, infielders 
 can dive into the stands to grab flyouts, runners heading into home plate can crash into the catcher 
 to knock the ball out of his mitt. It's also fun to see so many new animations in the field. The 
 variety of new moves add to the realism, and responsive fielding animations seem much more context 
 sensitive than MLB 07 (e. g. the slow lolly-gag throws to first while the runner squeeks by safely) .
 
  
  This is also the first year where I've tried Road to the Show. I've written it off as a gimmick 
 mode in the past, but this really is an entirely unique game unto itself. The pace is much faster 
 than Franchise, and more instantly gratifying as you constantly get a stream of training points 
 after you play each game and really has a stat-buliding role-playing game feel to it. It's easily 
 the most addictive, "just one more turn" style of gameplay you'll see in a baseball game and will 
 keep you up into the wee hours if you don't keep tabs on your clock.
  
  There are a few niggling problems. (It wouldn't be The Show if there weren't.) But thankfully these 
 are really minor compared to the more glaring flaws in previous versions. 
  
  One of the bigger annoyances are the requirements before you can create an online league. You have 
 to register and then wait 14 days before you can create one. You must also complete 10 online games 
 and be rated by your peers favorably. It just seems like unnecessary barriers to something that 
 should just work out of the box without these silly hoops. One other online league complaint -- 
 there's no fantasy draft, so you'll have to use default team rosters, which obviously creates imbalance 
 problems.
  
  There's also some colliision detection problems. While it's innocuous to see your outfield back 
 into and through a stadium wall while fielding a flyout, it's more problematic when the collision 
 detection isn't working when fielding grounders. You'll have to square up and make clean grabs 
 at the ball, and even then you may have an occasional ball slip through or past your legs that 
 shouldn't. Hopefully this is something that can be addressed in a patch.
  
  There are early reports of other bugs -- the most drastic being the walkoff HR glitch, where if 
 you win a game by hitting a HR in the bottom of an inning, you'll only get stat credit for the 
 first run that crosses the plate. If you hit a 3-run bomb to win a tied game, you'll apparently 
 only get credit for 1 run and 1 RBI. Again, hopefully this is something that will be resolved in 
 a patch soon. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Profe_C
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 4, 2008 1:50 pm PT
Review:  I went out at 12:00 am and bought it, and played for 3 hours. Heres my take... mind you I havent 
 played 2k8, but have played the show from 06 -08 now on ps2 and ps3.
  
  08 is excellent compared to 07 on ps3, the graphics are incredibly smooth and look amazing. 
 
  
  The create a player feature is very fun and easy to use. In 20 min I made a character that looks 
 quite similar to myself. 
  
  RTTS in 08 is also much smoother and more in depth, it has many similarities to 07, but has improved 
 in many of the areas lacking from last year. Your player will be more involved than 07.
  
  The franchise mode is also very well done. As simple as it seems, I was irritated last year by 
 the lack of actual managers and base coaches, 08 has at least some of the actual coaches.
  
  Lastly, I absolutely LOVE the My MLB jukebox, it is so much better being able to choose my 
 own music, as opposed to listening to music I am not fond of at all (punk seems to be very popular 
 in baseball games) .
  
  I would buy MLB 08 the show without a second guess. SONY delivered again!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: DominicanAG
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 4, 2008 5:22 am PT
Review:  Finally the baseball game I wanted for my PS3 is finally here. The show is better than last year 
 and it has even more in depth features than all the previous MLB the show games released in the 
 past. 
  
  First I have to say everything from last year is back and by that I mean exhibition mode, manager 
 mode, rivalry mode, franchise mode, season mode, the road to the show is back and one of the best 
 modes in the game. For those of you that don't know this is the mode that lets you play with your 
 created player from a different view than when you play with a team on franchise mode and season 
 mode. You also only play in the game when you're doing a task or you're up to bat which is cool. 
 This years the show is jam packed with features you also get your own custom tracks to play in 
 the game but they are only limited to the menu screens. You also get this new feature called the 
 replay vault which has all the highlights of the game saved and it shows you every out, homerun, 
 and hit that happened in the game which is another pretty cool feature.
  
  Now the graphics what kind I say about they look so much better from last year's 07 the show. The 
 players looked good last year but they just look much better and more detailed. The stadiums are 
 a big improvement from last year as well. The controllers didn't change much but they did add some 
 new ways to guess pitches within the strike zone but you can always have the options to change 
 it back to previous mlb games from the past. This is always great to have the options to change 
 certain features. The online mode is also back with all the features from were on 07.
  
  If you only own a PS3 you have 2 choices unlike some that don't own a PS3 and have only one choice. 
 So far it looks like the show has it locked down for this year's best baseball sim game out so 
 far. If you're a fan of the show than you will not be disappointed with this year's big improvement 
 and this is a must buy game for every baseball fan the loves the game.
  
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
