-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: MLB 09: The Show
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/ps3/sports/mlb09theshow/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Absolutely authentic in just about every possible way.
 Lifelike pitcher-batter duels.
 Realistic visuals and animations.
 Spectacularly addictive Road to the Show mode of play.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Casual players might find the game too challenging at first.
 Loading times are long and frequent in Road to the Show mode.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Mar 10, 2009
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 9
Critic Score: 9.0, 24 Review (s)
User Score: 8.9, 659 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: SCEA
Developer: SCEA San Diego
Genre: Baseball Sim
Date: Mar 3, 2009
ESRB: Everyone

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
This superb video game adaptation of baseball knocks authenticity and realism out of the park.

  There is no room at Cooperstown for baseball games yet, but if the hallowed hall of fame ever adds 
 such a facility, you can guarantee that MLB 09: The Show will be one of the very first inductees. 
 Everything here is brought to life in such an exacting, authentic fashion that you finish games 
 feeling like you've actually spent time out on a real diamond. Driving gappers to the wall, painting 
 corners to ring up Ks, and making running catches on the warning track deliver a sense of satisfaction 
 typically reserved for Little League memories or big-league dreams. This outstanding look at the 
 grand old game is not merely an adaptation of baseball; it  is  baseball in just about every conceivable 
 way.  

           Pitcher-batter confrontations are more lifelike than ever.      

  Sony's San Diego Studios has done a tremendous job of building on last year's stellar effort, subtly 
 improving most aspects of gameplay while not reinventing the wheel. Granted, this sequel isn't 
 as much of an overhaul as it is a refinement. A fair bit of MLB 09 is a straight rehash of its 
 2008 predecessor. Modes of play remain fundamentally unchanged from when you left them 12 months 
 ago, including exhibition, franchise, rivalry, online one-off games and leagues (online games are 
 silky smooth, too) , and the superb Road to the Show. Nothing here will force you to do so much 
 as glance at the manual, although some extras have been tossed into the mix such as the intense 
 Legend difficulty setting, salary arbitration and the waiver wire in franchise play, and flex scheduling 
 and live drafts in online leagues. Controls also remain pretty much the same, with the addition 
 of a handful of amenities such as the ability to quickly shift fielders on the fly and a more interactive 
 baserunning interface in which you use the analog sticks to steal and retreat.  

  The look and sound of the game mimics last year's game as well. As with the above, though, nearly 
 everything has been improved in one way or another. Presentation is virtually identical to a Major 
 League TV broadcast, especially with quick game turned off so you can see all of the close-ups 
 and slow-motion camerawork in-between plays. Player detail is amazing. Not only do faces look almost 
 photorealistic, but the detail is also so sharp that you can recognize Major League stars from 
 halfway across the diamond. Animations are superb. Hundreds of batting stances are depicted, and 
 all of the fielding moves could have been taken directly from  SportsCenter . Stadiums are packed 
 with fine details. The grass looks so realistic that you might be tempted to mow it, and the infield 
 dirt practically shimmers in the sunlight. Sound effects wrap right around you, with crowd noise 
 and chants placing you on the diamond in the middle of a raucous stadium. The broadcast crew of 
 Rex Hudler, Dave Campbell, and Matt Vasgerian do a good job of keeping you involved in the action, 
 although they are a little too prone to repeating phrases and relying on stock sports cliches. 
 Nevertheless, they provide good information, if not much in the way of cogent analysis.  

           The Road to the Show mode may take some commitment, but it's worth it to track every hit 
 and fielding play in your player's quest for the Majors.      

  So you could fairly say that MLB 09 is the same as last year, only better -- a lot better. The game 
 on the field now feels almost entirely organic. Although the pitcher-batter duel in 2008 was very 
 good, it now mimics real at-bats so accurately that it is uncanny. Ball physics are simply perfect. 
 The ball comes off of the bat exactly as it should, depending totally on your timing, the location 
 of your swing, and the location and movement of the pitch. When you hit a nubber, you know right 
 away that you deserved to hit a nubber. When you crank one into the upper deck, you know right 
 away that you deserved to crank one into the upper deck. Most at-bats are struggles when you're 
 wielding the lumber. They play out just like in real baseball. You fight off tough pitches by getting 
 a bit of wood on the ball, you can get jammed inside with bat-breaking results, and the pitcher 
 will try to hoodwink you with garbage after getting ahead in the count. Drawing walks is now possible, 
 too. You have to have a great eye and a lot of patience, but at least you can work your way aboard 
 with a free pass now, which generally wasn't possible last year due to the supernatural acumen 
 of the computer-controlled pitchers. Hitting mechanics are so well done that it's best to step 
 into the box with all of the visual helpers switched off. In most baseball games, frills such as 
 the strike box are necessary to get a handle on hitting the ball properly. Here, this graphical 
 junk only interferes with reading pitches and taking cuts.  

  Pitching is equally brilliant and just as grueling. Every at-bat is a knock-down, drag-out scrap. 
 Opposing hitters are extremely devious and very tough to fool. You can paint corners for Ks, although 
 as in the real Majors, you're better off playing mind games and trying to mess up batters by varying 
 pitch types and speeds. Opposing batters are a little easier to ring up than they were last year, 
 given that their skills at reading pitches back then were so acute that it was just about impossible 
 to get them to chase garbage even when they were behind in the count. Now you can get them to bite 
 more often on pitches a little out of the zone, or freeze them with a heater down the pipe when 
 they are expecting junk. It all adds up to an amazingly lifelike confrontation every time you hit 
 the rubber.     

  Authenticity is also more pronounced in the field. When balls are hit to players, they now react 
 according to their stats, not according to stock animations. The end result is that you never know 
 what's going to happen. In most sports games, when you see a player going all out, you know that 
 a highlight reel is about to unfold. Here, however, you might see that all-out run end up in a 
 face-plant and the ball bouncing off of a glove. In the dozens and dozens of games that we played, 
 not one play felt canned or preordained. Every single, every home run, every strikeout, every 6-4-3 
 double play, every routine catch in the outfield was its own wholly unique event. Establishing 
 this random, anything-can-happen vibe is sort of the Holy Grail for sports-game developers, and 
 as such, is rarely realized. Yet here the developers make it seem almost effortless. The visuals 
 back all of this up. Players will bobble balls, pull off one-handed grabs in the infield, and make 
 radically different catches in the outfield depending on the situation. You feel like you never 
 see the same thing twice.  

           Player details are so finely realized that you can pick out stars such as Derek Jeter 
 from halfway across the diamond.      

  Difficulty is about the only drawback to MLB 09 on the field. Even on the Rookie setting, hitting, 
 pitching, and even some fielding can be tough. Stats generated are nearly dead-on in comparison 
 to the real Majors, so remember that even the best players in the league hit their way aboard an 
 average of a little more than three times in every 10 at-bats. Casual gamers are apt to be very 
 frustrated in the early stages. Until you start getting your timing down and exercising a lot of 
 patience, hitting is extremely hard. You certainly can't pick up the gamepad for the first time 
 and start jacking balls over the fence like you can in MLB 2K9. The same goes for pitching because 
 computer-controlled batters track your efforts and are quick to leap on pitches if you fall into 
 a routine with type and location. Always leading off with that four-seam fastball is a recipe for 
 disaster; your opponents will soon come to look for it and then crush it.  

  Fielding isn't nearly as hard to handle as either hitting or pitching, although it can be problematic 
 at times. Reading the ball off of the bat is a little tough due to the camera angles. If you go 
 down too low you can't see as much, and if you scale back all the way to allow for a broader view 
 of the diamond, then the ball becomes a BB that you can easily lose sight of against the infield 
 dirt. Another possible issue for some might be the adherence to old-fashioned controls. Whereas 
 most sports games seem to be switching over to handling everything with the analog sticks, MLB 
 09 continues with tried-and-true button hitting for batting and either a meter or the classic "choose 
 pitch and pick a location" for pitching. This makes the game feel a touch more "gamey" than the 
 equivalent right-stick hitting and right-stick pitching in MLB 2K9, although the results on the 
 field are so much more lifelike than the competition that the trade-off is more than worthwhile. 

  About the only aspect of MLB 09 that hasn't advanced in a significant way is the Road to the Show 
 role-playing mode. Creating a player and trying to get him to the Major Leagues through controlling 
 him during every plate appearance and fielding chance is every bit as captivating now as it was 
 when it was first introduced two years ago, although it still has a huge problem with load times. 
 It takes a good 20-30 seconds to load up a game for your player, and then another 20-30 seconds 
 at the end of that game to process your results and get back to the main player menu. This sort 
 of wait is readily endurable if you're getting into a game in exhibition or franchise modes, given 
 that you're loading up a full nine-inning contest that generally takes around an hour to play. 
 However, if you choose to play as a batter rather than a pitcher in Road to the Show, you're waiting 
 all this time just to load up a handful of at-bats and a couple of fielding plays. And that's if 
 you're lucky enough to be starting. If you're coming off of the bench, which you almost certainly 
 will be in your first season or two, you often sit through these long loads to fire up a single 
 pinch-hit appearance that wraps up in less than a minute. This gets rather frustrating, and it 
 really bogs down progression through a season if you want to actually play and not simulate your 
 player's actions.  

           New Yankee Stadium is present in all of its $1.3 billion glory.      

  With all of 
 that said, Road to the Show is still amazingly addictive. Sure, it's a time sink. But it feels 
 like you're really building a Major Leaguer one game at a time, earning training points through 
 successes in games and buying skill-enhancing workouts. So it is well worth the commitment. New 
 features such as training in the batting cages, and a revamped baserunning interface that involves 
 reading signs from the third-base coach, further the illusion of being in a player's cleats. Interactive 
 training is probably the best addition because it makes player careers more engaging. Coaches are 
 also responsive to what is happening during games. Have a rough outing against a guy throwing curveballs, 
 for instance, and don't be surprised if you soon get asked to spend some time in the cage with 
 a pitcher throwing nothing but curves. The only complaint about training sessions is that there 
 just aren't enough of them. You seem to get called into one only every couple of weeks, which doesn't 
 give you enough time to focus on improving your skills.  

  MLB 09: The Show is more of a love letter to baseball than it is just another game. Of course, 
 nothing will ever take the place of the real thing, but anyone with a serious fondness for the 
 national pastime will find this an enthralling substitute.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (46 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: sethschroeder07
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 16, 2009 11:16 am PT
Review:  It has been a while since I played some baseball games but this one is worth cracking the baseball 
 back open on the tv. I have been a baseball fan since I was young and took some time off after 
 2k took over the baseball market. After buying a PS3 just recently I have bought and played this 
 a lot. Its worth the money you will put down on it.
  
  The road to the show really lets you progress your player over time and you will feel really proud 
 when you get that first call up to the majors. Also the franchise and online seasons are great 
 add-ons which round out the game. Also there is a rival mode where you can actually start up a 
 playoff series between you and a friend.
  
  In the end this game is worth it and should be a must for any PS3 sports fan. If you do not own 
 a PS3 I would recommend a PS3 just so you can slip into this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mysteriojoe
Rating: 5
Date: Apr 10, 2009 11:45 pm PT
Review:  How important is hitting a baseball, driving in RBI's, and striking out batters? Well, with MLB 
 09 The Show you won't have too worry about any of those things, cause you will not be able to do 
 them. This game is friggin' impossible. 
  
  Playing a game against the computer on any level (rookie, veteran, all star etc) are all impossible. 
 Good luck trying to win a game. I started a season against the computer on veteran and I have lost 
 13 straight games (most of them have been blow outs) and have no wins at all! Flash back to my 
 record on the Show 08, where on veteran level, I have 67 wins and 10 losses. 
  
  The computer really owns you and it seems to get all the breaks. For example, there is a ''bad 
 luck'' factor working against you in this game when you play against the computer. My catcher will 
 throw the ball away or let a pitch get by him 3 or 4 times in a game and the A. I. will totally 
 take advantage of that. Come on, I know this happens in baseball, but 4 times in one game? 
  
  The A. I. will not swing or chase at any pitches outside the zone, and it will manage to hit 
 everything you throw when you put the ball in the zone. Even if you try to keep the ball down and 
 away, the A. I. will find a way.... If you're lucky to have a runner on base with nobody out, the 
 computer will shut you down. Most of the hits you struggle to get will be singles. Meanwhile, the 
 computer is able to hit through the cycle, have multiple home runs, and get doubles and triples 
 with ease, and has a uncanny ability to get freaky ''bloop'' singles just out of your players reach 
 over and over again. None of those hits ever come easy for you. This game is so one sided in the 
 computer's favor. 
  
  Don't even bother trying to follow the ''guess pitch'' feature. It's 100% misleading and completely 
 useless. You can guess the pitch is going to be a fastball (and be right) and the computer shows 
 you that the location of the fastball is going to be low and out of the zone and tells you not 
 to chase it. Then you get the pitch and it ends up being a curve ball in the middle of the plate! 
 It's almost like to computer lies to you. 
  
  They really made this game way too hard to enjoy playing. The hitting is so frustrating. It really 
 isn't fun to play when you know you don't have a hope in hell to make comeback or win. Most of 
 the games that I played my team was always down by a few runs in the first or second inning. Sure, 
 you can play online and win a game against a human player which is fun, but the whole point of 
 baseball is to play 162 game season and follow your stats. Baseball has always been a comeback 
 game, even teams in the majors who are down 6 runs can come back and win, but with The Show 09 
 the only thing to comeback to is losing! I can't imagine playing 162 games of this game..... it's 
 way too frustrating and unfair.
  
  Don't get me wrong, The Show 09 is beautiful looking but that doesn't make it better than The Show 
 08. The most important part of any game before graphics, sound, A. I. etc is game play, and The 
 Show 09 fails in that category. Yes, the game is totally the most realistic baseball game ever 
 as Sony has been advertising, but that's not a good thing. This game is simply too hard and too 
 unfair to continue wasting my time playing. Playing against the computer on The Show 09 feels a 
 lot like a high school baseball team with cracked bats playing against a juiced up 1929 Yankees 
 with corked bats. Not exactly fair is it? I was going to sell off my copy of The Show 08, but now 
 I think I'll keep it. It lacks the polish that 09 has, but it was a baseball game that was fair, 
 but most of all it was fun to play. 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: piercetruth34
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 1, 2009 2:03 pm PT
Review:  MLB 09 The Show is all it's cracked up to be and more. THis is the best sports game I've ever played. 
 Players look ridiculously realistic. NOt everyone is done perfect like the Royals for example, 
 but maybe next year. I played 2k9 and thought it wasnt so bad, but this game takes the cake. Everything 
 about this game is realistic and spot on apparently although i havent played it a ton yet. Only 
 thing is online play doesnt work and thats a problem. They fix that this would be a 10 easy. Everything 
 else minus online is about a 20. It surpasses most expectations by a good margain. I just wish 
 more sports titles would be like this. Crowds are amazing and leave in blowouts. Teams and players 
 go into slumps and all sorts of little things really take this game to the next level...................... 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rvnfn520
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 1, 2009 6:47 am PT
Review:  Being a huge sports fan, it disappoints me when developers put out a sub-par sports game; whether 
 it be the game's mechanics, the game's realism, the game's graphics, or anything else that goes 
 along with those listed reasons. MLB 09: The Show has none of those problems. 
  
  This game has all the elements that a great baseball game should have -- realistic stat outputs for 
 example. In most sports video games it is a lot of fun to score at will and beat up on the computer 
 or a friend, but for baseball games it is not. It's not much fun when you hit a HR every other 
 at-bat; it gets rather boring. The hitting in the game is primarily based on timing and the location 
 of the pitch, of course. I find the hitting to be a little bit difficult this year, but I think 
 that is a good thing. The key to being a successful hitter in this game is to have patience and 
 wait on that one good pitch to swing at. That just adds to the realism of the game. Most good hitters 
 in baseball are patient; so for you to be a good hitter in this game, you must be patient. 
  
  The graphics are by far the best I have seen for any sports game. The players and ballparks 
 are cutting-edge and look like they should. I am an Orioles fan (no need for your sympathy) , and 
 every time I play at Camden Yards in the game I become speechless. This goes for pretty much any 
 baseball venue in the game. It is unbelievable as to how much the players look like their human 
 counterparts. 
  
  Probably the biggest reason why this game is so much fun is the Road to the Show mode. For anyone 
 who is new to the game -- RTTS is a game mode where you create your own baseball player and try to 
 make your way up through the minors to majors. The customization has a lot of variety. You basically 
 have the ability to change anything on your player's face to make him look however you want him 
 to. You also choose things such as your batting stance, pitching windup, walk-up music, and so 
 on. You can also record you own voice, granted that you have the proper device to do so, and use 
 that recording as fan cheer or banter during games that you play. After you finish all of your 
 personalization, you can either choose what team you want to play for, or you can enter the draft 
 and let the computer pick for you. You start off by receiving an invite to Spring Training. You 
 can choose to sim the whole spring, or you can play through if you want. You will notice that at 
 the end of each game you will receive training points. These points are used to increase your attributes 
 such as contact hitting, power hitting, speed, fielding, etc... If you choose to be a pitcher, 
 then you can use those points to increase your stamina, the effectiveness of your pitches, and 
 so on. Your manager will give you goals to reach every few weeks. These goals could be to increase 
 a certain attribute, or to improve certain stats. RTTS is a very involved game mode, but the satisfaction 
 you get from playing well and making it to the majors is immense. 
  
  There is no doubt in my mind that this is one of the best sports games ever. I am very pleased 
 with this game. Even if baseball is not your favorite sport, you would still appreciate the game's 
 realism and display. I highly recommend picking this game up, especially if you are a big sports 
 fan like I am. 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: bcgrizzly1
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 25, 2009 9:52 am PT
Review:  Some reviewers on here are complaining about being too hard. A guy named rider goes to say he has 
 played 30 games and won 5 on rookie? Do not blame the game. I have played a full season on All 
 Star and my record was 112-50. Its not hard if you can not swing at every single ball. Last time 
 i checked that is how real life is. If you can not hit the ball on rookie, you do not need to be 
 playing video games. Anyways onto the review..
  
  Graphics : Amazing. Plain and Simple. So life like that it looks like an actual mlb game. Not much 
 more to say.
  
  Sound : Great commentary. Sounds just like baseball.
  
  Gameplay : The truly amazing part. The most important part of any game is gameplay and SECA nailed 
 it. The smoothest and most realistic game i have ever played. It lets you set the game to your 
 skill level (and no its not too hard for the casual gamer) Fielders no longer catch every hotshot 
 hit to them just like real life. Not too many home runs which is good but you still get some. Online 
 is smooth but have not played much online. Only reason this does not get a 10 is cause sometimes 
 your fielders run through the ball. Also it takes a while to complete a game.
  
  Replay Value : What can i say? Its baseball. Franchise mode is very in depth and you can play many 
 many seasons. Also Road to the show gives you endless playtime.
  
  Overall : If you own a PS3, Must buy it! Even if your not a big baseball fan, it will give anyone 
 many many many hours, weeks, months of fun! Dont listen to the reviewers who give it bad ratings 
 cause they suck at the game. The game is the best baseball game to date. People think you can just 
 hit X on a pitch and homer it. Realistically, this is not MLB slugfest and is based on real life 
 baseball.
  
  Thank you SECA for your hard work on this! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Paul_GameFury
Rating: 7
Date: Mar 23, 2009 4:40 pm PT
Review:  I usually avoid sports games because I am always disappointed by the small amount of new material 
 from one year to the next. More often than not, they add up to sixty dollar roster updates. It's 
 been several years since I have played a baseball game, so I gave MLB 09: The Show a shot.
  
  Over all, the game is decent. The baseball action is great and leads to some intense match-ups. 
 The action is easy to get into. Batting has you swing slightly later than past games I've played, 
 which is a good thing in this case. It gives you that split second longer to be able to see the 
 incoming pitch and makes it easier to judge balls and strikes. The pitching was more unpredictable 
 than I had expected. It works well enough, but trying to throw an inside pitch that is still in 
 the strike zone leads to far more beaned batters than I felt was realistic.
  
  While the action was fun and realistic while playing, the game starts to fall apart once you start 
 using the replay function. If you want to watch a replay because you think a bad call has been 
 made, ninety percent of the time it's true because of a graphical glitch. In our first game alone 
 I saw this happened twice in the same inning. The first one occurred when I threw a low pitch and 
 the catcher missed it, allowing the runner on first to advance. When watching the replay, I saw 
 that the catcher didn't miss the ball, but it actually went through the catcher's glove and foot. 
 Two batters later, I threw another wild pitch (this one was legitimate) and the catcher ran after 
 it while the pitcher covered home. When the ball was thrown to the pitcher and he tried to tag 
 the runner coming home, his hand went through the runner's torso and the pitcher's and runner's 
 legs went inside of each other. Even though the two men clearly occupying the same space, this 
 didn't count as a tag and the runner was called safe at home. Almost every replay I watched showed 
 off the game's terrible collision detection and the lack of mass to the players. Most other games 
 have abandoned these gameplay issues long ago and it is incredibly sad to see that they still exist 
 here.
  
  The franchise mode doesn't need much of an explanation because it contains the same general ideas 
 of any sports game, but the Road to the Show mode is interesting. You create your own player from 
 scratch and get drafted into the MLB (although you also have the option to pick what team you are 
 drafted to) . Instead of playing the whole game, you only control your character during plays that 
 involve you and only bat for yourself. For example, I played first base and I never saw strikeouts, 
 walks, or fly outs. Only when my character actually touched the ball would the play actually happen 
 of screen; everything else was simulated. This is a cool idea at first, but quickly gets old since, 
 as the first baseman, my job most of the time was to run to first after the ball was hit and stand 
 there. This mode could have been spiced up a bit with training mini games, but training is limited 
 to spending points earned from games on a menu to improve your skills. All character improvement 
 is done automatically, which really took me out of the experience. It couldn't have been difficult 
 to add batting practice or fielding drills; something, anything. Even The Bigs, which is an arcade-like 
 baseball game, had deeper training.
  
  The graphics are impressive, aside from the aforementioned lack of collision detection. Every player 
 looks just like their real world counterpart and most of the stadiums look great. There are a few 
 stadiums here and there where the grass is almost a solid color and the players don't look right 
 when walking across it, but for the most part they look good. The presentation is very good as 
 well. Each game has the TV broadcast feel to it and the camera angles always show the action from 
 the best point of view.
  
  MLB 09 is a decent baseball game. It doesn't improve on anything I have played in the past and 
 it's disappointing to see last generation problems still persisting in a next gen title, but it's 
 still a blast to play. Just remember, you'll enjoy yourself more if you don't check the replay 
 when you think there was a bad call. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Snowrider36x
Rating: 1
Date: Mar 19, 2009 12:13 pm PT
Review:  I have been a fan of "The Show" for a couple years and have enjoyed their previous games. This 
 version however, just plain isn't any fun. Now I expect a certain degree of difficulty in any game, 
 and of course you never want a game that is too easy. The problem here is this game is just impossible, 
 plain and simple. I have never had a problem winning games in the previous versions, and in fact, 
 tend to dominate the game (especially if playing on rookie difficulty) . This version however makes 
 it so impossible to score runs that it ruins any fun the game might have. I played about 30 games 
 into a season and won about 5 games. I played an entire undefeated season in the 08 version. Now 
 something doesn't seem right there. At least that's what I think. Either I drastically started 
 to suck at this game since a year ago, or they changed something to make it much too hard. To sum 
 up: ANY game you play shouldn't be that hard to play on the easiest setting, that's just not fun 
 for a casual gamer. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: joshua6775
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 17, 2009 11:46 am PT
Review:  Traditionally, I've always played the "2K" series because it's been the only game in town. After 
 playing a demo version of this year's installment on another console, I knew right away that the 
 game was not for me.
  
  I faced a dilema. I didn't own a PS3 yet. I read all sorts of revies about MLB 09, and finally 
 just had to pony up the money literally last weekend just to playa real baseball game, and I have 
 to admit, it's been worth every penny.
  
  The character models alone are worth the price of admission. This game is gorgeous. I'm still working 
 on all of the subtle differences in play style between MLS 09 and the 2K series controls I'm used 
 to, but everything so far is smoother, more intuitive and is just plain smooth and awesome. I really 
 like the ability to guess which pitch is coming and where it may cross the plate, that helps out 
 immensely as far as making solid contact. 
  
  I've been a touch frustrated with the umpire's strikezones, but I will say they tend to call it 
 even for both teams, so I can't really complain there too much. All in all, this game deserves 
 every kind word said or written about it because it's all that and then some. No less than a rental 
 for a true baseball fan. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Yoshicon8
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 16, 2009 4:20 pm PT
Review:  Great I say, great. I have only had this game for a week or so, and I have already started a franchise 
 and a Road to the Show file. The upgrades in both are good (mostly) . 
  
  Franchise: This is a very fun mode, my favorite in every baseball game, I absolutely love it, it 
 is a very good enhancement to the game.
  Upgrades: 40-man roster, an "easier" way to access the roster (not really) , and some other stuff
 
  Pros - It's very fun to play and the upgrades, the 40-man roster, make it seem so much more real. 
 
  Cons - The new way to go through the roster is very annoying, kind of hard
  
  Road to the show: This is a mode I used to hate, not anymore though, I love how they upgraded it. 
 With the training and the more challenging difficulty.
  Upgrades: Training, more things to do, a way to talk to your managers more easily, more stuff
 
  Pros - More things to do, 2not as boring and tedious, addicting
  Cons - Kind of harder
  
  This game is truly THE best baseball video game ever made. I have enjoyed this for the week 
 that I've had it, and I have loved it the whole way through. It is sssssoooooo....... good and 
 so much better then the great MLB 08: The Show. Also this game has trophies, a great addition, 
 although it's very hard to get them (I only have one) . Anyways, this game is great for people who 
 like baseball (and people who don; t really like it) , I would recommend it to anyone. Get this. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bofish
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 15, 2009 1:04 pm PT
Review:  The gameplay and controls have not changed. The pitching guage looks a little different and has 
 a different feel, but works the same. 
  
  It seems like the matchups are more powerful along pitchers and hitters. If you have a strong pitcher 
 and go against a weak hitter there is an enormous chance you'll get them out. 
  
  It seems like the graphics are slightly better than in the 08 Show (also a remarkable game) . I 
 just got this and it's really pumping me up for this season of baseball. 
  
  This game is very realistic and you can customize your franchise in much more depth. It seems to 
 me like the rosters expanded on this one too. Has many more minor league players. 
  
  The batting stances for every player is much more realistic I notice and way cooler. 
  
  This 
 game is everything the 08 Show was and more! If your a baseball fan and love baseball games I recommend 
 it. Especially with a lot of upset MLB 2K9 gamers. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Q8akira
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 14, 2009 10:25 am PT
Review:  First of all, my review is not gonna tell you why this game is perfect because of how great the 
 stadiums look, or how lifelike Manny Ramirez's dreads look. I love graphics as much as the next 
 guy, but that is not what I am looking for in a baseball game. I am an obsessive Baseball fan and 
 the only thing I am looking for is realism... and this game has done baseball perfectly.
  
  You hear that a lot in reviews of this game don't you? Perfect. How many times have most of the 
 reviewers of anything said something like that?
  
  The only baseball game I have continued to play since like 1999 has been High Heat Baseball for 
 PC. I have seriously continued to update the rosters year after year for the 2003 edition, keeping 
 it current. Well, this game not only made me finally put that game away, but single-handedly made 
 me buy a PS3.
  
  That is saying a lot! Console Baseball games have continued to get it wrong, time after time, after 
 sad disc throwing time for me. I can not say enough for how amazing this game is. The batter/pitcher 
 battle, the most important part of baseball, is excellent. High pitch counts, countless foul balls, 
 CPU actually throwing balls, strike outs looking, amazing.
  
  The trajectory of batted balls is great too, lots of balls up the middle, and looping fly balls, 
 like real baseball. Lots of little things too with feeling, balls are bobbled but plays are still 
 made... adding more of a human feeling to the game. One of the other cool features on the game, 
 is that on the higher up difficulty modes.. you are to use actual catcher signs to call pitches, 
 1 for fastball, 2 usually for curve etc.. and your catcher even calls what side of the plate its 
 going too.
  
  This game is perfect, 10 out of 10, 5 out of 5, whatever the ratings are. This game looks equally 
 good when compared to how atrocious that Major league Baseball game is. Go BUY NOW 
::::::

::::::
UserName: illgt4
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 13, 2009 4:28 pm PT
Review:  Honestly.. I don't know when the last time was I had this much fun playing a baseball game. Going 
 back, waaay back.. I'm talking RBI Baseball, Baseball Stars (1&2 ARC) , Ken Griffey for SNES.. there 
 hasn't been a game this good in many, many years.
  
  From the get go you are reminded of the game's title. And it doesn't fall short on presentation 
 and compelling game play.
  
  Batting is a pure. Pitching is enjoyable. The fielding is superb. Stadiums, players, every detail, 
 painstakingly perfect. Great job this time around Sony!
  
  The online SC mode is unbelievable and ground breaking for a sports franchise. Built in forums, 
 feedback forms. You can download several rosters from around the world. Want the World Baseball 
 Classic teams and roster, go download it. Players from around the world are uploading their roster 
 for download. It's that good!
  
  Great baseball experience that will be tough to be for years to come. Here's hoping they don't 
 screw up the sequel ('10) and keep the hits coming! VIVA PLAYSTATION! :D
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: earlaps
Rating: 7.5
Date: Mar 13, 2009 12:10 pm PT
Review:  I wanted to love this game. Instead I like the game, and I can't ignore the problems. Yes, the 
 graphics are great and the gameplay is very sound.
  Now the buts. My biggest problem is that the game is often a chore to play rather than fun. Not 
 only is it very hard, even with the sliders, but pitching and batting take so much work, it drains 
 the fun. Games take forever, and if you go on fast game mode you find even grand slams are passed 
 over for replays so there is no happy medium between slow and fast.
  I have sometimes played the game for an hour and still found myself in the fifth inning. Is this 
 fun? Are twenty foul balls per inning fun?
  Now the personal part. I have a personal preference for baseball games in which you can do what 
 is done in real baseball and see batters swing at balls an inch outside the strike zone. I really 
 hate seeing batters all know to leave the bat on their shoulders when the ball barely misses the 
 plate. Some baseball video games did in the past show guys swinging balls outside the plate, so 
 it can be done. Now, in Show 09, the only time they do swing at bad pitches is to knock the ball 
 for a hit.
  Bottom line, great game, some flaws. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AxeMuncher
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 12, 2009 6:06 pm PT
Review:  This is a BIG step for the The Show series. This game is very fun and will get you through the 
 day. This game offers a lot. First of all it has a very fun in game personal, with very good graphics 
 and Gameplay. In Franchise Mode, you take your team in your hands. LITERALLY. Road to the Show 
 has got even better. Yes even better than last year. Offering a new practice mode to help your 
 batting and fielding. This is a great game and I HIGHLY recommend it to anyone from the casual 
 player, to the Die-hard Baseball fan.
  Great game. Pick it up today! (If you have the money) . I have been playing this game for I think 
 25 hours now and it is great. The only problem with it is it dosent have the roster download that 
 NBA 2K9 does, witch in franchise mode, you can pick up players like Adam Dunn, Manny Ramirez, Orlando 
 Hudson etc. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: knicknut17
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 12, 2009 3:42 pm PT
Review:  MLB 09: The Show is the first baseball game that I have ever played. I'm a huge fan of baseball 
 and a diehard PlayStation fan. I had heard all sorts of hype about the game, and after playing 
 the demo, I figured I'd support Sony San Diego's hard work and buy the game. 
  
  For me, the learning curve of this game was STEEP. I struggled pretty badly for the first 10 hours 
 or so to get hits and get batters out. Getting used to the base running controls, fielding controls, 
 and physics of the game took time. I got dominated by the computer time in and time out, but I 
 continued to persevere. Even on Rookie, with the sliders handicapped in the most favorable ways, 
 this game was challenging to me at first. If you're new to baseball games or are a casual gamer, 
 you might have a hard time with this game at first... but I assure you, once you grasp the controls, 
 the brilliance of this game really shines!
  
  When you first boot up the game you have a mandatory install of about 3.2 GB. Once the game has 
 finished installation, the first thing you'll notice is the stellar presentation of the game. The 
 menus are well laid out and everything is easy to find. While scrolling through the menu's for 
 the first time, I was amazed by the amount of features this game has. It has your typical MLB Season, 
 Franchise Mode, Road to the Show, Online games, Online leagues, and even cool innovative features 
 like Fantasy Draft's and Batting Practice. 
  
  The graphics of this game just hit you in the face as soon as the game starts up. This game runs 
 at a full 1080p resolution for HDTV owners. Stadium models are beautifully detailed and show uncanny 
 realism with respect to their real life counterparts. Player models are eerily life like in their 
 batting motions, stances, facial models, and fielding motions. 
  
  The AI of this game provides a hearty challenge. Pitchers will vary up their speed, locations, 
 and pitch type to get you out. In this game, it's tough to hit .300. I don't mean that in bad way 
 either. I found that is really important to guess the pitch that the pitcher is throwing when batting. 
 If you guess right, you're shown the location of the pitch. This aids greatly in drawing walks 
 and getting hits. Without this feature, I probably would've given up on this game in the first 
 10 hours of play. 
  
  Every pitcher-batter duel, whether you're on offense or defense, feels exciting. There's tension 
 in the air and it's a constant game of chess. I love how when you have a man on base or after you 
 give up a big play, your pitcher has a harder time throwing strikes. 
  
  I lost 2 of my first 3 regular season games as the Red Sox vs. the Rays. I had the Angels up next. 
 I was playing well, but still losing 3-1 going into the bottom of the 9th inning. In came Angels 
 closer, Brian Fuentes, to take on my 2-3-4 hitters... It was at that moment that something clicked... I 
 had an "Ah ha!" Moment when everything just made sense.
  
  My batter was Dustin Pedroia; a tense 8 pitch duel culminated with a hard hit fastball on the inside 
 corner, past the shortstop, up the middle for a base hit. I followed it up with a David Ortiz blooper 
 single to right for 1st and 3rd with no outs. A Kevin Youkillis walk was followed by strike outs 
 of Jason Bay and J. D. Drew. 
  
  I had to buckle down at this moment. It was 2 outs, bottom of the 9th, bases loaded, down 3-1 to 
 the defending AL West Champion Angels. In stepped a former World Series MVP in Mike Lowell... After 
 drawing a 3-1 count, I ripped a double down the third base line to tie the game at 3!
  
  For 3 more innings our teams dueled on the mound. I had to warm people up in the bullpen and sub 
 them in and out of the game. In the game I used, Brad Penny, Takashi Saito, Hideki Okajima, Jonathan 
 Papelbon, and finally Tim Wakefield. I had to manage my pitchers to get the outs when I needed 
 them most. It added another layer of depth and strategy to an already intense game. 
  
  Finally, in the 13th inning I was able to score a run and close out the inning for the win. In 
 all of my years gaming, never had I had such an exhilarating sports experience. I had to ride the 
 highs and the lows all for a chance to get back to 2-2 for the season... this game made me believe 
 that I had overcome the learning curve. I thought to myself how 162 of these experiences, plus 
 playoffs, plus Road to the Show, plus online? My goodness, there's enough game in here to last 
 forever!
  
  This game just feels right. After you get over that learning curve, you know when you do something 
 right and you know when you don't. The game is tough, but doesn't feel cheap. There are a tremendous 
 amount of options that you can add to personalize your experience. The game already comes with 
 a very good soundtrack, but it also supports custom soundtracks based on the music stored on your 
 PS3. You can adjust various sliders to custom control the difficulty of the game. You can record 
 cheers and jeers and even personalize your plate appearance music! 
  
  This game feels satisfying to master. I told you about my 13 inning affair with the Angels a few 
 paragraphs before, the very next game I faced John Lackey in a similar situation. I was down 1-0 
 in the top of the 7th, but I managed to load the bases with 1 out. Big Papi came up... I'll never 
 forget the feeling of hitting my first Grand Slam! I had a tough time batting all game. I was getting 
 hits, but couldn't score runs. I swung the bat perfectly and was rewarded with a Trophy! Yeah... it 
 felt good.
  
  MLB 09: The Show is a winner in every way possible. This is most definitely the best sports game 
 I have played in a very, very long time. The gameplay is realistic and authentic to the game. It 
 is challenging without being unfair. The amount of options this game gives you with respect to 
 everything from mangerial decisions to personalization is mind boggling. I haven't even scratched 
 the surface of the online portion of this game or "Road to the Show" either! 
  
  Simply put, if you're baseball fan and you own a PS3, you should buy this game. Honestly, if you're 
 a really passionate fan of the game, I would argue this game is worth buying a PS3 for. This game 
 is exceptionally polished and sets a high standard for not only all baseball games, but sports 
 games, and video games in general. Well worth the $60 price of admission. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rob046
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 12, 2009 2:31 pm PT
Review:  I'd say I'm a slightly above casual baseball fan. A little in the dumps since my team loses every 
 year (Pirates) , but I still listen to or watch every game & am a sports fan in general.
  
  I can't put my finger on it, but The Show is just one of those games that every year now for the 
 last few years, I go to the store and get it ASAP, can't seem to wait. Always look forward to it.
 
  And although I now own a 360, it's games like this that are why I bought the PS3 1st and consider 
 it my main console.
  While Microsoft tends to buy out so many exclusive titles, I must say that Sony does a great job 
 regardless. To me, it's more about quality than quantity. So when the PS3 does get an exclusive, 
 it usually never dissapoints. This is one of the many PS3 exclusives that garner a 9 out of 10 
 here at gamespot and everywhere else.
  
  The true power of the PS3 starts to show through more and more. Using the limited exclusives you 
 do have to put a lot of time into them and showcase what the PS3 can do, when a game doesn't have 
 to worry about working on multiple platforms... that is exactly what sony needs to do, and have 
 been doing.
  
  The Show is plain fun. It's one of those games that you can just "pick up & play", but in order 
 to get good at it, there is no escaping needing to have patience and practice.
  You can't just start slapping nasty curveballs out of the park the 1st time you play this game. 
 If you do it's probably pure luck!
  
  With hitting, you definitely need to be on your toes. The pitching AI is very smart. Almost scary 
 smart. The AI in the entire game is generally pretty damn smart. That's what makes it good.
  It isn't easy to hit a homer, which is why it feels so great when you do hit one! It is one of 
 the best feelings in all of video gaming when you know you just smacked out a 95mph fast ball because 
 you were dead on with swinging location and your timing was perfect. The feel when that ball leaves 
 the park almost makes you feel like you just hit a homer in real life. Seriously!
  
  Usually with sports games, defense isn't all that fun. But I dont find that to be true with The 
 Show. Pitching is really fun when you get into a flow. Sucks when you get careless and get knocked 
 around, but thats part of the game. You really need to be smart, have some skill, and give each 
 pitch (and batter) and little thought. And just by hitting select you can scout the hitter, see 
 where he is weak or strong in the zone.
  The better you get with a certain pitch, the better you can throw it. Once your opponent hits a 
 dinger off that pitch, then the pitch's rating goes down, gets harder to hit your spots, at least 
 until you get back on track again.
  
  I could go on and on about these kinds of details, they are what makes the game great, combined 
 with the amazing all around graphics and animations. Even fielding and running the bases is never 
 automatic, you control everything. You don't get much help from the AI, although with the sliders 
 you can adjust your handicap if you like.
  
  I classify the game as being "hard". But this is good. I don't think it's always a bad thing when 
 a game is above average hard. Basically what I'm saying is that the game is pretty easy to pick 
 up and start playing. But it's hard to really start to master it.
  
  If you really have trouble, you can always do rookie mode, where you are sure to succeed as you 
 get used to the game, then step up the difficulty when you are ready.
  No matter how you look at it, whether you are a noob to this game or a vet, anybody can get sucked 
 into this game and lose days playing it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: beardmoen
Rating: 6.5
Date: Mar 12, 2009 7:02 am PT
Review:  Allow me to preface this review with a firm statement that I absolutely love baseball. I have watched 
 it and played it since I was a little boy. I've filled myself with every nuance, stat, and bubblegum 
 card there is. I've even learned some Spanish thanks to some of the Latin American player's nicknames. 
 Now on to The Show...
  
  My first impressions, I was amazed at the detail. The stadiums, the players, the sounds, they all 
 look and feel incredibly real. I think I spent the first three hours creating all the walk up and 
 home run music as well as chants for my entire roster that I intended to take over and hopefully, 
 not destroy like John Hart.
  
  I played Season mode for a day. It took me an hour or so to get used to the batting, fielding, 
 and all the other various controls. I made sure their was no assistance on comebacks for losing 
 teams and that hopefully, the games would be played in accordance with each team and the individual 
 player's skill levels.
  
  The Road To The Show (RTTS) . At first I thought this was brilliant or at least the general idea 
 was brilliant. Batting, running, and fielding only when it concerns my player, brilliant. Every 
 now and again during the course of your season, you are given the opportunity to hit the cages 
 or run the base-paths. Now here is my problem, at first I was given regular opportunities to do 
 both. I haven't been given a chance to perform base-running for 2 seasons. Why? My stats (Speed, 
 Base Running) are not that of Ricky Henderson, more of a Kirk Gibson on the base-paths, slow and 
 cumbersome. Roughly one third of the time when I enter the batting cages, my player doesn't even 
 show up. The pitcher stands on the mound and my batter never comes to the plate. Pause, un-pause, 
 no effect. I can't improve my skills and I just wasted 15 minutes, again, trying to figure out 
 why this isn't working. Did my batter get lost in the dugout? I know the tunnel system underneath 
 most modern ballparks can be enormous, but "Come on"!
  
  I regularly achieve my goals that are set in the time frame given. For the most part, except when 
 I am not allowed to hit the cages. If this game is all about the realism factor, and the RTTS mode 
 is quite time consuming, why isn't there a daily practice mode, why do I not have the chance to 
 hit the cages everyday, shag fly balls everyday, and/or run the base-paths? No matter how much 
 I perform better than everyone else on my team, I still don't start. I've made AA and AAA All-Star 
 squads, with hardly any play time. Quite realistic. And why have the option to talk to your coach 
 about playing time, no matter how many times you ask him, it's always the same reply, "so and so 
 is hot right now, you'll get your chance". 
  
  Without ever becoming a regular starting player on my AAA squad, I get called up to the Majors. 
 Sim to next appearance, 6 games later... I get my one at bat and wait another 12 games before I 
 get another at bat. In that first appearance, I hit a game winning, 3 run blast to dead right center. 
 3 of my first 5 plate appearances resulted with a home run. Yet still, my at bats were spaced out 
 over the span of 2 1/2 months. 
  
  I find the logic and the amount of patience needed to play the RTTS mode to be quite unequal, confusing, 
 and really, un-fun. I have seen countless amazing catches by AA ball players to ensure that my 
 batter does not achieve his in-game goal. The catches that most Major leaguers would have a hard 
 time performing. Yet, whenever I am at bat, the ghost of Ozzie Smith morphs into the shortstop, 
 Frank White has spawned at second, and that is all that is needed to prevent my player from achieving 
 his goals. None of this ever seems to feel realistic and only leaves me scratching my head saying, 
 "WTF just happened?". The base-running in RTTS mode is abysmal. With the rotating camera and trying 
 to figure out when I am supposed to switch the direction of the "L3" button is more difficult than 
 trying to solve pythagorean formulas. Why you are not allowed to simply use L1, L2, R1, or R2 is 
 beyond me. But isn't that the way it is in real baseball? I'm sure players often get confused with 
 the rotating television cameras around them and find themselves so dizzy they collapse in frustration 
 and grasp at the air while saying, "Damn you dirty rotating cameras".
  
  The sliders and the difficulty settings are a real puzzle too. No matter what level you play at, 
 and I've played them all, setting the sliders seems to make no difference in any way. Try this 
 experiment; take an opposing team and reduce all the player skills to zero, now increase all of 
 your team's attributes to maximum. Of course, save it and play a game with these two teams. Ensure 
 there are no computer assisted comebacks or anything else that would give a losing team the edge. 
 I have done this on several occasions, mainly with the Yankees as the team with no skills, and 
 have found that it doesn't matter. I was almost no hit by a Middle Relief pitcher that I put in 
 to start, I had traded all the high caliber players away and left the Yankees with nothing but 
 the worst in the bigs. The Yankees regularly hit 5 - 6 home-runs. Is it just because they are the 
 Yankees, they must be able to hit home-runs? Don't get me wrong, I am first in my division after 
 60 some games played on Legend and win .800 of my games. But the games I lose are often head scratchers 
 that defy logic. I know these things happen in the bigs, but often, on a regular basis? I played 
 the Texas Rangers, I won the game, but Omar Vizquel hit 4 homeruns in one game. Now that is realism. 
 Nobody else on the Rangers even hit a home-run the other games in the series, let alone that game.
 
  
  I've played baseball games that were more believable and a lot more fun than this game. I haven't 
 played the 2K9, only the demo and from what I've read I am not about to trade this game for that. 
 I'm only hoping that someone comes into my store and trades in a copy of All Star Baseball for 
 the PS1. I have great stats on this game, and win frequently, so my negative review is not that 
 of someone who cannot seem to hit the curveball. I understand a lot of other player's frustrations 
 with this game and completely feel for them when they cannot overcome many of the game's shortcomings. 
 I certainly will not be one of the many who say, "You have to get better, keep trying." This game 
 seems to hope and slant it in such a way that it doesn't want you to get better, only more frustrated.
 
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: sgthalka
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 22, 2009 9:23 pm PT
Review:  Starting with 2006's re-branding (and re-invention) of Sony's baseball series as "The Show", developer 
 San Diego Studios has steadily evolved a rock-solid core gameplay model to the stupidly high level 
 of excellence it's at now.
  
  I honestly couldn't imagine how SCEA could elevate the series after playing last year's MLB 08. 
 Sure, some oddities could be fixed, some new details could be added to online or franchise modes, 
 but the game was already at such a high level, I expected the franchise to stay at this plateau.
 
  
  Stupid me, because not only does MLB 09 improve on 08's release, it renders it obsolete. Excellent 
 revisions to the hitting and fielding mechanics makes you feel closer than ever to playing out 
 a real Major League game. The Gamespot review hit the nail on the head -- each game you play will 
 surprise you. The hit variety doesn't even seem like a pre-selected "variety" -- it's just real. 
 Balls will fly off your bat however physics allows it. Shots down the line, doubles over outfielders' 
 heads, bloopers over infielders, triples buried in outfield corners. The full array of hits will 
 now take place.
  
  Fielding mechanics are the other side to this coin. You could have great hit variety, but without 
 good fielding mechanics, it wouldn't count for much. Outfielders now take natural routes to balls. 
 It looks real and feels real. Infielders are no longer ball vaccuums, instantly sucking up any 
 ball near them. Fielding stats and how hard the ball is hit now impact what plays out. Hot shots 
 will pop out of or ricochet off mitts. Throwing animations now make double-plays more natural to 
 pull off.
  
  Franchise mode takes a new level of strategy in roster management, as an entirely revamped offseason 
 changes how you deal with negotiating contracts. The contract meter system is gone, where you could 
 just punch in different numbers until your player re-signed with you. Now you have to make an offer 
 and hope your guy comes back to the team. Low-ball guys with arbitration if you don't care about 
 them, and get draft picks when other teams sign them, just like in real life MLB. You'll have to 
 be much more generous with free agents and even your own players. CPU teams will out-bid you and 
 run after premiere talent just as hard as you do.
  
  Unfortunately, the entire rookie / developing young players component of this game is still the 
 weak link. Progression is still slow, making it very hard to groom young players from diamonds 
 in the rough to future stars. You can edit players as you go, and do some of your own creative 
 "development" on young guys, but this really shouldn't be happening. Madden figured it out 8 years 
 ago on PS2. There's no reason why a current-gen sports title shouldn't have working progression.
 
  
  Aging players are also handled strangely. Stats and performance do not gradually fade as a player 
 ages and eventually retires. Instead, retirements happen according to age or "free agent market 
 conditions." This will lead to bizarre situations where someone hits .300 / 20 / 85 but decides 
 to quit the game just because they turn 37 years old and that's apparently their age to hang it 
 up.
  
  There is currently some forum debate regarding the game's difficulty and how "comeback code" is 
 implemented. There is an option to turn this code ON or OFF under game options, but it's not entirely 
 clear how it works. Anecdotal evidence points to the "ON" option making the game easier / normal 
 / less AI cheezing, and "OFF" makes the game harder with the AI getting hitting advantages when 
 it's trailing, leading to random late-game rallies that are a result of programming rather than 
 actual in-game events (e. g. CPU home runs off good pitches, rallies off shutdown closers, etc) . 
 The problem is, the game's default setting is Comeback Code OFF, the harder setting, which is why 
 the game is extremely difficult for many people.
  
  
  Online performance is serviceable but ultimately depends on how good the connection your opponent 
 has. The graphics take a hit, but the majority of the 20 or so online games I've played are entirely 
 playable with only minor, intermittent frame loss. If you do have a horrible connection, make a 
 Friendly Quit request and just end the game early. Overall, I was impressed by how well games ran. 
 The Show gets a lot of criticism over latency, but really -- it comes down to a P2P connection. 
 Good connections play great; bad connections play poorly. It's not rocket science.
  
  Online leagues are another story. While it's great to see a live draft option instead of using 
 stock rosters, as well as new flex games to let people play games out of order with whoever's available 
 online, the commissioner tools are very unintuitive and inflexible. Once you prepare your league 
 settings and invite players, you cannot change anything. And you'll probably screw something up 
 because the options aren't explained very well, so you'll have to scratch the entire league and 
 re-form and re-invite players with fixed options. You can choose a league set up with two divisions, 
 but when players join, they can go in whichever division they like and you might wind up with uneven 
 divisons, which screws up the scheduling. 
  
  Also, live draft scheduling is a total mess. The time zone is not listed in-game. Rumor has it 
 it's Pacific, but I cannot verify that yet. You only schedule it by "day of the week," not by date. 
 So let's say you schedule the draft for "Sunday". The system doesn't schedule it until you activate 
 the league, which locks in all the players. If you're waiting for some late invites to come in 
 on Sunday, then activate the league hoping to do your draft on the same day, the joke's on you. 
 The system thinks you're planning to do it next Sunday, so wait another week. 
  
  There is also a 14-day waiting period before you can even form a league, as well as 10 games played 
 online minimum and a peer rating minumum of 3 out of 5 stars. So you better hope your opponents 
 are kind to you, otherwise you won't be able to form a league.
  
  The final point worth mentioning is the excellent user contributions you can make to the game now 
 -- custom walk-up or closer into music make a pretty huge impact on the game. The music gets a 
 stadium filter applied to it so it sounds like it's actually coming out of a ballpark sound system. 
 In-sane. Custom rosters can also be easily shared in-game through the online service, and the ratings 
 help the cream of the crop stand out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tizzomr
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 11, 2009 5:29 pm PT
Review:  I can't possibly touch every aspect of the realism involved in the game, but if you seek a realistic 
 true to life baseball simulation, that WOW's you at just about every turn, then at least download 
 the demo. A bit difficult at first, but when you figure out how the controls work and play it is 
 ULTRA realistic. You literally use your instincts to play, its a trip. With some people wanting 
 arcade, and some wanting realism, this DEFINiTELY, wins in that category. The demo for the other 
 2K9 baseball game was nice, but The Show is FLOSSIN'. I mean it goes as far as having arbitration 
 for FA's, and compensatory picks as well. The gameplay visuals make your jaw drop, and the presentation 
 is spectacular. If only the NFL game would do this. Sorry, I'm about to go play right now, damn 
 review. Oh well, that my two pennie$ about some 60 buck$ on a baseball game. Peace. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ZedX-14Pilot
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 11, 2009 10:56 am PT
Review:  This will be a short review, because while I gave this game only an 8.5, I gave it that because 
 the meter only registers in .5 increments. This game is really an 8.9 in my opinion. I must point 
 out my love affair with baseball was over by my teenage years. I just lost my interest back then. 
 I was an all star player as a teenager. Even played ball with Ryan Klesko in high school. But, 
 football and basketball ruled my life since junior high, so I quit playing baseball to pursue those 
 sports. Of which I did QUITE well ;) So why am I bothering to tell you all of this. Because The 
 Show is a game that has finally made baseball a fun game to play for me after all these years. 
 If it brought me back to playing it after not caring for YEARS, then I am sure you can guess where 
 this review is headed. Yes, not only is this a great baseball game, it is not without its problems. 
 I am sure by next season, this game will be the definitive baseball game in the industry.
  
  So, what are the problems you may ask? I think the GameSpot review is the first one I actually 
 ALMOST totally agree with, and they have done a great job pointing the issues out. The biggies 
 for me are the loading times are too long. Is it me, or do all games on the PS3 seem to load much 
 slower than on the 360? IMO, the presentation while nice, is not very intuitive. I also definitely 
 favour the 2K9 batting and pitching interfaces compared with The Show's. Most of my other issues 
 are purely cosmetic related to the graphics, so I won't bother going into those. Don't get me wrong, 
 this game is gorgeous, but I do not feel it is that much more superior to the 2K9 series on either 
 the 360 or PS3.
  
  Bottom line, if you even remotely enjoy baseball and baseball games, I think this game is a must 
 have. If you don't have this game in your collection as a fan, just turn in your jersies and fan 
 card because you don't deserve them. If it was good enough for me to seek it out and play after 
 not giving a crap about baseball for years, the you better have it as a fan. So get off the internet 
 and go get your copy already! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: knockouts72
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 10, 2009 2:41 pm PT
Review:  Im Not Much Of A Writing Person But I Must Say Once Again MLB The Show Is The Best Baseball Game 
 This Year Ive Played Booth MLB 2k An The Show An Nothing Compares To The Show , I Do Have An Issue 
 With The Check Swing Option It Is Very Hard To Check Swing In The Game O8 Was Easy To Check Swing. 
 Now The Make Sure U Have To Have A Good Eye When You Play Multi Player Cause If You Dont Then You 
 Gonna Swing The Bat. But Overall This Game Is Great You Get A Live Broadcast Of Anyones Game If 
 You Want To peek At Someones Games Online It Sounds LIke If Its On The Radio That IS Great an it 
 Also Shows If the Connection Is Good Also which Is A Big Plus , The Baseball Fields Look Awsome 
 , The Players Evrything About The Graphics Are Good So If Your Thinking About Buying This Game 
 Do So Dont heistate Cause If You Do You Will Maybe be Loseing Out On A Great Game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dickvanwrinkle
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 9, 2009 11:17 am PT
Review:  This game is highly addictive. Last years version, MLB 08, re-kindled my love for baseball. This 
 years version is slightly better. I noticed that navigating around the locker room seems to be 
 easier this year and I could just be out of practice, but it seems a little more challenging to 
 hit this year. The details of this game are beyond my expectations. I am very impressed with the 
 game. I think that my wife would prefer I not get so caught up in it. It is very easy to blow away 
 an entire weekend while playing this game. The roster updates keep everything current so if you 
 are a die hard fan, you always have the right guys on the right teams. I was blown away last year 
 and once agail I am overly impressed again this year. I definately reccomend this game to any baseball 
 fan. I really don't know what they could improve on. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: boomerpup
Rating: 7
Date: Mar 9, 2009 9:53 am PT
Review:  The voice overs, their scripts, and even the player animations, are almost exactly the same as 
 Version 1.0 (MLB 07) . The graphics are somewhat more detailed, and the pitch locator aid (chevrons 
 pointing to which direction the ball will break) are good for new players who don't know how different 
 pitches are supposed to move. The franchise and other front-office features are deeper than before, 
 however. If you like the latter, pick it up rather than renting it since it will take you weeks 
 (162 games) to get through a regular season with one team. I wish they could've used different 
 voice over talent from actual telecast games (e. g. Joe Buck, etc.) to improve game immersion/realism.
 
  
  ... one gripe: why tell me the umpire line-up?! Why should I have to pay $59 (more) for that when 
 a used '07 version does largely the same things, gameplay-wise?! Who gives a flip? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dmann4u
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 9, 2009 7:06 am PT
Review:  I have to admit, I had a tough decision deciding on which game to purchase "The show 09" or 2K9. 
 After reading the reviews from some of the users on both games, it made my decision a whole lot 
 easier.
  
  I thought no game would be better than the 2K9 series, boy was I wrong. "The show 09" really blew 
 me away. The graphics are amazing. I'm enjoying my first experience with the Show 09. I'm having 
 a little trouble with the pitching but that's expected and batting and base running will come around 
 once I practice a little more. 
  
  I also like the fact that I don't have to worry about gopher balls every other three pitches.
 
  
  All in all, The Show 09 has the competition beat. The people at 2K9 could take some lessons on 
 how the make a baseball game fun and competitive. This game is definitely a must have for true 
 baseball fans. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: apm235
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 8, 2009 5:02 pm PT
Review:  Best baseball game/sim ever! I used to play the MLB 2K series up until MLB 08 The Show, mainly 
 because I didn't have a PS3 until last year. I will NEVER go back to the 2K series. The Show blows 
 away 2K's baseball by a longshot.
  
  MLB 09 The Show is very much like last years The Show but improved in certain areas and definitely 
 more realistic. Some improvements are graphics, physics, batting practice, lighting and crowd A. I. 
 Now you can see fans moving about stadiums. One of the cool things about the lighting now is going 
 from a day game to a night game at a single game, although when that happened to me, it suddenly 
 became night time from day after going from one inning to the next.
  
  You now have the ability to record your own custom chants and yells as well as add your favorite 
 tunes to a batters walkup, home run, and relief pitchers coming in. These little things really 
 add up and make The Show experience that much more enjoyable. There is also another level to play 
 after Hall Of Fame (HOF) and that is Legend. 
  
  Hitting is a lot more difficult this year. I have only been playing on Legend so far and find that 
 if you don't use the Left Thumbstick to aim at a pitch, its really hard to hit the ball in the 
 corners of the strike zone. Now you don't have to use LS all the time, but it really helps.
  
  The 40 man roster is another nice edition. RTTS or Road To The Show is just as good as last 
 years RTTS if not better. Now for some of the cons. It would be nice to be able to have a "Meatball" 
 option pitch in batting practice. It would also be nice to be able to update a season roster after 
 already starting a season. It is to my understanding that once you start a season, you cant update 
 your roster after going online. If The Show wants to be even more realistic, they should allow 
 that to be done. I don't want to start a season over again after downloading an updated roster 
 so that I can use the updated roster.
  
  Online play is a little laggy. I played one game and it was fun but laggy. Here is what I would 
 like to see improved either in a download or for next years edition:
  
  -"Meatball" pitches in Batting Practice
  -Pitching Practice
  -Updateable Season Roster without 
 having to restart a season
  -Options for Batting View, Pitching View, and Fielding view in online games
  -Ability to open 
 and close closeable roofs
  -Smoother online play, i. e. "Real Time" instead of a delay
  -More stadium info like fielding dimensions.
  -Virtual stadium tour
  -More stadiums from years 
 past as well as international stadiums like "Tokyo Dome"
  -International Teams 
  -"World Baseball Classic"
  -Big online games instead of just 1 on 1. Maybe 9 on 9
  
  
  
 I highly recommend this game to all baseball video game fans. To me its more then a game and rather 
 a simulation as some categorize it. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: HershalCrusto
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 8, 2009 3:33 pm PT
Review:  I have to start out by saying The Show 09 is without question the best baseball game to come out 
 in a long time (MVP Baseball 04 to be exact) . I'm sort of disappointed because I spent $8 to rent 
 this game and after playing it a lot over the past couple days, I've deemed it to be a must buy, 
 so I wasted $8. Oh well I'll get over it.
  
  To start out the graphics and presentation are very good, I've seen the odd animation look goofy 
 when someone is catching the ball, but not very often and pretty minor when it happens. Other than 
 that it is a very sharp looking game. Presentation wise it is great, you can add your own HR, and 
 walk-up music and have songs start at certain points, which is really cool and I've made good use 
 of it. It makes hitting a homerun that much more enjoyable. The announcers, are pretty good, but 
 as in all sports games it does get a little old after a while, but I won't knock the show for that 
 because I have never seen a sports game that doesn't get like that after a while, ever.
  
  Gameplay is really fun, I must say I enjoy the pitching and fielding more than the batting, but 
 both are a lot of fun. The pitching is great, they've stuck with the triple click (old school golf 
 game) style of pitching which is without question the best way to have pitching (and was started 
 by MVP 04) . The hitting is probably my biggest beef with the game play, I like how you have to 
 wait for a good pitch to hit and patience is the key, but even when you get a good one to hit, 
 it seems you have little to no control of where it is going. I have also found that the ace on 
 my pitching staff has done no better than my 5th pitcher which is a little weird. Maybe I'm just 
 playing better with my #5 pitcher.
  
  Difficulty is just right, because you can adjust all the sliders to fit the game to the way you 
 want to play it. I'm 13-3 and only 2 of those games had more than a 2 run deficit in the end. That 
 is all you can ask for.
  
  My biggest issue with the game though, WHERE IS THE HOMERUN DERBY? In past baseball games I used 
 to love having some beers with some buddies and having some Homerun Derby's.
  
  In total though I gave the game a 9.0 add a homerun derby and slightly better hitting and I give 
 it a 10. It is a ton of fun to play, and will keep you happy for quite a while because there is 
 a good selection of game modes, and if you decide to play a full 162 game seson (which is what 
 I'm doing) you will definitely get your monies worth. Buy this game and enjoy it, I know I'm going 
 to. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mati1512
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 8, 2009 9:45 am PT
Review:  OK, first of all i'd like to say that this beats out all the others in its series, but it falls 
 just short perfection. To all of you that are complaining about the difficulty of the pitching 
 and the hitting, the difficulty is what makes the game what it is. Last year i would get a ton 
 of hits that would be mostly unrealistic for an everyday team, but this year i'm getting around 
 7-9 hits on average, which is what and average team in the MLB makes.
  Graphics: Arguably the best graphics i have ever seen in a sports game, and one of the best in 
 a PS3 game, but clearly below Killzone 2. The lighting system is unbelievable and the shadows are 
 amazingly realistic. 
  As for the learning curve it will take you a little bit of practice to get used to the game. To 
 practice pitching play a few exhibition games. As to practice batting, hit the cage with any player.
 
  
  Conclusion: The realism in both the graphics and the gameplay in this game make it a must buy. 
 But MLB 09 falls just short of perfection because of some minor glitches that are very tiny but 
 can semi-effect the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: redzed24
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 7, 2009 1:52 pm PT
Review:  I just finished reading a review about the game from a user that goes by the name Dankodefense. 
 Now I realize that game reviews are a personal opinion and they are never wrong. Maybe misguided, 
 but what you think is what you think. In saying that however, the only part of what he wrote about 
 this game that I can agree with is that the Graphics are gorgeous. Lets get that out of the way 
 first. They are absolutely beautiful. The player animations, the faces, the uniforms, the stadiums, 
 the field even. The list goes on and on. The only thing that isn't wonderful is the crowd. It looks 
 good but you see the same people sitting beside each other doing the exact same things at the exact 
 same time. A little odd considering the amount of detail in every other area. 
  
  Other than that though I would say I disagree with everything else he said. The first thing he 
 mentioned that made his dislike the game was the unresponsive controls. I have not noticed this 
 in any game I have played and not even in the demo. If this did happen to him that's too bad but 
 I can safely say it has not reared its ugly head on my system even once. I hit the button to pitch 
 and I pitch. I hit the button to swing and I swing. Perhaps he just wants to be better at a game 
 that made itself slightly more difficult. 
  
  "You must now use the left analog stick to adjust where your swing will cross the plate" This was 
 said as a complaint. To me that is the idea of hitting a baseball. If you are really playing baseball, 
 you don't just swing and hit the ball every time. You have to watch the ball and aim your swing. 
 To complain about something so obviously keeping in tune with the realism of the game seems kinda 
 silly. It doesn't make the game unrealistic as he claims. It makes it MORE realistic. This makes 
 any pitch with good movement almost impossible to hit unless you have already guessed correctly" 
 Again, that is the idea of baseball. You think the hitter knows what the pitcher is pitching every 
 throw? I would say since he is not in fact the pitcher that he does indeed guess every time. This 
 just seems logical to me. I can't see how you can say this again is unrealistic when it is the 
 only way to be realistic. 
  
  Once again it sounds to me as though he was not very good at playing the game and decided to give 
 it a bad review because he wasn't good at playing it. "... they have tweaked this game making extra 
 base hits seemingly non-existent." Really? You have not been able to get an extra base hit? I have. 
 I have a few times. Seeing as though you say that hitting is too hard, I can see how you can't 
 get an extra base hit. You have to be able to hit the ball before you can get a double or triple. 
 Your inability to hit the ball does not make this a bad game, it makes you a bad player. Don't 
 give the game a bad review when its actually everything you say it is not, only you're just not 
 good at playing it. 
  
  He then proceeds to say how pitching is a downgrade from last year. I fail to see this as it seems 
 about the same only maybe a little harder to hit your marks on the meters perfectly. It moves quicker, 
 making it harder to throw perfect pitches every time. I enjoy the added realism in this as only 
 the best of the best pitch great most of the time. Even when you do hit the meter right on it may 
 not go where you thought it was going to. This doesn't happen all the time, but I found it does 
 this mostly when you allow your effort on the pitch to go into the red. If you keep it green or 
 yellow it will likely go where it is supposed to.. These are all things he found to be "unrealistic" 
 To me, these are things that make it more realistic. 
  
  Guessing where the ball is gonna be is a part of hitting. I am guessing he has never actually played 
 baseball before. Pitches that don't hit the spot every time is just a by product of people being 
 imperfect. These small touches that are complained about are what make this game fun. You have 
 to play well to win. You have to pitch well to win. If you keep swinging at balls, the computer 
 will continue to throw balls. Its just the way the game is played. 
  
  MLB 09 The Show is easily the best video baseball game ever made. Yes, this is my opinion and yes 
 others will find their interests lead them to think otherwise, but if you are gonna bag on a game, 
 at least point out things that are wrong with the game and not things that happen that you just 
 aren't any good at figuring out. That's like saying Jeopardy is a stupid game show cause you can't 
 get any of the answers right, when in reality its just that you are not smart enough to know them.
 
  
  I apologize for making this review more of a response than an actual review but my review of this 
 game can be summarized in one sentence. 
  
  This game IS baseball. 
  
  So go out and buy it and enjoy it. Learn how to play it and you will find its the best game of 
 ball to hit a console ever. Its even better than my beloved MVP 05. I will prove this to myself 
 by playing all 162 games of my season, then winning the world series. Something I did not do with 
 MVP 05 ( I sold my Xbox so I could put the money towards my 360 and never got around to the playoffs)
 
  
  Thanks 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lindseyiluvyou
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 7, 2009 9:39 am PT
Review:  The game is not easy they tweeked it a little too much. I always played on Veteran and always had 
 a little bit of an easy time winning games but this year i can barely win on rookie. They made 
 it to where your skill alone will not win it for you, they also made it to where the bad teams 
 are hard to win in this game while the better teams was easier to win, one more thing is that people 
 who had a good year last year will more likely have a better year then the people who stunk or 
 was injury prone. I play the Tigers season and i threw a complete game shutout easily with Edwin 
 Jackson a 14-11 pitcher last year and then i gave up 5 runs in 3.1 innings with Dontrelle Willis 
 a 0-2 pitcher of last year. This game is great though. A fun, challenging, and amazing graphics 
 game makes my review an 9-10 but could've been a 10-10 if it were easier. Get this game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dankodefense
Rating: 3.5
Date: Mar 13, 2009 6:54 am PT
Review:  This game made me realize my Sony fanboyism in an unconventional way. It pains me to tell you that 
 this game is terrible. I love 08 The Show and every previous installment of the franchise previous. 
 But this year sony decided that all those good games they made were no longer acceptable. 
  
  The Good: Graphics are gorgeous.
  
  The Bad: Playing this game feels like playing 08 online, 
 with a bad connection. I do not mean that it is choppy or laggy there is just an obvious delay 
 between when you hit or release a button and when that is seen on the screen. This is most noticeable 
 in pitching when the meter continues to moves past your targeted location long after you have hit 
 the button.
  
  The Ugly: Every new addition to this game ruins what was once a great franchise. The advertising 
 line "Most realistic baseball game ever" is terribly inaccurate. What they have done new from 08 
 is add several new aspects to batting that are not realistic but rather painstakingly tedious. 
 You must now use the left analog stick to adjust where your swing will cross the plate. This makes 
 any pitch with good movement almost impossible to hit unless you have already guessed correctly. 
 Which places an unnecessary amount of importance on guessing correctly, guess wrong and you're 
 not getting a hit. Meaning your only playing a realistic baseball game when you guess correctly 
 (so say 25% of the time) .
  
  Beyond the poor additions, they have tweaked this game making extra base hits seemingly non-existent. 
 I have played through 3 months of my RTTS and with my .252 BA, and 13 RBI, I have 0 extra base 
 hits. No doubles, no triples, no home-runs. 
  
  Pitching has fewer problems when compared to the batting in this game but it is still a downgrade 
 from last years game.
  
  Again saying this pains me. I love my PS3 and feel as though I am cheating on it by saying such 
 awful things about one of its greatest franchises but I had to do it. I know a lot of people love 
 this game. I just don't know why. So to any person sitting on the fence, not sure whether or not 
 to buy this game. If you have 08 and still enjoy it, keep it. If not and you just really want to 
 play this game, rent it. But my suggestion is just avoid this game until 2010, as I will once I 
 have returned this game to Blockbuster.
  
  Edit: I could not bring myself to accept this games poor quality and I spent probably 30 hours 
 playing this game in the week I had it for (about 20 hours of play after writing this review) . 
 I have softened my stance from what it once was but this game is still a poor addition to a great 
 franchise. After 30 hours of game play I can not find a single reason to buy this game since I 
 already own 08. The graphics are really the only aspect of this game to take a significant step 
 forward. Beyond graphics this is just a $60 roster update plus a couple of new and disappointing 
 game play mechanics. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bguy9
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 6, 2009 12:21 pm PT
Review:  Last year I bought MLB 2k8 on launch date, it was before I bought my PS3. MLB 2k8 was ok, but there 
 were too many glitches and the modes were linear. After watching videos and reading a number of 
 reviews critically acclaiming The Show, I decided to buy a PS3 and the game. It was one of the 
 best decisions I ever made, I got a great system, and an amazing baseball experience. This year, 
 MLB The Show '09 adds to it's past success, making it the ultimate baseball game. RTTS is addictive 
 (I played for 24 hours strait!) , Franchise is deep, and the new "sounds of the game" feature is 
 a nice addition. The gameplay is magnificent, the fielding is so fluid that someone walking by 
 your tv screen might think it's a real game. Due to the fast fluidity in fielding transitions, 
 successful double plays happen a little more often than normal. Batting is a touch harder this 
 year, but is a challenge worth working at until you have mastered it. You will feel joy and excitement 
 when you hit a homerun instead of HR's being a normal boring occurence. It is much more rewarding 
 and fun trying to reach for the fences. The new baserunning system is a little buggy but can be 
 switched to classic for every mode except in Road to The Show mode. The graphics are top notch, 
 and the stadiums have an INCREDIBLE amount of detail. Hit a home run at Coors field while playing 
 with the Rocks and you'll see the fountains spurt up in the forest behind the centerfield wall. 
 The presentation is spectacular, the commentary adapts to the situation and it's spot on most of 
 the time. More cutscenes and animations have been added to an already impressive number of them 
 seen in 08. After playing the game for 30 hours, I still see new things once in a while, this makes 
 the games replayability multiply. The Franchise mode is too deep to go into for a review so I'll 
 leave that out. Road to The Show, the career mode, is fun and addicting. You can pick what team 
 you want to go to spring training with and tryout for a spot on the team or you can enter the draft 
 and get selected by a random team. You start off in double A and have to work your way up to the 
 majors by completing advancement goals and increasing your attributes. Ask your coach to move you 
 up in the lineup or to get traded away via the game menu. This mode is deep and intense. Not to 
 say MLB 09 the show doesn't have bugs, but there are far less than other sports games on the market. 
 Madden had many more glitches and bugs than the show, and none of them make the game unplayable 
 or be considered a major flaw. Overall, this is a magnificent game, pure genius went into developing 
 this game, but it isn't perfect. That's why MLB 09: The Show warrants a 9/10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SportsGamer101
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 5, 2009 3:17 pm PT
Review:  Attention: Believe the hype! I recently bought my PS3 for MGS4 and Uncharted but found that "The 
 Show" is exclusive to the system so I decided to give it a shot. After playing the 2K series for 
 3 seasons now, I feel like I'm in heaven. I seriously can't say enough about this game. The graphics 
 are so smooth and I'm yet to experience any frame rate issues as I have in 2K. Though batting is 
 a little difficult, the game makes up for on the pitching side. From the catcher recommending pitches 
 and location to the pitcher having confidence issues, this game nails all the little things that 
 make baseball baseball. Most sporting simulations tend to focus on the razzle-dazzle where as "The 
 Show" focuses on all the little things. I've only played for 5-6 hours now but am completely hooked!! 
 Quite possibly the best sport simulation of all time and that's coming from a Madden and 2K Basketball 
 FREAK! Don't waste the six bucks to rent this game. Put that money down on the purchase. This is 
 IT! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lewski19
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 5, 2009 6:58 am PT
Review:  This is a very solid effort overall. Only a few complaints. First, it is too difficult to navigate 
 the rosters and sort players in the player management menus (makes me hate dealing with Franchise 
 mode, my favorite part of the game) . Second, too many passed balls and TERRIBLE base running. The 
 pick offs are insane even with the slider turned all the way down. Third, why did they condense 
 all the sliders to about 8 options. This game is so close to great, if i could only tweak the sliders 
 to balance it would really help. (Example: CPU base runners are faster than user base runners, 
 but you cannot fix this because the base runner speed slider is now a global slider) . Lastly, maybe 
 I should tweak the contact slider, but I try to play it straight up. However, the CPU gets way 
 too much good contact with two strikes. They hardly ever swing at a ball off the plate, even with 
 hitters notorious for going after bad pitches (Soriano) . I cannot count how many times I have been 
 0-2 and ended up 3-2, but it is almost every time. Does not matter how good a pitch I throw, they 
 just will not swing at it. Anyway, I really like the game, I want to love it, but it needs more 
 user ability to tweak the game to personal preferences. That is a glaring omission, especially 
 considering that last year's game had more options. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bighou
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 5, 2009 5:22 am PT
Review:  This game is just about perfect. At least the Gameplay is. The speed of the game is exactly what 
 it should be, the players, the stadiums, the manorisms, batting stances...... etc, I can go on and 
 on and on. I would say the only downside to this game (but in every baseball game) is seeing the 
 ball travel in day games. The ball does disappear a little in the sky and you will have to turn 
 up the power meter because it's pretty hard to hit bombs in this game. Other than that, it's a 
 10. The pitching in this game is ABSOLUTELY PERFECT. I didn't know that they could actually get 
 better from last year but they definitely did. Oh, and this game is the first game since Hardball 
 3 on Sega Genesis and All-Star Baseball on PS1 to have a batting practice. Also, I love the behind 
 the Pitcher and Outfield batting views. Again, as I said last year, I'll say it again this year, 
 "If you are a baseball video game fan and you don't have a PS3, It is SOOOOOOOO worth the money 
 to buy a PS3 and this game. I'm not gonna lie, last year this was the best $560 (PS3+MLB: THE SHOW 
 08) I ever spent. LET'S PLAY BALL.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: ohface
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 4, 2009 11:17 pm PT
Review:  Very similar to the '08 Version but, even more polished. 
  The changes they have made: Graphics are outstanding and "Create a player" is pretty insane. Just 
 the fact you can use your own music for batter walk ups, home run celebrations, pitcher intro's 
 etc. is just something that I've always wanted to be able to do. Fielding has been tweaked and 
 not nearly as automatic as last year (More realistic definately but, man I don't know if this is 
 a good thing or a bad thing yet) 
  
  The online play after only 1 game was pretty smooth with only an instance or two of lag but, that 
 didn't take away from the experience. I can't wait to get some more games under my belt.
  
  The game is great don't hesitate to get this, the online hiccups i noticed are the only reason 
 I didn't give this game a higher score. This is as good a baseball game as it gets, and with some 
 future patches could make it even better. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bigjdave30
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 4, 2009 9:19 pm PT
Review:  Although there are no drastic improvements from 08, it is the small things that MLB 09: The Show 
 does that make all the difference. Improved lighting, graphics, and animations make the gameplay 
 smooth and look great. Also, the training addition in RTTS is a nice when you want to work on a 
 specific aspect of your game. All in all, these little additions in multiple areas make this a 
 great improvement over last year, and that is saying something given that 08 was an awesome game 
 in itself. No next generation baseball game even comes close. In fact, this might almost be the 
 best sports game on the market. 2K9 might as well give up now. The only thing bad about MLB 09: The 
 Show is how high the expectations now are for next years game. I'm sure they can live with that 
 though. OK, enough typing, time to get back to "The Show". 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MG_1
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 4, 2009 6:00 pm PT
Review:  I downloaded the demo online. The game is amazing. Very realistic graphics as well as character 
 movement. The Show really demonstrates what the ps3 is capable of. Sorry 360 owners!!! Controls 
 are pretty simple. I would go out tomorrow and buy the game, but the one thing thats stopping me 
 is that its a considerably difficult game. Pitching, I mastered right away, but batting?!?!?! OMG 
 is it hard. I maybe hit the ball twice out of like 30 tries. Maybe the demo was on advanced mode 
 or something I dont know. I like a good challenge, but it was getting frustrating. Other baseball 
 simulaters werent nearly as difficult when it came to batting. Im sure its something that you can 
 master with practice. Other than that, the game looks gorgeous. Anyone who is a baseball fan, I 
 would strongly recommend this game too. Maybe others would have an easier time when up to bat. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Rourkey412
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 4, 2009 3:56 am PT
Review:  This game was one I was the first sports game I couldn't wait for in a long time. I was so impressed 
 by the flawless graphics system, but that was no surprise to me. The game play doesn't have a lot 
 of updates this year but, who needs them when the game is great anyway? The off season and free 
 agent modes have gotten an update that makes picking up new players all the better. i won't ruin 
 it for you if you haven't played yet but, It is good. There is a new arbitration feature where 
 just as it sounds, You can offer your free agents to be arbitration. The online play is a little 
 laggy ( Could just be my internet ) , but still fun. This game is 100% worth the $60. I would go 
 out and buy it right away if you do not already have the game. This will go down as one of the 
 best sports games in a long time. I can't wait for MLB 2010: The Show next year! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lethal_NFS
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 3, 2009 9:59 pm PT
Review:  Can "The Show" come back to reclaim the title as the best baseball game in town? I think they can, 
 and I think they did....
  
  
  Graphics - 9.25/10
  
  Without question, this is the best looking baseball game ever made. The player models are nearly 
 perfect. The attention to detail amazes me. The stadiums are updated and look better than ever. 
 Now some stadiums may not look any different like U. S. Cellular Field but go take a look at Kauffman 
 Stadium and their new LCD scoreboard. Or how about the New York Yankies new stadium. Even the fans 
 in the stadiums look much better than last year. I really love the lighting in this game and as 
 you play you can see the shadows changing due to the sun starting to set. Watch your day game turn 
 in to a night game.
  Every team has their own team mascot which is pretty nice to see.
  
  
  Sound - 8.5/10
  
  The announcers still say the same old stuff they said last year plus 
 a few new comments. The music is not all that great but here is the best part of the sound in this 
 years game. You now have the ability to change players homerun music, the music thats played when 
 your batter is stepping up to the plate, and the crowd chants. 
  For Jim Thome I have "Walk This Way" playing as he steps up to the batters box. When he hits a 
 homerun you will hear "Welcome to the Jungle" playing. The music is also altered to sound like 
 its coming from the stadium speakers. Also, I added some crowd chants like: "Thome! You effin rock!!!!" 
 and "Lets go Jimmy boy!!!!". You can do this for all the players in the game. Very cool!!!!
  
  Gameplay - 9/10
  
  Not much has changed as far as batting and pitching goes. Anyone who 
 has played '08 will feel pretty comfortable playing this game from the start. Some cool things 
 to do in franchise mode like budget your teams money and purchase things for the clubhouse. It 
 adds to the games experience. The Road to the Show has been improved upon as well. More options 
 when creating your player and a more realistic feel when playing. Earning points feels more like 
 an accomplishment. There are also new training modes for hitting and stealing.
  Basically this year everything just looks better. Outfielders move like real players and have patterns 
 when running towards the ball instead of just a straight line. I noticed that the infielders do 
 not stop or catch every line drive or ball hit in the dirt. The first base umpire is a tad unforgiving 
 though when checking your swing. Stinkin guy called me out on strikes a few times when I checked 
 up.
  
  
  Game Modes:
  
  Exhibition Mode 
  Road to the Show 
  Franchise Mode 
  Season Mode 
  Manager Mode 
  Rivalry 
  Practice Mode 
  Online - 8.5/10
  
  I played 
 a few games online today and it took me a full game to get used to batting online. You really need 
 to wait an extra second to swing than you would offline. This took some getting used to. There 
 are some nice online options like and online League. I joined a league that consists of 8 teams 
 and your stats and everything will be stored online. There is a schedule with the dates and times 
 of all the games. You can play single ranked games or unranked games. All of your stats are kept 
 track of and will be displayed on the MLB 09 website and online with your PS3.
  
  You will need to go online to update your roster to keep it current. A roster update came out today 
 actually. (March 3)
  
  
  Overall - 9/10
  
  This is a very solid baseball game. Online and off, I do not think there is a better one out there. 
 This game gets Lethal's stamp of approval!
  
  
  Pros:
  Team Mascots 
  Ability to save replays to your HDD 
  Ability to change players Homerun music, batters box music, 
 and crowd chants. 
  Very indepth Season and Franchise modes. 
  Much improved "Road to the Show" mode. 
  
  Cons:
  Online play takes some getting used to. 
 
  Announcers are still annoying 
  Where is the rain? and where are the fireworks? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jamescrenshaw
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 5, 2009 9:59 pm PT
Review:  Hitting - improved. But its harder... however with sliders its better. Pulling the ball is waaay 
 easier. Does a great job of simming how hard it is to hit and breaking ball. stances are much improved 
 edit... after playing this some more... hitting is easier. sliders help quite a bit.
  
  Pitching - not much change... but thats fine. The meter is a bit smaller, which allows for more 
 error. sig windups are much improved. Also the pitcher repitoires are far more accurate. As I played 
 more I realized pitching is neither harder or easier... its just more true life
  
  Feilding - awsome animations. Balls can finally be hit over a feilders head. Can finally get the 
 quick 3rd out at 2nd. The OF cutting off the ball looks and feels great. The diving has been toned 
 down for more realism. The hot corner feels hot.
  
  Franchise - I havent totally delved in... but here is what i know. 40 man rosters are awsome. Trade 
 AI is still a bit odd. The stats are more realistic then in the past... especially SB. (SB toned 
 down in game as well)
  
  Presentation - mix bag. They took out some minor presentation elements... bust overall it delivers. 
 commentary is cool. The sound and ambiance of baseball is perfedtly captured
  
  Modes - batting practice is welcome addtion. RTTS seems pretty much the same (i dont play RTTS 
 too much) . Havent delved into custom chants or music yet... but i have heard positive things.
  
  Graphic- awsome... shading makes it look sooo real. Player models have improved (although only 
 a bit) , stadiums are beautiful with active scoreboards
  
  They really just made minor tweaks in EVERY element of the game... but all the minor tweaks have 
 added up
  
  I cant really think of anything I would like to see different. They did a great job. Any complaints 
 that you hear about this game are going to be small by comparison... job well done. Any baseball 
 fan should get this game. Yes... its worth buying the system for it 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sseals23
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 3, 2009 8:38 pm PT
Review:  Before i get into the review of this game, just a minute of the bad... what the hell happened to 
 2k games? There only decent game out now is NBA, hockey is a joke, baseball is just bad, they lost 
 the NFL and that was it? No more effort?
  Back to the good, this game. 3rd year in a row of buying The Show and this is the best in series. 
 Not alot has been changed but the small tweaks made all add up for a nice upgrade from 08. Just 
 feels well put together, playing threw a game is just plain enjoyable. The pitcher batter interface 
 is great, I can pitch all day long, lot of fun. The Road To The Show mode is about the same as 
 last years, nice for when you dont want to play threw a whole 9 innings. I was looking forward 
 to batting practice.. oh well, cant win em all. Really adds nothing to the game, when i think about 
 taking B. P. I think about some old guy on the mound throwing up a nice 78 mph meatball to whack 
 out of the park.. Not the case, you pick a regular pitcher, and the pitches he can us, so i pick 
 fastball only, and he still pitches around you, throwing in the dirt, no good. But that is really 
 about it, no major problems with this game that i can see yet. So... very good game.. wish there 
 was more sports games like this out there. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jaguars9
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 3, 2009 6:28 pm PT
Review:  This game is simply awesome... i was a little disappointed they don't have the Japanese pitcher 
 for the braves but that's nothing a roster update can't fix..2k9 is OK to look at but game play 
 wise it doesn't come close to wait the show offers. From working score boards to the field slowly 
 tearing away .. this game is just awesome and fun to play. I love the transition affect for the 
 ivy at wrigley turning green from being brown just awesome detail.. You can actually identify the 
 pitch coming to the plate on delivery from the pitcher. Haven't done the franchise or rtts yet 
 but I'm going to try it out soon as far as the the rest of it from TV camera angles following a 
 Home Run to a clutch double down the line even showing an action/dramatic angle as Francisco Rodriquez 
 enters them game for a save... Unfortunately i lost to the Met's playing as the Braves 5-2 but it 
 was certainly an exciting game to say the least. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ariel13941
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 3, 2009 2:47 pm PT
Review:  MLB 09 The Show is definitely the best in the franchise. Major improvements. Graphics are amazingly 
 sharp! Batting stances are much more better than they use to be in MLB 08 The Show. In 09, you 
 can see the difference. In MLB 08 The Show. Players move a lot in their batting stances. In 09 
 The batting stances are just right. Homeruns are not that often as they use to be in 08 The Show. 
 Now is like real life baseball. This game is really the best in the series. Is a must buy. Also 
 this game has trophy support. That's a new update. Though the trophies are kind of hard to earn. 
 Just wish It was a little bit easier.
  MLB 09 The Show is definitely the best in the franchise. Major improvements. Graphics are amazingly 
 sharp! Batting stances are much more better than they use to be in MLB 08 The Show. In 09, you 
 can see the difference. In MLB 08 The Show. Players move a lot in their batting stances. In 09 
 The batting stances are just right. Homeruns are not that often as they use to be in 08 The Show. 
 Now is like real life baseball. This game is really the best in the series. Is a must buy. Also 
 this game has trophy support. That's a new update. Though the trophies are kind of hard to earn. 
 Just wish It was a little bit easier. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mayham88
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 3, 2009 12:26 pm PT
Review:  Wow, what can I say. This game had such big hype over the past couple months and now that it is 
 finally here, we get to see first hand all of the great improvements. 
  The first thing I would like to mention is how beautiful this game looks. The sounds, camera angles, 
 the sun, everything about it is awesome. The gameplay is just right. I have heard a couple people 
 say that the batting is to difficult. Just remeber it is the first day that this game has come 
 out, so be patient. 
  It would take to long to go through everything that is right about this game, just believe me when 
 I say this is the best baseball game out there. You would be foolish to by 2K over this and this 
 is from someone who bought in the years past and stood by it. Well, not any more, that game is 
 compete trash and I have gone to the show.
  My only problem I have with the show series is that they dont have all the team uniforms to choose 
 from. For example the Twins blue road jerseys are not in the game. Im not sure why they can't put 
 those in but maybe they need to save something for next year... I dont know.
  The bottomline is if you want a great baseball game that you can play all summer long, MLB 09 The 
 Show is right for you. 
  
  I give The Show a 9.5/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JTsensation
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 3, 2009 6:56 am PT
Review:  Cant say enough the game has it all from Spring Training to opening day to the drama of oct baseball. 
 It feels and plays like you are in the ball park swinging the bats yourself. 08 was great but the 
 game is just getting better. If you are a die hard baseballl fan and dont have a ps3 go get one 
 and get the show. Being a 360 owner and playing 2k for awhile i got tired of it. I went and got 
 yself a ps3 and got the show 08 and I was in heaven .. The show is the best baseball game in the 
 park go get it guys  
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Leesus13
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 3, 2009 2:18 am PT
Review:  Best The Show to date. Improved some franchise issues and gameplay is much smoother. Love this 
 game. Love this game much better than 2k9. 2k9 once again falls a little short of greatness. The 
 show continues its great path. The show's roster setup are up to date with player pictures on them. 
 New 40 man roster setup are a great new feature. Franchise setup gameplay is great. Overall I think 
 this is the best 09 the show yet. A few extra fixed tweaks on the 09 road to the show gameplay. 
 Like the road to the show. Big improvement over last year and much smoother road to the show transition. 
 I would recommend this game to any fan of baseball and baseball video gaming. I like the commentary 
 on the game. The fact that you can also record your own chant and yells alongside with your player 
 introduction music and homerun music is a great small feature. I think MLB the show 09 went above 
 and beyond with this game. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
