-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Mobile Suit Gundam: Crossfire
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/ps3/sim/gundamworld/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Mobile suits look great when they're standing still.
 interesting campaign structure lets you pick and choose missions.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Extremely sluggish frame rate nearly makes the game unplayable.
 small, confined maps.
 poor collision detection.
 no online multiplayer.
 lame special effects, weak weapons, bland backgrounds, and the list goes on.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Nov 17, 2006
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 3.9
Critic Score: 3.5, 37 Review (s)
User Score: 4.9, 884 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Namco Bandai Games America
Genre: Mech Sim
Date: Nov 13, 2006
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Mobile Suit Gundam: Crossfire is a lazy attempt to bring the Gundam license to the PlayStation 3, 
 and it's a disappointment in almost every way. 

  It would seem that Mobile Suit Gundam: Crossfire has the makings of a good game. After all, what 
 more do you need than a couple dozen towering mechs strapped with machine guns, rocket launchers, 
 and beam sabers? How about a frame rate that occasionally approaches the double digits? How about 
 online multiplayer? How about some semblance of thoughtful, intelligent game design? Crossfire 
 has none of these things. Instead, it offers a couple dozen good-looking mechs, but that's about 
 it. In fact, aside from its packaging and price, Crossfire gives very little indication of being 
 a PlayStation 3 game. The graphics are poor, the frame rate is ridiculously slow, the gameplay 
 is primitive, there's no online play, and simply no reason to play this game.  

          There's very little story in this game, so you just shoot enemy mechs, helicopters, and 
 tanks until you've had enough -- which should take only about 10 minutes.     

  In the world of Gundam, there are two forces locked in an ongoing struggle for dominance: The Earth 
 Federation and the Principality of Zeon. The game doesn't go into detail about why the two forces 
 are fighting, so if you're looking for some context, you'll have to look to the plethora of Gundam 
 anime, manga, and fan-created Web sites for more information. All you need to know is that both 
 factions have some awesome weaponry in the form of massive mechanized "suits" at their disposal, 
 which meet on the barren, fog-laden battlefields of futuristic Earth, where they trade blows until 
 one side emerges the victor.  

  There are two modes of play in Crossfire. The single-player campaign is where you'll spend most 
 of your time because the multiplayer is a joke. The only way to play this game multiplayer is two-player 
 split-screen battles. There is no online play, which seems ridiculous because the majority of other 
 PlayStation 3 launch titles have at least  some  sort of online support. The split-screen multiplayer 
 that you get instead is completely shallow and almost unplayable because of a busted frame rate. 
 You each choose a mobile suit (all of which have to first be unlocked in the single-player game) 
 and battle until one mech is left standing. It's the kind of multiplayer experience that has been 
 tacked on to second-rate licensed games for years, and it will do nothing to extend your time with 
 this game.  

  The single-player campaign in Crossfire is much more involved, but that isn't saying very much. 
 You can play as either the Earth Federation force or the Zeon force. Each side has its own selection 
 of mobile suits, but regardless of which force you're fighting for, you'll encounter many of the 
 same battles. Even though you'll be playing the same battles, you'll be doing so from different 
 sides, which makes each mission feel unique to each faction. The campaign structure is based on 
 a daily cycle, and you can accept or ignore missions as you see fit. Missions have a time limit, 
 so you have to complete each one before a certain date or else it will be unavailable for the rest 
 of the game. As days pass, your pilots heal from battle and your mobile suits are repaired. It 
 also takes a set number of days to modify your mobile suits, have new ones delivered, and so on. 
 You have to manage your time to an extent, but it's not such a constraint that you'll ever feel 
 rushed to meet the mission deadlines. The campaign ends when you reach December 31 or finish the 
 final battle. The campaign progression isn't exactly open-ended because you'll end up in the same 
 place no matter what you do, but the structure works well if only because it gives you some freedom 
 to pick and choose your missions.  

  Skipping a few of the optional missions won't have much of an effect on your overall campaign, 
 but there is some incentive for completing as many missions as possible. At the end of each mission, 
 you're given a rank that is based on your time, remaining health, and enemies destroyed. You're 
 also awarded points based on how you perform, which can be redeemed to purchase new mobile suits, 
 hire new pilots, and upgrade your current fleet of mobile suits. The upgrade system is very shallow 
 and not especially fulfilling. You can upgrade each mobile suit in one of three areas: attack, 
 which will increase the damage inflicted on enemies; weapons, which gives you access to new weapons 
 and lets you carry more ammunition; and defense, which increases the amount of damage you can take. 
 You'll also see an appreciable performance boost as you level up your mechs, but if you're looking 
 for a level of customization that is typical of other mech combat games, you won't find it in Crossfire. 

  Most of the mobile suits are humanoid in design, with two legs, two arms, a head, and a torso. 
 They run around and behave much like humans, but because the suits are several stories tall and 
 weigh hundreds of tons, they tend to be slow and clumsy. Wisely, the mech engineers have equipped 
 each suit with rocket boosters, which are essential because they let you move fast enough to evade 
 most attacks. Without the rocket boosters, the mobile suits move so unbearably slow that you're 
 better off waiting the few seconds for them to cool off so you can use them again than trying to 
 move around unaided. You move your mobile suit with the left analog stick and adjust the camera 
 with the right analog stick. Oddly, the motion-sensor feature of the Sixaxis controller goes completely 
 unused.  

          At least the mobile suits look cool.     

  Each mobile suit can be equipped with a melee weapon, which is assigned to the triangle button. 
 These melee weapons can be extremely powerful but, of course, are only effective at close range. 
 Not only does getting in close put you directly in harm's way, but poor collision detection makes 
 melee fighting very frustrating. You'll often whiff pathetically when you take a swing, even if 
 you're right next to your target.  

  Most of the time, you'll rely on ranged weapons, such as machine guns, beam cannons, and missile 
 launchers that can be equipped to your mobile suit. These weapons are assigned to the square and 
 R1 buttons. You can press the R2 button to activate sniper mode to pick off enemies from afar, 
 but it's easier to use the lock-on targeting feature. By pressing the L1 button, you'll lock on 
 to a target, and the camera will stay focused on it. This lets you circle strafe and fill your 
 enemy full of lead until it dies or you run out of ammo. In each level, there is also a supply 
 depot that you can visit to replenish your ammo, but doing so will put you out of commission for 
 about 10 seconds and leave you completely vulnerable to attack.     

  The controls take some getting used to, and there's no tutorial to ease you into your new role 
 as a mobile suit pilot. There are a few training missions that let you practice your mech combat 
 without running the risk of failing a mission, but these training missions don't provide any detail 
 about how the controls work. However, if you've played any of the many Gundam games for the PlayStation 
 2, the control scheme will feel very familiar here.  

          There are PlayStation 2 games with a lot more detail and character than this game.     
 

  Depending on the battle, you can have up to two other mobile suits accompany you. You can't directly 
 control these other suits, but you can issue commands using the D pad. However, you can issue commands 
 only to pilots who are subordinate to you in rank. Even with backup, you'll end up doing the vast 
 majority of the work yourself because your teammates aren't very responsive (or apparently coherent) 
 most of the time. You'll often see your allies running into walls, doing nothing, walking around 
 aimlessly, or just taking all kinds of enemy fire.  

  Most of the missions in the game require you to destroy all of the enemies in a certain area. There 
 are also escort missions and defend-the-base missions, but even then, the action always boils down 
 to killing all of the enemies before they kill you. The battlefields are all confined within an 
 invisible force field that is passable to your enemies but not to you. It's extremely annoying 
 and awkward looking to chase down an enemy only to reach an invisible wall and not be able to move. 
 Adding to the sense of confinement is a very short draw distance that blankets every level in dense 
 fog, so you can never see very far. As a result, you often won't even be able to see enemies until 
 they magically appear within your firing range.  

  There are about 25 missions for each faction that take place on unspecified battlefields in and 
 around Australia and Southeast Asia. There's a desert area, a mountain area, a canyon area, a naval 
 base, a military base, crumbling city ruins, a mighty river, and a few others. The locations are 
 all about as exciting as they sound, with bland backgrounds, undefined topography, unnatural-looking 
 water, paper-thin trees that don't initially react when you walk through them, and a very light 
 smattering of destructible structures, such as antenna towers, fuel storage tanks, and military 
 buildings. But these things do nothing to make the levels more interesting, and the biggest disparity 
 between levels is usually the color of the ground textures.  

  The only part of the game that looks good is the mobile suit models. There are more than 30 different 
 suits in the game, and when standing still, they each look detailed and appropriately imposing. 
 One especially nice touch is the way that the mobile suits get dismembered in the midst of combat 
 but keep on fighting. As long as you have one good leg and a torso, you can keep fighting. If you 
 lose both of your arms, you'll have to kick to attack; if you lose your head, you won't have any 
 radar; if you bust a leg, you'll end up moving very slowly, and so on. You can also hack enemy 
 mobile suits to bits, but it's difficult to target a specific area of the enemy's suit. So when 
 you do end up chopping off an arm, it's usually just a matter of luck.  

  Unfortunately, the cool, mutilated mechs are overshadowed by the technical problems with this game, 
 the most glaring of which is that once these large, detailed models start moving, the frame rate 
 staggers. Even before the action starts, when you're just walking around an empty level, the game 
 moves so slowly that it's like watching stop-motion animation. When you add a few more mechs to 
 the mix, the game slows to the point that you can just about count each frame of animation as it 
 goes by. The disappointment is compounded by the lackluster special effects that make things like 
 firing rockets, swinging beam sabers, and blowing up huge mechs sadly unsatisfying. The explosion 
 effects are also weak and subdued, and when you destroy an enemy mobile suit, it simply falls over 
 and disappears in a puff of smoke. You'd expect these hulking masses of metal to have appropriately 
 hulking weapons, but instead, you get a floppy pink sword and cannons that feel like pea shooters. 
 Of course, everything looks best on a high-definition display. Running the game in 720p gives an 
 enhanced level of detail and widescreen aspect ratio, but even with those improvements, the game 
 pales in comparison to other PlayStation 3 games. If you're playing this game on a standard definition 
 television, you'll have a hard time making out the text in the menus, and the in-game graphics 
 could easily be mistaken for those of a PlayStation 2 game.  

          You can play through the campaign in about six hours, and then your only option is to play 
 through it again because the multiplayer sure isn't worth playing.     

  The sound effects are just as lame as the visuals in Crossfire. The weapons don't sound the least 
 bit loud or forceful, and the explosions are muted. Even the clunky noise of the mobile suits walking 
 sounds weak and repetitive. Although there are no characters to speak of in the game, you will 
 get to hear voice clips in battle. You'll usually hear the same few phrases from your enemies, 
 along the lines of, "Die you bastard!" You'll also have a tinny, toneless female voice to tell 
 you of updated mission objectives, which is at least helpful even if it doesn't sound good. The 
 music is dramatic and a bit overdone, but it's one of the few elements of this game that doesn't 
 feel lazily thrown together at the last minute. That said, it's not award-winning music by any 
 means, and you'll likely forget it as soon as you quit playing the game.  

  Mobile Suit Gundam: Crossfire feels like a mediocre budget PlayStation 2 game that was ported to 
 the PlayStation 3 and slapped with a $60 price tag. Diehard Gundam fans with a lot of cash to burn 
 might enjoy looking at the mobile suits, but other than that, this game has nothing going for it. 
 Even if you could get past the horrid frame rate problems, lackluster presentation, and lack of 
 online multiplayer, the gameplay in Crossfire is practically identical to the half-dozen or more 
 Gundam games that appeared on the PlayStation 2. If you're looking for a game to show off what 
 your PlayStation 3 is capable of, Mobile Suit Gundam: Crossfire should be your last choice of all 
 the launch titles.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (51 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: silverstar7x
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 20, 2009 5:18 am PT
Review:  Controls, controls, controls, man they were a pain, made me regret buying the dan thing, until 
 I... READ THE MANUAL. xP
  Twice...
  
  Then I took it slow & killed them off, sure the first doin's a pain, but when you use the radar 
 map in the pause menu, oh & YOUR BRAIN to figure out what type of enemy is attacking you, then 
 you'll know better to flank them as opposed to rushing in head-on (especially with guntanks, oh 
 those guntanks..) .
  
  After getting used to yhe controls (which wasn't as hard as you think) & comparing it with maybe 
 a few other Gundam PS2 games with similar difficulties (Gundam Journey to Jaburo, complicated controls 
 & weird foes to fight) , I got that by using the ability to boost, target, snipe, jump & slash, 
 defend (obviously) & offend (MORE OBVIOUSLY) it became understandable why the Japs liked this game 
 to me, cause man, using realistic style fighting in mobile suits is fun when you're winning, BOOM, 
 SLAH, *enemy* Ahhhh! If you hate this game, well then it's obvious that you have no patience or 
 tactical thinking what so ever, but if you hate it for the mobile suits & their lack of abilties 
 (like say kicking like Char Aznable or slashing wildly in Ramba Ral's Gouf) then you expect too 
 much from a SIMULATION type game, I recommend something like Dynasty Warriors then, of DW Gundam 
 or something, cause this game is good, if you used that brain of yours once in awhile you can out 
 do any enemy in this game, afterall we were given the ability to think once in awhile for these 
 reasons, why not use 'em?
  
  All in all it was a good game, now I can kill any opponent easily & have passed it many times, 
 though I wished it had a bit more displays of the MS true potential, Simulation or not it didn't 
 exactly show what the MS here are truly capable of, it was a bit too straight forward with only 
 cutting & shooting as the only options, but hey, whaddya gonna do.
  
  The graphics were of expected quality, though it wouldn't hurt to give some life to the control 
 panel, military is the military but bland is bland, if you think war is depressing then the colours 
 & feel that this game gives to you after awhile might make you agree on that, otherwise you'd be 
 too busy trying to fight off that enemy that keeps taking your arm away or something.
  On an added note to that, there isn't really enough sunshine, or attractive colours, if we were 
 gonna have an abandoned city to play in, can't it be one with a lake or industrial plant nearby, 
 or maybe some shiny surface reflecting a highway we could jump onto & off to kill the enemy from 
 above... Maybe that's asking too much, but still, Gundam Simulation games should atleast have something 
 around this, rather than a small town out in the sand.
  
  The game itself is quite limited, after finishing everything all you can do is the samething over 
 & over again, killing the same eneimes in the same location with your superior skills, I mean online 
 would be fun, or maybe gaining medals for that little up thereness, but other than doing story 
 missions on & on again, upgrading & purchasing mobile suits & upping your stats, there really isn't 
 much else... Shame really, though the story mode playing style is fun, it wouldn't hurt to add 
 in a free mission mode where you wouldn't have to do everything to do favourite mission again in 
 the next play through.
  
  Sound was descent, not bad, not the greatest, realistic with music sounding like war would, not 
 mush else to say rather than lack of variety in the radio chatter, but still nothing to really 
 complain about, just very satisfactory.
  
  Well I'd be redundant if I said anymore so I'll end it here, all in all, this game was underrated 
 by you westerners, though being a westerner myself, I can't say that with all my hear, still, atleast 
 have a bit more of a go at it next time shall we, Blu-ray discs ain't cheap y'know!
  
  Well that it, laterz
  Axd B) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CRaZYthaCoBRA
Rating: 4.5
Date: Mar 7, 2009 7:49 am PT
Review:  I picked this game up at Wal-Mart for $10... in the bargain bin, which is probably where it should 
 have been in the first place. It's not that bad, but it's still bad. It has a lot of good elements, 
 but most of them just make the game tedious. 
  
  For example, having to wait for your pilot to heal or you Gundam to be repaired makes the game 
 take forever to play. Yeah, you can swap out pilots and Gundams between missions, but you then 
 find yourself using points to power up Gundams you might never use later just to beat a mission 
 while your main Gundam and pilot are out of commission. It also sucks that it takes forever to 
 install an upgrade to a Gundam... nothing is applied instantly. Also, you can usually only apply 
 one upgrade at a time. 
  
  When you request a new pilot or gundam, the process also takes a long time for them to be transferred 
 or built.
  
  If you are short on time or patience you should skip this game altogether ! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Scope-Eye51
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 4, 2009 10:37 pm PT
Review:  My review will be! I hate Halo so much, I just want to know why "Halo" gets such a high scores 
 why? can any one tell me what's the fun of it? I'm going to rate Halo 2/10 it's my opinion it's 
 like saying that to Mobile Suit Gundam Crossfire, so think for a second.....
  
  Featuring a variety of Mobile Suits from the Gundam franchise, Mobile Suit Gundam sets players 
 in the latter stages of The One Year War. Players will have the opportunity to be a commander of 
 their own Mobile Suit battalion for either the Federation or Zeon Mobile Suit Assault Force. As 
 players move through the ranks, they will be able to gain access to new Mobile Suits and engage 
 in battles with more capable pilots at their command. With a battalion at their disposal, players 
 face a number of strategic options to choose from. In order to succeed, it will be vital for players 
 to know about specific destructible parts on Mobile Suits, vulnerable enemy facilities and whether 
 or not to engage enemies with either short or long range combat. Teamwork is also be a key component 
 to the survival of every mission. If players are successful, their chosen allegiance could be the 
 turning point for the war in Mobile Suit Gundam.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: ZanarkandTidus
Rating: 7
Date: Dec 28, 2008 8:25 pm PT
Review:  
  
  You can see the potential is there, but the game is very sloppily put together. I loved the Gundam 
 0079 Universe, when I heard about a Gundam game coming out with the release of the PS3 I was excited, but 
 alot of the potential here is wasted.
  
  This game feels like it's a mish mash of an mech sim/Gundam game, and the makers tried to blend 
 both elements such as the realism of mech sims with the fast paced action and influence of Gundam, but 
 the controls are too clunky, and the camera angle is annoying, and even on the easy difficulty your 
 health will be depleted by enemy gunfire very fast, and the poor controls and camera angles make 
 the problem even worse. The controls are so stiff and clunky even destroying tanks can be a pain 
 because your mobile suit will miss with the sabre and will even be out-maneuvered!
  
  The lock on doesn't work unless your enemy is close to you, and it makes the game feel frustrating 
 compared to other Gundam games such as Gundam vs Zeta Gundam or Federation vs Zeon where you could 
 automatically lock onto enemies at the press of a button.
  
  There is inconsistency in how much armor your mobile suit has left, how much more damage it can 
 take, and some of the missions drag on and you have no idea how much more damage your suit really 
 can take. Even on the easiest difficulty level, a very quick barrage of enemy fire can remove alot 
 of your health and being hit by a rocket can destroy your suit in one hit, even if the shielding 
 for your mobile suit is nearly at 100%! A big part of Gundam games is using the environment to 
 your advantage, such as buildings and terrian, but the battlefields on this game are flat and you 
 and enemies just engage in all out shootouts too much.
  
  The graphics try to go for a more realistic appearance and less of the anime, which is a nice change, but 
 many objects such as buildings and vehicles do not look PS3 quality, and would be considered ugly 
 even for a PS2 game.
  
  The mobile suits look great and detailed however. The environments are based on the wide open desert, forest, sea 
 shore style battlefields from the show, I actually like how they don't try to make them look too 
 colorful since Gundam 0079 had a more serious and less colorful appearance. But it's hard to ignore 
 how ugly the buildings are.
  
  The story told in audio really draws you in at first, telling you how 1/2 the human population was 
 wiped out during the war, but the dialogue is really bad at times, and you don't hear the voices 
 or see the characters from the show. In fact you don't even start off with the Gundam, you start 
 off with another mobile suit? The way the story is presented is a mess.
  
  The reason I give the game a high score is I love Gundam, and there was some good ideas such as 
 how the boost can make you hover at a precise altitute for a limited amount of time, the nice details 
 such as seeing the arm getting blown off your mobile suit and pilots shouting when their suit is 
 getting hit and before they die and the action can be fast paced at times.
  
  Unless you're a really big Gundam fan I can't recommend it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: teem832
Rating: 4
Date: Aug 28, 2008 4:07 am PT
Review:  I bought Gundam: Target In Sight with the thought that this game could be awesome giant mobile 
 suit charging round blowing everything in sight up with large maps and great views!
  
  Was I wrong the whole game has been rushed the the maps are generally dull and not very big the 
 movement is sluggish and the great big explosion i was expecting from giant robots does not get 
 a look in!
  
  The worst thing about the game is when your playing it you can see that there is great potential 
 here if the developers had but an ounce of passion in it, this is happening all to often, but who 
 knows one day they'll stop rushing the development and concentrate and the game and add tha ounce 
 of passion that is needed to turn a ruined with potential in a awesome classic!
  
  So should you buy this game yes but only if you want to see what it could have been, as i'm not 
 a hardcore gamer but I can see the lack of love place upon this! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gamer-28
Rating: 3
Date: Aug 23, 2008 6:14 am PT
Review:  When I first heard about this game I couldnt wait to buy it, however even I a fan of the series 
 cannot deny how bad this game is.
  
  The gameplay is painfully simple and the controls are horrible, the graphics are certainly not 
 up to next-gen standard its as though this game had been made for the PS2.
  
  Possibly the only good comment i have for this game is that the robots look pretty good however 
 this game contains no reconizable mobile suits such as heavy arms or the wing gundam etc.
  
  Featuring an incredibly boring storymode and a multiplayer mode that is just as dull and worthless 
 this game is nothing more than a waste of money and should be avoided even by hardcore fans of 
 the series.....
  
  O-0 (need to reach 800 characters on review)
   
::::::

::::::
UserName: Never_So
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 30, 2008 6:30 am PT
Review:  I really did't care about what this game got for a rating, I bought it anyway. I'm a real fan of 
 the Gundam thing. (except SD Gundam) The framework is a bit choppy, but this game isn't as bad 
 as people say. Yes the game gets frustrating at times, graphics (in my opinion) are unbeatable! 
 The mobile suits look very real, and the gameplay seems like your running a real mobile suit. Of 
 corse I don't like the whole "if you get shot here you take this much damage" but it adds to the 
 realism. I especially liked the removal of the MS' limbs. I've been waiting for that. It's cool 
 because when you lose a limb you lose the use of it till the end of the mission. But the cool thing 
 is that when you customize your MS you can make it look really cool with a Jungle or Desert camo 
 touch-up. But the framework could use a touch-up and the gameplay doesn't really even need a change. 
 I only hoped that the game would've gotten better reviews. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gangstaphone27
Rating: 8.5
Date: May 26, 2008 11:26 am PT
Review:  Ok I liked the story and the game play but it was a little to easy I beat it in 2 hours (you have 
 to play it from easy to very hard) besides that I think the sound could be a little better. but 
 other than that I think it is fun to play because you have so many mobile suits to choose from 
 such as the Ez8 and others . I it is not the worst and if you want the better version get mobile 
 suit gundam target in sight it is the same game but the Japanese one its better it is pretty much 
 the same game with better details and sound . Ok but back to crossfire a great thing about it is 
 you can get many different pilots which is cool I grew up with the 08th ms team so thats my favorite 
 and I like that you can get all of the ms and pilots from the show. A lot of people have been dissin 
 this game saying that the japs have slipped its the cultural differences that mess it up and dont 
 forget that they made the playstation's. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wassup432
Rating: 4
Date: Feb 21, 2008 9:50 pm PT
Review:  Here is my review for Mobile Suit Gundam: Crossfire:
  
  Gameplay:
  The gameplay is like all gundam games: destroy all robots. For some reason, you have to destroy 
 a bunch of robots of random sizes. The levels are hard and the guns are weak. Machine guns barely 
 do any damage and the sword can only reach big enemies. To kill off tiny tanks, you need to use 
 the guns. Controls are crummy for a gundam game and the missions are way too hard because you die 
 too fast. 4/10
  
  Graphics:
  The enviroments are terrible. There's no life in the enviroments and everything looks really plain. 
 The robot suits look nice but everything else doesn't look nice. Gunfires are standard and the 
 sword is nothing special. The explosions look really ugly. Overall, the graphics department did 
 a horrible job. 4/10
  
  Sound:
  The sounds are irritating because of the annoying sound effects. The voice acting is nothing special 
 and explosions sound stupid. The gundam swords sounds like lightsabers which is a bad thing because 
 those sounds get annoying. 4/10
  
  Value:
  I like gundams but I don't like this game. The game is not worth buying or renting. If you're a 
 die-hard gundam fan, this might be a game you'll buy. 4/10
  
  Tilt:
  Overall, the whole game was a diaster. The only thing good about it were the looks of the mobile 
 suits and the fact that you can kill robots. Everything else was bad. 4/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KALHETMAN
Rating: 3
Date: Feb 3, 2008 9:09 am PT
Review:  I Buy Japanese PS3 with this game (and FRONT MISSION 4 and 5 - PS2 for my affinity to FM) because 
 I want try new Gundam. 
  First contact - I don't reading nothing about game before - O. K . Nice graphics, good models of 
 mech. Beginning to the mission very nice too. First mission like tutorial small destroyed city 
 - 3 very easy enemy's. Surprise, very good, introduction to continue mission and... in 10 second 
 my mech is in fire. 
  Almost don't see where is enemy and horrible possibility to shooting. Best arm is laser sword because 
 use in short distance and You SEE enemys. Machine Gun shooting only forward - not localized enemy 
 - a 50 bullets only 5 in target and munition is finish very quick. Use ZOOM but must stay in place 
 and receive all enemy fire and be destroy - repeat, repeat - lost time.
  I want give some opportunity to game. Try second band. Little better. Mission in open territory 
 - protection.
  I don't know what happened around. Shooting me, escape from me, protected object destroyed, If 
 I want zooming receive terrible portion of enemy fire and... I put this game OFF. 
  For PURE FAN of difficult interface games - this is good option. 
  I stay with FRONT MISSION 
 where see and control everything perfectly and enjoy without headache. 
  Game is NOT BAD but for Professional Real Time Tactics Players with digital instinct where is and 
 what doing enemys after your back. 
  Why some Players like it 
  AND WHY RENT IT FIRST. 
  GOOD LUCK. 
  kalhetman 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gearsman92
Rating: 1.5
Date: Nov 23, 2008 6:03 pm PT
Review:  Attention world, Destroy this game. Destroy this game, please do it. There is no happyness in Gundam: 
 Crossfire. Back at the Tokyo Game show, this looked cool. But, that was just the opening to the 
 game. This opening would of been cool to turn into a game. But, no. There is no fun or happyness 
 in this game. This game is just bad. The good thing in this game is that the mechs look nice, standing 
 still. Also, thank god no one is making you play this game. In this, game, you follow the storyline 
 that take place in the Gundam Universe. The story is just an excuse just an excuse for you to play 
 a mission. The missions are basic. All you do is just shot everything. The graphics are not next-gen. 
 The levels are basic. Your in either a bland dessert, or a bland Forest. THAT IS IT!! There are 
 even Glitches. I warn you, if you jump in the water, it may make your eye's bleed. I don't know 
 what's worse, That the water is like a sheet when you get in it., or that it may actually clip 
 out.. There are also constate slow downs. The A. I is just pathetic as hell. The controls are horrable, 
 and the Camera is just down right sloppy. The gameplay is just stupid. You just shot. That's it. 
 You can lock on to enemies, and no matter what, you'll kill them. You can just us your light saber 
 rip off weapon, but it's not that intressting. It's amazing that Crossfire plays this bad, and 
 doesn't have any redeming things. If you have to destroy 1 game. It may not be this, but it may 
 be. Just stay away from this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: g3noc1d3r
Rating: 2
Date: Nov 11, 2007 8:45 am PT
Review:  When i saw the trailers for this new game it was like a dream come true a gundam game that would 
 be a great thing to bring us like never before but then it came out. I remember asking myself is 
 this gundam crossfire iread the box 50 times and then i was mad out of anger that this game would 
 turn out to be this . Now how it plays you could say it was alot like the other gundam strategy 
 games but it was not. The controlls are clunky but it is hard to die to the almost lifeless ai. 
 No online play. There is 1vs1 multiplayer but that is worse. So yeah the the game stinks. Dont 
 buy it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: S3LRAK
Rating: 6
Date: Nov 4, 2007 4:55 am PT
Review:  I bought this game as it was cheap and I had just got a PS3 and wanted to boost my game collection 
 and I had not read any reviews for it. I then saw it had been panned by everyone but decided to 
 play it anyway, and found it suprisingly enjoyable.
  
  Now this game is deeply flawed in that the missions are very repetitive and the graphics are average 
 at best, but it is fun to play once you get the hang of it and my opinion of this game is if you 
 like robot games you will enjoy this once you get the hang of the controls and dont expect anything 
 revolutionary. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lionelchu
Rating: 2
Date: Oct 27, 2007 3:39 am PT
Review:  i'll be honest, every review that i have done i have beaten the game. the only reason i put up 
 a review for this one is because how much i gave it a chance and how terrible it was. i had no 
 fun whatsoever with gundam. i got it right when i got my ps3 and is by far the wrost game i have 
 ever played. and yes i meant EVER!!!
  
  DO NOT PICK UP OR RENT THIS GAME, BURN IT!!! i want my money back for this game because it was 
 a waste of my time and is killing the ps3 name. it's just sad when a game this terrible is published. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gtf6
Rating: 6.5
Date: Oct 9, 2007 9:14 pm PT
Review:  If you read almost any review, they will tell you this is a piece of crap. I think alright. Yeah, 
 I would rather play Armored Core 4, but Gundam's...... ok.
  I haven't had any problem with framerates, and the geometry is pretty good. The controls are the 
 biggest problem for me, you can barely turn. But apart from that, I have had no problems with it.
 
  If you like big robots destroying each other, get Armored Core 4. But if you can't find that, 
 Gundam is next on your list.
  
  My PC:
  Intel pentium 4 single core
  1GB DDR400 Ram {about to upgrade to 2GB}
  Radeon x1650 pro 512MB 128bit DDR2
  
  I only put 
 that in to make the review 100 words. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: keith_cobra
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 12, 2007 8:37 pm PT
Review:  Mobile Suit Gundam: Crossfire. Is not very bad as people said. I'm also think is good. People said 
 the MS is moving slow. But I think the reality is like that. This game is try to put U in a real 
 Mobile Suit world. Is make sense. And said its difficult to control. When U know the how to lock 
 on (Just tap once) the enemies. All the game seems to be easy. The real time graphics is good. 
 Especially the broken parts of MS. &amp; Many MS U can choice &amp; upgrade.
  
  But if got a main story on it. I think it'll get better. Now just take it as a mission. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gohan266
Rating: 7
Date: Jul 19, 2008 8:01 am PT
Review:  Gameplay: The hit detection is off sometimes but for the most part is fine. The MS move like 50 
 ton robots should AKA slow. Now it isn't completely realistic (MS are too durable) but more than 
 others. There is some slowdown but only during 1 or 2 missions for me and isn't that bad. The controls 
 are fine IMO. Now the AI is horrible. Not as bad as Killzone or Haze but still bad. Like in KillZone 
 and Haze they stop moving and attacking you but it happens much more in those two. VS mode also 
 seems like the fight is dependent on what MS you use instead of how good you are which is the exact 
 opposite of not only the single player but most Gundam shows as well.
  
  Sound: The best sounds come from the MS moving, the Japanese voices, and the music but the music 
 doesn't fit in a OYW game. Beams sound weak and nothing like what they sound like in OYW Gundam 
 shows. Machine guns sound like infantry guns and sound weak. The english voices are also terrible.
 
  
  Replayability: For me this is low as I had unlocked almost everything on my first play through. 
 This varies depending on how good you do in missions and how many missions you beat.
  
  Graphics: The MS, tanks, fighters, and other military vehicles look really good. The environment 
 looks fine. Not the best I've seen but not the worst either it looks worst up close. Overall: I 
 think it is better than some older Gundam games but not the best. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: N64buff
Rating: 7.5
Date: Aug 18, 2007 9:22 pm PT
Review:  The good: Subtle story, the robots look great, graphics you would expect from a PS3, levels are consistently 
 designed, cutscenes are well done.
  
  The bad: Online multiplayer woul've been nice.
  
  I actually found this game to be quite enjoyable. Sure, it's not up there with Armored Core 4 (its 
 more around there with Spiderman 3) , but its definetly not as bad as gamespot suggests. The levels 
 were fun for me, the graphics were pretty impressive, but even so, it still feels like an unfinished 
 game. No one said it had to come out at the time of the PS3 (there were some other good titles that 
 came out at that time) . If they had given it, say,2 more months it would probably be just as good 
 as AC4, if not better. There were some occasional clipping issues, and like gamespot says, the framerate 
 could be better and online multiplayer would've been a joy if only it was included in the game. Not 
 to say the game is bad, though. It's a great game for what it is and if you own a PS3, you should 
 consider going down to your local EB games and picking up a copy. The store clerk might look at 
 you funny, but go out and get this gem anyway.'Nuff said. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: metalgearraven
Rating: 6.7
Date: Aug 8, 2007 12:36 pm PT
Review:  Despite the really low score this game got, I can't say it's as bad as everyone says (and knowing 
 the gamespot user community, their overt expectations for such a game effecting their tempers is 
 no surprise.) I was actually surprised here, and a little happy to get a less cartoony incarnation 
 of the Gundam universe in a game for once. Once you get into the action, the framerate isn't all 
 that much of a problem. Would've been nice to have a smoother rate, but, meh, I blame the publishers 
 pressuring the developers to get it finished by a ludicrous date, resulting in the rush of a game 
 this turned out to be. (That's what it is, ladies and gentlemen, not the so called laziness of 
 BEC, the developers) When you look at how amazingly detailed the Mobile suits are, it's hard to 
 imagine that any sort of laziness was involved in the dissapointing result, as they obviously had 
 high expectations for the games development, and failed to meet them thanks to the ridiculous expectations 
 of Bandai Namco. Well, here's hoping that they gather the balls to use the Crossfire engine again 
 someday. Since the concept and physics and graphics engine are both already there, the development 
 and programming of this hypothetical future title should be a breeze, resulting in a much more 
 refined and smoother game.
  
  As for the game itself, be sure to rent it first, and even if you turn out to like it, buy it used, 
 as the shelf price is ridiculously high for such a rushed game... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nonoy619
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jul 28, 2007 2:58 pm PT
Review:  I thought that this game was under-rated. but the game could have been a little bit better.
  
  The graphics were okay, need more detail in the next gundam game. also the map boundries. they 
 need to be larger or removed. The missions were cool..
  
  the upgrading weapons need to be more details and informed. but it was a good overall game to play.
 
  
  The price I payed was $39.99 which I believe is fair considering it is on Blu Ray... The 1080i was 
 great also. I hope the next gundam will be more detailed in basically all categories, but got to 
 give credit to the makers. it is a hard game to make and to make it detailed 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sonofares
Rating: 7.7
Date: Jul 10, 2007 3:56 pm PT
Review:  I had never played a Gundam game. (that almost sounds vulgar)
  I thought it was some kids cartoon game or something. Then I saw what kind of reviews it got..... so 
 I just never wanted to take the chance and plop down 60 bucks to test the game out. I should have 
 known better if a game is going to be released with the PS3 it's at least going to be somewhat 
 fun you would think. So, still being a slow time for PS3 releases I saw this game marked down to 
 30 bucks. I was looking at the box and thought how bad could it really be? if i don't like it, 
 i'll bring it back tomorrow and swap it. this was at gamestop.
  
  Man, was I surprised. I'll tell you....... I've played quite a few mech games. Chromehounds is supposed 
 to be one of the best on the 360 however, I didn't care much for it. This Gundam game blows Chromehounds 
 away. Also it blows away Armored Core. It has elements of RPG, Action, Shooter.
  You can swap pilots, upgrade your mechs, you gain experience levels that improve your performance 
 all around. Also you can take a couple of Mobile units into battle with you. It's deep enough to 
 be interesting and give you a sense of strategy/rpg satisfaction and yet it doesn't take a scientist 
 to figure it out. The most impressive thing to me upon first playing were the appearance of the 
 Gundam Mobile Suits...... they are spectacular...... they look like big metal machines and perfect 
 with detail. You can see the wear on the metal..... the wear from weather and use....... They're 
 not perfectly clean and shiny.... they're realistic looking. What else can I say..... I'm having 
 fun playing this game. I recommend trying it out. Once again I find a reason to not rely on reviews 
 too heavily when deciding a game to get. Try different stuff....... you may be very surprised like 
 I've been on numerous occassions. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Game13a13y
Rating: 1.5
Date: May 23, 2007 8:41 am PT
Review:  this game is not even qualified to be called a game. its more like a smack in your face. 
  
  everything about this game sucks. the graphics, the control, the storyline, the music, the 
 maps, the voice acting....
  
  the only, only, only thing cool about this game is that it features some good looking gundam models. 
 but that is it. i regretted spending money on this trash, i thought hm... should i get NBA 07 or 
 a Gundam game? and oh crap, i just shot myself in the foot. DON'T buy it, or DON'T even rent it, 
 or DON'T even pick up the box to have a look of it when you're at a game store. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kamerad
Rating: 8
Date: May 20, 2007 1:04 pm PT
Review:  I waited months to wait for to try to see if the evils of the reviews stacked against Crossfire 
 would of been just or not. Played the game back in Feburary and still play it more often than Resistence 
 to the Fallen Man. Last night me and my causin had fun amazingly on multiplayer just because it 
 was dumb enough to give us quite a number of laughs. Campaign mode is nice though. Players get 
 a mix between an RPG and simulator. Though the game had so many useless features and so many good 
 features, one could say it was a par game over all. Some of the most disapointing things for this 
 gamer was nothing in fact people seem to be complaining about. Graphics seemed great, gameplay 
 was better than average on a Gundam game atleast. Though the most truthful negative for Crossfire 
 the past half year is AI. Crossfire has to have one of the worst AI's for any Mecha game since 
 Mech Warriors 3 on PC. The horror of seein my teamates getting stuck in mine pits and behind mountainous 
 mazes makes you wonder who trained these soldiers? Gameplay on Gundam was decent. Exceptable by 
 my standards, atleast it wasn't like Final Fantasy X where one must go through a maze of menus 
 per turn during combat just to use 1 spell, then you must repeat 3 times per turn. Crossfire forces 
 people to do this only when upgradeing and purchasing new weapons and pilots, which is normal for 
 games of it's type. Combat on Crossfire is kind of simple, but it isn't no walk in the park, getting 
 killed from enemy beamrifles and bazooka rounds in 1-4 hits counting on what mobile suit you're 
 using makes it a pain in the rear in many cases, when facing enemies which such weapons at times 
 numbering in over half a dozen, it can equal instent death after being stopped by 1 direct hit 
 do to secondary shots coming from the other enemy units. Some missions can cause a headache if 
 anything, definity the final mission with (hard) next to it's title after you complete the campaign 
 the first time, this mission is the final mission with increased difficaulty, and not just a little 
 but insanely so, so much so that only the best mecha, and weapons on the game can give you a hair 
 chance at winning. Graphics: Compared to other Gundam games, the graphics are in fact a major improvement, 
 however for a PS3 game it is no where near what it could of been. However, saying from what the 
 game was based off of, the graphics are a drastic improvement from earlier Gundam games, some of 
 the extra details on the mobile suits which are so detailed you have to pointlessly stop moving 
 to look around on the mecha to see all the detail, wording, warning labels and markings, that there 
 is kind of an over kill in that department. Because who other than I is lame enough to pay so much 
 attention to detail they attempt to read the warning labels on the mobile suit's feet? Terrian 
 is nice, those who compare it to a PS1 game surely have not played a PS1 game in a long time, though 
 compared to the top notch PS2 games, you could say it's terrian is definity similar to that one 
 would see on a PS2 game if not better at times. Buildings can be destroyed as well, not as a whole 
 structure but as sepret segments, crashing into a structure can bring walls down but yet leave 
 the building standing, much more detail than an average mecha game. Most of the main details you 
 have to be pay pretty good attention to catch, it is no Gears of War but it is no Resident Evil 
 PS1 cube shapped body and stucture built game. Sound: This may be fun. Not too much to say about 
 sound, however combat, weapons, machineguns, are pretty nice, but they ignore the main classic 
 sounds of the Gundam Universe other than some of the mecha themselves. Voice work is pretty nice 
 when set on Japanese, if you own the game set it on Japanese with subtitles. The English voice 
 work is as bad as an English game in Japan voice over in Japanese. Which equals worse than the 
 Diolog of a Mel Gibson directed movie.
  
  Value: Like Giant robots? Play Crossfire, even if you only rent it. If you're not too picky on 
 what a game should be it should be atleast a minor joy. Negatives I personally hated. They tried 
 too hard to make a Gundam game different from any other but yet at the same time tried to pump 
 it out on launch date for the PS3. Though despite all the problems with the game, the lack of story, 
 and insane number of pilot choices rather than a few well developped teammates with diolog are 
 my only complaints really. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cheese61292
Rating: 4.7
Date: May 13, 2007 12:40 am PT
Review:  thing then you should buy this game. But be sure to do it under the impression like all other games 
 about gundams this one will and does suck. I love robots and gundams. BUT FOR CRYING THE HELL OUT 
 LOUD AND FOR THE LOVE OF GIBRALTAR, this game blows chunks. I had a more enjoyable time playing 
 Robotech games than this. Though the one gundam game that was good was the one for dreamcast but 
 you cant hardly find it or play it couse its only in japaneese so for all of you out there wait 
 till it drops in price and/or buy it used. So as a total this was a good idea and lots of good 
 planning but should have bein extsensivly tested by fans before it was relaesed. I felt as though 
 it was rushed so I hope they use the same engine to make a better gundam game that incorporates 
 every series. Thank you but now I must go defend the Lagrange point. 8th MS Team Move out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: -SE-strike
Rating: 3.5
Date: Apr 29, 2007 1:01 pm PT
Review:  They should have took more time to make it better, personally i liked it but could have been better. 
 They almost wasted all of their time making it so quickly. All i can say is wow at the almost limitless 
 possibilities they can do with blu-ray discs and they come up with this, a disgrace to the gundam 
 series, especially with the launch of the awesome PS3. The series is already off to a bad start, 
 let us hope they can redeem themselves
  
  Good job bandai namco for ruining it already
  by the way take your time for the next one 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Selfdestruct9
Rating: 1
Date: Apr 24, 2007 1:31 pm PT
Review:  It seems like you can put 'Gundam' in a title and the Japanese will eat it up like catnip no matter 
 how AWFUL the game is, Thiss.. was sadly the first PS3 game i picked up, it felt like i was playing 
 a shiny PS1 game, with an odd controller. . . god, i'm just going to give up here this games a 
 joke. i wouldn't even bother writing this much about this game if this damn review didn't need 
 to be 100 words, thats just how bad this game is, it doesn't DESERVE 100 words, thats like giving 
 it way too much props. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Xaovagon
Rating: 1
Date: Apr 20, 2007 4:49 pm PT
Review:  what the heck happened!!!!.... did satan beam this game to bandai and forced them to create it 
 in mass quantities. where was Sony when all tgis was happening!!!, and why in the heck would they 
 even consider taking a game that is horrendous and then making it a exclusive!!!! why why why... 
 the bads outweigh the goods 1818928792 to 1 from the MS running into the sides of canyons to the 
 lame-ass graphics. but what really tops thwe cake in the process is the framerate of doom, i have 
 never experienced a worse framerate my whole life, a mere 2D tree comes up in the escapade of stupidity 
 and the game is barely even able to stay running. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: samchaosboy
Rating: 8.6
Date: Apr 5, 2007 12:31 am PT
Review:  how the hell has this game scored so low. my younger bro got for ps3 and because of all the bad 
 reveiws i dreaded the of playing it. when i eventually forced myself to have a go i was very suprised. 
 sure the gameplay is a bit slow and the graphics arent amazing but its great fun to play. i have 
 always hoped for a good mech shooter and this is it. i have not had any major framerate issues 
 so far so i dont know why everyone complains about that. the mechs all look cool and the detail 
 on them is very good. this game deserves better reveiws 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lgmagic
Rating: 1
Date: Mar 30, 2007 2:14 am PT
Review:  this game is a complete joke! Compare this to what Sony had shown when they unveiled the ps3. This 
 is ridiculous...... the graphics are horrible and the game play is joke.... there is nothing positive 
 to say about this game.... the frame rate is horrendous especially for a game that is supposed 
 to be running on the most advanced system ever made........ and anyone who even gives this game 
 a good review was playing a different game........ do yourself a favor and stay away from this 
 game ......... it does not grow on you and is a complete and utter joke...............!!!!!!!!!!! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: saint-boy
Rating: 7.7
Date: Mar 25, 2007 12:21 pm PT
Review:  before you start reading this review please note that I am not a hardcore gundam fan and this 
 is the second gundam game I have bought.
  
  First of all this game may not to live up to some peoples expectations but I still feel it is a 
 great game. The ability to buy the mobile suits you want and the in-battle refuelling system adds 
 a small sense of tactical thinking to the game. Also I must add that there are two solutions to 
 the graphics problems some people have complained non stop about. 1- play the game on a HD connection 
 an 2- install the additional data that is available from the main menu. The gamepaly is also not 
 as fast as some people would want but it feels rewarding when you hear the crunching explosion 
 of an enemy mobile suit. The specific damage feature is also a very nice touch as instead of immediately 
 being blown up, your arm or leg may be lost instead. Overall this game is quite nice but has been 
 put off buy quite a few people. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: baggie20
Rating: 2.5
Date: Mar 11, 2007 6:14 pm PT
Review:  I can't believe it. I actually hate a game so much that I took my time to review it! To start off 
 the graphics are anything but next gen! The environments are extremely bland and boring. Also another 
 thing that made me mad was the frame rates. The game is very choppy especially in combat. Oh, and 
 don't even try to play this game with a friend, (if your friend is actually dumb enough to play 
 this, like I was) Split screen and bad camera angles make it extremely hard to hit your enemies. 
 Every five seconds, my enemy moved out of the camera view and out of sight, owning me from behind. 
 Cons:
  -graphics suck
  -choppy frame rates
  -camera angles are terrible
  -Multiplayer BAD , Pros:
  -sound is okay
  -you get to blast off arms
  -um...... the robots 
 look cool..... To sum this up, DON'T play this game. Even if you are a hardcore Gundam fan stay 
 away! This is by far the worst game for PS3 to date. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Haseokicksass
Rating: 5
Date: Mar 27, 2007 10:22 pm PT
Review:  Its got okay graphics. I think this is just a quickly put together gundam game to make some sales 
 on a console that ddient have many games. They sure tricked me into buying it. as soon as i got 
 my ps3 i bought it, and was i disapointed!
  
  Good
  -Okay graphics
  -kinda fun to buy mobile suits and pilots
  
  Bad
  -Hate the battle system
  -Gundams mvoe 
 wayyy to slow
  -No real story
  - Only acouple areas to go to
  -Guns are usless, melee is only used.
  
  There you go! Bandai Namco just made the worst Gundam 
 game ever! Battleassualt 3 sucked too...
  
  I rate the cover a 6/10, nice and detailed but boring. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ian_fisher
Rating: 1.8
Date: Mar 6, 2007 5:08 am PT
Review:  Typically giant robots provide good times. This has been proved in animes such as The Big O, Evangelion 
 and the classic Transformers. Giant robots have also proved successful in videogames such as Zone 
 of the Enders, Chromehounds and the Armored Core series. So its a bit of a surprise that one of 
 the most popular giant robot franchises, Gundam, has always had crap games. Gundam has been around 
 since 1979 and through its various incarnations none of the games have been particularly good. 
 So when Bandai showed off the first Mobile Suit Gundam PS3 trailer back in 2005 many Gundam fans 
 were hoping this curse would be broken. Unfornately we all know what the answer is going to be.
 
  
  Mobile Suit Gundam: Crossfire is probably one of the worst launch games to be released and will 
 probably hold the title as being the worst PS3 game ever made. The fact that this is what Namco-Bandai 
 put out is a mockery to what the PS3 is capable of. Even if youre a hardcore Gundam fan youre 
 going to be pissed.
  
  So lets break down what the game is all about. The story follows the Zeon vs. Federation Gundam 
 plot. In this the Zeon forces who settled on off Earth colonies are fighting against the Earth 
 Federation forces. Gundam is of course an anime and most of the previous Gundam games have included 
 anime cutscenes or anime inspired art. However this title goes for a more realistic approach and 
 does not feature any anime cutscenes or art. So if youre a big fan of the Zeon story line from 
 the Gundam anime then youre going to be extremely disappointed. In fact the entire story of Crossfire 
 is just crap. The story is told through still images that are narrated by a voice actor that sounds 
 like he took too much cough medicine before he recorded the v. o session. The Gundam series is known 
 for its somewhat deep and soap opera style stories but Crossfire is nothing more than a snooze 
 fest.
  
  Now when the Gundam trailer premiered at Sonys E3 press conference in 2005 people were hyped up 
 since it was pretty impressive. So does Crossfire achieve these visuals, NO! In fact the only thing 
 that comes close to the visuals from the E3 05 vid is that the E3 video plays when you select the 
 game from the PS3s XMB interface. To be honest the visuals in Crossfire are just crap. Theres 
 no other way to describe what Namco-Bandai produced on the power house that is the PS3. The mechs 
 look good if the game was running on the Xbox but the biggest offender are the environments. If 
 you showed someone the game they most likely wouldve thought Crossfire was a PS2 game. Fog is 
 evident throughout the game and the trees, dilapted buildings and other features in the game are 
 terrible. You also dont get a sense of scale when you walk around the environment and theres 
 no feeling of piloting a giant robot when you smash a building or crush tanks. One thing about 
 mech games is that each one controls different. There are titles like Zone of the Enders where 
 the action is fast and the control is easy. Then you have titles like Chromnehounds where the controls 
 of the mechs are a bit slower and the gameplay in a way is a bit more methodical. The controls 
 in Crossfire are just garbage. Your mech moves extremely slow, you cant target particular parts 
 of opposing mechs bodies and you can only shoot in the direction youre facing. You even cant 
 change the axis of your aim! Now the crapiness of the games controls also makes their way into 
 your opponents. Your enemies will stumble their way along the environment to the point where its 
 almost laughable. There were even a few times when I stood from afar watching enemy A. I. stumble 
 along the environment as if it were being piloted by a 4 year old.
  
  Just like all the other aspects of the game, the game modes in Crossfire are also crap. The campaign 
 mode allows you to play as either Zeon or Federation forces but theres really no difference in 
 terms of gameplay. You will still move through similar dull environments and there are no real 
 gameplay differences. Other than campaign mode you can do versus but there is no online play so 
 youll have to settle for splitscreen. But who would want to torture their friend to the crap that 
 is Crossfire?
  
  There is only one redeeming factor to the game and thats the score. The games score is all orchestral 
 and is on par with the Gundam animes and is extremely cinematic. I would recommend just buying 
 the soundtrack to the game so you wont have to torture yourself to the game. While the score is 
 excellent the voice acting is terrible and sounds like the English localization staff did them.
 
  
  In the end Crossfire is a mess of a game and essentially has no redeeming factors. If youre a 
 Gundam fan then youll want to break the disc after playing the game. Crossfire doesnt have the 
 deep customization of other titles and doesnt even reach the fun of other games. If you buy this 
 game then youre either stupid, desperate for PS3 games, or one of the most hardcore Gundam fans. 
 Namco-Bandai should be ashamed of releasing this game on the PS3. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BloodyDagger
Rating: 1.1
Date: Mar 4, 2007 4:45 pm PT
Review:  My God this game is bad. After playing this I thought my PS3 was going to explode. This game has 
 the worst graphics ever, the Atari 2600 had better graphics than this piece of garbage. After playing 
 this sorry excuse for a game, I went outside, lit it on fire, and watched it burn until it was 
 a shriveled up ball of what felt like wax. The gameplay in this game is horrible, the gundams can 
 barely move at 2mph. It is slow and the frame rate issues mke it even worse. The only thing in 
 this game that was above abysmal was the audio, it was still really bad but not as bad as everything 
 else. The only reason that you should get this game is to destroy it. Other than that, stay as 
 far away from this game as possible. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lizardmanrob
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 25, 2007 9:12 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay
  Good: Fun, addicting, and innovative
  Bad: can get a little repetitive after a while, no pikachu
  
  Graphics
  Good: Amazing, 60 
 frames per seecond!
  Bad: nothing
  
  Sound
  Good: Amazing, Great Explosions, Weapon sounds
  Bad: No Pokemon or Yu-gi-oh theme song
  
 
  Value
  Good: Long campaign, fun to playthrough multiple times, split screen
  Bad: no collectible trading cards
  
  In other words, you can get by a game with no pokeman, 
 check out this game.
  
  A defintie Killer App
  
  This game is cool.
  This game is cool.
  This game is cool.
  This game is cool.
  This game is cool.
  This game 
 is cool.
  This game is cool.
  This game is cool.
  This game is cool.
  This game is cool.
  This game is cool.
  This game is cool.
  This game is cool.
  This game 
 is cool.
  This game is cool.
  This game is cool. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: elotheviking
Rating: 9.8
Date: Feb 19, 2007 9:54 pm PT
Review:  sick as game about time i they made a good gundam game... just wished there were a way to play 
 multiplayer or somthin... other wise its all good.... about the graphics not the best ive seen 
 but also i dont really give a **** about the graphics as long as the gamplay is atleast decent... 
 and here its way about that... still dont know y ppl really hate this game... there all just haters 
 or spend way to much looking at the graphics and not enough time playing the game... yeah... i 
 dont get that... fav gundam would be the striker smooth movement and all pretty destructive... 
 just hate that it doesnt have the vulcan or the mini machine guns 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kong777
Rating: 4.7
Date: Jan 18, 2007 10:13 am PT
Review:  i am a HUGE fan of Moblesuit GUNDAM. i have models that i have put together and i watch the show 
 religiously. so, automatically, i was thrilled when i saw this game in the line-up.
  
  unfortunately, after all the glitz and glam, i rented this game first because of all the horrible 
 reviews i read. and from all that, they were all correct. the game set up may be fun as a futuristic 
 simulation first person type shooter game, but i felt that the ontrols were not only very rigid, 
 but not very friendly as well. i tried to give it a chance with playing it for an hour, but i just 
 got frustrated with the lack of strong ammunition and simply sword-play. i may not have given it 
 enough time to wow me, but you and i both know that if we arent hooked within the first 10-15minutes, 
 it would be better playing montezuma's revenge on atari than wasting anymore time on this game. 
 (albeit, montezuma's revenge is an AWESOME game for that time)
  
  again, as the title says, visually exceptional since i got to view and control the mobilesuits 
 i love so much, but other than that, pass me the remote and let me watch the action on the cartoon. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Blue_GundamRX78
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jan 7, 2007 8:12 pm PT
Review:  There's been countless bashing about this game but I really can't see why. I have been loving this 
 game. Sure, it isn't the best game I've ever played but it's not the worst I've played either. 
 The game is very fun.
  
  I haven't had any of the problems the reviews have said they've had. There's a tiny bit of lag 
 at the beginning of one or two stages but that lag only lasts for a second or two then it's gone. 
 The gameplay is smooth and it's easy to figure out. The mobile suits look great and they're very 
 realistic. There isn't much story to the game, but it assumes you know the story of the Universal 
 Century and the One Year War. If you don't know the story of those then the game will probably 
 confuse the heck out of you. The game is fun, there's no doubt about it, and it's worth checking 
 out for any Gundam fan. Don't expect amazing things from this game, but it's definately a fun game 
 and a worthy addition to the PS3. This game is highly under-rated, which is very sad. But perhaps 
 what's even more sad is all the people who dislike this game feel that anyone who does enjoy this 
 game are morons. I don't know how many times I've seen people say if you like this game then you 
 should die . They simple can not understand that not everyone sees things as they do and they believe 
 that they're so right and everyone should agree with them.
  Check this game out for yourself and make your own opinion. Don't go by the idiots who make comments 
 like that. The game is fun and I enjoy it. Simple as that. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RedInuyasha-Kun
Rating: 1.5
Date: Jan 5, 2007 12:49 pm PT
Review:  Well, for starters, the game graphics are horrible. For a next-gen system this clearly looks like 
 a game that was made for the N64. Now, the ps3 was meant to have next-gen grahpics and next-gen 
 this and that and such but I mean for a game they wanted to launch with this, it is horrible. I 
 don't have the game but from everything I have seen, the game can't run smoothly with how horrible 
 the grahpics are, and the gameplay is horrible too. Even the voice-overs need tons of work. Every 
 single place you look in this game you wiull find somehting wrong. I will give this game a 1.5/10 
 for just being so horrible on a next-gen console. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: John_Razic
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jan 1, 2007 4:47 pm PT
Review:  This game is so overrated / underrated (which ever one you prefer) . Its so easy make a game look 
 bad when it really isnt. I dont find anything wrong with this game other than its frame rate 
 and poor dialogue. The game itself is superb. For me it isnt an issue of the game doesnt run 
 smoothly the missions are fun plus you get to upgrade your mobile suit which will allow different 
 variations. The controls are easy once you are used to them. For those of you who dont give a 
 ???? about the graphics and frame rate I would recommend trying it at least before making a final 
 verdict.
  
  For those that arent Gundam fans and are real picky people I have nothing else to say other than 
 you are missing out on a whole lot of fun 
::::::

::::::
UserName: i-cdeadpeople
Rating: 1.8
Date: Jan 1, 2007 4:18 pm PT
Review:  this game should have been out along time ago its so awsome and the price is great to................ nah 
 im just **** wif you this game is so crappy it should not have even been made theres no reasoning 
 with the price because it is so shabby avoid this game at all costs not even gundam fans will lyk 
 it because if it wasnt calld mobile suit gundam no one would even pick it from all the other shitty 
 mech games in the world. the only gud thing about it is the graphics yea there alright and even 
 then the only thing with the greatest detail are the robots in conclusiion this game is f***d up 
 so badly its not even funny!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 6ene5i50l
Rating: 7.7
Date: Dec 26, 2006 9:40 pm PT
Review:  this game is one of the best gundam games to date next to EIS. it plays similar to zeonic front, 
 and is graphically supperior to the other gundam games. the frame rate issue people are gripping 
 about is nothing but loading screens and a small stutter during the premission video.
  
  i can see potential in the target specific damage idea. like using it in a FPS game where you shoot 
 a hand and the guy props his gun on his fore arm instead. people say that its been done and nothing 
 is new about it. There is only so much a giant walking tank can do. well i liked the fact that 
 you had to wait a day to repair a mech and could buy new mech.
  
  over all i say that it is a great game that is underappreciated b/c ps3 junkies want to slam it 
 because they didn't like it being a launch title.
  
  gundam is gundam. and if you don't like it! go buy resistance. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: videl-original
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 23, 2006 4:33 am PT
Review:  i bought gundam and i was surprised that it is far better than the reviews say. at first there 
 are no frame drops !!!!! it is not absolutely fluid but if you ever have played pc games than you 
 can call it fluid, very fluid (even with a good pc, some game have total frame drops) . second the 
 graphics are awesome! third the physics are awesome too! if you get used with the controls the 
 gameplay is perfect! its the best mech game i have ever played, and this game has surprised me 
 totally! dont listen to this bad reviews, there are totally biased. the nices part are the mech 
 models, they look total nice, like real robots. the fights in the towns are hyper cool, everything 
 can get broken and there is so much dust, it looks fantastic, like in a film. but there are some 
 minor problems: you must get used with the controller, if you get it it is very good. you cannot 
 customize the mecks in much ways, only upgrade some aspects (then you will get some new weapons, 
 better defence, and so on) . there is no multiplayer, but this is not so important. i think the 
 game is very cool, and ppl should buy it if they like mech games, it is a very good game in my 
 eyes! the physics and the graphics are the most impressive in this game. this game is perfect ! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Midaire
Rating: 8.6
Date: Dec 7, 2006 5:38 pm PT
Review:  Mobile Suit Gundam: Crossfire, many rated it lowly, but if you just have to dig deeper, it is better 
 than you thought. Crossfire is original plus you get to choose your allegiance. It could reach 
 a few steps forward to the Gundam series. It is enjoyable, and could be very fun. If you just have 
 to get into the game you could understand . It is very innovative, and even the Mobile Suits are 
 very good to look at even while standing still plus you get to choose your missions. If you are 
 against me, don't be... Only a real player would understand what are my motives in this review. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gamespotedpuppy
Rating: 1
Date: Dec 7, 2006 7:15 am PT
Review:  Mobile Suit Gundam: Crossfire is something of a milestone. It represents the headlong collision 
 of two longstanding truisms in gaming: Launch titles suck, and Gundam games suck. In Crossfire, 
 a shambling mutant horror has risen from the primordial ooze of the Playstation 3s launch lineup.
 
  
  Youve got to win it in the
  
  Crossfire loosely follows the formula pioneered by Mobile Suit Gundam: Federation vs. Zeon on the 
 PS2. You choose either the Earth Federation or the Zeon side and play through the events of the 
 first Gundam TV series. For Crossfire, youre sent to Southeast Asia, where youll be safely away 
 from the main operations of the One Year War, and you mostly participate in side-story style sorties 
 consisting of strike raids and search-and-destroy missions.
  
  You start with nothing and must buy new mechs and pilots with points earned in missions. Missions 
 are dreary and repetitive affairs, consisting almost entirely of kill everything that isnt your 
 wingman, with occasional objectives requiring you to knock a building over after you kill everything 
 that isnt your wingman.
  
  Between outings you navigate a clunky and molasses-slow series of nesting menus to order new troops, 
 upgrade existing mechs, and check your mission schedule. It would be nice to skip this step, but 
 since any damage to your mobile suits must be repaired before you can take them out on a new mission, 
 youll either need to build up a fairly large fleet or simply get used to tapping X a lot before 
 getting back to the action.
  
  Concerning forestry and water tension
  
  Not that the action is an improvement on your situation. Crossfires visuals are so bad its almost 
 an achievement. Muddy, minimal-detail textures cling to low-polygon-count environments like last-gen 
 barnacles. Many of the stages you play in would be perfectly at home in a PSone Armored Core game. 
 Rudimentary trees and bridges can be destroyed, but promptly disappear into the ether.
  
  Some of the effects in the game are downright laughable. Land a mech in the water and it doesnt 
 ripple so much as waver up and down like a sheet of fabric. As an added bonus, it often clips through 
 nearby ground several feet away.
  
  The mobile suits themselves look decent, with lots of detail in their construction and nice location-specific 
 damage effects. They can lose limbs, weapons, shields, and even their heads. Its hard to appreciate 
 them for very long, though, since most of your time will be spent trying to get your chosen metal 
 warrior to lug itself around the painfully small battlefield in a manner somewhat resembling your 
 controller input.
  
  Universally Terrible Century 0079
  
  Crossfire wouldnt pass muster as a PS2 game, let alone a PS3 launch title. Onlookers will probably 
 mistake it for a PS2 game at first glance. Its not like we expected a Gundam game to set the world 
 on fire, but even for a Gundam title, Crossfire is a special kind of bad. Should you get your hands 
 on a PS3, avoid this at all costs. Its shovelware of the highest order, and if you buy it, youre 
 part of the problem. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kakashi_Itachi7
Rating: 1.9
Date: Nov 29, 2006 7:25 pm PT
Review:  this is hust a lame game from the bigening to the end lets start from the bigening the graphics 
 haaaaaaaaaaa well this game looks just like a ps2 game and idosent even deliver like other games 
 thatare aut on the ps2 now the game play this is one of the most ridiculos game play I ever play 
 the whole thing just wrong the sound ist okay you shouldnt even play this game arol if you are 
 not a fan of the series this game sucks out loud even if you are a fan of the series you should 
 rent DONT BUY even if you are the bigest fan of the series. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RX-78GP02A
Rating: 7.7
Date: Nov 21, 2006 6:46 pm PT
Review:  This is my 2nd review on GameSpot. com. My first was MS Saga: A New Dawn for PlayStation 2.
  
  Mobile Suit Gundam: Crossfire is a PS3 game that is set in Universal Century 0079 when the 
 One Year War was continuing on. This game is a side story of sorts and lets you play as either 
 the Earth Federation (good guys) or the Principality of Zeon (bad guys) . You pilot humanoid robots 
 known as mobile suits in your quest to end way the way your faction intends to. Crossfire is classified 
 as a mech shooter.
  
  Graphics:
  
  I honestly feel that Gamespot was biased in the graphics department. A 4, you are nuts! The graphics 
 are an 8. 8 is good for PS3 launch graphics. The mobile suit (robot) graphics are extremely detailed. 
 The weapons are detailed. The buildings, background and most external objects are bland but colors 
 and texture are good enough to not make it horrible. The suits awesome graphics will stand out 
 a lot compared to the backgrounds and such but it is not bad at all.
  
  Audio:
  
  The sound is not Bandai-Namco quality. The music here is average at best. The weapon and walking 
 noises are on par but the music is not good at all. The music feels like it was stolen from bad 
 action movies.
  
  Gameplay:
  
  The gameplay here is a mixed bag. Most of the time MSG Crossfire is an extremely fun game but there 
 are some headaches. The framerate issue is not as bad as it may seem. Sometimes during close combat 
 battles, the framerates shift a little bit. It is not a moving slideshow like how Gamespot said 
 it was. The controls for the gameplay aren't bad at all, sometimes you press a button accidently 
 or your mobile suit moves in the wrong direction but controls are not a concern. The bad thing 
 about the gameplay itself is sometimes you are locked on but your mobile suit looks frustrated 
 and misses targets easily when the attack is apparent. Oh yeah, the AI is horrible. The Ai, individually 
 are not good at all but in groups they look fierece sometimes. All the AI in the game are mostly 
 after you and your teammate is secondary. You can lock-on with L1, boost with X, shoot with Square, 
 Subweapon is R1, and there are extra moves for shields and such as well. The Boost in the game 
 is not that good, it is very inconsistant and the flying up in the air rate is short but you can 
 boostrun for awhile.
  
  Game Modes:
  
  Campaign Mode is basically a bunch of missions for each faction, Zeon or Earth Federation. You 
 have the ability to upgrade attack, weapon, or defense and the upgrades are also possible for climate 
 colors on your mobile suit. Like a jungle, desert, marine, etc.. color scheme for your suit which 
 also changes its attributes. Every upgrade takes at least one day in the game world to complete. 
 The missions themselves are self explanatory, just kill a bunch of suits in different ways. The 
 bad thing about that is there is no clear path to victory at all and sometimes you have to guess 
 on how to complete your objective. After you complete all your missions, the result of the war 
 will display. The voice actors are laughable because they are horrible. Japanese audio is an option 
 for japanese audio freaks. Versus Mode is basic 1 vs. 1 human competitive fighting with mobile 
 suits. There are options mode and all the other basic modes of non-gameplay. The thing is with 
 the options is that I haven't found a way to change the Axis thumbstick controls for a second controller, 
 I think the controls are either for player one or for both, but I am not sure on that.
  
  Overall, Mobile Suit Gundam: Crossfire is a game that needed more time in the shop to complete 
 but it is still fun in lots of situations. For non Gundam fans, its a rent. For Gundam fans, its 
 either or.
  
  I give Mobile Suit Gundam: Crossfire a 7.7 out of 10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Imperial_Colone
Rating: 3.6
Date: Nov 19, 2006 10:05 pm PT
Review:  A good Gundam review? No, keep looking because the title was not meant to be in support of this 
 game! Before the PS3 came out i spent alot of time snooping around here, as did alot of you and 
 im sure most of you read the article stating that mobile suit gundam was the top selling game in 
 Japan. I was pretty surprised, not only by the, but also by the rank on peoples wish list, it was 
 number one! This game did loko appealing, the graphics looked good, the title was attractive, but.... no 
 online support? Usually when a game lacks online support it is balanced by a great single player 
 right? WRONG! The single player, and only part, of this game dont even justify a rent. The gameplay 
 of this game is also a big problem because its a big flop. You can be a variety of Suits which 
 is cool, but using them isnt. Once you start playing this the shiny graphics turn to choppy frames, 
 and the promising gameplay turns to lackluster gameplay. The game picks up for about 7 minutes before 
 you realize the lack of a story just leaves this game spineless. Maybe 7 minutes was a litte under-exaggerated 
 but this game becomes so hard, and so pointless that you wonder what you just spent $60 on. My 
 reccomendation, is to definatley skip this one. The title of Mobile Suit Gundam proved too strong 
 a temptation to resist in Japan, but I dont want another soul to fall prey. I will not suggest 
 what game to buy because I would like to remain neutral and not biased. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Suicidal_Healer
Rating: 1.4
Date: Nov 19, 2006 5:48 pm PT
Review:  As I said before, what in gods name is not wrong with this game. Everything that could possibly 
 be screwed up are. This game looks as if it was for the PS2... and to quote, the ground looks like 
 the ground from Armored Core for the PS1. Graphics: Why is the water moving like a flat piece of 
 paper? Why? And why does it also clip onto the land next to it? What the heck?
  
  Sound: Annoying, boring, repetitive...
  
  Gameplay: The AI is dumber than a sack of potatoes. 
 The controls are extremely clunky, and offers no sense of realism what so ever, other than the 
 fact that a 60 ton giant robot would be a bit hard to control. So there is no worrying about them 
 killing you, and if you some how die, shame upon you. And the shooting is abysmal, where its at 
 the point where you just lock on and shoot, and your guaranteed to hit something....
  
  Don't take this as a Gundam bashing, I loved the Gundam series, especially the original series 
 and this game just makes me want to cry in shame. Why Namco Bandai, why? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TW_Darkmaster
Rating: 5.4
Date: Nov 18, 2006 10:45 pm PT
Review:  When I loaded the first mission of this game, my first impression was wow, the graphics are actually 
 pretty decent for a Gundam game. That was before the frame rate problems struck. Even in the first 
 mission when I was virtually all alone, the frame rates stuttered like mad and as I started to 
 use my boosts in the later missions with forested areas, I was watching a slideshow. If they were 
 able to fix this frame rate problem it would probably have been rated higher and it would still 
 be a decent albeit simplistic game.
  
  I don't know what is wrong with the japanese developers when they make games that are completely 
 mindless. This game is all about shooting, hacking, slashing, and boosting around. All your missions 
 involve kill your enemies, kill their reinforcements, and kill their reinforcements' reinforcements 
 until no more come. You are given support units but most of the time they are useless as their 
 AI is horrible and all they do is just stand there and get killed.
  
  The new MSs that you get gives you a new oddity that will only interest you for a short while, 
 but overall they all handle exactly the same except maybe they'll have a different main gun. Upgrades 
 to the mobile suits mostly don't do much except to increase your attack damage or reduce damage 
 done to you with the exception of a new gun once in a while. It really does not give much in terms 
 of customizing your MS.
  
  The sound is just plain horrible and perhaps the worst part about this game. The in game narration 
 is monotonous and almost made me bored before I even started to play. The in game explosions are 
 nothing fancy either and leaves much to be desired.
  
  In terms of replayability, there isn't too much replayability. All the MS's are basically identical, 
 and the two separate campaigns just give you different mobile suits and different missions with 
 the same objectives: kill everything you see.
  
  In the end, this game is acceptable to die hard japanese gamers and gundam fans, but to the wider 
 public it only passes off as a less than good game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: EssaregeeX
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 17, 2006 7:21 pm PT
Review:  Sure, Ill start off by saying this game is a must play for gundam fans and mech fans alike. Good 
 graphics (well sorta post ps2 graphics but I cant complain) and a good fun single player campain 
 with giant robots that will take you around 20hours to finish. Although I was kinda disapointed 
 with the original Mobile Suit Gundam ans the 8th MS team era suits but still fun. All the suits 
 handle quite similar - yet differently. some are stronger and some are weaker.
  Using the beam saber to slash apart enemies is always fun, and the location spesific damage system 
 is great, blowing off enemies weapons and body parts never gets old. This game was absoluteley 
 not given the rating it deserved. So if you like MS or Gundam this is a must play game. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
