-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Monster Madness: Grave Danger
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/ps3/action/monstermadness/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Dual-stick shooter controls are a great improvement over original game.
 Support for four players in online campaign mode.
 Good variety of ranged weapons.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Terrible pacing.
 Gameplay is repetitive and tedious.
 Unimpressive graphics and sound.
 Camera can't always keep up with online action.
 Respawn system removes all challenge.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Aug 27, 2008
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 5
Critic Score: 5.5, 22 Review (s)
User Score: 7.0, 64 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: SouthPeak Games
Developer: Psionics
Genre: Shoot-'Em-Up
Date: Aug 5, 2008
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
An improved control scheme and online campaign support aren't enough to save Monster Madness from 
 mediocrity. 

  Released last year for the PC and Xbox 360, Monster Madness: Battle for Suburbia tried to dress 
 up the fun of classic top-down arcade games such as Gauntlet in the trappings of a schlocky monster 
 movie. But a host of issues, including lousy pacing and imprecise controls, made the game itself 
 feel pretty schlocky. Now a revamped version of the game, complete with a new subtitle, is out 
 on the PlayStation 3. But despite a few nice improvements, Monster Madness: Grave Danger is an 
 awkward, tedious game.  

           A typically chaotic moment from Monster Madness.      

  The core game in Grave Danger 
 is very similar to that of the original release. It tells the tale of four teenagers -- a geek, a 
 skater, a goth girl, and a cheerleader, all as stereotypical as can be -- who find themselves fending 
 for their lives against a massive invasion of ghosts, goblins, skeletons, zombies, and countless 
 other denizens of the underworld. The game relies heavily on pop-culture references for its attempts 
 at humor, riffing on everything from  Superman II  to Homestar Runner, and although it may occasionally 
 get a chuckle out of you, most of the jokes fall flat. But the story isn't of much importance here 
 anyway, given that it only provides the flimsiest of excuses for all of the action, and, really, 
 how much of an excuse do you need to cut down zombies with a gun that shoots CDs? At least the 
 comic-book style cutscenes that the game occasionally employs look pretty good.  

  When the game begins, you pick your teen and head into the fray. Although each character specializes 
 in a different type of melee weapon, the differences between them are almost entirely cosmetic, 
 which feels like a bit of a missed opportunity to add some replay value to the game. For a while, 
 you'll find yourself hacking your way through the enemy onslaught with melee weapons such as swords, 
 hockey sticks, and batons, and this quickly gets boring. The combat just isn't varied or precise 
 enough to stay interesting for long, and the enemies are bone stupid to boot. The game tries to 
 make up for this by throwing them at you in large numbers, but this just means that you have to 
 spend more time whaling on the attack button to chop them all down, maybe tossing in an occasional 
 dodge for good measure.  

  However, before too long the game introduces ranged weapons, which are a bit more fun. Throughout 
 the game, you'll employ a nice variety of ranged weapons, from nail guns to shotguns to flamethrowers, 
 and this is where one of this version's most significant improvements over the original release 
 comes into play. Ranged combat is now controlled with a dual-stick shooter control scheme, and 
 it's such a natural fit for the game that it's a bit mind-boggling that the developers didn't think 
 to include it previously. It's totally intuitive and helps contribute to the old-school arcade 
 action feel that the game is targeting.  

  Although this improvement is much-needed, it isn't enough to compensate for the game's other lingering 
 issues. Grave Danger, like its predecessor, lacks any sense of pacing, and some battles go on for 
 far too long. One battle on a rooftop near the game's end is positively interminable. And when 
 the game does try to break up all of the hacking and shooting a bit, it frequently does so with 
 a fetch quest that's far less interesting than the combat that it's serving to interrupt. To add 
 insult to injury, you'll often undertake these fetch quests at the behest of a leprechaun whose 
 horrible Irish accent just might be the scariest thing about this game. You'll also encounter numerous 
 vehicle sequences, and though a few of these vehicles, such as a swan boat and mech suits, are 
 mildly enjoyable, most of them are just sluggish and cumbersome. All in all, the game overstays 
 its welcome by a good, long while, stretching its simple gameplay out across 12 hours or so, with 
 each successive level feeling like more of the same. When goth girl Carrie says, in that sarcastic 
 way of hers, "Wonderful, more trudging through sewers and dungeons," you'll know just how she feels. 

           Driving this buggy isn't as fun as it looks.      

  Like the original Monster Madness, the game also feels very unbalanced, though this isn't quite 
 the impediment that it was in Battle for Suburbia, which could be downright punishing at times 
 and had a checkpoint system that exacerbated the problem. Rather than addressing the balance issues 
 in any kind of meaningful way, Grave Danger simply does away with the checkpoint system altogether 
 and replaces it with one in which you are instantly respawned whenever you die, losing only a few 
 of the monster tokens that serve as the game's currency as a penalty. This takes what was a frustratingly 
 difficult game and saps it of all challenge, which feels less like a solution and more like a cop-out. 
 You'll still die a lot, and it's still a drag. It's understandable that the developers would want 
 to tone down the challenge somewhat to make the game more accessible, but an actual adjustment 
 of the game's balance could have resulted in a far more satisfying gameplay experience.  

  The pace, balance, and overall enjoyment is improved somewhat if you have some friends tagging 
 along with you, and the game's other big improvement makes playing with friends much easier: The 
 campaign can now be played online with up to four players. Of course, the online functionality 
 isn't without its quirks; on a few occasions while attempting to join a game, we got stuck on a 
 loading screen and had to restart the console. But once you're in a game with other players, it 
 works fine. Monster Madness feels like a game that was designed from the ground up to be played 
 in groups, and playing the game alone feels not only unbalanced, but also oddly lonely by comparison. 
 When you've got two to four players going at it, the screen fills up with monster-slaying mayhem 
 in ways that the single-player experience can't match. The massive carnage of a multiplayer game 
 is definitely a good thing, but as in Battle for Suburbia, the game's camera doesn't always seem 
 able to handle that much action, and you'll sometimes find yourself as little more than a distant 
 speck in the background, unable to tell where you're aiming or if you're hitting anything.  

  Grave Danger also includes 25 new single-player challenges, many of which consist of typical 
 monster-killing fare like what you find throughout the campaign. The slightly more interesting 
 challenges are the minigames, such as a home-run contest, a simple rhythm game, and a knock-off 
 of the card game Concentration in which you must match identical monsters. Playing through these 
 games will appeal to folks interested in unlocking all the character costumes, but aside from that, 
 the challenges aren't compelling enough to add any real value to the package. The game also includes 
 competitive online multiplayer for up to 12 people in modes such as Deathmatch, King of the Hill, 
 and Capture the Flag. These modes work well enough, provided that you know a bunch of people who 
 are willing to play them with you. Don't expect to find many public competitive online games. That 
 scene is deader than the rotting corpses you'll slaughter throughout the game.  

           The game's 25 challenges include a sorting game, a memory game, a rhythm game, and more. 

  Graphically, Monster Madness is unimpressive from a technical viewpoint. The camera generally maintains 
 a good distance from the action so that things have a clean, sharp appearance, but when the camera 
 pulls in, a lack of detail in the character models and environments becomes apparent. Nevertheless, 
 Monster Madness' focus is on tossing scads of monsters on the screen at once, and in that regard, 
 the game performs well. There's also an evocative sense of style to the game's levels that makes 
 up a bit for the technical shortcomings of the visuals. The park, high school, and shopping mall 
 areas successfully suggest an "Anytown, USA" kind of setting. Sadly, it's hard to find much of 
 anything kind to say about the game's sound. The music is generic, the voice acting isn't very 
 good, and you'll hear the same obnoxious screams and taunts from your enemies so many times that 
 you may wonder if the game is actually trying to drive you insane.  

  Compared to the original game, Monster Madness: Grave Danger is definitely an improvement overall, 
 thanks to the vastly superior shooting controls and the ability to play the campaign online. However, 
 these improvements aren't enough to actually make the game worth your time, and those who have 
 played the original game will be puzzled at some of the omissions and awkward design choices in 
 this version. Taken entirely on its own terms, Monster Madness: Grave Danger is an extremely repetitive, 
 frequently tedious game that feels less like a nostalgic throwback to classic top-down arcade shooters 
 and more like an exercise in dated gameplay styles that would have been better left in the past. 
     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (3 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: katman
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 22, 2008 4:03 am PT
Review:  I just finished my first playthru of this game which took me 3 months to do. Let me explain, I 
 play a game like this off and on when I have an extra hour to kill. It's just a perfect light weight 
 time killer when I don't want to get sucked into something too heavy like Bioshock.
  
  The gameplay is really arcady and a no-brainer, but fun and satisfying at the same time. There 
 was also enough variety in the 18 levels that kept me going and interested. And indeed I look forward 
 to starting over with one of the other characters.
  
  I see a lot of the low scores here that makes me wonder just what people were expecting from this 
 budget title. There is a demo out on the playstation store, try it out first. That's what I did 
 and I ended up buying the full game, for I think less than $20 - definitely worth it for me. 
 
  
  In Summary: If you keep your expectations low, and are just looking for a good time-killer game 
 to play, this is perfect for you.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: TYGriffin
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 19, 2008 6:55 am PT
Review:  The game starts out as a dull boring game but picks up as the game goes on. The weapons span from 
 nail guns to Gatling guns to flame throwers and ect. Graphic are at times grainy at times and the 
 voice acting sucks. Gameplay is good but the controls take a while to get used to. Monster include 
 zombies, witches, ghosts, aliens, dogs, gargoyals, and other monsters.
  How ever the games multiplayer is a bit boring SINCE NO ONE IS EVER ON. If you were to play multiplayer 
 it is just your typical team deathmatch. You can also play through levels in multiplayer which 
 isnt all that special. there are mini games in this that are fun as well as challanges. If you 
 want a good monster/alien shooter game i would seggest Alien Shooter: Vengence for PC it is great
 
  oooooooooo oooooooo ooooooooooooo ooooooooooooooooo ooooo ooo
  ======= =========== =========== ========= ==================
  ========= ==================== 
 =============== ======== ====
  oooooooo oo ooooooooo ooooo oooo oooooo oooooooo ooooooooo ooooo 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thatSTERLINkid
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 5, 2008 12:50 pm PT
Review:  Its a great game! Trust me i should know, beat the game 3x on Madness 2x on Horror and still playing.
 
  
  But this is where this review gets interesting...
  After playing this game through a few times I've noticed some positive things, and then I've noticed 
 some not so positive things that drive me nuts (probably you as well)
  
  First off lets start with the positive:
  1. It's way less stressful to find weapon parts 
  
 
  2. You need less tokens and parts when making weapons (this makes it easier to play through the 
 game)
  
  3. The Co-op is GREAT and lag free (as well as the versus) 
  
  4. They took out some of the most annoying parts in the game (UFO Ring flying "Hell School", Escape 
 from exploding mech "Evil Castle" etc.)
  
  5. The challenges bring a whole new aspect and better way to unlock costumes
  
  6. The controls 
 are fun and improved from previous versions
  
  
  Now its time to get to the non-positive things:
  1. Madness isn't difficult at all
  
  2. Mics 
 dont work for almost everyone who owns the game
  
  3. The glitches I've found in the game are rare to be stuck in but trust me, there's a LOT
  
 
  4. While taking some of the annoying things out of the game, they also took out some of the best. 
 (Defending Huggles' Toy Store "Shopping Maul", Fighting Huggles THEN shocking him "Shopping Maul", 
 Defending Leprechauns pot of gold "Evil Castle", Monster Tokens "Multiplayer" etc.)
  
  5. In co-op there are no Comic cut scenes, just the monster deaths and introductions
  
  6. There 
 isn't an option that lets you kick people from the game, meaning if someone falls asleep or stops 
 moving, you have to either push them or quit, which means starting over
  
  
  So as you can see this game is pretty decent, however if your not a fan, or haven't played "Battle 
 for Suburbia". I'd suggest renting the game before you buy it.
  
  
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
