-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Mortal Kombat vs. DC Universe
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/ps3/action/mortalkombat/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 DC characters are a good fit with the MK gang.
 Satisfying fighting system.
 Enjoyably goofy storylines.
 Great visual presentation.
 Smooth online play.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Some powerful moves are easy to exploit.
 Few options to aid new players.
 Toned-down gore.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Nov 20, 2008
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 7.5
Critic Score: 7.8, 35 Review (s)
User Score: 8.0, 1,055 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Midway
Genre: 3D Fighting
Date: Nov 16, 2008
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
The MK and DC crowds are a surprisingly good combo, but questionable roster balancing keeps this 
 enjoyable fighter from achieving greatness. 

  In a way, it feels as if many fighting game characters have stepped right out of the pages of a 
 comic book. They wear bizarre costumes, spend a lot of time punching and kicking other people, 
 and possess inexplicable powers. Pitting fighting game characters against comic book heroes and 
 villains has been done before, and in Mortal Kombat vs. DC Universe, the meshing of Raiden's crew 
 and Superman's posse makes for some pretty exciting action -- especially online. But even as the 
 game moves the series back toward the fundamental strengths of Mortal Kombat in some ways, it departs 
 from the series' essence in others. As a result, longtime fans may be left with mixed feelings, 
 and newcomers drawn to the series for the first time by the inclusion of DC characters may find 
 it hard to get a handle on things.  

           Fans of the DC characters will be pleased with how well they've made the transition to 
 a fighting game.      

  The story that explains just how these two distinct sets of outlandishly attired, superpowered 
 beings clash is such pure, unabashed comic book silliness that you'll have a hard time not being 
 won over. Simultaneous mishaps involving Darkseid in the DC universe and Shao Kahn in the MK universe 
 result in these two evil beings merging into the exponentially evil Dark Kahn. Dark Kahn's power 
 causes the two universes to begin fusing, and the heroes and villains on each side of the universal 
 divide mistakenly blame the weirdos from the other side for invading their land. This merging of 
 universes also causes severe imbalances in the powers of some characters, and serves as a convenient 
 excuse for how the Joker can go toe-to-toe with Superman and have a fighting chance. As you play 
 through the game's two story mode offerings, the flimsy excuses that cause the unlikely matchups 
 almost become something of a running joke, and help make these modes fun for the few hours that 
 they last.  

  Unless you've somehow managed to avoid playing a fighting game for your entire life, you'll immediately 
 grasp the basic concept of MK vs. DC: punch, kick, throw, and otherwise bludgeon your opponent 
 into submission before they do the same to you. While some Mortal Kombat games have offered two 
 or three fighting styles per character, MK vs. DC does away with that, creating a back-to-basics 
 feel that switches the emphasis back to the special moves that really differentiate the characters. 
 And while the action takes place in 3D and you can move left and right in the environment as well 
 as back and forth, sidestepping is slow and only occasionally useful. The majority of the action 
 takes place on a 2D plane, which also contributes to the game feeling very much like a solid return 
 to the roots of the Mortal Kombat series. The action is fast-paced, controls tightly, and is just 
 a lot of fun.  

  With a total of 22 playable characters, the roster may be a bit short compared to what fans of 
 the series have come to expect, but it makes up for that by making each character play very differently 
 from the others. The 11 Mortal Kombat warriors on hand are all top-shelf, and while one or two 
 of the DC characters may seem like odd choices the majority of them mesh surprisingly well with 
 the MK crowd. While the powers of some DC characters have been toned down a bit as a result of 
 that darn universe-merging fluctuation of energies, the characters themselves have been created 
 here with a great deal of loyalty to the source material. Their personalities are intact, and the 
 arsenals of special attacks at their disposal are impressive.  

  While the core gameplay is largely a return to the feel of the early Mortal Kombat games, there 
 are some elements here that are pretty minor when taken individually, but add up to make MK vs. 
 DC distinctly different from its predecessors. There are a few minigames that pop up when certain 
 circumstances occur, and they all blend in to the action seamlessly. For example, if you're close 
 to your opponent, you can attempt to grab him or her and initiate Klose Kombat. If you're successful, 
 the camera will pull in, and for a short time, you can perform a variety of painful-looking moves 
 by pressing one of the four face buttons. There's a great risk-versus-reward dynamic at play: your 
 button presses are displayed onscreen, and if your opponents match them, they'll counter your attack 
 with powerful blows of their own and escape from Klose Kombat in the process. It's a cool system 
 that gives the attacker a decent advantage but still offers the defender a pretty good chance of 
 turning the tables.  

  A very similar minigame is initiated any time one player knocks another to a lower level of the 
 arena. As in Klose Kombat, the attacker can pummel the defender by pushing face buttons, and the 
 defender can turn the tables by matching the attacker's inputs. In Free Fall Kombat, the attacker 
 is able, after a damage meter has been filled to a certain point with standard attacks, to execute 
 a special move that sends the opponent flying into the ground below in a particularly painful, 
 damaging way. Like Klose Kombat, there's a good risk-versus-reward principle at work here, and 
 the fact that these fisticuffs are taking place while the characters dramatically plummet through 
 the air gives the action a larger-than-life, comic book feel.  

           Falling through the air is no excuse to stop punching each other.      

  Last and 
 least among the minigames is Test Your Might, which occurs in certain areas when one combatant 
 lands a powerful attack on the other and sends the opponent flying back against a wall. The initiator 
 then charges at the defender and propels the latter through the walls of the office building or 
 dungeon. Both parties then pound on the buttons as furiously as they can. If the attacker out-pounds 
 the defender, more damage will be done, while the defender pounds buttons in the hopes of reducing 
 the amount of damage he or she suffers. The simplicity of this minigame makes it less compelling 
 than the other two, and only three of the game's 14 arenas have the horizontal arrangement for 
 it, so it occurs far less frequently.  

  One final, important addition to the action here is the rage meter, which fills up as you take 
 damage or are blocked by your opponent. Your build-up of rage can be used for one of two things. 
 If the meter is halfway full or more, you can spend one full segment of it on a combo breaker, 
 immediately putting a stop to the flurry of attacks your opponent is unleashing. If both sections 
 are full, you can opt to spend the whole thing to enter rage mode, which allows you to pummel your 
 opponent uninterrupted by his or her attacks and fight your way through his or her blocks, though 
 you'll still take damage from any blows he or she lands. Either of these can turn the tables in 
 a fight if used well, and since using rage for one purpose sacrifices your ability to use it for 
 the other, this seemingly simple feature calls for some significant and often split-second decision-making. 
     

  On the default difficulty setting, the game seems to adjust dramatically in response to your skill 
 level. Lose a match in the story or arcade modes a few times and it suddenly gets a whole lot easier, 
 which means that players of just about any skill level can fumble their way through these modes. 
 That's not necessarily a bad thing, but it makes the game feel more like a brawler in which you 
 can button-mash your way through just about anything, rather than a well-tuned fighting game that 
 rewards precise, skillful play. This impression is deceiving, though, and upping the difficulty 
 of the AI, or better yet, playing against other people, reveals the depth of a fighting system 
 that's sure to please veteran fighters. With precise timing, you can chain together combo attacks 
 that juggle your enemies in the air helplessly for a bit, but these are extremely difficult to 
 pull off. Neophytes drawn to the game by the DC characters may find themselves a bit out of their 
 league, and while there's a standard practice mode in which you can attempt attacks at your leisure, 
 the finer points can be difficult to pick up without a proper training mode.  

           There will be blood.      

  Of course, past Mortal Kombat games have been known as 
 much for their over-the-top gore as for their gameplay, and for those fans who feel this is an 
 intrinsic part of what makes Mortal Kombat what it is, MK vs. DC will be disappointing. While there 
 are still ridiculous amounts of blood that go flying each time you so much as punch your opponent, 
 you won't see any comically grisly beheadings, dismemberments, and other bombastic acts of violence 
 that have characterized the series. The victor still gets the opportunity to pull off an extremely 
 painful fatality or, in the case of the good guys on the DC side, a heroic brutality. Many of them 
 are clever and funny, but they're still far tamer than what we've seen in the past. Ultimately, 
 this change doesnt impact the gameplay itself, but that gore is part of the MK experience, so 
 the way it's been toned down here may turn some fans off.  

  A more material issue is the surprisingly limited amount of content you get in this package. There 
 are the two stories that don't take you long to complete, and after you finish them, you'll have 
 unlocked only two additional characters and seen just about everything the game has to offer. There's 
 an arcade mode which, in typical Mortal Kombat fashion, has you fight your way to the top of a 
 ladder, and in a nice touch, you can choose to have your opponents made up of exclusively Mortal 
 Kombat characters, DC characters, or a combination of the two. But the short, disappointing endings 
 you get for finishing arcade mode with any given character provide little incentive to come back 
 to it much. There's also a mode called Kombo Challenge in which you pick a character and choose 
 one of 10 combo attacks to attempt to pull off. At first glance, this looks like a useful mode 
 to help newcomers pick up the finer points of the game's combat, but the timing required to successfully 
 do even the easiest of the combos in Kombo Challenge is unforgivingly precise. With only 22 characters, 
 14 arenas, and no special costumes or anything else worth unlocking, the single-player experience 
 dries up a little too quickly.  

  So ultimately, whatever longevity the game has lies in its multiplayer offerings, and playing the 
 game with others, either locally or online, is great fun. There aren't any special modes available 
 online. It's all just no-frills, one-on-one matches, which is really all you need. Xbox 360's online 
 setup is a bit more fleshed out, with options to jump right into a ranked or unranked match, and 
 a TrueSkill matchmaking system for ranked matches. On the PlayStation 3, you need to enter a lobby 
 where you'll see a list of everyone else hanging out in the room, and you can challenge or accept 
 challenges from the other players. In both cases, once you're actually down to the business of 
 punching and kicking each other, the action plays smoothly, provided both parties have a steady 
 connection. The only caveat about online play in our experience is that a disproportionate number 
 of players are currently trying to rack up wins using the same few overpowered special attacks 
 by The Flash (and a couple of other characters) ad nauseam, and while this isn't impossible to 
 defeat, it sure is annoying. You might prefer to quit a match than bother with it when you come 
 across such a cheap competitor, but doing so counts as a loss, and in the case of ranked matches 
 on the 360, hurts your TrueSkill ranking.  

  The game looks great. The characters animate well, their attacks look powerful, and there's a consistency 
 of design that helps make the bizarre crossover seem natural. There's an especially great detail 
 to the game's presentation in the way that damage isn't just reflected in the energy bars across 
 the top of the screen. As characters suffer attacks, their skin gets bruised and bloody, their 
 costumes get torn, and by the end, if the loser put up a good fight, even the victor will look 
 much worse for wear. Of the 14 arenas, most of them look pretty cool. There are a few Mortal Kombat 
 arenas, but the majority of locales come from the DC side, or reflect a merger of the two universes. 
 There's a devastated downtown Metropolis and a high-tech Batcave, among other noteworthy locations, 
 and they're packed with details that will please fans of the characters. Dynamic elements such 
 as the elevated train you see rattling below you as you plummet from one level of Gotham City to 
 another also help bring the environments to life.  

           Raiden had been waiting many years for the chance to use his Superman move against Superman. 

  The games audio isnt amazing, but it gets the job done -- matches definitely sound like those in 
 previous Mortal Kombat offerings, and the voice acting for the characters is solid, but sadly you 
 rarely hear them outside of the cutscenes of the story mode. The music doesn't draw much attention 
 to itself and isn't exciting enough to match the action. If you're trying to decide between versions, 
 it's a bit of a toss-up. They both look and play pretty much identically. The Xbox 360's online 
 system makes it more convenient for just jumping into a match, but the PS3's D pad is better suited 
 to fighting games and feels more precise. The PS3 version has trophies to match the 360's achievements. 

  Mortal Kombat vs. DC Universe feels a bit like a mutant of a game. On one hand, the fighting mechanics 
 are solid and fun and represent a refreshing return to the fundamental strengths that made Mortal 
 Kombat's gameplay so compelling in the first place. On the other hand, the shift in tone from completely 
 insane amounts of gore to only outrageous amounts of blood will put off some fans of the series 
 usual ultra-violence. Newcomers, on the other hand, will have little trouble button-mashing their 
 way through the game's single-player offerings, but may find it difficult coming to grips with 
 the more technical aspects of the gameplay necessary to get the most from the multiplayer. If the 
 idea of beating the hell out of Liu Kang with Lex Luthor (or vice versa) appeals to you and you 
 don't mind going online for serious competition, you'll find a satisfying fighting game in this 
 strange but enjoyable crossover.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (81 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: PStringa
Rating: 7
Date: Apr 9, 2009 4:04 pm PT
Review:  MK vs. DC has it's moments but overall its average. There two Story modes to run through, them 
 being the MK version and the DC version. A Practice mode as well as the Versus. mode and all new 
 Online Play.
  
  The stories have nothing to them. To be honest they are a complete waste of time and unless you 
 feel you need the trophy (like me) I wouldn't bother. It involves you listening to a load of rather 
 annoying dialogue and playing as characters you don't really like. This is the same for both path 
 ways MK or DC and so the story is not much to talk about. For the same reason I won't tell you 
 what it's about because if you do decide to play through them, I don't want to spoil whatever story 
 is worth following.
  
  The practice mode is very helpful although most of the combos and special moves are very similar 
 between characters. Once you have mastered at least one character you can usually pick another 
 quickly with little effort. This was a downside to me as I like to be able to spend a lot of time 
 working on a single character and master them. In general the practice mode is cool but not essential.
 
  
  There's no need for me to speak about the Vs. mode but the online is the games best feature. Once 
 you select the online mode you are asked to choose a universe. Then you are put into a lobby with 
 text chat and a list of other online players. In this lobby you can select another player and challenge 
 them to a match or you can simply sit and wait for someone to challenge you. You can also view 
 people's statistics which shows their current wins/losses and win streak. Even though the statistics 
 are not complex they are more than sufficient. I find its most fun trying to beat the super human 
 players online with friends. 
  
  Overall this game is a lot of fun for a short while, more so with friends in the Vs. or Online 
 modes. I wouldn't advise paying full price for this (40 or $60) maybe pick it up out of the bargin' 
 bin for at least half that. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SkinnZero
Rating: 6.5
Date: Apr 8, 2009 7:28 pm PT
Review:  My aunt gave me this game a few days ago, and, obviously, I went to try it almost inmediately. 
 Im not a Mortal Kombat fan, but I was hoping the addition of the DC heroes could make it work 
 for me. It did? not really.
  
  The graphics are really cool, and the control scheme is pretty responsive. Something more? not 
 for me, at least. I dont believe in the "ethical" value of mixing game types or game characters, mixing 
 them in a single game (games such Kingdom Hearts, for instance) and this game was no exception 
 (I insist, im taking about me and my game likes)
  
  MK hardcore fans wont like it completely. Fatalities and heroic brutalities are so soft!
  
 
  But, the game might work for those who like fighting games with not too much expectations, or 
 DC or MK hardcorers. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Chillingson
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 24, 2009 4:27 am PT
Review:  And I have one question it is : Where is Reptyle ? 
  And I have one question it is : Where is Reptyle ? 
  And I have one question it is : Where is 
 Reptyle ? 
  And I have one question it is : Where is Reptyle ? 
  And I have one question it is : Where is Reptyle ? 
  And I have one question it is : Where is 
 Reptyle ? 
  And I have one question it is : Where is Reptyle ? 
  And I have one question it is : Where is Reptyle ? 
  And I have one question it is : Where is 
 Reptyle ? 
  And I have one question it is : Where is Reptyle ? 
  And I have one question it is : Where is Reptyle ? 
  And I have one question it is : Where is 
 Reptyle ? 
  And I have one question it is : Where is Reptyle ? 
  And I have one question it is : Where is Reptyle ? 
  And I have one question it is : Where is 
 Reptyle ? 
  And I have one question it is : Where is Reptyle ? 
  And I have one question it is : Where is Reptyle ? 
  And I have one question it is : Where is 
 Reptyle ? 
  And I have one question it is : Where is Reptyle ? 
  And I have one question it is : Where is Reptyle ? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SkidRow18
Rating: 7.5
Date: Apr 10, 2009 5:01 am PT
Review:  I know little about mortal kombat when i was young, i have the first two mortal kombat games at 
 home and played Mortal Kombat: Deadly Alliance at my friend house before. To be honest, i never 
 really like fighting games but what caught my eye about this game is because DC is in it and it 
 is a crossover game between MK and DC, my first thought when i saw this game was like o great! 
 Speaking about DC, i got to admit i am a DC fan (a small MK fan at the same time) , thats why i 
 brought this game. Here is my review about the game.
  
  First, the roster contain 22 characters, 11 for each side, you only have to unlock two characters 
 in this game. I feel the roster should have been bigger but it's ok as long as it have a roster 
 of great characters like Scorpion, Sub zero, Batman, Superman and Raiden.
  
  This game also have great graphics and during battle they show sign of bruises and part of the 
 clothing being torn off. Each fighters have their own special, pro moves and of course their finisher. 
 About the story mode, they allow you to choose your side, meaning you can choose MK story side 
 or DC story side. The story for both side is pretty much the same (not totally the same) , the difference 
 is just about the point of view from each side and how they deal with it. The voice acting is also 
 good in story mode, it is kinda of like watching a show on T. V. 
  
  Midway introduce new gameplay like the "Free-fall kombat", "Test Your Might" and "Klose Kombat". 
 In free-fall kombat, two opponents fall off an arena and the opponent on top can attack till the 
 meter on the side is more than half, then it can peform a special move. The opponent below must 
 try to get to the top position by blocking shots. In "Klose Kombat" , a character grabs the other 
 and go into a close view of the fighters, one of them will attack while the other one will then 
 try to kounter-attack. In "Test your Might", one character will tackle their opponent by running 
 towards the walls. The attacker will tap buttons as quickly as possible to increase damage of the 
 opponent (defender) while the defender do the same to decrease the damage to itself. 
  
  Blood? yes, there are still blood visible in this game, you can see blood spitting out when you 
 hit your opponent. The MK fatalities are not so gore compare to previous title but i don't really 
 mind, gore isn't the only thing that makes a game great. Midway have bring back some old school 
 fatalities like Lui Kang's arcade drop and Scorpion's toasty. DC Villains have fatalities too while 
 DC Heroes have heroic brutalities. Heroic Brutalities doesn't kill the opponent and that's because 
 heroes don't kill. 
  
  Online is fun, it is kinda of well balanced as in you can beat someone that has like hundreds of 
 wins and lost to some one with a few wins. When you play a ranked match, it is slow when you try 
 to search for a opponent... maybe because not much people have this game. This game is also alot 
 easier (control wise) than previous titles, you can pull off combo, pro moves, fatalities, brutalities 
 alot easier which is good for newcomers.
  
  Design: 7.0
  Sound: 8.0
  Graphics: 8.5
  Gameplay: 8.0
  Overall: 7.5 (Very Good)
  
  Overall, i think it is still a pretty good game, 
 not a game that can last you but if you are looking forward to play games with your friends and 
 have fun, like fighting games, why don't give this game a try? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Killzone333
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 12, 2009 7:13 pm PT
Review:  MK vs DC, a game where Sub - Zero can fight Wonder Woman. I will talk about 3 things: Blood and 
 Gore, Characters, and WhyBlood and Gore: MK is known for it's blood and gore. Ratings were invented 
 because of it! Yes, if u didn't know game ratings didn't exist until MK came out - due to it's 
 violence and blood, the president made game ratings. In this game, it's missing. Not as much blood, 
 just little blobs of it. Even when u do a fatality, there's hardly any blood. I do wonder why they 
 made MK T for teen and took out so much gore. Characters: Scoprion, Batman - just MK and DC ppl. 
 It is pretty cool beating up Superman with Batman or beating Darkseid up with the Joker. But when 
 a MK character does fight a DC character, it's weird and strange. Stick to MK vs MK and DC vs DC. Why?: Why 
 exactly was it made like this? Who would think 'i want MK to fight DC, and i'm taking out all the 
 blood'? I DO like the game, but it's a weird idea. I think they should of just made a new MK game 
 instead of this. So in all, MK vs DC is ok, almost but not quite. I think what disappoints me most 
 is the missing blood and gore. I give MK vs DC a 8.0 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 10Iron
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 6, 2009 8:04 pm PT
Review:  This version of Mortal Kombat will disappoint die hard fans from the beginning. Technical precision 
 and gory battles (both of which have helped sustain the success of the series over the last few 
 installments) are all out of the window. Imagine Mortal Kombat stuck on Arcade Mode, yeah that's 
 it, Arcade Mode. With the addition of the DC superheroes and villains, we are in for a treat as 
 some of the most unlikely match ups produce intense battles that are sometimes comical. From Wonder 
 Woman lassoing like a rodeo champ, to the Flash, well flashing around, to the joker and his handshake 
 buzzer, the Mortal Kombat characters are in for a hard time. While the roster is somewhat of a 
 skeleton crew, there are plenty of match ups to create, offering hours of unlimited game play. 
 The bad, well skill is out of the window. Whenever consecutive matches are lost in the story mode, 
 the sometimes amazing AI goes on hiatus, allowing for a victory that would make your grandmother 
 look like Rayden. The good, well for those of us who play one on one sports games, the 30-minute 
 to an hour long wait is no more. Now in less than five minutes a turn, controllers can pass amongst 
 an unlimited number of players offering extreme excitement. Some of our recent matches have ended 
 in with cheers worthy of High School basketball game (that's a good thing) . Ruling, uf you are 
 looking for a game to play at home in opposition to your favorite titles, look elsewhere. But, 
 if you are looking for something to pass the time with your friends and gain daily bragging rights 
 as you Submarine freeze your friends to death, then get the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: J-Z-
Rating: 7
Date: Mar 2, 2009 3:44 pm PT
Review:  
  
  
  Pro-
  
  20 plus characters from both franchises
  
  
  con-
  
  Many of which are unbalanced or do not
  feature enough substantial moves for 
  survival.
 
  
  
  Pro- 
  
  Online modes
  
  
  Con- 
  
  World renown for lag.
  
  
  Pro-
  
  Unlockable characters
  
  
  
  Con-
  
  Two unlockable characters such as 
 Darksiede and Shao Kahn.
  with the addition of several unplayable cameos such as Quan Chi, makes this installment seem incomplete.
 
  
  
  Pro-
  
  Immerse and convincing story line. Which was totally surprising considering the unlikeliness of 
 both franchises competiting.
  
  Con-
  
  Cannot pick your own character of choice throughout the story mode. Characters also change constantly 
 throughout the story mode, no matter what side you choose. Unless you have practiced beforehand 
 with each character, this mode will eventually leave you disoriented.
  
  
  Pro-
  
  Amazing graphics, characters look more amazing then ever.
  
  
  Con-
  
  Nothing to complain 
 about here. The game looks marvelous.
  
  
  
  
  Pro- 
  
  Kombo challenge is very intense and challenging extra added for depth. Perfecting these variations 
 will require hours on end just to master.
  
  con-
  
  This mode could of been featured as an option in the training modes. Seems like a compensation 
 for lack or rushed content.
  This mode also is not needed to unlock anything other then achievements, which may or may not to 
 be your liking.
  To a casual, this mode would be considered a waste of time.
  There is also no indication if you are succeeding until you have successfully completed the combo 
 on your own. Keep in mind, all of these combos are not chained together, rather relying on timing 
 and breaks between combos which makes inputting rather frustrating. 
  
  
  Pro-
  
  Traditional fatalities have returned. Which is a sign of 
  relief from MK Armageddon's "kreate 
 a fatality".
  
  
  Con-
  
  All fatalities have been severely reduced possibly to appease
  the DC crowd. 
  
  
  Pro-
 
  
  MK fighting engine has been updated with more fluent movement. A pleasant surprise over the last 
 installment : MK Armageddon. With the extra additions of a rage meter, free fall fighting, and 
 close combat... MK vs DCU feels fresh.
  
  Con-
  
  Virtually all complex combos and multiple moves have been decreased for balancing. The fighting 
 engine relies more heavily on custom made aerial combos. Close combat is basically an updated "Kreate 
 a fatality" feature with toned down blood and gore. Free falling in most levels forces some levels 
 to continuously repeat which takes away from some logic and realism. 
  
  
  Bottom line:
  
  Worth a rental for the curious. More fluid system MK engine.
  But, at the 
 same time, reduced move lists, and toned down fatalities may not appease the MK crowd.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gamereviews2008
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 26, 2009 10:22 am PT
Review:  Just when you thought Midway's multicoloured ninja brigade, bouncing cleavage warriors and half-naked 
 mutants couldn't get any more camp, they go and team up with DC. There's more lycra, low-cut tops 
 and, erm, capes on offer here than in all of Soho on a warm summer's evening. Like watching Jimmy 
 Carr or The X Factor where entrants pour their hearts out to a gurning Simon Cowell, Mortal Kombat 
 Vs DC is a guilty pleasure. We should all have got over Midway's frantic, blood-filled beat-'em-up 
 some years ago, but against a backdrop of first-person shooters, racing games and epic story-driven 
 adventures, MK is an instant hit of no-nonsense gaming. There are no moral choices, or stats and 
 'character progression' is met with a swift kick to tally-whackers.
  
  The gameplay hasn't changed much since past Mortal Kombat titles, with the four face buttons hammered 
 in combination with pushes on the D-pad igniting flourishes of punches, kicks, fireballs, harpoons, 
 lasers, rattling machine-guns, sword swipes... you name it, this roster of fighters have it. 
 
  
  The big difference, on first play, is that this edition of Mortal Kombat has been toned down to 
 appeal to a wider market. The majority of combo attacks are released using the same motions for 
 every character, so one man's toward-toward fireball is another's eye-laser. This means that as 
 soon as you pick up Mortal Kombat Vs DC you're soon firing of a blitz of impression moves with 
 little effort. This isn't to say the game is easy (in fact, the final boss Dark Kahn is one of 
 the series' trickiest and cheapest to date) because in the hands of good players, these basic move 
 sets can be combined into devastating attacks. All the characters' basic combos open up lines of 
 juggle hits that can knock off a quarter of an opponent's health in seconds. Raiden is a character 
 hardcore players will adore for just such juggling, his teleport can be combined with electrical 
 attacks to great effect. The Flash's speed attacks are also devastating, Superman's air-punches 
 combined with his Soaring Knockout throw or Inhale Capture attack (a nod to Scorpion's harpoon 
 that enables you to get one last cheap hit in) prove it's not only the Mortal Kombat roster that 
 has lines of combos to master.
  
  To this end, there's a combo practice mode to master these moves. Sure, it's not new. The moves 
 are listed at the top of the screen and you have to match them in order to progress to the next 
 move. For perfectionists - it's a must. By the time you've completed a character you'll know their 
 move set inside out and will be aware how to link certain attacks together. Against the CPU the 
 deeper strings aren't needed, but when facing off against a human opponent, online or off, you'll 
 need the knowledge to be victorious.
  
  Which neatly leads me into the Story mode. Just how do you justify merging the worlds of DC and 
 Mortal Kombat? The script is by pen-for-hire Jimmy Palmiotti (who has the recent Dead Space on 
 his gaming CV) and ties together the two warring sides in to neat chapters. 
  
  You flit between characters as they muddle their way through the reason why these two worlds have 
 collided. It keeps the formula fresh as you gradually play as and meet every character in the game, 
 then bap them. By the finale the two sides are fleshed out and set for war - until the real menace 
 shows his face... It's here I thought Midway had missed a trick - a tag system would have been 
 great. Wouldn't it have been fun to tag your way through the DC or MK rosters as it takes the combined 
 might of all the game's heroes to tackle this new villain?
  
  The upshot of the two world's merging is Kombat Rage, a viral power that turns heroes into villains 
 and the world on its head. Aside from enabling Superman to fight Batman, Kombat Rage heightens 
 the strengths of all the heroes and villains - The Joker can now go toe-to-toe with Batman and 
 come out a winner. This is represented by a Rage meter - as you take hits it fills up. Once topped 
 up you can activate it with the shoulder buttons and your attacks will inflict extra damage. Though 
 not an original concept in beat-'em-ups, used tactically it can turn a bout. What's a little more 
 original, and a lot more fun, is the introduction of Mortal Kombat's mini-game Test Your Might 
 into the main action, along with Klose Kombat and Air Kombat. Test Your Might is activated by ramming 
 an opponent through a wall and into a new arena. As you charge through wall after wall you hammer 
 the buttons to inflict damage as your opponent jabs at his buttons to reduce his damage. Free-Fall 
 Kombat is entered by kicking or throwing your opponent over the edge of the arena to a new fight 
 zone below. As you fall to the new arena you pummel one another - blocking, countering and punching 
 as you drop. Klose Kombat is activated like a throw - the camera zooms in on the heroes and you 
 enter a mini-game to inflict pain on your enemy. There's a load of brutal animations for arm breaks, 
 groin punches and so forth, but I particularly liked The Joker's eye poke. The Joker is the game's 
 standout character. His moves and fighting style perfectly replicate the villain's comic book mannerisms. 
 Green Lantern creates hammers, brick walls and giant fists from his ring, Wonder Woman lassoes 
 her victims and drags them about the screen and Captain Marvel is a thunderous character, hurling 
 lightning bolts before standing over his defeated enemy with a smug grin.
  
  The big achievement of Mortal Kombat Vs DC is that it's managed to update its gameplay to become 
 an accessible brawler and merged both worlds in an interesting and fun way.
  
  There are faults. More unlockables, a tag-team mode or secret costumes would have been good. The 
 new Fatalities feel less graphic than in previous games and gameplay feels simpler, the alternate 
 fighting styles and weaponised combat is missed. Ultimately MK Vs DC is a robust brawler with few 
 extras. The DC line-up feels fresh and fun though - the online mode is going to be chocker with 
 Batman-versus-Superman match-ups and bored men ogling Sonya's new, bouncing porn-alike chest.
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: drakothelight
Rating: 6
Date: Feb 19, 2009 7:43 am PT
Review:  Mortal kombat used to be one of my favorite games of all time. The fatalities the combos, the supermoves, 
 everything about it just screamed awesome. 
  Mortal Kombat Vs. DC is not a great Fighter, and definetly does not meet the expectations of many 
 mortal kombat fans.
  First of all i really dont understand why this game couldnt be rated M
  i understand dc characters 
 in all but seriously, lets think comics can be rated M
  the dark knight was pretty graphic, you get my point?
  the graphics are ok honestly they dont 
 look better than tekken dr on PSN and that originally was a ps2 game?
  the gameplay is fun, linking up supermoves creating combos is really interesting. but i do feel 
 theres a lack of depth within the game. all the characters are unlocked from the get go. (with the 
 exception of shao and darksied) . The pro moves are nice but to me theres no reason to master any 
 character.
  close combat is fun a strategic mix up, and test your might and free fall combat give this game 
 a classic feel.
  to be honest this game feel really classic, unfortunetly its not. its toned down, Way to much at 
 the moment i cant't even remeber if blood is in the game.
  I Cant recommend this.
  p. s.
  story isnt very well 
::::::

::::::
UserName: moneyman1982
Rating: 6
Date: Feb 9, 2009 5:49 pm PT
Review:  Hi fellow gamers.
  Ok first off this game has lost a lot of it's Mortal Kombatness from previous MK games. The fininshing 
 moves are laughable and really poor looking as well. Also ontop of that it's a really difficult 
 game to play, and I'm a pretty good gamer and not to bad at playing fighting games. But at one 
 point Sonya pulled off a combo that perfected me, and that was only on medium difficulty. And for 
 one of the trophies on the PS3 you need to complete Arcade on max difficulty without continuing. 
 Lets just say I tryed and then out of anger, I through my control pad out the window killing a 
 pidgeon (Just joking) . The graphics are good and the DC Universe characters where a nice touch. 
 But the game was just not good enough to call it a Mortal Kombat game. What happened to the acid 
 and spike pits, or the animalities, babalities and friendships. But if your just wanting to buy 
 this game for playing against friends......... then it's not bad and your sure to get a few laughs. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bujax84
Rating: 7
Date: Feb 8, 2009 4:04 am PT
Review:   
 its a cool game with exciting fighting modes such as "Test your Might" and "Klose Kombatand 
 "Free Fight" , on the other hand graphics could be much improved plus the fatalitiies or finish 
 him moves are not easily to be mastered. I wonder what's the point of making them hard to be executed 
 and you cannot even try them in the parctise mode . In comparison with Soul Calribur 4 ,which is 
 arguably the best fighting game in ps3 to date , I beleive Soul Calirbur 4 is a way better than 
 MK vs DC in terms of Gameplay , fighting pace , graphics and the sounds  
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mysteriojoe
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 4, 2009 11:03 pm PT
Review:  The Good:
  
  Great Online Multi player: 
  Very addictive and hard to put down once you get started.
  
  DC Characters work well and look 
 great:
  A great addition to the MK series. All the characters are evenly balanced and fun to play. I actually 
 like playing the DC characters better than the MK characters. Some cool moves and powers to use. 
 
  
  Easy to perform fatalities or Hero Brutalies: 
  
  Although I'm a big Mortal Kombat fan, the one thing that kind of lurked me in the past was I found 
 the fatalities were hard to perform. This game does way with that. It's really easy to make your 
 character do one, and that's a good thing. 
  
  Great storyline for single player mode: 
  Explains why Jax and other human characters in the game can go toe to toe with Superman. Great 
 cut scenes and wonderful voice acting. 
  
  ''Battle worn'' characters: 
  I don't know if this is a new feature to the series, cause I missed the last few MK games but the 
 ''battle worn'' look to the characters is a great addition to MK vs DC. The characters really look 
 like they have been in a fight! They have cuts, black eyes, wounds and costume damage. Look for 
 many other fighting games to copy this realistic look. 
  
  The Bad:
  
  Some of the Graphics: The game looks a bit like a last gen game. Although the characters look great, 
 the backgrounds look a bit dull and very unfinished compared to the characters. Everything seems 
 to have a grainy look to it. The game graphics have a cut-out and paste feel. Also all of the women 
 characters models look like they have been beaten with the ugly stick! D. O. A this game ain't!!!!
 
  
  Not enough characters: 
  It seems the big selling point to this game was a focus on the DC characters. My question is... 
 Where the hell is Robin? DC Comics has tons of great heroes and villians to choose from like Aquaman, 
 Two Face, Bizarro, Super Girl etc. and Midway could only pick 11 DC characters? Midway really should 
 have had way more choices for characters. 10 DC characters (plus 1 unlockable character) is not 
 enough.... Sure, Batman vs. Superman is a cool match up, but Batman beating the snot out of Robin 
 would of been better. 
  
  Not enough One player content:
  The story mode isn't long enough. You will burn through it in a few hours. After that there's really 
 not much to do... except play online. You can play Arcade Mode or Practice mode as a single player 
 but why would you? 
  
  The Combo challenge:
  Way too hard... with no pay off unless you collect PS3 trophies.
  
  Online is not for Newbies:
 
  Don't get me wrong, online is the real reason to buy this game but expect to be beaten many, many, 
 many times by Sub-Zero, Scorpion or the Flash. Experienced players use these characters moves (in 
 a cheap way) and you really don't have a chance against them if you are a new player. Experience 
 players look for Newbies, just like Lions look for weak Antelope... My only advice is to practice 
 and swat down and block a lot if you are playing against the Flash, Sub Zero etc. Wonder Woman 
 and Batman have very good ground moves and are good to use against the Flash, Sub Zero or Scorpion 
 if you can get in close.
  
  Toned down Fatalities:
  
  The Teen rating really hurts the traditional MK style fatalities. Adding the DC characters is a 
 good thing for a fighting game, but at the same time it really is a kick in the nuts to the Mortal 
 Kombat we all know and love. I know DC would never allow Superman to kill anyone... but MK side 
 of this game doesn't feel or play the same without the gore and blood. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 01keegan
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jan 29, 2009 3:36 pm PT
Review:  Mortal Komabt vs DC, you must first choose your side. (in my opinion Mortal Kombat) , You get to 
 see what brings these 2 universes together, a dream come true for some.
  I dont want to give away the story. the story line is very good and will explain it all. Now lets 
 talk about the Kombat part. of course you have over 20 characters all with their special moves 
 and own combos. And, a new fighting system. I will day that the fighting is better in this than 
 what it has been in a while. The fighting is fast paced, in your face, butt kicking. The super 
 heros and villans go great with Kombat and are lots of fun to use. This is definetly something 
 new and fresh, not just the same old thing. Which is great. The online play is fun and addictive. 
 Game is real easy to pick up and play. So your mom can even play it. (come on you know she will) . 
 No, there is no blood and gore, but it still has great action. The fatalities are still satisfying.
 
  The graphics are great, with great detail on the characters with they get injured in combat.
 
  Bad things; 
  Online has a few issues, everytime you try to leave a room you usually lose connection. but you 
 will still be signed in, so thats kind of weird.
  sometimes you cant even get online at all. so the servers are kind of bad, need some work.
  the 
 game is kind of short, you can beat both stories in 2 days. the combo challenge is ridiculously 
 hard.
  Overall: please stop arguing about no blood, because its a good game and well worth your money. 
 I for one would like to see another one like this. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bmassarani
Rating: 7
Date: Jan 29, 2009 7:19 am PT
Review:  I am a Street Fighter kind of guy, and my neighbor is a Mortal Kombat kind of guy. Needless to 
 say, since I am still waiting for SF4 I figured I would go ahead and pick up MK VS DC and give 
 it the old college try. Thank goodness the game ended up being a lot more fun than I expected.
 
  
  Now I played MK 1 and 2 so i am familiar with the MK system. When I heard that this one came out 
 and was rated teen I got a little worried. And I was definetly worried that the DC inclusion would 
 just be a cash in and the characters would not be given the attention they deserved. Well, I was 
 proven wrong. Aside from the fact that there is no extreme gore, MK VS DC is a blast to play. 
 
  
  I would always get my butt kicked playing people who preferred MK, but after taking some time and 
 learning some moves the game instantly became more accessible. The DC characters are well balanced 
 and every character is fun to play. As a negative, the story is RIDICULOUS, but at least you only 
 have to go through it twice to unlock Shao Kahn and Dark Sied.
  
  The Good - more accessible than previous MK games, great graphics and a blast to play. DC characters 
 fit pretty well into the game.
  
  The Bad - toned down fatalities
  
  The Ugly - THE STORY (check gameradar. com for their spoof on the MK story as being a porno... its 
 not explicit, but it is hilarious) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ocdog45
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 19, 2009 1:25 pm PT
Review:  This game brings a lot or replay value and excellent fighting styles. Try not to look too much 
 into things like "how can raiden beat superman". How about remembering that it's a video game. 
 Once you have done that prepare to enjoy a great game.
  Story  two worlds are merged together by simultaneous events that happened in each other world. 
 The story mode allows you to play from the DC world and the MK world ultimately finishing with 
 same results.
  Arcade, Challenges  this seems the most interesting about the game since this is where the replay 
 value comes in. arcade allows you to go up a ladder of competitors like and fighting game. At the 
 end of it, they give you the typical MK ending. These endings are very interesting to read since 
 they explain how things occur if a character would win a tournament. The challenges are hardcore 
 so be prepared to either get made, or if you're like me, move on to the next character. I was never 
 into the MK series but air chain combos are a big deal. The challenge mode schools you on this 
 allowing you to be the best of your friends.
  Online- pass. It's not that it's bad; it's that nobody is playing.
  Overall - if you're into 
 fighting games then absolutely rent this game and if you're cheap wait a few weeks the price should 
 drop and then get it. You should get your money's worth if you play everything that the game has 
 to offer. It's a great game if you play it with friends.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: hamidreza64
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 17, 2009 11:14 am PT
Review:  As a MK fan i liked this game and i think the idea of mixing DC and Mk wasnt that bad. I am not 
 fan of DC hero games but actually i was suprised with this version of MK. The kombo challenge is 
 fun and sometimes it gets really hard. story mode was abit boring but when you finish it you unlock 
 characters. Unlockable characters are not a big deal and normal ones are better in my opinion. 
 The gameplay is nice and when you learn mixing kombos it gets exciting specially against a human 
 opponent. One big dissapointment is fatalities and brutalities. I donot like them that much and 
 I wish there were more fatalities and even animalities. They are also easier to do than previous 
 versions. special attacks for each characters are unique and thats what make this game special. 
 Some fun characters like Joker really make this game funny and at the same time challenging. Online 
 mode is not that good because most players just spam one kind of attack and you have to do the 
 same to win the match, I didnt enjoy online match that much but my friend likes it. I was excpecting 
 better graphics but still its acceptable. all around its a good game and a must for gamers who 
 enjoy fighting games. You also get trophies for PS3 so its another Plus for it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: combatsoldier
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 17, 2009 6:28 am PT
Review:  I am utterly stunned. I remember when I first heard about this game. The first thing that came 
 to my mind was EPIC FAIL! Then I started seeing some of the fight clipse and reading up on it. 
 I then changed my opinion and became excited about it. We all know that there were only a couple 
 of good fighting games that were released in 08. One of them being Soul Calibur 4 and Dragon Ball 
 Z burst limit was a complete let down. Then there was this. 
  
  This game caught me by suprise. It offers a nice selection of characters. I must admit the DC characters 
 are even cooler then the MK characters. Especially the Joker. His Fatalites are hillarious. The 
 game has trophies and or achievements witch is always a big plus and offers subperb gaming experience 
 with limitless game play. This to me is not only the best fighting game of 08 but one of the best 
 fighting games I have ever had the pleasure of playing. I am currently ranked in the top 100 online 
 in the world and have a awsome record of 512 wins, 6 losses, 6 router disconnections. I highly 
 recommend this game for not only MK Fans but just people looking for a fun new innovative game. 
 
  
  I dont know what to say really. The game offiers amazing, and I mean absolutely amazing visuals. 
 Each and every character has tons of moves and each character either has two fatalities or brutalites 
 depending on wether or not your a good or bad guy. The online is tons of fun as well. This game 
 delivers on all cylinders. The only thing I did not like about the game is thing called combo challenge 
 witch is extremely challenging. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SilverDragon_8
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 16, 2009 4:18 pm PT
Review:  Mortal Kombat vs. DC Universe is one of the best fighting games for next-gen consoles. The first 
 time I heard about this game being developed first question was "how were they going to pull this 
 off?", surprisingly well. I'm a huge fan of Mortal Kombat and DC Comics and after playing this 
 game I was surprised at how much fun it is. It's superior to Mortal Kombat Armageddon, though it 
 wasn't a bad game, just felt rushed. The graphics to this game are simply amazing and realistic, 
 character models look good, arenas look great. The story mode was good as well, the only problem 
 I had with it, was that it seems as though they were working with the DC side more than the MK 
 side, but mothing too serious. I was kinda upset with the lack of unlockables the game offers, 
 the best they had was two secret playable characters that's it. Despite these small flaws, I had 
 a alot of with this game and if you're a fan of either series or both I recommend you check this 
 out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ngrodamus
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 16, 2009 1:12 am PT
Review:  After Mortal Kombat thoroughly explored the third dimension in its several lack luster Playstation 
 2 installments, MK vs DC takes the right step back to a faster fighting engine that isn't dependent 
 upon pre-programmed combos. Special moves can once again be creatively linked into user designed 
 juggles and combos plus jumpkicks and uppercuts are finally useful again. The fatalities are toned 
 down and there certainly isn't much depth to this game at all, but it offers a wide range of diverse 
 characters that all have a unique feel and keep the fighting experience fun and interesting. The 
 Unreal Engine does successfully take Mortal Kombat's graphics to the next level, but it lacks the 
 graphic depth found in games like Fallout 3 or Metal Gear Solid 4. It does supply an entertaining 
 story mode and a the classic Arcade mode of all previous MK's. For the first time since Mortal 
 Kombat Trilogy, Mortal Kombat feels like Mortal Kombat again. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ammos_Pheonix
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 15, 2009 6:47 pm PT
Review:  How long has it been since the last gory game we had in this franchise? Been some time. Has it 
 able to make a recovery?
  
  -
  
  First off, a thing I'd like to say. This is rated TEEN. So things are a lot different.
  
  
 
  
  My first comment is that this is washed down, so don't expect you being able to use Sub-Zero and 
 rip Raiden's head and spine off. The only thing that you'd see is blood and bones. It's said that 
 Midway did this as "new direction" and see if there fans like it.
  
  -
  Now let's start off with the essentials. It starts off with a menu of Batman and Scorpion and if 
 you keep pressing other options without going to another screen, will change views, whom are the 
 default characters you see in the main menu, and are the biggest heads on the normal edition of 
 Mortal Kombat vs. DC Universe cover. Strangely, they aren't the so-main characters. There is the 
 one player, and two player options which includes online play. Under one player mode, there is 
 Arcade, Story, Kombo Challenge, and Training. Which I'll get to later. Two player is just two players, 
 since, you never heard of a four-player fighting game, have you?
  
  How the fighting system works is simplistic but great. Every character holds sets of moves which 
 are similar to others. But they also have a special move list which is completely different, but 
 kinda -repetetive-... I mean this that some voices of the characters sound similar to others, such 
 as Raiden having the same stock voice as Liu Kang. Nothing really much... but yeah. Moves are made 
 with the use of the D-Pad and the plain old buttons. To perform a special move such as Spear of 
 Scorpion, you perform B+B+1. The sets use are B, D, F, 1, 2, 3, 4. B means Back, D means Down, 
 and F means Front. The default keys of 1, 2, 3, 4 are, in same order, are Square, Triangle, X, 
 Circle. So B+B+1 is what ever you are facing, as if you are facing to the right, it is Left, Left, 
 Square. Or as if facing left, it is Right, Right, Square. There's something that you learned.
 
  
  As simple as the fighting seems, using Unreal Engine 3, there is other mechanisms behind other 
 than performing these combos. There is the action of Klose Kombat, also known as Universe Klose, 
 in which you grab your opponent, default button R1 and which it automatically enables you to perform 
 Klose Kombat. You press the either series 1, 2, 3, 4. Or what I said earlier. You use these buttons 
 and makes your character hit the opposing one while he, is in defense using 1, 2, 3, or 4. If his 
 matched buttons matches yours, he will successfully parry your attack and encounter with his own. 
 Such example is if you press button 1 and he presses button 3. He is not able to defend himself 
 and you damage his life bar, which is used in this game. You are able to hit your opponent of a 
 total of four times while performing Klose Kombat. If you hesitate in performing it, you will hear 
 a siren buzzing as in you have little time to perform it on him. If you procrastinate your hit, 
 you can perform less than four during a Klose Kombat. Sounds technical huh? I'm pretty sure you're 
 all smart here... hopefully. Why so detailed here? Cuz this is practically all the gameplay other 
 than modes such as Story.
  
  
  
  There is another form similar to this in Mortal Kombat vs. DC Universe, which is Free Fall. There 
 are two forms of this, one when, you... free fall, by grabbing and throwing your opponent with 
 default button L1 or hit him by an edge which is enabled for Free Fall. During Free Fall, as the 
 opposer, you do the same as Klose Kombat, but when you both hit the same button before the performance 
 is over, he, your opponent will switch sides for where he can attack you. As the opposer you are 
 on the top hitting him before he strikes to the ground. At the right moment of hitting him enough, 
 button R1 will be enabled to bring the damage down more quickly at the right moment. It will allow 
 your character to perform their special free fall move and smash your opponent onto the ground.
 
  
  
  Next is the kind where you throw your opponent to a wall that is enabled to do this move where 
 it automatically enables your character to perform this. You press all buttons, 1, 2, 3, 4 repeatively 
 until this action ends. Your goal is to have raise the damage of the bar higher for, higher damage. 
 But your enemy can do this to by pressing the same buttons repeatively to lower the damage bar.
 
  
  You're probably itching yourself right now. Yes, there is Fatalities here, but not what you think 
 it is. It's washed down with the Teen violence in it. You have to perform these moves with a specific 
 combination when you defeat your opponent for the last time at that battle. For Scorpion, one form 
 of fatality is D, D, D, 4. Or D+D+D+Circle. Each character has two fatalities but, all DC characters, 
 aside from the enemies have Hero Brutalities, which are practically the same but does not involve 
 in killing your opponent.
  
  -
  
  Let's go back to the modes. There is Story Mode, Arcade Mode, Kombo Challenge, VS, and Online. 
 Story mode, consists of a, surprisingly developed story line among the two Universes colliding 
 with one another. I'm not going to spoil it unless you PM me for it. You already know they collided 
 some how. I'm pretty sure. You go through chapters of the two sides, DC Universe Story, and Mortal 
 Kombat Story. Each chapter consists of the same person you fight as for about four to five people 
 you fight, with increasing difficulty until the last guy, whom you can know if you PM me. That's 
 all I can tell you about Story mode.
  
  Arcade Mode is practically like story, including increasing difficulty. You choose your character 
 from either side and the option of choosing which Universe to fight with, Mortal Kombat, DC Universe 
 or both. You have completely different endings for every character but that's about it.
  
  Kombo Challenge is pretty much like training mode but it forces you to use each character to do 
 these practically insane combinations. You get trophies with this 'by the way'...
  
  2-Player mode is fighting with you and a non-computer player. You can also go online with other 
 guys if you are truely lonely. Most of them will more likely own you at your first try. There is 
 a room with pubescent boys where you can chat with one another through voice or words. ... I know. 
 You can enter rooms people made and you can meet others and press options to challenge them or 
 accept or decline challenges people offer you.
  
  -
  
  Characters, I forgot to talk about them. It's brief unlike my other 'stuff'. But let's go. The 
 characters are meant are an equal amount against eachother where you can unlock two secret characters. 
 Yes, sadly, only two. They should have more unlockables other than this... Not all the characters 
 are equal and some are unfair. Such are Lex Luthor. Using proper timing and proper bounderies will 
 make you, the opponent have a tough time. Trust me on this.
  
  -
  
  This game is following the Unreal Engine. The character models are quite good and very detailed. 
 All men are, as always, overly-steroidic with large crotches and very large... er.. everythings... 
 While the three females have... very, uhmm... let this picture describe it.
  
  
  Let your imaginations run free. But the models aren't so good compared to the background of the 
 stages. First off, the loading stages are just pictures off the story with a loading bar. Seems 
 kinda rushed to me. But graphic wise, the stages aren't really 'top notched'. They are pretty low 
 and simple compared to others, such as Soul Calibur IV.
  
  -
  
  Really, this game is pretty good. Since I'm always optimistic into gaming, I find this great. I 
 like fighting but this can be hard. It depends in which you are good with. Learn your moves. This 
 is kinda found rush but, I like it. If you are a Mortal Kombat fan, DC fan or simply a fighter 
 fan. This is for you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ClassicPlayer
Rating: 5.5
Date: Jan 15, 2009 11:18 am PT
Review:  After the almight Mortal Kombat: Armaggedon came out on PS2, it pretty much defined MK, with a 64 
 player character roster, engaging story and endings. So 3 years have past and Ed Boon decided to 
 do things a little differently, but has this changed Mortal Kombat finally drowned, or is it still 
 rising to the top.
  
  Sadly the first one, this has literally ruined Mortal Kombat. I don't know what Ed Boon was thinking, 
 but this game is just disastrous. The story follows the end of Justice League Unlimted, and from 
 the previous MK game, the ripple seems to bring some MK or DC characters in the other universe, 
 and later start getting "rage" where they are not in control, and let out all the rage inside them 
 to do brutal attacks (well not really, just makes you invincible for a very short period of time) . 
 A new enemy arises, called Dark Khan, who controls rage within these characters, upon discovering 
 this, both MK and DC characters go to face Dark Khan and rid him of the universe, and to put amends 
 to the ripple. To be honest it reminds me of Arcade Mode, just with some 3D cutscenes in it and 
 some still images. The second to last fight, Superman vs Raiden, now I was expecting this to be 
 a battle of epic proportions, but sadly I was left to the button mashing in the other levels. The 
 Arcade Mode hasn't changed, you can choose to face Only DC Characters, Only MK Characters or a 
 mix between the two. It really doesn't matter, as it'll have little effect on you. The A. I seems 
 to have a habit of repeating some moves every now and then, and with the very questionable roster, 
 which meets about the same number of characters in Mortal Kombat Deception. Considering that Midway 
 had 2 or so years to develope this, it's just pathetic.
  
  The graphics are pretty good, if not too dark sometimes like on Batman and some of the environments. 
 It's not really anything to go head over heels about, but it makes you do look at it for another 
 5 minutes before turning it off in frustration.
  
  The lifespan of this game, depends on how long you miss the blood and guts that previous MK games 
 are infamously known for. Most of it has been cut out, as well as the weapons feature, and the 
 styles, which is a major letdown. DC Heroes have whats called Hero Brutalities, which you activate 
 like Fatalities, only they don't look as cool, same goes with the Fatalities. I was again, expecting 
 multiple fatality pull offs like in Armaggedon, tearing an arm off, hitting your opponent with 
 it, then maybe ripping their spine before they die. Another problem is there aren't any mini games, 
 none at all. I loved MK Racing from Armaggedon, and MK Chess from Deception, but this had none. 
 I mean come on Ed Boon, seriously you need t think a bit more.
  
  Like Armaggedon there is online, but this becomes very frustrating, as everyone plays like a noob, 
 repeating the same 3-4 hit combo's over and over again, which will make you tear you hair out. 
 I played 5 matches with 1 guy and he done the same move over and over again, yes I did kick his 
 butt with Sonya but I did get hacked off at how many projectile moves he was using.
  
  After playing from MK Deadly Alliance, to this, I officially don't like MK anymore, the old ones 
 are way better, you can probably pick up Deception for 5, or the PSP version called Unchained 
 for around the same price, and Armaggedon for about 15. Ed Boon should really be ashamed of himself, 
 seriously. If your going to do 2 universes collide beat em up, follow SNK vs Capcom, at least they've 
 done it right. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pez-loving-lea
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 15, 2009 5:50 am PT
Review:  I rented this and played it for 2 days and then left it on the side but 2 weeks ago i fount myself 
 wanting to play it again so i brought it for 19.98 at Gamestation. i've been playing it ever since. 
 The game is a classic Beat'Em Up. people have complained about the length of the game but since 
 when we're fighting games like this about the story ang length? 
  The game has me addicted wanting to complete both story modes and arcade mode with all the characters 
 (22 in total) its a shame there arent many characters in the game as i was expecting but theres 
 always room for more on a sequel or in a DLC pack. The game has story, arcade and kombo challenge 
 modes which are all addictive. Kombo challenges can be frustrating but rewarding once you finish 
 them. The game includes trophies to collect aswell half are easy the other half can be challenging 
 but fun. If you're unsure about this game don't pay 40 rent it first or get it for 20 at gamestation. 
 Give the game a chance and you won't be dissapointed.
  
  Graphics: 8/10
  Gameplay: 8/10
  Lasting Appeal: 9/10
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: darkbatman74
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 14, 2009 8:07 am PT
Review:  it is a good game . every body knows mortal kombat . it is famous for violence
  but we see less violence in this game . I think DC universe characters don't like violence so much. 
 all mortal kombat games was 17 + but this game is for teens . it is too short . I finished it in 
 two days . it is shorter than mortal kombat deception and armageddon , but it has a good story 
 . fatalities were better in deception and had more blood , but in this game fatalities are not 
 so good and it has less blood . mortal kombat armagedden and deception had traps, but it hasen't 
 any traps in this game. this game has test your might and some fighting in air .it has good DC 
 universe characters , but some of mortal kombat characters isn't so good and it must has a better 
 characters .
  at last it is a good game for fun , but if you played so much it whould be boring. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BlakkSteel
Rating: 7
Date: Jan 9, 2009 8:09 pm PT
Review:  When the news was first broken on this game, there were many gamers that were very suspect on the 
 concept. Midway tried to qwell our suspicions of a potentially lame duck in a relatively strong 
 series. After its release, we see that the game developers lied, & what we knew would come to pass. 
 
  
  Any of us that have read the DC comics knows that characters really don't die in the DC universe. 
 They're still E10 friendly. With that bein' noted, could we really expect any real fatalities like 
 in titles past? Midway has been strippin' the series down since Shaolin Monks & Armageddon. The 
 presentation looks pretty, but it's like a golden pie crust with no filling. 
  
  With what is added to the game, it can never mask the lack of fatalities. Playing MK with no brutal 
 fatalities, is like playin' soccer with a hackie-sack. It's very good to look at; but what's the 
 point, with no fatalities? I can't call what they have 'finishing moves.' At least in the Marvel 
 universe, people DO actually die. They could've went there. It's a better look to play SC4. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: metallica4mayor
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 4, 2009 12:35 pm PT
Review:  Sure its fun beating the crap out of the DC F a G g O t S (sorry didnt want that to get censored 
 lol) but that isnt enough to make it a good game. First of all why not Marvel? Itd be way more 
 interesting to see Sub zero vs Spiderman than Sub zero vs Batman. If Midway truely wanted to make 
 a good game, they should cut the crap, make it rated M, bloody fatalites, expand the MK roster, 
 because i was really dissapointed to see that i couldnt play as Shinnok, or Quan Chi, (also some 
 people say that Mk Armagedon has a bad roster selection, WRONG!!! it has the best MK roster to date 
 in my opinion) and just get rid of the Green Lantern and Superman, they both are pretty much the 
 cheapest characters in the game, and only 1 deserves to be in the game. The DC character seletion 
 was surprisingly pretty good, oh and the Flash should either have his move set changed or kicked 
 out of the game, because hes also a cheap character. Now lets get into the game itself, theres 
 the same old classic arcade mode from Mortal Kombat where at the end you face Dark Khan and get 
 your characters ending. So nothings wrong here lets see the multiplayer and online modes. Both 
 are pretty good and whats also new that on the online option you can see who are laggers and who 
 has a good connection so you shouldnt have a problem with lagging. Now into the storyline mode... 
 the story is good at first but then awful, just by seeing who wins, i mean do *spoiler spoiler 
 spoiler* you think Lex Luther could actually beat Sub Zero and Scorpion... right after facing the 
 other?!! BULL SH*T. Midway should be ashamed of even thinking of letting him win. Other than that 
 the game is excellent so a hardcore MK or DC fan should really like this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nickprs
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 1, 2009 4:48 pm PT
Review:  ROUND 1: BUY!!!!!!!!!! ROUND 2: EXCELLENT FIGHTING GAME!!!!!!!! ROUND 3: HARD TO DO FATALITIES!!!!!!!!!!!!
 
  
  if you are a kid an love fighting games and like super heros, this game is priceless, its got excellent 
 and creative combo moves, but the fatalities and brutalities are kind of impossible to do.......... 
 they are kind of cool to watch, but should be a little bit easier to do i dont know much about mortal 
 kombat games, but i heard fans of it have been disappointed by this game BADLY..... well all i know 
 is, its got a very nice, well-put together storyline for both sides dc and mk... i tried it on both 
 360 and ps3 and i think that fighting games are easier to play on the ps3 because the pads and 
 buttons are harder on the 360, they are easier for your fingers to slip, and you will more likely 
 hit the wrong button on the 360 then the ps3, ps3 d-pad and buttons are more stable for you to hit 
 and wont slip as easy...... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gondor235
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 30, 2008 4:08 pm PT
Review:  So I'll give you a summary of my experience so far. I got the game for christmas from my girlfriend. 
 I've played it a bit, and though i wasn't all that interested at first, soon enough the game caught 
 my attention! Reading the box my first thought was superman and mortal kombat... hmm..? Suprisingly 
 it turned out to be a fantastic match! they are perfect for each other. I mean i was dissapointed 
 at first with the roster but i thought to myself, i really only enjoyed playing as these few characters 
 anyways. The combat is fairly the same with minor adjustments in speed, the fighting is almost 
 there but i would prefer alot faster for more combat. The graphics are amazing. Licensing the Unreal 
 3 engine was perfect ( though bankcrupting Midway) for the game it gave it the edgy realistic look 
 it needed. Compared to a fighting genre champion Soul Calibur 4, the campaign mode is alot longer 
 and way funner. Though cut-scenes are short they offer a action packed transition between levels, 
 which i personally enjoy. Now, my favourite part so far, is the sound effects. Now i've had some 
 games in the past where sound effects are bland and corny, this game proves me wrong. This games 
 is worth the new surround system, the mind blowing effects are PHENOMENAL! they are realistic and 
 cool to hear, which is always a bonus! :) My point is BUY IT! the game is awesome and is very fun 
 to play, i can see myself playing long hours on this for a while. Thanks! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Asagea_888
Rating: 7.5
Date: Dec 30, 2008 11:29 pm PT
Review:  Nobody saw this one coming. I was among the majority of folks who were shocked at the prospect 
 of the idea. Although I was never really good at Mortal Kombat, I liked it because it had a solid 
 fighting system -- blood, gore and fatalities notwithstanding. Now, the controversial yet hugely-successful 
 fighting franchise squares off for the first time against the superheroes and villains of the DC 
 Comics Universe. Crossover bouts have been done before, save for Marvel and Capcom, but this one, 
 I'm happy to say, is quite unique. For the most part, the game is a surprisingly fun and brutal 
 romp that retains the charm of the MK series and introduces some new gameplay elements. 
  
  The story behind Mortal Kombat vs. DC Universe is something only the comic scribes could think 
 up (which is exactly the case here -- penned by two well-known DC comic writers) A catastrophic world-merger 
 crisis is at hand, pitting the defenders of Outworld against members of the Justice League (Superman, 
 Batman, Wonder Woman, even the old-school Captain Marvel) and super villains (Lex Luthor, Deathstroke, 
 even the Joker!) Rivals pair up, allies become enemies -- all sorts of things begin happening, and 
 it's up to both sides to figure out the source behind these bizarre turn of events and set things 
 in their proper place. I have just described the Story mode of the game -- where you can choose either 
 the MK or DC side and investigate their individual storylines -- both leading up to their respective 
 conclusions and heart-pounding climaxes. It's all very nicely done and well-acted, and you can't 
 help but wonder who'd win in a fight -- Batman or Scorpion?
  
  Of course, you needn't play just the story mode alone to determine that. The Arcade mode lets you 
 choose any of the 20+ characters from both MK and DC rosters and have at it against a predetermined 
 set of CPU-controlled opponents. You can decide to battle a Mortal Kombat roster, a DC Universe 
 roster or a mixture of both. I'm a little disappointed that the rosters for both sides had been 
 scaled down to a bare minimum of 10 -- especially considering some surprising omissions. (No Johnny 
 Cage?) But the roster therein are a nicely-attuned and arranged lot -- determined by their overall 
 popularity amongst both MK and DC fanbases.
  
  Once thing about the Mortal Kombat games that made it so immensely popular was the blood, gore 
 and those ever-so-delightful finishing moves -- the fatalities. Make no mistake -- Mortal Kombat would 
 be nothing without them. MK vs. DC certainly has blood, but because it's now a Teen-rated game 
 (due in part to the DC Universe of characters) , the blood's been toned down considerably, and fatalities 
 are less violent. The MK roster have their traditional finishing moves, but they've been altered 
 somewhat to appear less disturbing. DC Heroes don't have fatalities per se -- rather, they've got 
 heroic brutalities which are a little like finishing moves -- only they don't kill their opponent 
 seeing how they're superheroes and not super mass murderers. I do appreciate the developers keeping 
 akin to the Teen rating, but I can't help but feel a little disheartened that the MK roster had 
 to have been compromised because of it. 
  
  Still, that's not to say the fighting system isn't fun. The participants no longer benefit from 
 switching between styles and weaponry as was the case with previous MK games of its kind, but they 
 can engage in different kinds of combat -- klose kombat, free fall kombat and test-your-might. Klose 
 Kombat allows you to engage in close-quarters fisticuff against your opponent -- the camera closes 
 in and you get to put in some brutal, button-pressing fist jabs and throws, breaking as many teeth 
 as possible before they counter in kind. If you knock your opponent off the arena, you enter free-fall 
 kombat where you're literally punching and kicking at your foe as you're falling to the arena below 
 (you can even deliver a brutal fierce special attack if you jab the shoulder button at the right 
 moment, delivering some massive damage) . Test-your-might occurs when you punch an opponent against 
 a breakable wall before charging them through several solid barriers, pressing all of the attack 
 buttons as fast as possible to pile on the damage, or prevent as much as possible if you're on 
 the receiving end. These new fighting elements add much-needed flair to the game, and can make 
 for some exciting bouts.
  
  The sound effects are as brutal as ever, and the graphics are quite nicely done as well. Character 
 models are excellently detailed, and the DC heroes are represented as close to their source material 
 as they can get. The arenas consist of realms coming from both the MK and DC worlds -- there are 
 even some fighting grounds where both worlds converge at a dividing line in the middle of the field. 
 It's a nice touch and a great effect.
  
  Like Raiden's thunderbolts, MK vs DC Universe was quite a shocker. But in the end, the game is 
 a brutal exercise of fun that can be enjoyed equally by MK fans, DC fans and fighting game fans 
 in general. Even though the toning-down of the gore and fatalities is a bit disappointing, the 
 solid fighting system that played as much a part of the MK series as the blood and gore did is 
 still there -- made more exciting by some fresh new gameplay elements. Give this game a chance -- you 
 might be surprised.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: AngelWolfCDS101
Rating: 7.5
Date: Dec 28, 2008 8:34 pm PT
Review:  THE GOOD:
  The characters look phenomenal. Each model has a great amount of detail put into it. (A personal 
 vice is the female models as they look... well, really good. :-o ) The persistant damage is great, 
 but it is a little weird to see Superman with a black-eye. The game itself is really fun and easy 
 to learn. The intenseness of the battles gets pretty good as you start to develop a rythmn and 
 get a feel for each character. The story mode is great; just the right amount of each universe 
 and absurd explanations for what's going on to keep you interested to play till the end.
  
  THE BAD:
  The biggest let down of this game is the relatively small cast. So many characters 
 on each side that could have been great additions... Johnny Cage, Kung Lao, Reptile, Batgirl, Martian 
 Manhunter, Bane, Killer Croc... So many possibilities... Also, where are all the arenas? The ones 
 included are pretty, but there could have been so many more. For example, what about the legendary 
 Mortal Kombat staple, The Pit?. Next is the lack of unlockable content. All I get for my efforts 
 (spoilers following) is the ability to play as Shao Kahn or Darkseid and 'endings' which consist 
 of a still frame and a short paragraph about what the character did after defeating Dark Kahn.
 
  
  THE UGLY:
  The sound is kind of substandard. Nothing really 'pops' out in the score or sound effects. The 
 lack of the famous Mortal Kombat gore is also apparent, but is easily overlooked... at least for 
 me it was. Other fans, apparently, don't feel the same way. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RadTad62
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 27, 2008 5:22 am PT
Review:  when i first heard that this game was coming out i was like dc vs mk never going to work but then 
 i looked at my game rack and saw kingdom hearts 1 and 2 and then i thought i said the same thing 
 about the first one but its one of my favorite games. the game play is awesome i wish more developers 
 took notes on how midway took the traditioal mk system and added so new bells and whistles to it 
 but pulls it off so clean the free fall combat and the rage system keeps the game play fresh and 
 i havent gotten bored with it yet. the characters are balanced ok on the easy and normal settings 
 but if you go to hard or very hard the flash and dark kahn will make you want to break every piece 
 of furniture in you house. on the down side not enough characters but hopefully there will be new 
 ones ala dlc it would be cool to see more mk and dc characters like green lantern john stewart 
 and my fav mk character havik battle it out. some people didn't like the fact that the dc heros 
 don't have fatalities but remember the heros don't kill in the comics or the animatied series so 
 i can forgive for that but the flash has one of the best brutalities i've ever seen it's so fast. 
 but all in all this is a great game can't want for the second one if they put it out and if this 
 does well enough maybe we can get dc vs marvel if capcom doesn't make it first 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ratchetcooper1
Rating: 7
Date: Dec 20, 2008 3:51 pm PT
Review:  I'm actually with the critics on this one. The graphics are amazing and the storyline is great. 
 But the problem, is the cons outweigh the pros. I can't say i'm a hardcore Mortal Kombat fan but 
 I'm sure MK VS. DC was supposed to be way better. Why make this a T-Rated game? Cuz it has superheroes? 
 That's no excuse for making the game less fun. The fatalities suck I conclude from my experience 
 with other MK games. This is two universes merging come on isn't it supposed to be way better? 
 Lol, I remember a while ago I was playing an old MK game and Kano performed his fatality by ripping 
 out his opponents' heart. His new fatality: throws two small knives. Wow. The lineups are pretty 
 cool I guess but they should of been expanded. I was really mad when I found out Martian Manhunter 
 wasn't in it. But yet characters like Catwoman and Deathstroke made it. I also think there coulda 
 been a wider variety of moves. They shoulda made the story longer too. I beat both sides on the 
 day I got it. I just hope DC will amaze us for once in DCU Online. There shoulda also been more 
 arenas and capabilities in those arenas. Altogether, its a pretty cool game not necessarily first 
 on your list, but don't completely give up on it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: buffdaddy69
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 19, 2008 10:32 pm PT
Review:  Alot of people, including me were ragging on this game due to the teen rating. People were mad 
 because the DC Characters wouldn't have fatalities or the MKcharacters fatalities were dumbed down.
 
  
  Aside from those two minor issues... This game is infact pretty chill.
  
  Lets start off with the graphics.
  
  Next gen at its best. How awesome is it fighitng Batman 
 against scorpion and seeing our cloths being destroyed after throwing each other off a building 
 or running them through one? The graphics are the best i've seen fighting game wise. I would actually 
 go as far as to say that they are up there with Soul Calibur 4, though not as fluid. 
  
  The gameplay is very solid
  
  I love this MK game mainly because it went back to its old school 
 roots, which i loved. People complain about this, but these are the same people who have been playing 
 Street Fighter for the last 15 years, where the game play in Street Fighter has not changed at 
 all. ITs veyr basic, Punch, Kick, throw, block double tap foward to run a bit. very basic and easy 
 to pick it.
  
  Sound
  
  Ehhhhh... not much going on here, im too busy blasting Slayer while i open a can on Superman.
 
  
  
  Storymode
  
  Eh again. I do like it but... eh. I never follow Mortal Kombat stories. NOt really a fun of the 
 story mode, but its good for those who like achievements.
  
  Reasons why people can't complain about the DC HEROS not having fatalities.
  
  1. DC Heros 
 don't maim or kill people, even bad guys. Not these ones anyway, I dont know about Death Stroke 
 though. Don't care about him though, He's a watered down bootleg version of Dead Pool.
  
  2. The only person who should have fatalities is The Joker. The Bang Gun fatality shouldn't have 
 been censored ether. DC complains about the voilence, But in some Batman comics, Joker has ether 
 shot Barba Gordon in the stomach, completly destroying her spinal cord, Or Shooting Jim Gordons 
 wife in the head in a room filled with babies Joker was gonna gas anyway, or Joker killing an entire 
 cub scout group with poison cotton candy.
  
  Reasons why people can complain about MK Characters having dumbed down Fatalities.
  
  DC Heros 
 have died in their comic book counter parts. SUperman was killed by Doomsday, The Joker literally 
 beat Robin to death with a crowbar and blew up a warehouse with Robins dead body and his mother 
 in it. Blood and Gore is what all the MK characters know. Taking away The MK cast' fatalities, 
 is like taking their balls away from them.
  
  Overall
  
  Aside from the toned down voilence, This game is worth sitting on you're shelf and great for busting 
 out for those dudes gamer nights while drinking some good ole beer. This is enough to keep me held 
 over until Street Fighter 4 comes out, but even after SF4, MKvsDC will always be played. A true 
 fighting game gem.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: panthermusky
Rating: 7
Date: Dec 18, 2008 11:13 pm PT
Review:  Well at first the game is very easy to learn and master especially on the PS3. The controls are 
 layed out perfect for the game. But after you play a few matches the game is just it like a revolving 
 circle nothing really changes and nothing really matters. Sure you can unlock a few guys but arcade 
 mode is lame with lame endings. and story mode is annoying having to change the players all the 
 time. It would be better if it mixed some missions out of just general mortal kombat. If there 
 were more to unlock for each character. That being said there is something about this game that 
 kept me playing, I just liked figuring out the moves for each character . This was the first fighint 
 game that I actually enjoyed in awhile. Online is pretty cool there are games that come pretty 
 quickly but the real fun is kicking some but and throuwing down those heroic brutalities on the 
 gus. I wish it were a bit more three dimensional 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kentwatkins
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 18, 2008 1:08 pm PT
Review:  gd to see subzero back to his roots, he has been crap in the last three mks. 
  dont bother doing any finishing moves waste of time, rage is hopeless tho no skill there, all in 
 all i like this game alot looks gd fun to play and cant wait for the next one. byeeeeeeee eeeeeeee 
 eeeeeeeee e eeee eeeeee eeeeeeeeee eeeeeee eee ee ee eeee eeee eeee eeeeeeeeee eeeee eeee e e e 
 4e e e e e e e e e e e e e e e e e e e e e e e e e e e e e e e e e e e e e e e e e e e e e e e 
 e e e e e e e e e e e e e e e e e e e e e e e e e e e e e e e e e e e e e e e e e e e e e e e e 
 e e e e e e e e e e e e e e e e e e e e e e e e e e e e e e e e de d d d d dd d d d d d d d d d 
 d dd d d d x x x x x x x x x x aa a a a a a a a a a a ss s s s s s s s s r rr r r r r r e e e e 
 e e e e e e h h h h h h o o o l e e d i d d d d i i i ii c c c c kk k k k k k h h e e a a dd d 
 d ha ha 100 words to many!!!!!!!!!! !!!!!!!! !!!!!!!!!!!!! !!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Andrew020889
Rating: 7.5
Date: Dec 18, 2008 9:49 am PT
Review:  Bad: There aren't multiple fighting styles for each character like in Deadly Alliance and Deception. 
 So at times I felt like I was doing the same moves over and over. There are only a certain amount 
 of combos or special moves you can do before you end up repeating them multiple times in battle. 
 This isn't a huge deal, but at times it got annoying (especially with Darkside who literally only 
 has like10 moves total) . This is the first Mortal Kombat game to receive a Teen rating instead 
 of a Mature rating. So there is a lot less blood than in previous games. To me thats not a big 
 deal, but the fact that the Fatalities are pretty boring, and these "Heroic Brutalities" are even 
 worse than the fatalities, is pretty disappointing. The kombo challenge mode, is ridiculously hard. 
 I dont know who could actually beat it, let alone use something like that in battle. Some kombos 
 seem attainable, but each character has a very difficult one. It requires you to press 10 or more 
 buttons in succession. its not even worth the trophy you get for beating the kombo challenge with 
 each character. 
  
  Good: The inclusion of the DC characters was cool, and it made things more interesting, instead 
 of having another game of mortal kombat characters against mortal kombat characters. The story 
 mode was done very well. Even though it may seem cheesy at times, it works well. Apparently the 
 mortal kombat world and DC world are merging because of a new character named Dark Khan (a mixture 
 of Shao Khan and Darkside) . The arcade mode is also done well. You can choose if you want to fight 
 all DC characters, all mortal kombat characters, or a mixture of the two. It has that classic Mortal 
 Kombat feel. 
  
  With the inclusion of DC characters, Midway was really taking a risk with this. They knew they 
 were going to turn some fans off from the series, while they were hoping to get more people into 
 the series. But overall they kinda missed the mark on making both types of people happy. The DC 
 characters were cool, but because they were added, it had to have a Teen rating which was a hindrance 
 to this game. So it was almost a lose-lose situation here. Overall this game isn't like your typical 
 Mortal Kombat, but it still feels like one. The characters, moves, arenas, and so much more. It 
 may be a different step in the series, but the true mortal kombat fans will realize that even though 
 it made a big change, its still a true mortal kombat game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kejukeju
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 12, 2008 11:29 pm PT
Review:  The games is very good, I play a lot of fighting games, like GGXX, MVC , and others and I believe 
 that mortal kombat has it own style, different from the ultra fast MVC , different from the ultra 
 comboable GGXX and diferent from the perfect street fighter 3 ,this games makes the role of a mortal 
 kombat game, and most important it helps to revive the fighting gmes, first being a game with rating 
 T, that allow that new gamers have contact with the franchise.
  I see a lot of people saying bad things about this game, but for me is perfect, it has a solid system, 
 fogetting about super and flash infinite it `s a balanced game for me, and makes me remember the 
 old day when I played mk2, for those who blamed about the few violence in the game, i`m sorry but 
 you are not seeing whats matter in a fighting game,. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JamTrini
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 10, 2008 2:30 pm PT
Review:  First I will admit that this is a toned down version of what we have all come to love about the 
 Mortal Kombat series. That being said it was already expected since DC characters being in the 
 game, DC themselves would not allow too much carnage in the game ( hence the Teen rating) . 
  
  Cons
  - Not enough characters on both sides. It is rumoured that DLC will be available soon 
 possibly Doomsday and Kung Lao. But having to pay for characters that should have been in the game 
 to begin with seems unfair.
  - Background stages do not seem to be a well rendered as they possibly could be. Sometimes flying 
 particles look PS2 like.
  - The L2 button to be used as the 3D modifier can feel stiff at times and not as responsive as 
 it should be.
  - The toned down fatalities take away from the experience but then again Batman doesn't kill anyone 
 right?
  - Klose Kombat is too random trying to guess your opponents button sequence. 
  - Not a whole lot of unlockables.
  - Timing on some Kombos seem impossible.
  
  Pros
  - 
 All the characters all rendered to 1080p perfection. The detail in the costumes as well as the 
 battle damage is amazing. The Jokers move list and character design is great, one of my favourites.
 
  - Test your might input into the game play during a match is a well thought out addition that 
 does not slow down the game play. Free fall Kombat is great especially when you do your finishing 
 attack.
  - No pointless additions such as kart racing or chess.
  - Moves actually make you feel the power of the characters you are controlling; damage to the environment 
 is great.
  - Some of the MK characters have revamped moves which are really nice additions like Sub Zero's 
 teleport move.
  
  Overall if you are a MK fan this is a must buy. Teen rating aside this is a good fighter and at 
 times I found myself enjoying this more than I did SC4. Would have loved more unlockable content 
 though to make the game play more worthwhile. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: M-Yu
Rating: 7.5
Date: Dec 16, 2008 10:38 am PT
Review:  It's been 2 years since we've had a Mortal Kombat game. While Armageddon didn't end the previous 
 era of MK with a bang, The franchise bounces back with a strange but thoroughly enjoyable fighter.
 
  
  At first, i was pretty ambivalent about the whole crossover w/ DC, would the heroes and villains 
 fit in with the MK crew?, By looking at the final product, The likes of Superman, Batman and Wonder 
 Woman fit in like a glove with the MK cast and they are represented very faithfully
  
  Crossovers have been done before in fighters (a good example is Marvel vs Capcom) and this is no 
 different at all. The story behind the fusion is all explained via the Story Mode which is playable 
 from both sides of the coin.
  
  The gameplay's very solid where it blends the best parts of the 2D and 3D MKs, Instead of 3 styles 
 per character, the creators took a back-to-basics approach this time around as well as adding new 
 things such as Klose Kombat where the camera kicks in on the two characters as they duke it out 
 while one's attacking and the one's defending, Freefall Kombat is where the characters fall into 
 another part of the arena while they can pull off character-specific super moves as well as the 
 Test Your Might from past MKs where you can run through a series of walls while you and a friend 
 can increase or decrease the damage done. 
  
  The character roster is balanced for the most part, while the MK roster is all top-notch, the DC 
 side has a few imbalances. Fatalites are back but since they're an intrinsic part of what makes 
 MK unique, they are toned-down
  the heroes of DC have Heroic Brutalities where it stays in tone for the heroes that don't kill.
 
  
  The gore has been toned-down this time, considering the T-for-Teen rating, which is a first for 
 Mortal Kombat. It can turn off even the diehard fans but the creators push the rating to it's breaking 
 point,. The online play is very smooth and lag-free depending if your connection is stable.
  
  All in all, MK vs DC comes off as an odd but surprisingly cool crossover. With the fighting 
 system that is more akin to past MKs, the smooth online play and the crazy yet engaging storyline. 
 It's worth renting it if you're open to accept the changes made now go online and... (insert scary 
 MK voice) "Finish Him!" 
::::::

::::::
UserName: eze_sl89
Rating: 7
Date: Dec 10, 2008 5:03 am PT
Review:  FIRST OF ALL: i have to say im a mortal kombat fan since i was born. Ive played every single MK 
 ever concieved. Mk1, mk2, mk3, mk3ultimate, mk4, mkgold, mk advance, mk trilogy, mk mithologies 
 sub zero, mk special forces, mk deadly alliance, mk decpetion, mk unchained, mk armageddon. AND 
 i have to say i love em all. cause i really love mortal kombat.
  And if it hasnt been for the participation of the mortal kombat franchise in this game, i would 
 i ve chose 5 or 4 as the score.
  
  ok soooo.... this is Mortal Kombat (?) vs Dc Universe.
  
  * Blood??? very little almost unnoticeable 
 just a few splashes here and there.
  * Fatalities??? well.. there are.. but a fatality with no blood is like a plane with no wings.
 
  * Character, maps variety? no.
  * GRAPHICS????? WTF i mean we are in next gen now,.. ps3.. 360.. wii.. wtf !.. there were times 
 i thought i was playing mortal kombat armaggeddon. Sometimes you cant really tell the difference. 
 
  * LACK of extra STUFF to do !!! gets old almost instantaneously.
  
  Having mentioned all this negative facts. lest get straight to the positive ones.
  
  * Batman 
 , superman and green lantern look really good. It may be because is the first time i see them in 
 next gen graphics. Well and flash has a bizarre posture, pretty gay.
  * Redesigned costumes of every MK character look awesome, they feel refreshed and new.
  * It 
 feels cool to have AT LAST a Mortal Kombat to play on the PS3 :)
  * Character voices and animations are pretty well made. As well as the "facial expressions" which 
 they look great.
  * Its an OK fighting game, but MK games are much more than that.
  
  All in all:... its not a FLAWLEES game (as MK armageddon or MK Trilogy, which they are) ; but it 
 has its charming features here and there. If you can get pass the nevative flaws... youll certanly 
 enjoy a bizarre ride along the obscure , violentLESS world of MK and the freaky , heroic universe 
 of DC colliding in an epic adventure. 
  
  MK and DC fans should buy it.
  
  on the other hand, plataformers.. rpgers.. fpsers and ohter kind of players should think it twise 
 before purchase.. maybe a rental ;)
  
  Cheers.
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: RYGAR_RYAN
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 7, 2008 10:54 am PT
Review:  FLAWLESS VICTORY! Arguably the best Mortal Kombat game since MK2. The DC characters add a great 
 element to one of the best all-time fighting games around. The moves are there, the blood is there, 
 the fatalities are there. If you are a Mortal Kombat fan, this game is a must. Although the online 
 menu is pretty weak and useless (you cant add friends, search friends, etc.) . The matches are fast 
 and fun! You just have to call your buddy to set up an online match. 
  
  The graphics are impressive too, the detail on the characters is nice and they show damage too 
 (ripped and shredded gear, blood, etc... ) Midway did a great job introducing the "test your might", 
 "Freefall" and "Klose Kombat" elements during gameplay. They make the matches that much more interesting. 
 I gave it an "8.5" because it's just a great Mortal Kombat game. I probably would have given it 
 a 7 if it didn't have all the new cool DC characters. 2 Baraka blades up!! 
  Please rank my review if you found it helpful. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: More_Dakka
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 6, 2008 7:53 pm PT
Review:  When Mortal Kombat vs DC Universe was first revealed a while back, many people believed the combination 
 wouldn't meld well. MK fans in particular were worried since MK vs DC has a T-rating... Mortal 
 Kombat with no intense violence and blood and gore? What madness is this?
  
  Whatever you think about Mortal Kombat with a T-rating, it goes to be said that MK vs DC universe 
 has actually come out better than expected. The gameplay here is satisfying, and the character 
 roster, while not perfectly balanced, is solid. While the distinct lack of content makes the game 
 feel a tad rushed in a few ways, the game's amazingly well optomized online play more than makes 
 up for this.
  
  When you first play MK vs DC, the first mode you'll probably want to try- whether your a veteran 
 of the series or are new- is the story mode, which is easily the best single player mode the game 
 has. The story mode is helped by actually having a decent premise and storyline. 
  
  The premise is that one of the main villains in both universes, Shao Kahm in Mortal Kombat, and 
 Darkseid from the DC universe, are defeated at the same time- in an incredibly similar manner. 
 Somehow, this results in the two universes merging together, which causes all sorts of problems 
 and risks destroying both universes. At the same time, many characters start getting corrupted 
 by 'the rage', which causes the characters to savagly turn on their allies and anyone else in the 
 vicinity. While the storyline relies a bit too much on the rage to set-up it's engagements, it's 
 still an enjoyable tale that is worth witnessing from both sides.
  
  Depending on skill level, the story mode should take most players just a few hours to complete. 
 Veterans should be able to absolutely blitz through it, while new players shouldn't have too much 
 trouble either, since the AI downgrades every time you have to restart a match after losing.
  
  Once your done with the story however, the single player just plain doesn't have much left 
 to offer. There is an arcade mode on offer that anyone who's played a fighting game should be familiar 
 with, and then there is the Kombo challenge mode, which challenges players to complete various 
 combos. There isn't much reason to go through either of these modes however, since the arcade mode 
 only unlocks the ending arcade cinematics for each character, and the kombo challenge mode doesn't 
 unlock anything within the game (except trophies, which the game supports) . 
  
  It's surprising at how little unlockable content MK vs Dc has as a whole- since there are only 
 two unlockable characters, and they are both unlocked by completing each side's serperate story 
 mode. What's even more disappointing is that MK vs DC doesn't even allow for stand-alone versus 
 matches to be set-up against the AI, which is a mind-boggling exclusion.
  
  Fortunately, MK vs DC more than makes up for this lack of content with strong online play. The 
 main strength of MK vs DC's online is simply how well optomized it is. My PS3 only has 70% signal 
 strength to my internet connection, and I was amazed at how well MK vs DC played online for me. 
 Yes, lag and disconnections are occasionally a problem, but it's rarely major.
  
  MK vs DC is further bolstered by it's sharp gameplay and solid character roster. The gameplay in 
 MK vs DC is a departure from what previous 3D MK games were doing, and harkens back more to the 
 2D MK games. The new features of gameplay in MK vs DC are 2 new minigames which can occur during 
 a round: Free-fall kombat and klose-kombat. They actually both work exactly the same in that one 
 player presses buttons to land strikes on the other player, while the other player tries to match 
 his opponent's button presses in order to turn the tables on him. The only difference is when they 
 occur, with free-fall kombat occuring when one character is forced off the arena, while klose-kombat 
 can be triggered simply by one player grabbing the other. They aren't major additions, but they 
 still spice things up enough to make things interesting.
  
  MK vs DC also benefits from a solid, if not completely balanced ,character roster. The roster contains 
 22 characters in all, including the 2 unlockable characters, with 11 characters coming from both 
 the MK and DC sides. While the character balance is questionable with a few characters (Most notably 
 the Flash) , the roster as a whole is solid.
  
  Graphically, MK vs DC is decent. The highlights are definitely the character models, which have 
 a high amount of detail to them and animate relatively fluidly. The environments are also relatively 
 well detailed. The main gripe against the graphics however is definitely the particle effects, 
 which are quite underwhelming as a whole. Overall, it doesn't look anywhere as good as say, Soul 
 Calibur 4, but MK vs DC is at least competent graphically. Sound wise, MK vs DC is also decent 
 all around. The highlight is definitely the voice acting in the story mode, which is delivered 
 competently for all the characters.
  
  All in all, MK vs DC is a solid fighter that is held back the most by it's lack of single player 
 content. But this is more than made up for by the game's online play.
  
  If you are a Mortal Kombat fan who has kept up wth the series for it's gore- you should pass on 
 MK vs DC. If you are into Mortal Kombat for the gameplay however, or are new to the series, you 
 will not be disappointed thanks to the game's solid gameplay and online play. 
  
  Pros: 
  -Sharp gameplay that harkens back to the 2D MK games. 
  -Solid character roster. 
  -Decent 
 graphics. 
  -Entertaining Story mode. 
  -Online play is excellent due to a surprisingly low amount of lag- especially for a fighter.
 
  
  Cons: 
  -Very little sinlge player content. 
  -Very little unlockable content. 
  -Slight imbalances in the roster. 
  -Underwhelming particle effects.
  
  Recommendable for: 
 If you want classic Mortal Kombat blood and gore- stay far away. If you want sharp gameplay, MK 
 vs DC is at the very least worth a rental. A purchase if you are really into online fighters. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ironfist562
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 6, 2008 12:27 pm PT
Review:  I played the new motal kombat game with an open mind. I wasnt really sure what to expect of it. 
 I was not disappointed...... much. Don't get me wrong it was a good game I just expected more from 
 it considering the millions of mortal kombat games there are out today. 
  
  Pros: Fun To Play with Friends. Battle Damage. Online is Good. Kombat System Is More or less good. 
 Test your might and free falling feature. Everyones move list is pretty diverse so you can discover 
 new things in each character. Good computer difficulty. It is pretty easy to find an online match. 
 
  
  Cons: No Kung Lao. Story Is Short and Plain. Doesnt Really push either systems graphically. Only 
 2 unlockable characters . Not as gory as other games. Took out original joker fatality. Needs more 
 characters. Too Short 
  
  Bottom Line: More or less decent game. I liked it but I recommend you rent it first to see if its 
 a keeper, kinda like going out on a date..... but with a video game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DarthMaximus
Rating: 5.5
Date: Dec 5, 2008 6:49 am PT
Review:  Having played MK since MK1, I was excited about this one and at 1st this game was fun, although 
 it was way to easy to beat the 2 story's. Online seemed promising and matches were fun, frequent 
 and fast, that suprisingly has already started to change, now almost every online match has most 
 players selecting 1 of 3 or 4 characters who use the same over powered moves over and over ad nauseum, 
 you can still beat these guys, it is just boring as hell and gets old really fast, so fast that 
 I already sold my copy just a couple weeks after release, it just got to boring. I may pick this 
 up again sometime to see if anything has improved, but this one will be bargain bin in no time. 
 If you are a hard core MK fan you may not burn out on it so quickly, however you will probably 
 be disapointed by the lack of "mk fatalities" and other hallmarks of the mk series. The replay 
 value quickly nears 0 once you bore of blocking The Flash's special moves 80 billion times. I would 
 recommend waiting on this either way, in Jan you will probably find this on ebay for $20 or less. 
 Giving the PS3 version an extra .5 points over the 360 version because of better dpad and free 
 online. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: greenhillscone
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 4, 2008 4:25 pm PT
Review:  what an amazing game, as soon as i heard about this game i was excited, its got the strongest personalities 
 of any current gen fighting game in it, its taken a leaf outta marvel vs capcoms book with the 
 charactors, but the gameplay it even better. 
  the game looks 3d but plays 2d, which is good for old skool mk fans like myself, as mk2 is in my 
 top ten games of all time. 
  people are complaining, i dont know what about, either they have no sense of humour n they should 
 stick to there REAL SERIOUS fallout-ish games, or they cant possibly like fighting games. cos if 
 u like fighting games, u should like this.
  no blood i hear u say? thats BS, every punch or kick thrown theres blood, unless im just playing 
 a different game to everyone else?
  some of the best match ups in beat em up history on this game.
  the moves feel realy easy to 
 get used to, you can learn a characters moves very quickly, which is good because theres 22 of 
 them, jax has a gun which i found vry funny, i loved shooting superman hahahaha.
  graphix are great, music is great, backgrounds are great, esp wen you throw yr opponet through 
 a load of rocks or into a wall.
  aerial kombat its great fun, punchin batman in the face while falling 20 feet :)
  if you're a 
 true beat em up fan and like fun then you'l enjoy this, you know who you are. ignore the band wagon 
 jumpers who all join to bash this game, get your mates over with sum beers, and show them what 
 jax's gun is all about :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: HAMODA
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 4, 2008 6:17 am PT
Review:  If you're into realistic games this is not your choice for many reasons. Nothing about this game 
 is near reality which to me is what a game should be. Unless of course we're talking sports or 
 sometimes racing games. Reason I say "sometimes" is because at times you want to drive through 
 a wall of cop cars and barricades, pull the hand brake at 200+ mph and not flip you're ride ha 
 ha.
  
  ANYWAY back to this game...
  
  The special moves and combos are beautifully bizarre in a matter of absolute gameplay addiction. 
 The graphics are some of the best I've seen yet, especially with its 1080i capability. If you don't 
 have the high def TV and the HDMI cord you are truly missing out on some amazing visuals. 
  
  Story Mode is a must because of the cheesy yet fun to match cut scenes. I thought it was very 
 unique how the actually made MK and DC make sense. That was the only thing I was worried about 
 before buying the game. AND if you do decide to rent or buy the game beat story mode with both 
 sides (MK & DC) .
  
  Arcade mode is well good old classic Mortal Kombat.... oh and finishing moves are freaking awesome! 
 You will need to look up how to execute them however.
  
  I have not gotten to truly explore its online mode but even without it you will enjoy this game. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: khimhan2
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 1, 2008 8:27 am PT
Review:  Mortal Kombat Vs DC Universe is a pretty good fighting game. I have been playing since Mortal Kombat 
 in SNES and I'm not disappointed with this cross-over, although this is the first time Midway does 
 such thing for MK series. It keeps this genre fresh and longevity. The fighters are actually quite 
 well-balanced, the DC characters are on par with MK guys! Even Catwoman and Wonder Woman does a 
 pretty good job in bashing up anyone else. The Free Fall Kombat, Klose Kombat and Test your might 
 modes are cool in the sense that they keep veteran players on their toes as it's unpredictable. 
 Graphics are well-done and sound is well-made. The developers should have included stage fatalies 
 to some destructive elements to keep things fresh and long. Fatalities should be more brutal, that's 
 what MK is famous for! I hope Midway will have more characters to download next time! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: unknown37
Rating: 6.5
Date: Mar 25, 2009 1:18 pm PT
Review:  Wow, I never thought Id see scorpion punching superman in the face, but with the new installment 
 in the Mk series u get to see just that. Not that thats a good thing, while the two universes meld 
 well together, it seems midway has finally become sell outs, as theres no real fatalitys, excessive 
 blood, or anything MK related in the game
  
  Graphics 7- While the graphics do look decent, some textures are low, and all the characters look 
 really stiff. On the other hand, there are some really impressive bruise effects and some of the 
 environments do look impressive. Also, maybe its just me, but Im really getting tired of every 
 other game running on UE3, they all end up looking the same
  
  Sound 7- The sound is usually pretty good, excluding the hilariously ugly grunts all the characters 
 make when they are fighting. Most of the voice acting was pretty good. The only problem I had was 
 the soundtrack, while its actually really good theres only 2 or 3 songs
  
  Gameplay 8- This where the game truly shines. This is by far the most tight gameplay of any of 
 the 3d MK games. It really plays similar to the 2d games. Sadly the fatalities completely suck, 
 I really dont wanna talk about them.
  
  Online 5- While there is some enjoyment to be had playing other people online, theres a lot of 
 game breaking lag during the matches. Unlike SC4's the game doesnt slow down but seems to try and 
 figure out what you did last, like in mario kart wii. While that works in a racing game, that comepletely 
 breaks a fighting game, Its common seeing people sliding like there on ice, and A lot of hits dont 
 want to connect either. I'll take SC's slowdown over this garbage any day of the week.
  
  Extras Absolutley 0- After u beat the 2 hour long story mode and beat everyones arcade mode (which 
 only takes a couple hours) Uve seen everything. Good luck playing online.
  
  Overall I had mixed reactions on this game. While the gameplay is fun and the 2 universes meld 
 together pretty well, lack of any true fatalities and the addition of popular characters from a 
 different series make this look as if the only reason Midway made this game was to get a quick 
 buck 
::::::

::::::
UserName: stayrosfot
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 29, 2008 5:55 am PT
Review:  i love sub-zero
  he is the best fighter in the mk vs dc universe
  he love to ice u
  but i don't know who the fatality action
  and i like to kill scorpion batman joker superman jax 
 sonia lui kang flash captain marvel green lander raiden shao kain kano catwoman wonder woman and 
 the rest that i don't remember me
  but believe me if someone start now try to play with sub zero and you will not lose
  and for 
 the dc universe character i love joker and batman joker he is doing hits eith fun and good damage
 
  but batman he is realy realy hits very very very bad.
  superman have nice combo but he is too slow
  wonder woman i like when she hitting you with the 
 hunting crop and the catwon the same thing
  scorpion is good but no like sub zero
  and raiden he hits very good too with thanders
  the grren landen hits vey good with the ring 
 
  and jax he is hit very bad and with lot of damage with hands gun or missile
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Human-Pheonix
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 28, 2008 8:29 pm PT
Review:  I'm still wondering when Capcom is doing there next crossover fighting game with Marvel for the 
 Next Gen? Mortal Kombat vs DC Universe is a good fighting game. Since I am a HUGE fan of fighting 
 games and Igot to say it's crazy. The free fall Kombat is so cool it's not like in Armegeddon when 
 yu just sit back and watch. No yu are part of the action yu can counter like crazy and inflict 
 more damage. Also the Klose Kombat I love so much the fact that yu can go in close and do some 
 damage is awesome. I love the Characters to Jax, Sonya, Catwoman, Batman, Liu Kang, Raiden, Wonder 
 Woman and all those guys. I hope they get cooler characters for the sequal like Supergirl, Johnny 
 Cage, Black Canary and all these guys from the MK and DC univereses. I haven't played the game 
 online. But this game is so cool. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: avail447
Rating: 6
Date: Nov 26, 2008 11:38 am PT
Review:  note- i am a die hard fighting game fan and mortal kombat fan.
  
  Gameplay- is phenomenal, i havent played a fighting game with such great gameplay in awhile already. 
 i also love the fact that everytime i play arcade there is a different fight unlike the previous 
 mks where they only had a variety of about four towers.
  
  Graphics- are definately slacking it, i honestly thought i was playing my ps2 a couple of times. 
 
  
  Sound- is Great, it gives the game a really awesome edge!
  music- is ok, could have been better a little slow for a fighting game.
  
  replay value- is 
 extremely high for the reason of randomized towers!
  
  Other stuff-
  GOOD- A few nice details, Awesome practice mode!, Online has no lag at all, endings artwork is 
 phenomenal.
  BAD- Game does not feel like mortal kombat, dark erie tone is no where in sight, no over the top 
 blood and not even a pinch of gore, no create a character, combos are ridiculousely hard
  
  overall i would recommend renting this game first. its an awesome game but has serious flaws that 
 outweigh the awesomeness! I would personally rather recommend to you soul calibur 4 or even mortal 
 kombat armageddon for ps2.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: rubdanielrub
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 25, 2008 7:07 am PT
Review:  Superman can so kick everybody's butt, or so u would think. Check this out there is finally a fighter 
 that isn't Namco on ps3. Dont get me wrong i do believe people think Namco fighters are good. But 
 to me they stink. This game gets mix reviews i wish it did play like the old MK's, but it still 
 is a goodish fighter. But where is the cool blood fatalities! Oh wait this game is teen that's 
 why its like that. I love Joker's fatality but they edited that i bet. The opening roster is pretty 
 good i haven't tried the story mode yet so i wouldn't know if its any good. I just played against 
 my friend a few matches and found the game some what entertaining. I was trying to play online 
 but the update like always holds me back. So all in all i found the game pretty good and the graphics 
 par-ish. Its a nice upgrade to next gen. But where is the magic that was from old-school games 
 (sonic, mk) .
  Also get rid of the "T" rating for crying out loud this is Mortal Kombat. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Guerilla357
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 24, 2008 10:31 am PT
Review:  Fatalities should have been more fatal. Thats the main thing that differentiated Mortal Kombat 
 from those other fighting games. Also that falling thing can be annoying cause if you get to switch 
 or get switched on, the damage gets transfered over, not fair. But the game is good. It gets my 
 stamp of approval. Best fighting game to come out in a while especially if you been playing MK. 
 It was worth the wait. ....... ....... ....... ....... ......... ........ .... ........ ....... 
 ..... ..... ..... .... ... .. .,,,,,,,, ./ ///////// /////// ///////// //////// //////// //////// 
 //////// //// /////// //////// //////// //////// ////////// ////////// /////////// ///////////// 
 /////////// ////////// //////// //////// ///////// ////////////// ////////// ///////////// ////////// 
 /////////// /////////// ////////// 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Yakacles
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 24, 2008 1:14 pm PT
Review:  This fighter is a fairly Solid one, and a good step in the next gen consoles.
  Graphics:
  the graphics in this game are hit and miss. the characters themselves are high quality, featuring 
 all the details you would come to expect. the arena's are less graphically thrilling: they would 
 have look excellent on the last gen. systems but are sub par on the current gen one's. The animation 
 for the actions is good, but where this game does in right is the menu's. The Menu's feature an 
 on going fight between batman and scorpion that progresses as you select options. Overall, this 
 game looks acceptable for the current gen.
  Sound:
  Is good, but nothing too revolutionary. the voice acting is all good, the characters all sound 
 like they should as do the attacks. Everything is good, but nothing stands out.
  Gameplay:
  This game features characters from both the Mortal Kombat and DC universes and has 20 playable 
 characters. Admittantly, I am less familiar with the Mortal Kombat characters, so I don't have 
 a whole lot to say about them. The main thing that got me excited for this game were the DC characters. 
 unlike Marvel, the DC material hasnt seen as many outings, so this was an anticipated one for me. 
 All the Hero's you would want to play as are there, as well as a few unexpected ones.
  The combat (or is that kombat?) is decent. the system of fighting is based on klose kombat, which 
 is essentially a fighting system where you grab your opponent then try and hit him while they try 
 to match the buttons you are hitting to dodge the attacks, and just plain old button mashing. The 
 fact that buttoning mashing can, more often than not, lead to a victory makes the game feel less 
 difficult and percise. In the end I can't help but compare this game to other fighters on the current 
 gen, specficly my favorite: Soul Calibur 4. It, unfortunetly, comes up shy of other games, but 
 is a fun game none the less. As for the story... yeah, its a fighter. Multi player is where this 
 game obviously shines.
  
  7.5/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RedBullLordy
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 23, 2008 10:49 am PT
Review:  This game didnt have any hype, no one thought it would be good at all. At first looks it didnt 
 look good but Midway proved me wrong, it was worth the wait, and the worth being loyal to the MK 
 Series. They were all wrong, what an awesome game. The graphics are good, story lines are good, 
 fun and humour is everywhere in this game, fatalities are surprisingly good considering the rating 
 change from an 18 to a 15. The Joker is far better than he should be. He is ridiculous funny and 
 underated. If you take time to learn moves of the characters you will be impressed how good you 
 will become. 
  
  There are only a few quirks, online play can be a little laggish, e. g. you uppercut it takes a 
 few seconds for the uppercut to take place.
  
  People can take advantages of this like me, Just run and use the SPEAR, 
  
  The game is better 
 than i thought, Flawless Victory well done Midway, hoping for leaps and bounds for the next Mortal 
 Kombat.
  
  Scorpion For the win! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Tony_Atak
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 23, 2008 12:22 am PT
Review:  If you're into realistic games this is not your choice for many reasons. Nothing about this game 
 is near reality which to me is what a game should be. Unless of course we're talking sports or 
 sometimes racing games. Reason I say "sometimes" is because at times you want to drive through 
 a wall of cop cars and barricades, pull the hand brake at 200+ mph and not flip you're ride ha 
 ha.
  
  ANYWAY back to this game...
  
  The special moves and combos are beautifully bizarre in a matter of absolute gameplay addiction. 
 The graphics are some of the best I've seen yet, especially with its 1080i capability. If you don't 
 have the high def TV and the HDMI cord you are truly missing out on some amazing visuals. 
  
  Story Mode is a must because of the cheesy yet fun to match cut scenes. I thought it was very 
 unique how the actually made MK and DC make sense. That was the only thing I was worried about 
 before buying the game. AND if you do decide to rent or buy the game beat story mode with both 
 sides (MK & DC) .
  
  Arcade mode is well good old classic Mortal Kombat.... oh and finishing moves are freaking awesome! 
 You will need to look up how to execute them however.
  
  I have not gotten to truly explore its online mode but even without it you will enjoy this game. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: andreipascu
Rating: 1
Date: Nov 22, 2008 5:12 am PT
Review:  too less players not enough gore and DC sucks this is the new MK IT SUCKS
  too less players not enough gore and DC sucks this is the new MK IT SUCKS
  too less players not 
 enough gore and DC sucks this is the new MK IT SUCKS
  too less players not enough gore and DC sucks this is the new MK IT SUCKS
  too less players not 
 enough gore and DC sucks this is the new MK IT SUCKS
  too less players not enough gore and DC sucks this is the new MK IT SUCKS
  too less players not 
 enough gore and DC sucks this is the new MK IT SUCKS
  too less players not enough gore and DC sucks this is the new MK IT SUCKS
  too less players not 
 enough gore and DC sucks this is the new MK IT SUCKS
  too less players not enough gore and DC sucks this is the new MK IT SUCKS
  too less players not 
 enough gore and DC sucks this is the new MK IT SUCKS
  too less players not enough gore and DC sucks this is the new MK IT SUCKS
  too less players not 
 enough gore and DC sucks this is the new MK IT SUCKS
  too less players not enough gore and DC sucks this is the new MK IT SUCKS
  too less players not 
 enough gore and DC sucks this is the new MK IT SUCKS
  too less players not enough gore and DC sucks this is the new MK IT SUCKS
  too less players not 
 enough gore and DC sucks this is the new MK IT SUCKS
  too less players not enough gore and DC sucks this is the new MK IT SUCKS
  too less players not 
 enough gore and DC sucks this is the new MK IT SUCKS
  too less players not enough gore and DC sucks this is the new MK IT SUCKS
  too less players not 
 enough gore and DC sucks this is the new MK IT SUCKS
  too less players not enough gore and DC sucks this is the new MK IT SUCKS
  too less players not 
 enough gore and DC sucks this is the new MK IT SUCKS
  too less players not enough gore and DC sucks this is the new MK IT SUCKS
  too less players not 
 enough gore and DC sucks this is the new MK IT SUCKS
  too less players not enough gore and DC sucks this is the new MK IT SUCKS 
::::::

::::::
UserName: neock2003
Rating: 1
Date: Nov 21, 2008 10:06 pm PT
Review:  I could not give this a great review because I feel that this is a major step back for the series. 
 I can see this working if this was on a street fighter, but this is Mortal Kombat. The very game 
 that I grew up with seeing major violence. This just feel's like a overrated fighter. The worse 
 part is that you have to press a button to freaking jump. That is the worse function, since the 
 run button on MK3. there was not enought character's for the game to even be enjoyable. No Jonny 
 Cage, No Two Face. The only Fatality I thought was great was Lu Kang's Arcade Fatality. All the 
 other's were wattered down, and disapointing. the only thing I thought was ok was the story mode, 
 because you did not even bother with the fatalities. I hope that Street Fighter 4 will be better 
 than Mk Vs DC, because other than Soal Calaber 5 there is no other fighting game to look foward 
 to. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mastercreature
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 20, 2008 11:09 pm PT
Review:  Let me say this first: I haven't played a Mortal Kombat game since Mortal Kombat 4 on the N64, 
 so it's been a while. The game definitely fed the nostalgia craving, which was the principle reason 
 for my picking this disc up. If you like the old Mortal Kombat games, chances are you'll find something 
 to enjoy here. The addition of the DC characters is a bit weird, but for the most part they fit 
 in just fine. Yes, the gore is (mostly) gone, so if you play the series solely for the gruesome, 
 over-the-top fatalities, you should probably skip this one. In the end, it's a fun fighter, but 
 with big online multiplayer packages being standard fare for next-gen games, this game really feels 
 lacking. The only online feature to be found is an uninspired bare bones tournament-style match 
 up, and while it's nice to be able to play other Kombatants online, the multiplayer features leave 
 much to be desired. Given this, it's hard to say how much replay value the game will have. But, 
 if you want a trip down memory lane to remind you of a time when fighting games were a bit simpler, 
 go ahead and pick this one up. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ToneLoki
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 20, 2008 7:18 pm PT
Review:  This game doesn't disappoint MK fans. With cool characters, great graphics, and some unique new 
 elements, it has that wholesome old skool fighting game quality, peppered with the latest and greatest. 
 Lots of moves, it provides a move list for each character (not fatalities) , and some basic combos 
 are included. 
  
  The game when set on medium is fairly easy, i beat the story mode in just a few hours. Of course 
 1 player fighting games have never been spectacular adventures, it goes through a simple but unintrusive 
 storyline. 
  
  The fun and challenges await multiplayer, whether you battle your buddy on the couch or take it 
 online, hours of entertainment!! 
  
  So many epic and close call fights make you jump up and scream (and curse!) .. my neighbors hate 
 me, and their children fear me.
  
  Two complaints: one minor , one mediocre. Minor complaint the fights are not as bloody and fatalities 
 not as gory as the older titles, but for the DC characters that play along, fair trade.. at least 
 there is some sort of finisher.
  
  My other complaint is the online lobby is a bit clumsy and bland. There are no options so to speak, 
 as far as match length, round length, or private rooms even. Its not the worst i've seen, but it 
 aint' exactly pretty either. But all in all the fights are there, and quick enough load times to 
 overcome its shortfalls. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FuddMaster
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 20, 2008 6:06 pm PT
Review:  check back soon for full review after holidays n DLC stuff is out there.. long story short... If 
 you havent bougt this game yet, GO GET IT RIGHT AWAY... DONT U READ ON ... GO GET IN URE SHOES 
 N GET THE GAME... !!!! GET THE GAME... !!!! GET THE GAME... !!!! GET THE GAME... !!!! GET THE GAME... 
 !!!! GET THE GAME... !!!! GET THE GAME... !!!! GET THE GAME... !!!! GET THE GAME... !!!! GET THE 
 GAME... !!!! GET THE GAME... !!!! GET THE GAME... !!!! GET THE GAME... !!!! GET THE GAME... !!!! 
 GET THE GAME... !!!! GET THE GAME... !!!! GET THE GAME... !!!! GET THE GAME... !!!! GET THE GAME... 
 !!!! GET THE GAME... !!!! GET THE GAME... !!!! GET THE GAME... !!!! GET THE GAME... !!!! GET THE 
 GAME... !!!! GET THE GAME... !!!! GET THE GAME... !!!! GET THE GAME... !!!! GET THE GAME... !!!! 
 GET THE GAME... !!!! GET THE GAME... !!!! GET THE GAME... !!!! GET THE GAME... !!!! GET THE GAME... 
 !!!! GET THE GAME... !!!! GET THE GAME... !!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FiendGamer85
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 20, 2008 4:29 pm PT
Review:  MK vs. DC is a great edition to the MK series. With new innovative fighting mechanics such as: 
 Klose Kombat, Freefall Kombat and the new, more intense "Test Your Might" segments. Klose Kombat 
 is a way of making the fight tighter with a close up view of the brawl, with one fighter as the 
 aggressor and the other on the defense. Simply hitting a face button will attack (four attacks 
 is the limit) and if the defender hits the same button he/she will kounter and end Klose Kombat. 
 Freefall is almost the same, except you're both falling, and if the defender hits the same button 
 they will reverse positions and the defender will then be the attacker dealing all the totaled 
 damaged. Freefall also lets you deliver a special attack, ending Freefall. The "Test Your Might" 
 segments are you bashing the opponent threw a building and tapping face buttons to deliver maximum 
 damage while the defender does the same to lower the damage count.
  
  The biggest and main attraction to the game is the addition of the DC characters. Fighting as Superman 
 or Batman against everyone's favorite ninjas, Scorpion and Sub-Zero, is possibly something all 
 but few gamers dreamed of. With only a total of 22 playable characters, 2 of which are unlockable 
 after playing both versions of the story mode, is one of the cons to the game, not a big selection 
 of fighters and little to none unlockables. Hopefully we'll get DLC with more characters, costumes 
 and more arenas. Playing as the DC characters are fun, but the negative to this is the game was 
 made to a T rating due to DC not wanting Superman or other heroes to kill lame.
  
  With a T rating the blood and gore MK is all to well known for has been toned down, drastically! 
 Very little blood is spilled during battle, but the character models bruise up, costumes tear and 
 some blood but not similar to older MK games. With this in effect some of the Fatalities and Heroic 
 Brutalities (made for the DC Heroes) were terrible. Some are good but most are flat out disappointing! 
 You think Midway would've been a little more creative in this part. This is the biggest con in 
 the game. MK vs. DC Universe is a fun game. Although there isn't as much blood and gore as in older 
 versions, this is still a great fighter. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lethal_NFS
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 20, 2008 2:14 pm PT
Review:  Mortal Kombat has been around since 1991 and for years was considered to be the best fighting franchise 
 around. Since then there have been many successful clones that took the spotlight away from the 
 Mortal Kombat franchise. Could they reclaim their throne as the best fighting franchise yet again? 
 Read my review and then you decide...
  
  
  Story = 8/10
  
  At first glance you have to wonder how they could possibly get a story to work using MK and DC 
 characters. Well they actually did a pretty good job with that. It seems that Earth and the Netherworld 
 are clashing and causing both worlds to combine as one. Because of this there is a new rage that 
 builds up in your character causing them to have extra power and speed. Because of this rage the 
 characters are seeing things that dont belong and thus creating fights. It will be interesting 
 to see how this story ends......
  
  Graphics = 8.5/10
  
  The character models are insanely detailed. During battles your fighter will take a beating and 
 their bodies will eventually show it. Ripped clothes, cuts and bruises start to appear. Some of 
 the backrounds don't look as polished though. You will see pixels in some of the objects in the 
 backround and there is also a huge shortage of blood. So short that it does not even hit the ground 
 after an uppercut. I would have liked to see more time taken on this title and really made everything 
 look as sharp as the characters.
  
  Sound = 8/10
  
  The voice acting is not bad but some of the dialogue is pretty cheesy. You will recognize some 
 of the backround music like Batman and Superman which really sets the super hero feeling. The announcer 
 is the same as the last few MK games but I really would have like an option to change between a 
 male and female announcer. 
  
  Controls = 8/10
  
  This game is not fluid on the Xbox 360 because of its D-pad. Getting moves to work properly can 
 be a pain in the butt. The PS3 controller however handles the controls pretty well. The actions 
 are very responsive but there are some combos that are just so hard to pull off that I sometimes 
 feel that nobody can do it.
  
  Online = NA
  
  I tried to play a few matches online but I could not get nobody to play with me. There seemed to 
 be quite a lot of people online playing but there are only 2 types of matches. 2v2 or 1v1. 
  
  Fun Factor = 7.75/10
  
  There are a lot of missing features this time around. There is 
 an Arcade mode where you move up the ladder fighting opponants. There is also a story mode where 
 you get to choose either the MK side or the DC side. There are not individual stories which really 
 limits the replay value. View the story from each sides perspective. The Krypt is gone so there 
 is not going to be hundreds of items to unlock. Offline tournaments are gone as well as 2v2 and 
 4v4.
  Each character has 2 Fatalities or Heroic Brutalies which I feel are very limited. The game is 
 not rated Mature like normal and because of the DC characters Midway had to keep a Teen rating 
 which means less blood and less interesting fatalities.
  
  Overall = 7.75/10
  
  I would have liked to see more time put in this game and more features added. Arcade mode and 2 
 stories is just not enough to make me feel my $60 was well spent. This is a step backwards in my 
 opinion and unless you are a die hard MK or DC fan I would wait for Street Fighter IV or Tekken 
 6.
  
  This gets Lethal's Die Hard fan stamp of approval. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tecmo73
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 20, 2008 11:02 am PT
Review:  Wow... Where do I start, I was pumped up to read the release of this.... well... "could have been" 
 game. I beleive that so much more should and could have been put into play, the finishing moves 
 are less than okay... the game play and stages could have a little creativity in it. They should 
 have made it more "original"... Mk vs. DC only has ONE release date, now every game they tries 
 to follow this format will more than likley fail, MK vs. Marvel... Marvel vs. DC, title's like 
 these may be tuff to profit from. But I'm just a guy that plays VG's from my chair in FL... So 
 who knows? All in all, Could have been so much more... but it's not, so it is what it is!!! So 
 in closing... RENT IT, if you like... go buy it. It's not what I expected, some gamers may love 
 it, but by reading the reviews posted already... it don't look real positive. Great thought... 
 Little Effort in design, that's where I see the down fall, better and more graphic "finishing moves" 
 would have more than likely done it for alot of gamers, make it a "M" rating, this alone will drive 
 sales. Well I'm done here, until next time... T. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: twistedray
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 19, 2008 9:45 am PT
Review:  This game was a lot better than I thought it would be. It' very fun and addicting, the story actually 
 isn't all that bad, and the online lags a whole lot less tha soul calibur 4. The game only has 
 two problems for me. First the fatalities are terrible. Tha fatalities are so lame that even some 
 of the brutalities look more lethal and should be considered fatalities themselves. The only semi 
 violent ones with potential are all edited so that they happen offscreen. (joker gun fatality etc) . 
 I understand that they're going for a teen rating but i'm sure they can come up with something 
 better than kano jumping on somebody's chest as a fatality. Then finally, there is the combo master 
 mode. Anybody who has played this knows that it is retarded hard and very very frustrating. First 
 of all, every move must be done with 100 perent perfect timing. This wouldn't be so bad if the 
 game gave you an example of what the combo is supposed to look like when you pulled it off (like 
 how tekken or virtua fighter do in practice.) Then there is the fact that the game won't register 
 half the moves you imput even though you're pushing exactly what the screen tells you to. For example, 
 lets say kano's combo is square square x back fwd circle. No matter how many times you press the 
 back fwd circle part at the end, the game won't register it. However you can skip the first two 
 imputs of the combo and just press x back fwd circle and it will work just fine. How does that 
 make any sense? If it weren't for these issues the game would have gotten a 9.0. Still worth playing 
 though. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MKRayden
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 19, 2008 2:29 am PT
Review:  About Mortal Kombat Versus DC Universe i won't write something very big article for this game because 
 i did; t see any mistake or any flow in this Mortal Kombat Vs. Dcu game all Mortal Kombat fan and 
 others fighting game fan's wants to see Mk vs. and finally that has been came this game has very 
 good feature free fall, Klose Kombat and rage mode free fall is really new fighting mode for fighting 
 game i never see this thing in any fighting game rage and very good game play and fatality as well 
 as but it could be become more exciting game if they choose any others versus game i don't want 
 to write any game name here but we all knows anyways combo challenge is also good feature for mortal 
 Kombat fan story mode is good almost every characters game play is balanced characters brutality 
 is also awesome. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ravengeist
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 19, 2008 1:03 am PT
Review:  this is a good update fresh charecters..... real enjoyable.... nice value at 50 bucks..... if you 
 like mortal kombat or dc this game is for you.... i was highly impressed by a game i was kind of 
 worried about............... the dc charecters are the most fun to play but even the mk guys are 
 enjoyable and respond real well.... only knock is it could have had more people after armagedeon 
 i guess im just spoiled... a create a charecter would have been nice too but over all this game 
 will provide enough entertainment.... thank god also there are trophies in it.... i would like to 
 see downloadable charecters too like marvel ultimate alliance did  
 they ever make a marvel vs dc? they have done comic crossovers why not make a huge classic everyone 
 knows would make a killing..... they could let midway make the fighter and the guys behind mua make 
 an rpg........ 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ibrahim17
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 19, 2008 9:02 pm PT
Review:  I have to say that I like most people was shocked by the announcement of MK vs DC. I instantly 
 was very excited, yet I was skeptical if they could pull it off right. I am a fan of the original 
 Mortal Kombat games, but didn't go further than MK Deadly Alliance. In general though, I enjoy 
 nearly all the fighting franchises (Marvel vs Capcom, Soulcalibur, Street Fighter, Tekken are my 
 favorites, don't care for VF or DoA) . Well I have to honestly say this has become my favorite fighting 
 game of all time, which is surprising to myself.
  
  This is by far the most fun I have had with any game I have played on the next-gen consoles, and 
 possibly ever. Being a massive fan of DC i'm incredibly happy that DC has an awesome game for the 
 fans to enjoy.
  
  Presentation: The game feels polished, and not rushed. Loading times are fast on the ps3, and everything 
 is responsive. The Story is the best i've experienced in a fighting game. It's funny, exciting, 
 and interesting all at the same time. If you are a fan of DC you will enjoy the story very much. 
 It's feels like an interactive Justice League movie, very well done.
  
  Graphics: Obviously this isn't Crysis, Gears of War 2, or Resistance 2 ect graphically, but honestly 
 it doesn't matter. The graphics on a nice HDMI tv is excellent. The Chracters are faithfully detailed 
 to how they should be, animations are fluid and the best i've experienced in a fighting game to 
 date, and the stages and destructible environments really help emphasize the combat. If you're 
 a fan of MK or DC I think the unique and rich stages will please you.
  
  Sound: Most of the voice acting is excellent. The combat effects and ambiance help to immerse you 
 in the combat, and when you hit someone, or smash through walls ect it really sounds great. Even 
 the music puts me back in the old days of MK.
  
  Gameplay: My favorite fighting system out of ANY fighting game i've ever played. It's not too complicated, 
 it's just right. It's rewarding to learn the special moves, and pull them off right. Each character 
 feels different and unique. Playing The joker or Batman is like two different gameplay experiences. 
 There are "themes" that some characters share. They did an excellent job of portraying the DC & 
 MK characters. When you fight a good player as the "Flash", you will definitely be under pressure 
 keeping up with his speed, while fighting Shao Khan or Superman will feel like you're trying to 
 fight off an unstoppable tide of power. The "under-handed" characters like Scorpion or The Joker 
 are just excellent. The joker will keep you guessing as what he'll do next, will that puff of joker 
 gas reveal a bomb ready to explode, or a mechanized boxing glove that comes springing at you, ect? 
 All the new features (Klose Kombat, Freefall ect) are great, it really helps break up the pacing 
 of the fighting, and offers a mini-game/strategy element to the fighting.
  
  Lasting appeal: The Story mode takes about 5-6 hours to finish. It's like like playing an interactive 
 movie, so it's actually quite long and good quality. Playing through Arcade mode with each character 
 takes time, and has a unique ending for each character. Computer AI is excellent, and even the 
 medium, hard, and very hard difficulty will prove challenging for awhile. T he real lasting appeal 
 is the multi-player. It takes some effort and practice to get really good with a character, and 
 becoming dedicated to your favorite fighter will pay off, and will be very fun to fight some of 
 the greatest icons in the MK & DC universe. Joker vs Batman, Superman vs Darkseid, Lui Kang vs 
 Shang Tsung, Sub-Zero vs Scorpion (and the matchups go on and on) will prove to be timeless for 
 many years to come. The online is so easy use, and you can enjoy fighting online quickly, easily, 
 and lag free.
  
  So I could go on much long talking about all the "little things" that makes this game feel great. 
 In conclusion, if you're a DC or MK fan this game will be a special treat for you. The best part 
 of this game is, it's really fun, and that's saying a lot.
  
  The only thing that can improve this game is good DLC (more characters, more costumes, and more 
 stages)
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: razo01
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 18, 2008 12:41 pm PT
Review:  I thought at first combining MK characters with DC comic characters would not work. I was wrong. 
 Both Dc and Mk characters are pretty well balanced, and the whole fighting system works pretty 
 well. I also like the option of choosing whether you want to fight MK, DC, or if you just want 
 to mix them up. 
  
  The graphics aren't up to par like Soul Calibur, but still looks pretty dam good. It sounds really 
 good too, especially the se and music, they go great with the game. The announcer with that deep 
 dark voice also adds that extra touch giving it that darker feel. 
  
  The combo and grappling system is pretty bad ass and easy to learn. If you were into previous MK 
 fighters like Deception, you will love this. If your still skeptical about buying, at least rent 
 it and see for yourself.
  
  !!!!!!!!!!! RAZO!!!!!!!!!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: matrix_475
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 17, 2008 10:27 pm PT
Review:  This game is BADASS! I have to admit even though I am a DC fan as also an MK fan, at the beginning 
 I thought this game was a bad idea. But I was wrong. It is one of the best so far, the story mode 
 is very fun and interesting, the online play is even better, the characters, the graphics, the 
 moves, EVERYTHING is awesome in this game. My friend and I just can't stop playing it, it is so 
 addictive! If you are a Mortal Kombat fan or a DC fan, I totally recommend this game for you either 
 as a rental or as a purchase! Oh, and if you're worried about the T rating, don't worry because 
 the game is still Mortal Kombat at its best, just a little bit toned down. There's still lots of 
 blood, nice fatalities and brutalities, broken bones, etc. Hands down, MK vs DCU is, if not the 
 best, one of the best MK games so far! It's a must-have! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tim_aka_link
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 17, 2008 6:50 pm PT
Review:  Mortal Kombat vs DC Universe is a fun game that may appeal to more people because of the addition 
 of DC characters.
  
  I have always loved superheroes growing up. And even though I'm more of a marvel kind of guy, I 
 still enjoy my share of superman and batman. Honestly, I was never too interested in the Mortal 
 Kombat franchise. Yet I still enjoyed playing it with friends. There are many things to say about 
 this game so I'll start out with some pros and cons.
  
  Pros.
  - Attracts new people with the addition of DC comic book characters
  - Fatalities and brutalities 
 are fun to watch
  - Moves fit the characters well
  - Feels good to beat up Superman with different characters although it would never happen
  - 
 Klose Kombat, Free Fall and others are fun
  - Good Graphics
  
  Cons.
  - Not nearly as blood and gore as Mortal Kombat games usually have
  - I still don't know how 
 to execute a fatality or brutality
  - Way too hard to do all the kombos in the in game "tutorial"
  - No single player vs mode
  
 - Loading times are annoying
  - Lacking any good unlockables
  
  Mortal Kombat vs DC Universe offers two main things to do in single player, arcade and story mode. 
 In story mode, you are able to choose between the DC side or the Mortal Kombat side. When playing 
 through either side, you will have the chance to play as almost all the characters from their respective 
 side. And although the thought of DC and Mortal Kombat somehow being connected is hard to imagine, 
 they pull it off quite nicely in this game. The story's plot is that on the DC side, Superman fights 
 with Darkseid and manages to "do something" that brings the two universes together. On the other 
 side, Raiden also manages to "do something" that simultaneously brings the two worlds together. 
 These plots are nicely intertwined and make sense when you play through both sides. Story mode 
 isn't very long and should take about 6-8 hours to complete both sides.
  
  After beating each side, you will unlock Darkseid or Shao Kahn (forgive me if I can't spell his 
 name) . Unfortunately these are the only unlockable characters. There is always arcade mode to play 
 which is pretty much explains itself. You pick a character, fight a certain amount of enemies until 
 you fight the boss. Something a little different about this is that you can choose to fight the 
 Mortal Kombat side, the DC side, or a mix of both of them. Also, when you die, and you probably 
 will, you don't have to continue with the same character. You can choose any other character you 
 want.
  
  Well that's what Mortal Kombat vs DC Universe is basically about. There is also the addition of 
 online play and two player vs which I can't comment on because I've yet to try that out. This is 
 a great game but might not be worth the full $70 CAN so it might be wise to rent first or wait 
 for a price drop. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Klique-Klaque
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 17, 2008 5:49 pm PT
Review:  I Literally JUST bought the game mainly because i want to excel in ALL Fighting Games and then 
 because Im a HUGE Batman Fan and thus DC fan in general... but yea this game is NICE! At this point 
 I dont see any character with flaws so i guess it is tournament worthy... Ive Never really been 
 a true MK fan ive always been a Street Fighter type of guy and player but this game is going to 
 grow on me... the Fatalities are SICK! the combos are just GROSS and really easy to pull off 
  
  Midway got the DC characters just right with their powers and all and no one seems to be over 
 powered like u think Superman would be... although i kind of think that The Flash may be a favorite, 
 seeing that he is very fast and has easy linkable combos and a lil run around thing to come back 
 to the other side (think Scorpion shadow punch)
  
  Im still not to familiar with the censors when u get in close up range but itll come...
  
  
 If you are still skeptical about the game at least rent it you wont be disappointed 
::::::

::::::
UserName: razorwind56
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 17, 2008 2:29 pm PT
Review:  I've been playing MK since the original was out at the arcades and the last game left me feeling 
 disappointed. When I heard this one had DC superheroes and watered down fatalites I didnt expect 
 much from it. I'm happy to admit I was wrong. The DC characters fit in perfectly with the MK style 
 of play and made the entire game feel refreshing. The story mode was done very well with good voice 
 acting and it stayed true to the characters personalities. The story was interesting and actually 
 made the blending of the 2 universes make sense in a comic book sort of way. The actual combat 
 was closer to MK 2 or 3 then any of the recent ones which is a good thing. Free fall combat, close 
 combat and the wall running mini-game all fit into the game well and gave the game an action movie 
 sort of feel. The fatalities/brutalites were weak as expected but for one MK game I can tolerate 
 it. Still it would have been fun to be able to rip off Supermans head and punt it like a football. 
 Online combat more then anything is what makes this game worth buying. The lobby system works well 
 and I havent experienced any lag yet. I actually liked this game better then Soul Calibur 4. Anyone 
 looking for a great fighting game to play online should definitely pick this one up. I've never 
 been a big fan of DC and would rather have seen a MK vs Marvel game but this one was still worth 
 it. I'd love to seen another MK crossover with a different franchise and hopefully so downloadable 
 characters for this one (Johnny Cage and Bane hopefully) . Fans of either franchise or fighting 
 game fans in general should definitely pick this one up. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 79Sac
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 17, 2008 12:08 pm PT
Review:  This game has everything! Awesome fast paced fighting action, immersive storyline, and the Joker 
 is wicked! The story mode keeps the player enthralled for the entire game. Its very innovative 
 how you are able to play as all of the characters from each side in the story mode and online play 
 is great as well! I really like the in-your-face, up close and personal fighting mode, and then 
 you go from that to knocking your opponent off one level to the next, kicking and gouging them 
 all the way down. The game play feels very smooth and responsive, and the player is able to easily 
 string together combos and super moves. Another great attribute is that the way the two worlds 
 of both MK and DCU where able to mesh together rather seamlessly. You weren't left second guessing 
 to yourself on what exactly happened in the storyline. Everything is explained in great detail 
 and both endings are very exciting. 
  
  The cinematics and animation in this game are definitely top notch. Joker's mannerisms and theatrical 
 style are well thought out and put together perfectly. I also love the updates they did to improve 
 upon the original MK characters. Way to go Midway! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: magicquebec
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 17, 2008 9:00 am PT
Review:  WOW! i haven't had that much fun since... i don't know ! I've tried pretty much all the new fighters 
 for the PS3, Tekken, Soul Calibur...
  
  This is the best out there! The fighting mechanic is deep, really deep. 
  (Just go try those 
 Kombo challenge... ouch)
  
  The Versus mode is just plain dull fun, the combat is fast and well paced, i love how the system 
 works, the more you use your powers, the more Rage you give to your opponent!
  
  And c'mon!!! BATMAN! SCORPION! RAIDEN, SUPERMAN! AND CATWOMAN'S BOOBS!
  
  I just love this 
 game right now, the Story mode is the best i've seen in any fighting game, and it's easily 3.5 
 to 4 hours on each side. (Depending on which difficulty you play, i played on Medium) that means 
 a good 7,8 hours just for the story mode.
  
  Online is great, it reminds me on Battle Net. You have some chat rooms, you enter them, on the 
 right side there's the chat menu, and you can challenge player on the left side... Best part about 
 it, you can replay your opponent after a Kombat, without leaving the fight! that's great! When 
 you find someone around your playing skills with a great connection and time on their hands, you 
 can play a bunch of fight back to back! Way better than Tekken and Soul Calibur online menu!
  
  I think this game will impress people, great Job Ed Boon!
  
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: triple6e1999
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 17, 2008 4:42 am PT
Review:  A lot of reviews are right, its a great rent. I em a die hard fan of mk so i had to buy it. i beat 
 both side story modes in about 45 mins. other then that, theres only the combo challenge which 
 is a very frustrating mode. the endings for fighters when you beat arcade mode is horrible. all 
 u get is a still picture with text and the bottom, nothing animated.
  
  it kind of feels rushed. the graphics are ok, they probably could have been pulled off on last-gen.
 
  
  .. other then that, the fighting is prefect. its the best fighting system to date with in a mortal 
 kombat game. it is very fun to fight over and over again, esp. online. They need to keep this fighting 
 system and make mk8 rated M. I still havnt really fully excepted the DC side but they play great 
 and just like MK Fighters.
  
  Overall this game is pure Fun. If you looking for a good fight, you will find it with in this new 
 Mortal Kombat. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bebito_damon
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 16, 2008 7:52 pm PT
Review:  What can I say, this game made me a fan of fighting games again. I thought I was going to have 
 to wait until the next Street Fighter came out but luckily I had some extra cash and I picked this 
 one up. I had been playing so many FPS games that I forgot how much fun fighting games could be.
 
  
  Graphics: 9.0 Simply put- the best ever in a MK game. The story mode plays out like a movie and 
 the graphics and camera angles are great. The story really gets you ready to play and forces you 
 to learn how to use all the characters. The only reason I didn't give the graphics a 10.0 was because 
 I just recently played Soul Calibur IV again and the graphics in that fighter game have no equal.
 
  
  Gameplay: 10.0 Simple and easy to pick up and play. If you played Street Fighter or MK3, you can 
 play this game. It seems like a 3D fighter but it plays out more like a 2D fighter.
  
  Sound: This is the best part of the game. If you have a surround sound stereo system then you'll 
 love the way this music and impact sounds get you into the games.
  
  Replay: 9.0 No 10 because I'm not sure if there are any unlockable characters like in previous 
 MK games. I could be wrong about this but I still need to play more to find out.
  
  Overall rating: 9.5423255261632. I rounded down to 9.5 because gamespot doesn't let us use this 
 many significant digits.
  
  Last Word: Go get it! It's worth the money and I think it will take fighting games on the PS3 to 
 the next level.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: ivan50265
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 16, 2008 7:01 pm PT
Review:  So I went out against my own better judgement and purchased the game this morning. After playing 
 for ten minutes I was immediately impressed with Midway's new offering in the MK universe. If the 
 only reason you play MK is the fatalities then stop reading and don't buy it, but if your looking 
 for a fighter with a decent plot and some great fighting then read on friends I'll try not to spoil 
 anything for you. 
  
  For starters I'd like to bring up the story. You have the choice to play either in regular arcade 
 mode or you can play the story mode which allows you to pick either the MK or DC universe. From 
 then on you do not get a choice of which character you play instead each charcter get thieer own 
 chapter to take you through the story. This is definitely different than any other MK title I have 
 played yet, and is a great addition. The story is well written in a comic book sort of way that 
 explains the mergng of the two universes and makes it plausible. 
  
  The fighting is awesome. The AI is not a push over and gets tougher as you go through the story. 
 There is an in game menu which give you a quick shot of each fighter's moves so you don't walk 
 into any fight empty handed. The pace is furious and fun as all three kombat modes regualr, free 
 fall, and close kombat all work seemlessly together to make you feel more like your in a action 
 sequence for a movie rather than a fighting game. One great touch is when you defeat a fughter 
 or are defeated before round two the defeated fighter gets up and crack's thier neck before going 
 into the next round. The rage aspect of the game is a little cheap, but is good in a pinch to help 
 you out in a fight or can be your biggest enemy if used by your opponent well. 
  
  The graphics look great and though the animations seem a little stiff you don; t really notice in 
 the fray too much. The cut scenes look spectacular and the voice acting ranges anywhere from acceptable 
 to superb. 
  
  The online fighting is n0ot to be missed especially if you have voice chat. It si a sincere blast 
 and should not be missed. 
  
  All in all if you are a fan of fighting games I have to reccomend this game. Though it is toned 
 down a bit it is still filled with good story and good fighting. Some of the fatalities will make 
 you happy most won't, but if all you do is play MK for the fatalities you're missing out on th 
 rest of a very good game. 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: convince73
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 16, 2008 6:03 pm PT
Review:  don't take this the wrong way but mk was running on fumes, midway had just about sucked the life 
 out of mk. the dc twist is a nice change that works better than i thouugt. i hope that alot of 
 comic geeks try this out. i my self am a coimc geek so try not to take that the wrong way. how 
 about comic fan boys/girls . now to the game it look fantastic lots of eye candy. the controls 
 are great. i can not think of a better fighter out now. SC has been going down hill the past few 
 years. life is almost over when you need to bring in star wars charters to carry your game, the 
 sad thing is that it did not work. yes the DC charters might be a reach but it does work. they 
 just seem to fit in so well. maybe next year mk can vs marvel. because we wil never see a dc vs 
 marvel no matter how much money it would make the comic industry, they could not agree on the jla 
 vs avengers. now that would be one hell of a game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: simon_levane
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 2, 2009 11:08 am PT
Review:  Two years ago, I purchased the limited edition of "Mortal Kombat: Armageddon" and as a casual fan 
 of the series, I liked it. It wasn't "God of War II" good, but it was good. The "Motor Kombat" 
 was a cute diversion, but not as good as the tetris/chess games of "Deception" and the action-oriented 
 "Adventure" mode was decent. The best thing about "Armageddon" was the large cast of fighters, 
 the create-a-fighter mode and "Ultimate MK 3". The fighting engine was dated and so were the visuals, 
 however.
  
  I purchased the "Kollector's Edition" of MK Vs. DC for the PS3 and I am pleasantly surprised. After 
 the juggernauts "Gears of War 2" and "Call of Duty: World at War", this is an equally enjoyable 
 game. In fact, more so than "Soul Calibur IV" to some degree. All the new additions to combat are 
 great; and the DC characters will probably see more playtime than the MK set who have been given 
 additional moves. The Unreal Engine doesn't get too much of a workout (hello "Gears of War 2" and 
 PS3 "Bioshock") , but the framerate is perfectly smooth and the whoever will put on a headset for 
 online fights will have a great time. This is a great fighter and the sequel will be equally enjoyable. 
 I love it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dewey79
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 16, 2008 1:16 pm PT
Review:  Scorpion and the MK guys have never been better. I haven't played that much with DC fighters except 
 Batman. For people who have doubts, nothing to say except play it.
  
  As far as the fighting, the controls are very tight, and it only takes a second to get used to 
 using the 2d and 3d movement. The combos are pretty good being that yo can create your own. All 
 the characters I have played with seem to have devastating moves and hits that are brutal when 
 they land.
  
  
  The graphics are excellent. Fighting is fun to watch and they really put a sweet touch on the animations 
 and the special moves. These are the coolest looking fighters of any fighting game I have played.
 
  
  I havent played through story mode and to be honest, I don't care about it although I will eventually 
 play through it. The main thing is that it is fun to fight!!!! Best fighting game to me to date.
 
  
  IF YOU ARE A COMPETITOR AND HAVE ONLINE PLAY, THIS WILL BE A DREAM COME TRUE FOR YOU!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JoshBagwell
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 16, 2008 12:40 pm PT
Review:  I got the game today and found myself really enjoying this. I pre-order the game and canceled it 
 after hearing about the T rating and what they took out. But at the last minute pre-order again 
 and am so glad i did. 
  
  The graphics in the game are great espically the cutscense.
  
  The story is well written. I never thought this game would be great in the story line but it 
 surpassed my expectation.
  
  The fighting yes that the ?. Well i wasnt a fan of MK Armaggedon it felt clunky and slow plus that 
 game took out Noobs real ability. This game on the other hand gives me back some of that faith 
 i lost in MK games.
  
  My real complaint is character wise I really wanted on the MK side Noob, Smoke, Rain, Ermac you 
 know the good characters. On the DC really wanted Nightwing and maybe Batman Beyond.
  
  But you never know with the age of downloaded content. This is a title worth picking up. No matter 
 if you rent it, buy it or wait till the price drops dont overlook this game 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
