-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: MotorStorm: Pacific Rift
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/ps3/driving/motorstorm2/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Twice the number of tracks as the original.
 Many course designs are utterly fantastic.
 Core racing is an absolute blast.
 Great multiplayer, both online and off.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Inconsistent vehicle handling.
 Oversensitive physics.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Oct 23, 2008
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 8
Critic Score: 8.2, 52 Review (s)
User Score: 8.6, 674 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: SCEA
Developer: Evolution Studios
Genre: Rally / Offroad Racing
Date: Oct 28, 2008
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
More content and clever courses make Pacific Rift everything you'd want in a Motorstorm sequel. 
 

  Motorstorm: Pacific Rift is a rush, which should come as no surprise to fans of its predecessor. 
 It's rip-roaring fun to speed through fields of sugarcane and race dangerously close to a cliff's 
 rocky edge in your buggy all while avoiding the deep treads of a monster truck ramming you from 
 behind. This is the Motorstorm experience, first delivered in last year's fun -- but stripped -- off-road 
 racer. Pacific Rift is more of the same from a gameplay perspective, but it throws in twice the 
 number of tracks, a new vehicle type, and a more fully featured multiplayer experience. But it's 
 not all about quantity: Some of the new courses are dazzling and, in many cases, far exceed the 
 quality of the original's courses. A few nagging issues remain, but for the most part, you'll get 
 your money's worth out of this great sequel.  

           Sugar Rush is the best course -- and the hardest.      

  As in the original Motorstorm, 
 you begin each race by choosing a vehicle type and then dashing through an expansive off-road course 
 against up to 11 other vehicles. Because each vehicle has its own strengths and weaknesses (motorbikes 
 are quick to turn but vulnerable to crashes; big rigs are relatively slow but can plow their way 
 through thick underbrush) , courses feature a number of different routes to the finish line. It's 
 up to you, through trial and error, to figure out which route best suits your chosen vehicle. You'll 
 also use that knowledge to your advantage while avoiding the ferocity of your opponents -- and exercising 
 yours upon them.  

  Describing tracks as intricate actually sells many of them short. There are 16 of them in all, 
 eight more than in the original's release, and some of them are mind-bogglingly clever. Perhaps 
 the best of these is Sugar Rush, a high-speed romp through a sugar plantation that takes you through 
 a cluttered factory and into its lush fields. The ramps are narrow while the turns are sharp, and 
 the robust physics may cause a crate or random tire to get in your way where there hadn't been 
 one before. It's also a tough course with multiple potential paths, and one in which a single mistake 
 within the factory's claustrophobic spaces can cost you the race. On Beachcomber, a sprint across 
 the white sands of a Pacific island getaway is complicated by marshes that get muddier as vehicles 
 drive through them, soaring jumps, and thick vegetation. Even some of the less complex courses, 
 such as Cascade Falls, are a joy to navigate thanks to the varied scenery, a great sense of speed, 
 and significant differences between the branching paths. The high quality of these tracks makes 
 other tracks look downright simple, such as the straightforward race through rocky gorges and mossy 
 caves known as Razorback, or the minimalist watery environs of Colossus Canyon.  

  Some of the courses turn the spotlight on Pacific Rift's boost function. You can give yourself 
 a kick of speed using nitro boost, but you can't use it too liberally, lest you overheat and explode. 
 A few courses take you near burning pits of lava that further increase this risk but also scatter 
 sprinkler showers about the track, letting you cool off your seared mudplugger. The Scorched track 
 makes brilliant use of this mechanic, combining seemingly endless forks and burning straightaways 
 into a fun ride. Of course, you'll not only struggle with the challenge of the courses themselves, 
 but also with the aggressiveness of other drivers. Using a shoulder button, you can ram into other 
 vehicles, which is a particular delight when behind the wheel of a big rig or monster truck. It's 
 less exciting when you're driving a defenseless ATV and must cope with a crowd of vehicles at a 
 course bottleneck -- or dealing with an AI that ignores the best route for its vehicle in favor of 
 forcing you over a cliff.  

  You will run into some other frustrations, though these aren't frequent and are a by-product of 
 Pacific Rift's loose physics model, which usually makes for rough-and-tumble fun but can be a little 
 too sensitive for its own good. You might crash for no apparent reason when hitting the bottom 
 of a ramp or simply driving from one surface onto another, even when it looks like a clearly even 
 transition and is one you've made a dozen times before without issues. Vehicle handling is also 
 loose, which makes for impossibly high jumps, but also means that making contact with so much as 
 a pebble could cause your buggy to launch into a series of somersaults. This is the case even with 
 large vehicles, such as the new top-heavy monster truck, which feels less solid than you might 
 imagine. These issues are generally avoidable if you have an error-free race, but it does bring 
 a philosophical discrepancy to the forefront: Many of these design elements encourage crashing, 
 but they also demand racing perfection if you want to finish in the top three -- a dichotomy with 
 which the game never quite comes to grips.  

  Fortunately, there are more ways to play than in the original Motorstorm. The Festival takes you 
 through a series of races in which you earn points to advance ranks, and they become tougher as 
 you push through them. Your vehicle selection is usually limited in these contests, which is a 
 great way of introducing you to each vehicle and its preferred routes, though you may wish you 
 had a wider selection if you prefer big rigs but are forced into a buggy. These aren't all simple 
 races, either; In Eliminator races, the racer in last place will explode after a period of time 
 until the field is narrowed to a single survivor, while another race variant may eliminate you 
 if you crash a certain number of times. In Speed challenges, you need to race through a series 
 of checkpoints, but they require a bit of trial and error because you only see one waypoint at 
 a time, which may not give you enough time to make adjustments. Besides, at these times, you are 
 a lone driver, and Pacific Rift is clearly at its best when you face a full pack of challengers. 

           Expect to get plenty of air, even in a monster truck.      

  The AI is a challenge, but it can't compare with the thrill of competing with like-minded racers 
 online. Standard and Eliminator races are available, in ranked and unranked variants, and you can 
 even invite friends to a party prior to racing. While the game's official site and other sources 
 indicate support for 16 players, Pacific Rift actually supports 12 drivers. The whole thing is 
 a riot, whether you're aggressively bumping into bikers with your big rig or jumping in a racing 
 car and leaving everyone in your dust. If you'd rather hang out with buddies, you can also take 
 advantage of Pacific Rift's split-screen mode, which supports up to four players. It's fun to race 
 this way, and the frame rate keeps up rather well, even if the segmented screen makes it harder 
 to enjoy the scenery.  

  And boy, that scenery is beautiful. The green cliffs of Raingod Spires are lush, and such details 
 as a lingering mist set the humid mood. Riptide showcases gorgeous lighting effects and colorful 
 seaside shacks, while the sight of distant waterfalls warms the background. Splatters of mud, splashes 
 of puddles, and a subtle whooshing effect instill a great sense of speed on almost every track. 
 It also performs better than the original Motorstorm: The loading times have been decreased, and 
 moving through the vehicle selections in the menu is no longer agonizingly slow. The sound effects 
 remain top-notch. Engines emit strident growls, and details from the audio cues when boosting to 
 the thuds of your slow-motion crashes are dramatic, as well as just plain awesome. The soundtrack 
 is a collection of boisterous licensed rock from Nirvana, Queens of the Stone Age, and a variety 
 of other bands. You won't always be paying much attention to the music when rushing past your challengers, 
 but like the game, most of it is loud and rowdy.  

  With such games as DiRT and Pure competing for your attention, Pacific Rift has much larger shoes 
 to fill than before. It's good, then, that the core Motorstorm racing model is so much fun and 
 there are more ways to experience it now. However, the track design is its greatest success; the 
 intricacy and variety of the courses will keep you coming back to explore the possibilities and 
 test your mettle. Aside from a few remaining quibbles, Motorstorm: Pacific Rift is a notable improvement 
 over the original and a blast to play.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (41 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: SGTiD1NG0
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 10, 2009 12:52 pm PT
Review:  Motorstorm was one of the first games in the line up for the Playstation 3 launch. It was good 
 but had too many flaws to prevent it from making it great let alone superb. But when Motorstorm 
 2 was on the verge of release it had so much want want want in the new sequel and delivered everything 
 you'd want from a Motorstorm sequel, welcome to Motorstorm.
  
  Motorstorm is like most racing games which features festivals and race days, although this might 
 appeal all too boring and linear to most racers and maybe something different like a story for 
 change. It's the fact that the festivals all have something unique to it, to try and beat it and 
 if it encourages you, there are trophies for completing festivals not to mention a trophy case 
 to track how many wrecks you have done and how many more to go to require the trophy. Not to mention 
 there are four festival types including fire, water, air and earth and while you progress through 
 the festivals they get harder and harder, using better artificial intelligence and limited wrecks. 
 The game advances at a steady pace meaning as you progress it will never get to easy nor hard, 
 but the difficulty may seem a bit punishing at the very beginning for newcomers but isn't to mean 
 it will penalize you to hard and only takes a few skirmishes to reach mid-point.
  
  What makes Motorstorm such a good sequel is the fact everything wanted in it was included in it. 
 Lets start with the cars, fortunately more classes have been introduced to make the game have more 
 variety and more accessible, to name a few, bikes, big rigs and even monster trucks with a total 
 of eight classes. A nice addition to these classes is as you progress through festivals and online 
 ranks you will unlock new drivers, extra video clips and different cars in their classes with paint 
 schemes to add an incentive for playing through it. Then you have 16 race courses and at that it 
 may seem too few but really the longevity and multiple paths in the courses make each one so well 
 designed with the lush graphics and awesome wrecking. There are roughly four tracks for each attribute 
 and well designed for their meaning, racing across volcanoes has never really been seen in racers 
 but Motorstorm has made it possible not to mention the addition of water tracks and then air which 
 may similarly relate to earth aside from some great jumps. The addition of four player split screen 
 makes the game so much fun, just experiencing awesome car crashing with up to eleven artificial 
 intelligence opponents including up to three friends, makes races exhilarating. Just changing the 
 opponents to bikers and making you and your friends and running over the bikes with Big Rigs or 
 Monster Trucks is so much fun. What I wanted to say in this review is that if you don't let your 
 son or maybe even daughter play over age games and you see this great game being 16+ then rest 
 assured, aside from bikers being run over this game is nothing more than a 7+ at best.
  
  The game play is so polished it feels perfect, I couldn't really ask for anymore from the creators 
 of Motorstorm. The game play is perfected in a way I cannot describe with the moving and turning 
 feeling completely unique to every vehicle. If I were to criticize the game play in one way is 
 that offline and offline only, once bikes are mastered in a few skirmishes they can completely 
 dominate festivals which makes them feel over powered in the early stages than most vehicles. The 
 control scheme is superb once more, using the L1 and R1 are really only used to knock someone on 
 the left of you or right of you. L1 applies to knocking on the left and R1 applies to the right 
 hand side but these two buttons aren't used enough to make them effective enough to use it enough 
 for the use of two buttons on a controller although they had to be used for something. While it 
 is a needless add on, it sure is fun when knocking someone of their bike or getting a truck to 
 steer a Monster Truck of a course. But then you'd have more buttons unused if they weren't used 
 up because the circle, square and triangle are hardly ever used maybe for quickly looking back 
 on a car but nothing useful again. Then again though not many racing game make full use of every 
 main buton or triggers. However the best addition on the control pad is the x button; it isn't 
 over powered or under powered. You can boost yourself with the meter for up to five seconds straight 
 but use it for too long and you'll explode into a ball of fire, forgot to mention anyone in your 
 radius to explodes for some explosive time. The boost goes down slowly so you can use it alot and 
 make enough use of it to make it really effective but beware so can you're opponents. If you are 
 on a water truck you're in luck because of the physics, water cools your boost down when you are 
 submerged but if you chose fire you're most likely doomed for when you make a jump over a volcano, 
 your boost will flare up alot. Alot. 
  
  The graphics side are really lush, moving through water then getting soaked and changing from wet 
 to dry when you quickly drive through a jungle environment makes full use of the physic engine. 
 Jungles, Volcanoes, Water are all beautifully presented on each track with unique visuals to make 
 each track superb in its own special way. Cars and drivers look good but nothing can make them 
 so great. It's the main environments
  
  Just like every cars has its very own handling, turning and a bunch of other tuff, each cars represents 
 itself with awesome sound, it's a shame that different cars in its class don't have unique sounds 
 because it would have certainly made the game alot better but it's not only the cinematic crashing 
 which makes it so good the sound blend with it great to make crashes awesome to see and hear as 
 well.
  
  Motorstorm 2: Pacific Rift has a great way to finish what was already a great game with once again 
 GREAT multi player. The multi player has ranks to show how good you really are but this time it 
 doesn't take just a day to get to top rank, if you reach a certain rank and you did badly in a 
 race you will be downgraded and somewhere after hours of playing you will be at your right suitable 
 place in Motorstorm. Thankfully you can choose casual or ranked gaming, to make matchmaking easier 
 for you and everyone else. Ranked puts you with everyone who is at a similar rank with you. While 
 casual you can choose selected servers with different numbers of laps, maps etc and everyone is 
 bundled together with no skill match making. Ranked randomly puts you with a random host like Call 
 of Duty would and you can skip a track if desired or not depending on everyone else, all races 
 have two laps and are standard races with no other game modes available. The only other available 
 game mode is Eliminator where last place gets eliminated every half minute or so but that's only 
 available offline or casual online. Which is a shame because there was so much more area for improvement 
 for additional game modes. Back to ranks, it features five ranks with three ranks in each of the 
 five ranks. It goes Bronze One, Silver One, Gold One, Bronze Two and so forth. While this is a 
 great addition, there is no score tracking what so ever so this doesn't really add the basics and 
 could have added something to make the whole online better. Speaking of game modes and score tracking 
 another cool thing is Time Attack where you are pitted out against the creators of Motorstorm in 
 ghost vehicles if you choose to, not to mention everyone else and put on the scoring leader boards. 
 This is another great add on which just adds to this great game.
  
  In all paragraphs you may have heard the words "Great" continuously repeated throughout the review 
 but I'm simply trying to convey if you are board of pimped up racers like Mighnight Club or Need 
 for Speed and maybe realistic racers like Gran Turismo then change tracks to off road and buy this 
 great racer today. It is simply a blast to play offline or on and maybe even with friends. This 
 game is an exclusive you won't want to miss out on which provides plenty of fun hours to come.
 
  
  -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  .Pros
  .16 different tracks all have so much variety and multiple paths to 
  make them all unique in their very own way.
  . Up to four player split screen is a well heard 
 add on.
  . Instead of three classes, eight classes are now available 
  including the awesome Monster Truck.
  . Online ranks gives you something to drive for as you 
 play with a 
  total of 15 ranks.
  . Outstounding technical graphics makes it inspiring.
  . Polished to the finest degree vehicle balancing and handling to 
  make a truly memorable driving 
 experience.
  . Some awesome sound effects in driving and also in wrecking 
  crashes not to mention thrilling to watch as well as hear.
  . The boost add on makes driving 
 thrilling and doesn't make it too 
  over powered to make it to easy but a well tuned feature.
  . The festival advances at a steady 
 face making just right in terms 
  of difficulty levels.
  . There are trophy cases to help track those pesky time 
  consuming trophies.
  . Tons of extras 
 adds replay value including different types of 
  vehicle in each class, driver packs, video clips and much more.
  ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  .Cons
  .All though most racers don't, it doesn't make much use of the 
  circle, square and 
 triangle button.
  .Festival mode doesn't add much new to the racing genre.
  .No way, should've it had been a 16+ rated game.
  .Online doesn't have the basics like score 
 tracking and could 
  have used with some more game modes.
  .Pimping up customization and tweaking would have been nice.
  -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  Story Missions: 7.5
  Story Plot: 7.5
  Gameplay 9.5
  Graphics 9.5
  Sound 9.0
  Online: 
 7.5
  ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  Overall 8.8
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: jacko-147
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 25, 2009 2:07 pm PT
Review:  moter storm pacifc rift is a fun off road racer with so much to offer.
  
  Story-a decently long story mode with plenty of tracks and race modes to offer it keeps you hooked 
 all the way through. This time round there is a better variaty of tracks to race on with a wide 
 range of vehicles. The story has great replay value as you will find yourself coming back for more.
 
  
  Tracks- this time round they have focused on 4 main types earth, water, air and fire witch gives 
 a good variaty throughout and you seem to never get bored of it.
  
  Online- is great this time round with 12 player races and an online ranking system even though 
 i dont like it when you do bad in a race your rank goes down witch makes it really hard to reach 
 the legend rank.
  
  If your in to off road racing this is the game for you 
::::::

::::::
UserName: M0wen10
Rating: 7
Date: Apr 13, 2009 9:29 am PT
Review:  The first Motorstorm was highly received for it's stunning desert landscape, and this time Pacific 
 Rift will engage you with its luscious tropical environments. Each level is artistically standing 
 out with every bit of detail, from wonderfully inviting waterfalls to rusty and abandoned sugar 
 factories. However they are made, each one will impress you.
  There are also a great range of vehicles to race with: Bikes, Rally Cars and even Monster Trucks 
 are just a handful of vehicles to choose from. And the more races you win, the more variety of 
 each to select from. On each ticket you will either have a normal race, an eliminater event or 
 a speed event - where you have to pass through a certain amount of checkpoints in a certain time. 
 (Personally I'm not keen on them) .
  Each vehicle has different qualities ranging from grip on surfaces to their acceleration and toughness. 
 Like the Big Rig is slow, but able to grip easily to mud and ram other competitors out of the way. 
 The bike is fast and flexible, but extremely fragile. On some races there are certain vehicles 
 you must choose, so you will have to adapt to that particular vehicle, and the many paths on the 
 track to find a way to win.
  The downside to the game is the difficulty. Each rank you advance, the more challenging the game 
 becomes, which results in heavy frustration and throwing your controller around the room. (Not 
 pretty) .
  There are 16 tracks to choose from and try out different vehicle classes but eventually the fun 
 will turn to annoyance, depending on how good you are. But Motorstorm Pacific Rift is well worth 
 trying out if you can afford it's high asking price.
  
  Story- N/A
  Charcters- 2/5
  Gameplay- 3/5
  Controls- 3/5
  Graphics- 5/5
  Sound- 2/5
  Length- 3/5
  Replayability- 
 4/5
  
  Good Points: Beautiful and varied tracks, Stunning graphics, Great choice for vehicles, Plenty 
 of songs to listen to, Crashing causes great effects, On bikes and ATV's you can throw punches 
 and swear at other drivers.
  
  Bad Points: High asking price, Can get very hard and frustrating, AI seem more intent on throwing 
 you off the track than winning. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Q8akira
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 14, 2009 2:05 am PT
Review:  Lets start this review by saying i dont like racers. But motorstorm pacific rift has changed my 
 mind. Lets start with the singleplayer. This is probably the weakest link of the game, considering 
 its so hard. Yeah theres easy things, like in every game, but some of the missions will have you 
 chucking your controller at the wall. Next is the multiplayer. Its really really really good. The 
 splitscreen is a blast first off. Its fun sometimes to invite over 3 friends and just face off. 
 This is an especially good feature these days considering most games lack split screen and im regretting 
 buying 3 other controllers. The online multiplayer is superb as well. Its very addictive. For example, 
 If you lose a close race, you'll want to play agian and win. Lastly I'd like to comment on the 
 amazing physics. Its like they took the source engine from valve, increased its ragdolly goodness 
 by 10x and then put it in a racer.
  
  My personaly favorites:
  
  
  * Twice the number of tracks as the original
  * Many course designs are breathtaking
  * Core 
 racing is an absolute blast
  * Great multiplayer, both online and off.
  
  Not so likeable:
  
  * Inconsistent vehicle handling
  * Oversensitive physics. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: misha97
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 13, 2009 8:54 pm PT
Review:  I got this game for Christmas when I got my PS3. I played the first motorsotrm at my friends house 
 and was amazed at the quality of the graphics. So, I deceided to get MotorStrom: Pacific Rift.
 
  
  First thing I can say is AMAZING GRAPHICS. I have never seen such quality graphics in my life. 
 You drive under a waterfall, through a river, or any place where there is water, you car actually 
 gets wet and soggy as if it had just ran through the ocean. Also, when your driving through mud, 
 it sprays all over your screen ( visibility is good, not that much mud ) and your car gets covered 
 in mud. You crash into a tree, as parts of your car come crashing off. FINALLY, we have waited 
 so long for a racing game where your car breaks. Unlike those Need for Speed games where your car 
 rams into a wall at 300 kph and it hasnt suffered a scratch. 
  
  Now the campaign, I would say MotorStorm is one of the most challenging racing games I have ever 
 played. At first its easy, and then, it is harder and harder to progress to the other level. (i 
 got to level 6) while there are overall 8 levels. Each level you beat, you unlock a new driver 
 and car package. One more thing, the tracks are divided into the elemnts, fire, water, earth, air. 
 (see track section for more info)
  
  Tracks, much more that in the regular MotorSotrm, yes! There are 16 tracks and each are divided 
 into the elemts fire, water, earth, and air. Why? Because on the earth tracks you plow through 
 countless mud. On the fire tracks, you drive millimeters away from scorching lava, waiting, just 
 waiting, to get you! In the water tracks you drive in and around water, ie. waterfalls, rivers, 
 tide pools, etc. (be carefull not to get submerged in water) Finally, the air tracks, there, you 
 jump off ramps and plummet to the ground meters below you. Think when you choose your vehicle. 
 You dont want a monster truck driving off a ramp and due to its weight, falling into a canyon. 
 
  
  
  Sound, I would give the sound a 3/10. The songs really annoy me with hard/metallic rock. Well, 
 if you like such music, youll like the sound. It would be much better if they had a variety of 
 music. 
  
  Multiplayer, I dont really play online, but if you have friends over, its the perfect way to entertain 
 any guest.
  
  Overall, very fun. But beware, its a bit of a challenge to beat the game.
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: mariolink12
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 12, 2009 5:59 pm PT
Review:  plain awesome!!!!!! friend has it and i'm gonna get a ps3 cause i'm a racing multiplayer coolness 
 fan. which brings me to the ps3 good as the game!2 words: multi media. that is right every thing! 
 internet pictures music and psp has this stuff! back to the game. i race dirt bikes ( for real) and 
 this is like nothing i've ever seen! big rigs and monster trucks do well in the water. bikes (my 
 personal favorite) are small and quick. racing trucks are pretty all around vehicles. ATV's are hard 
 to turn. rally cars are just plain fast. and if you like to goof off: buggies are for you. my favorite 
 thing is the arsenal of vehicles. and when it gets down to the wire the multi player rules! its 
 brutal off road riding driving whatever you call it it always makes you feel like the fastest person 
 ever! i mean it is so awesome! (and just because i crammed a ps3 review in there don't call me a 
 sony fanboy even though i probably am) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheAcejoel99
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 5, 2009 5:22 pm PT
Review:  Motorstorm: pacific rift is an enjoyable, deep and rewarding game but newcomers to the franchise 
 will probably find the game very alienating and very difficult. Motorstorm fixes the nagging issues 
 that motorstorm previously had. Motorstorm had many issues such as: lacking textures, limited environments, 
 no offline multi-player, few modes, short single-player, few tracks and a very hard difficulty/learning 
 curve. Motorstorm: pacific rift is much prettier with better textures far more effects going on 
 and far more varied envronments such as water and fire levels as well as wind and the traditional 
 mud/dirt levels. It now has offline multi-player that works quite well and is 2 player (not 4) 
 there is one more mode but it is quite weak (I will adress that later) single player is about 30% 
 longer. There are about twice as meny tracks but retains its very high lerning curve and difficulty 
 (for players new to motorstorm that is) however if you played and loved the first motorstorm than 
 you should feel right at home. There are also alot of very small additions that help a bit as well 
 such as: when chooseing vehicles everything is streamlined (no loading each car model) so all cars 
 are present as all times and can be chosen with much needed fluidity. Presentation is a bit better 
 and has far more slick menus making chooseing events far easier. Controls are tighter as well (not 
 by much, but series Vets will notice) Motorstorm is an amazing game and shouldn't be missed for 
 it's speed and sense of being on the edge of control is only surpassed by burnout and is an amazing 
 achievement. As a side note, online is great and runs perfectly and I believe now sports 16 racers 
 rather than the 12 in the previous motorstorm. Now with all these additions alone I would score 
 the game at about a 9.5 or if I could on the scale a 9.7 or something around there, but there are 
 still some nagging issues. First, there is only one new mode which the orgininal had only 2 (lacking) 
 Pacific rift has only 3 (still lacking) and the new mode could have been pulled off far better. 
 The mode is basicly a race between flags where you drive between two flags which will prompt another 
 set of flags to appear, so on and so forth but only one new set of flags appear at a time so there 
 is an amazing amount of luck involved for guessing where the next set of flags will be is daunting 
 and every time this event pops up you will probably have to play it multiple times just to get 
 the flag spawn points memorized. Secondly, the extreme difficulty is still present and is even 
 more difficult in pacific rift, which is fine for those wanting a challenge but there is alot of 
 track memorization and fast reflexes involved and oddly enough a bit too much luck, making alot 
 of your crashes seem unwarrented like just barely hitting a rock wrong, for example, you may hit 
 a rock and bounce off it and be unscathed and then hit that rock at the same speed and just barly 
 different and be totally obliterated. This is obviously my fault that I hit the rock but still 
 it seems a little unpreditcable, but in no way prevents pacific rift from being an excellent choice 
 in racing mayhem and fully delivers on what you wanted for a sequel and is a welcome game in playstations 
 library and should be on your shelf and in your playstation and is a ton of fun, both online and 
 off. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AuraLine
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 13, 2009 2:27 am PT
Review:  MotorStorm: Pacific Rift is an underhyped gem of a racing game. This being an off-road racer, it 
 sets itself apart from most of the other racers in the market. Now, I know what you guys are thinking, 
 "This game will be set in dirt tracks isn't it?", well, you're partially right. There are tracks 
 that let you drive on dirt, but it isn't restricted to that. This game is set in a remote tropical 
 island where there are beaches, jungles, volcanoes, cliffs and some more. Just to give you guys 
 a glimpse, there are four zones in this game, namely Earth, Air, Fire and Water. Each of these 
 zones have different attributes. In the Earth zone tracks, you'll be racing in jungles or places 
 where there is an abundance of ground. Air zone tracks, obviously, will have you soaring through 
 the air because of the plentiful ramps and jumps that can be made here. The Fire zone tracks set 
 you near volcanoes or places where civilization lived but abandoned because of a lava rush. Water 
 zone tracks set you near cliffs, rivers, waterfalls and canyons, all filled with water. That being 
 said, graphics are just jaw-dropping in every respect. Each track is filled with exquisite detail 
 and lush environments to looks at. Not to mention very clever routes. They might be a challenge 
 early on when you're just starting because of how complicated each track looks, but once you've 
 learned the ropes of a track, you can just zoom past the competition all while admiring the scenery 
 of a tropical island.
  
  Speaking of competition, there are albeit, over 50 cars to choose from. All of them varying from 
 one another and all of them detailed to the maximum extent that it makes you sorry that you made 
 them dirty. Yes, there is damage and dirt effects, both of which are done very well and are just 
 icing to an already beautiful game. In addition, you can also pick your driver. As with the vehicles, 
 they vary from one another. Going back to the vehicles, they are divided into classes, namely Bike, 
 ATV, Buggy, Rally Car, Racing Truck, Mudplugger, Big Rig and Monster Truck. Each class has several 
 vehicle shells to choose from. They aren't wholly aesthetic because the size, weight, width and 
 height of a certain car affects the way it drives. There are some vehicle shells that just surpass 
 every aspect of another vehicle shell. The stats of each shell aren't visible though, so you'll 
 have to experiment which shell floats your boat. Each class also has a strength and a weakness. 
 For example, the Rally Car is just godly in Colossus Canyon while the Big Rig can't hold a candle 
 to it there. However, in Badlands, the Big Rig just crushes the competition while the Rally Car 
 is left to eat dust. There is balance, every vehicle class can win, you just need to know where 
 to use it and what routes to take in each track. Route-making is an essential thing in MotorStorm: 
 Pacific Rift. Pick the right routes, and you're in for a sure win, or a close one. Pick the wrong 
 ones and you'll be struggling in the pack. That's the beauty of the tracks here, each vehicle class 
 has its own best route, so taking the route of, say a Monster Truck isn't going to do you any good 
 in a Buggy.
  
  Festival is the game's career mode. It's where you unlock most of the vehicle shells and drivers. 
 Each race here is restricted to certain vehicles classes so it is best to learn each classes' route. 
 The races are divided into Ranks. As you progress through the ranks, difficulty gets harder and 
 harder. It may not be noticeable at the early ranks, but once you reach rank 6, you'll be having 
 a harder time overtaking and isolating. This game also being a competitive racer, dirty racing 
 is allowed. The AI will try their best to try and take you out of commission just so they could 
 claim the lead. There are also some times wherein they just push you to a wall, them included, 
 just to get you out of first place. It's a bit frustrating, but it's challenging and gets your 
 blood pumping, just to get the gold. There are also several race modes in Festival. There are the 
 normal races which pits you against 12-16 opponents, all gunning for the win. There is Eliminator 
 wherein you are up against 10 other racers. The twist here is that in a set amount of time, the 
 racer in last place will be blown up and is therefore eliminated. There is no margin for error 
 in this type of race, for the AI is very aggressive, especially in the later ranks. There are Speed 
 races, which are basically you against the clock. It's isn't Time Trial per se, because you have 
 to go through checkpoints, through different routes rather than just go around the track and beat 
 the designated time. Both the Eliminator and the Speed races can only be unlocked through races 
 with a set quota. There are some races which are rigged with a wreck limit. These wreck limits 
 tell how many times you are allowed to wreck your car. If you go over, you won't be unlocking the 
 race it is supposed to be unlocked. Lastly, there are the races which have a set time for you to 
 finish, all while fending off your opponents for the lead. As with the wreck limit races, if you 
 go over the time, you won't be unlocking the next race.
  
  Wreckreation is the single/multiplayer mode of the game. In here, you'll find Online, Time Attack, 
 Single Race and Split-Screen. Single race lets you set up your own races, including the cars you 
 are going to race against. Split-screen can cater to up to 4 players. Time Attack is how it is 
 always known and loved. However, you can assign a ghost for you to either practice with or try 
 to beat. Online is where you can race people all over the world. It's divided into three modes. 
 Ranked, Casual and Custom. Ranked is the most picked out of them for it gives out ranking points 
 to level up. Think of it as the competitive mode of Online, where everybody brings their A-game 
 because they want to rank up and not lose ranking points. Speaking of ranks, there are 5 ranks 
 which are Grunt, Rookie, Veteran, Hero and Legend, and each are divided into three sections which 
 are Bronze, Silver and Gold. As you go higher up the ranks, less and less ranking points will be 
 given to you and the chance of losing ranking points is increased. Casual is, self-explanatory. 
 It's basically a single race. You don't lose or gain ranking points in this mode. Lastly, Custom 
 lets you customize which track you're going to race into and which vehicle classes are going be 
 available. It's like Casual, except you get to pick the stuff you want. On to Online play itself. 
 It's lagless and it just takes a while to find a game, that is if you're looking for one in Ranked. 
 There are times though that you will get disconnected and the game will freeze. I don't know if 
 this is normal, but it happens quite occasionally.
  
  The gameplay is what you expect from an off-road, combat racer: Fun, competitive and downright 
 adrenalin filling. Just picture it, there are 12-16 cars in one track, each being different classes, 
 ranging from a puny little Bike to a monstrous Monster Truck, and all of you have one goal: to 
 win. There will be lots of grinding, crushing, flying and crashing. Racing is just fast and furious 
 and has a very nice sense of speed to it, especially if you're using the bumper view. There is 
 a boosting system in the game, but it is unique. Instead of getting boost for doing some daring 
 stunts and driving clean and whatnot, you are given an unlimited amount of it and is free to use 
 it anytime you want. Always keep an eye on the Boost meter, there is a consequence if you boost 
 too much. There is a chance that you will explode. When you hear beeping, that is the time you 
 stop and let your engine cool. Once you think you're ready again, boost away. There are several 
 things that affect your boost meter. Driving on water cools your boost meter down and is while 
 driving near lava heats it up and speeds up the heating of your engine.
  
  The soundtrack is pretty decent. Lots of rock, a bit of house music, a bit of techno and a bit 
 of trance. It's a pretty big setlist so you won't be repeating a song for quite sometime. If the 
 soundtrack isn't your type, you can play your own playlist through the XMB. Yes, it will support 
 your playlist and play that instead of the supposed soundtrack of the game. However, this is disabled 
 when you go online. The sound effects are awesome. Your car's engine roaring as it flies through 
 the air, the grungy sound of your car crumpling into a piece of scrap metal when bumped or thrashed, 
 the sound of your suspension being tortured as you land jump after jump, the sound of the boost 
 which is just exhilarating and the environmental backdrops to even add more feel to it. They are 
 just all done perfectly.
  
  Overall, MotorStorm: Pacific Rift is an excellent racer in every respect, blending adrenalin pumping 
 racing action with lush environments that just have you wishing you were on a deserted tropical 
 island with nothing but lunatics racing everyday. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Cpt-Salt
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 3, 2009 3:17 am PT
Review:  You start off in the game with all the vehicles unlocked. You can play any map you like, and choose 
 which time of day it is. You can start the game with anything you like. You can start a career 
 in 'Festival' Mode, have a free race in 'Wrexation' mode or get started online straight away.
 
  
  The graphics for this game are incredible. It characterises a volcanic, paradise island really 
 well, with giesers high in the mountains, lush beaches, dense jungle, and a firey, scolding volcano 
 caldera. The graphics promote all these areas with expertise and belief.
  
  The actual racing istelf is a complete blast. With the introduction of a Monster Truck, you can 
 be sure to crush any vehicle even slightly smaller than you that gets in your way. The maps also 
 have great variety. Every vehicle has its own special aspect and weakness, so it will make you 
 choose carefully and analyse the maps in your head.
  
  The less important parts of the game are great as well. The soundtrack is absolutely brilliant, 
 also considering the fact that you can play your own songs stored on the Playstations HDD. Also 
 having the in-game photograph feature is great. You can pause it and take one at any angle you 
 like, just like on any other in-game screenshot you could see.
  
  Overall the game is great fun (I'll mention the flaws in the Cons) and has great features to go 
 with it.
  
  Pros:
  
  -Amazing graphics and detailed maps
  -Great soundtrack (including your own)
  -Racing is insane and great fun as usual
  -Plenty of 
 vehicles to choose from
  
  Cons:
  
  -Sometimes you might think you are deliberately thrown off course to make it harder
  -Turning 
 can be far too lose, whatever vehicle
  -Online matches only last for one race
  -Main menu background seems too overcrowded and distracting 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PS3Champ
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 1, 2009 12:37 am PT
Review:  THE GOOD
  
  -Absolutely AWESOME crashes!
  -Very smart AI
  -Challenging tracks which will push you to the limit
  -Many different types of terrain
  -Every 
 track is multi-path
  -You're able to choose your driver
  -More vehicles this time around
  -15 solid tracks to choose from!
  -Addicting online
  -Navigating each track well takes a lot 
 of strategy
  -Awesome music (I like metal and rock)
  -Stunning graphics
  -Very realistic physics (in some cases)
  -There are three different types of events
  -It has 
 trophies!
  -There's a button dedicated to ramming opponents
  -There's a new free-play mode
  
  THE BAD
  
  -The AI is almost too smart at times
  -Sometimes 
 it seems like the AI's only goal is to mess you up
  -Very easy to crash (just hit a small rock and you can tip)
  -The vehicles slide too much
  
 
  Overall, I think this game is excellent! It has it's pros and cons but every game does. All of 
 the cons are basically things that make the game very hard to play. The game is almost flawless 
 except for the difficulty and the vehicle physics. If you want a challenging game though, get this 
 one. Once you get the hang of it you'll get better. Just takes some time. In the end, I recommend 
 you buy this game... unless you're bad at games. In that case then I'd say pass on this one. 
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: martinhyde
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 27, 2009 3:11 pm PT
Review:  The original Motorstorm was one of my favorite racing games and the reason I bought a PS3. For 
 me the idea of mixing different types of off-road veihicle, the mud and dirt, into a single race 
 game, was a childhood dream come true. The new game, improves on the original concept, with better 
 graphics, more tracks and vehicles, tighter races, tactics, and better balance between the different 
 classes of vehicle. I love the addition of the monster truck and the ability to ram the competition 
 off the road. 
  
  For me the game really comes alive when you play it online, with frantic 12 player races. I used 
 to find it disappointing in the first game when the majority of online races were dominated by 
 the rally car. Now the line up of vehicle classes chosen by online drivers is much more varied, 
 making the racing even more unpredictable. The great thing about Motorstorm is every race is different 
 due to the terrain, and the different types of vehicle racing at any one time. This game really 
 has longevity. If you enjoy frantic racing, or liked the original game, the sequel is an essential 
 purchase and for me my favorite racing game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gummy_joe
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 26, 2009 3:46 pm PT
Review:  One of the highest selling Playstation 3 titles, Motorstorm was a good game, amazing graphics, 
 good soundtrack and some killer vehicles. The original had some minor flaws, like the lack of local 
 multiplayer and hardly any races that went outside the formular of the original. But despite these 
 it was still a cool desert racer
  The new motorstorm has some new and improved features, for example, split screen which means you 
 can play against friends face to face instead of over a DSL connection. The vehicle classes that 
 you enjoyed from the original are here along with the news Monster truck class that is a good choice 
 for destruction, chaos and crushing your opponent.
  There are 4 area zones, each has 20 or so races and follows a different element:
  Earth: a lot 
 of ground based races.
  Water: water, water every where, watch you don't go in the drink.
  Fire: volcano's+lava pits+burning wreckage everywhere= fun
  Air: you will be going over death 
 defying jumps and near cliffs.
  The zones have about 4 tracks each and have some pretty good design, along with vehicle structured 
 zones intended for differnt classes.
  There are some slight issues that will make it slightly less enjoyable, the game gets hard really 
 quick, sometimes just after a few races, but keep Persistant and you will over come this.
  The crew at Evolution even added a time trial mode so you can try and top the developers time on 
 each track, as well as a free play mode where you can verse any vehicles you want and is a good 
 way to try and discover the best routes on a track.
  The online play is good, I can't tell if it is better than the original because the original won't 
 download the updates for me, but its still fun racing opponents around the world and starting a 
 freestyle race is a good way to meet friends.
  One for item they added is the ability to use your own music and play list during the game, nothing 
 is more awesome than thrashing out to your favorite song while kicking a bloke off his bike.
  
  In all, if you liked the original, or you just like racing games, this is worth a look. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: eric3494
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 25, 2009 4:24 pm PT
Review:  Motorstorm Pacific Rift has to be one of the best racers available for the system. Coming close 
 to the amazing Gran Turismo 5, Motorstorm P. R. has proved itself to be a great racing game. Obviously 
 one of the major improvements to the game is the various settings. The original Motorstorm took 
 place in a boring environment with mud, dirt, and more mud. The creators have taken a step away 
 from this monotonous feel, and brought in 4 very unique "sections" on this pacific island. These 
 include Earth, air, fire and water. The fire and earth sections seem to lack in diversity, while 
 the air and water tracks are very unique and are nothing short of stunning. 
  There still are the wide variety of vehicles each with their own advantages. The bikes and ATVs 
 can take the higher, quicker paths, however the big rigs and the newly included monster trucks 
 pose the risk of crushing them. But the crashes are just amazing. With the classic Motorstorm style, 
 the camera will move to slow motion to watch your car get completely demolished. Graphically the 
 game is right on par, maxing out at 720p. 
  The gameplay has remained the same from the original Motorstorm with the acceleration and the boost. 
 The new environments make the boosting more interesting as water will cool the engine down, but 
 fire will heat it up. There are taunt and trick buttons, but they play a minor role in the game. 
 The story mode known the "Festival" is a series of races on each of the sections. For placing in 
 either of the top three positions, you will gain points which will aid you in leveling up to unlock 
 more races, and more vehicles. The Festival includes 4 race types with the standard racing, speed, 
 which requires you to drive through markers and elimination which causes the car in last place 
 to explode until only one car survives. There is also the return of online play which adds to the 
 game's replay value.
  Overall, Motorstorm Pacific Rift is a great game, and if you're a PS3 owner and a fan of racing 
 games, you have to pick this up. 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: -CANUCK-
Rating: 7
Date: Jan 22, 2009 10:26 am PT
Review:  Motorstorm : Pacific Rift : An offroad racing game. Yep. An offroad racing game is Motorstorm Pacific 
 Rift. 
  
  Story : There doesn't seem to be a storyline, so lets invent one. The Coors Light Offroad Sex Party 
 Power Team is throwing their latest mystery party contest (the ones that are always on commercials 
 and boxes every season) at an island in the Pacific for a weekend of intervehichle offroad racing 
 excitement and worry-free sex when the evil Dr Von Nofunhowser arrived, threatening to ruin the 
 Power Team's weekend with GLOBAL WARMING. The only way to thwart Dr Von Nofunhowser's plans for 
 warming their beers is to engage in exciting offroad races while generic alt-rock tracks play in 
 the background. None of this makes sense but storylines in racing games don't have to make sense, 
 in fact I'd be a bit upset if there was a story in a racing game that didn't involve a supervillain's 
 plans being inexplicably trifled with by means of a race.
  
  The cutscene that plays in the background of the main menu details a lot of partying and racing 
 fun in what I presume is "The Festival" but The Coors Light Offroad Sex Party Power Team isn't 
 letting you into the shenanigans, after all, you didn't find the golden bottle in your box of Coors 
 Light. 
  
  No, you're relegated to merely racing. "The Festival" is but a series of races from four different 
 challenges. Completing races and their assigned challenges earns points to improve your rank, of 
 which doing so will open up more races and challenges. In reality, what you're doing is racing 
 on the same 16-odd tracks repeatedly, but with a different bonus objective like "finish before 
 this time" or "race without crashing more than three times." So in essence, you're grinding the 
 same tracks over and over again, and not to my delight.
  
  Motorstorm : Pacific Rift is an ordinary offroad racing game; one that took a look at the numerous 
 ATV vs MX bizarro land crossover games and thought that the world needed one more because the dirt 
 graphics in those previous games wasn't pretty enough. There are absolutely no brand name vehicles, 
 just "ATV"," Bike", "Monster Truck" and other complete failures to give these rides an identity 
 beyond their stereotypes.
  
  There's also decided lack of vehicle customization, which delighted me, because I know nothing 
 about car parts and feel intimidated when a game like Forza Motorsport or Gran Turismo throws at 
 me X number of ways to customize my tires, shocks and rear-view mirror. So this is definitely an 
 arcade-style racer, one where you need not study special drifting techniques to turn your ride 
 through a corner. You have a "Go" button, a "Brake" button, and a lot of dirt in between. 
  
  In my dilapidated mind, a good arcade racer should be accessible, fast, and exciting. Pacific 
 Rift gets the first part right but the latter two succumb to the vile schemes of Dr Von Nofunhowser. 
 Vehicles feel a bit slow and sluggish, going off a ramp didn't have the exhilarating feeling that 
 catching big air should, and for an off-road racer, there was never any sense of "getting dirty". 
 These are all hard things to explain thinking about it, but when you look back at some of the more 
 recent racers, the Burnouts and ATV's of the world, you realize that some smart use of camera and 
 particle effects contributed to a fun and nasty experience. In contrast, Motorstorm feels tooclean, 
 dull, uninteresting. Sure the environments look fantastic but someone driving a motorcycle at 120 
 miles/hour has more important things to look out for than the details in the leaves. 
  
  I had to think long and hard to figure out what it was that made Motorstorm unique. Other games 
 have done the multiple types of vehicles big or small gimmick before, and did it with much more 
 personality and gusto. Even collision battlesknocking someone off their bike with your rally truck 
 isn't quite as satisfying as I'd like. There actually is one interesting gameplay mechanic; you 
 can press the turbo button for as long as you can before your ride explodes from the heat and pressure. 
 Water can help cool down your vehicle, while magma and GLOBAL WARMING conspire to warm you up to 
 death, so the people that will succeed the most in Motorstorm are the ones who study the tracks 
 and develop the best and least fuel-efficient plan of action. 
  
  Confused as to how a game with so little desire to stand out can garner so much publicity, I looked 
 to the internet in hopes of finding out answers as to why people care about Pacific Rift besides 
 "it's the sequel to a game people were excited about back in a time when the Playstation 3 didn't 
 have much to be excited about." The best I could garner was the claim that the tracks would change 
 as the assorted automobiles wore down the roads. Upon hearing this, I felt absolutely terrible 
 for the people who toiled in an office for hours on end designing these dirt physics because, wellI 
 didn't notice this. Have we ran out of new and groundbreaking ideas for racing games that we have 
 to create barely-noticeable shifting dirt physics as a way to stand out?
  
  The online play is relegated to simply racing other competitors in any of the given tracks. There's 
 nothing flashy, but at least the Power Team have long since prevented Dr Von Nofunhowser scheme 
 to ruin their good times with lag, as the online experience is mostly smooth. I guess there's also 
 potential for Motorstorm as a party game, as you can play four-player split screen and not have 
 the same fear one would have with a Gran Turismo or Midnight Club; settling for using the most 
 basic of cars while your buddy who owns the game picks his souped-up ride and drugs you with nitrous 
 oxide. 
  
  All and all, Motorstorm : Pacific Rift is about as interesting as soil. It's a functional racing 
 game that can be pretty to gawk at but it lacks the thrills and excitement of better arcade-style 
 racers like Pureor at least the demo to Pure. It'll suffice in the absence of a better racing 
 game, but like an actual Coors Light party, it's not quite as exhilarating as the commercials would 
 lead one to believe. 
  
  Pros : No purchase necessary to get invited.
  
  Cons : Must be legal drinking age. 
  
  3  stars 
  
  The Coors Light Offroad Sex Party 
 Power Team will return! 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: fazedjb
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 20, 2009 9:46 am PT
Review:  This game rocks for me, The 16 tracks and multiple routes they are all great fun and some are hugely 
 entertaining with massive jumps and a variety of vehicles. and tho' It don't take long to whip 
 through the festival mode (some races are tough) its online where MSPR shines.
  They have fixed the long delays and opted for the "random" type ranked game where players of supposed 
 same rank are matched. I consider myself an average gamer and found myself matched pretty fairly 
 and even found myself winning and placing fairly often.
  with 12 players the races can be tense and great fun. On most courses there is places to make plenty 
 of mistakes and even the average player has a chance to place. This earns "xp" and rank as you 
 beat players above you. and the pleasure to be had as you "taunt" from on the bike as you undertake 
 on the final band is hilarious.
  More of the same. Bigger. Brighter. Better.
  Get this game if you want a no-holds bard barging, smashing, jumping, crashing, speeding, and boosting 
 race game!!!
  had no online lag, delay or server issues for me :)
  GREAT! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ammos_Pheonix
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 15, 2009 6:44 pm PT
Review:  MotorStorm, just plain MotorStorm, was released on March of 2007. The first one had sales of 3 
 million. Does Pacific Rift come to play to its predecessor? 
  
  
  Yes.
  
  Similar to the first one, it holds it key to speeds with improvements and double the maps. The 
 original one only held 8 maps excluding downloadable content. Pacific Rift holds 2 for 4 elements 
 represented in the game. The game itself is based on a lush tropical island with the races are 
 based on. The elements are fire, water, air, and earth. Four maps are exclusive to each element 
 and are based around it.
  
  Your main objective is to race to first among 96 challenges, which you unlock more and more as 
 you progress further through. These challenges involve around racing with time limits and wreck 
 limits as well. Being done with all this, there is online to rank up in racing, as well as time 
 trials beating the game developer's ghosts.
  
  
  
  As for gameplay, there is a multitude of accessible vehicles to choose from, which you unlock throughout 
 the game. Just like the last game, it has motorcycles to big rigs. The actual racing is fast and 
 decisive in itself with beautiful scenery all around. It seems all great, with the visuals able 
 to make up its idea of what its suppose to be. There is the ability of using "boost" to keep up 
 and go ahead of your opponents. Unlike other racing games, you are given unlimited boost, but limited 
 use. Over use of this will having your vehicle into an explosion. Seeming like a downside, it isn't. 
 This explosion can help you to the finish line if you use it wisely, as your flying carcass can 
 finish it up for you. And the use as a weapon. Explosions can knock off other vehicles and also 
 detonate them. There is a gauge for seeing your boost, it's all 'kay for this. Boosts are effected 
 by heat and stuff like that. Effects are water and fire. Water, where you're cruising your truck 
 through the river or riding your ATV inside a waterfall, your boost will go down hecka much faster 
 or go up much slower. This will happen with fire too. It your near or driving over fire, or jumping 
 over lava, your boost gauge will go on fire which let's you have the opposite effect. So, really, 
 water is good but it can actually let your towing power go slow.
  
  People in the game be often pushy. You know what they say, if they push back, push them harder. 
 This really depends on vehicles, let's say, do you think you can push a car down a cliff by slapping 
 that thing with a motorcycle? Nope, use a truck. Another added gameplay is that every course has 
 routes for those designated drivers. Trucks can only go straight, while, a car for say, or buggy, 
 and go one with everything else. Each vehicle class has its up and downs which makes this game 
 quite balanced through its rough outside appearance. Motorcyclers or buggy-ests cannot go through 
 water hazards as, it won't end good for you or your driving friend. And, no, no one can go through 
 lava. Some areas are restricted just for that special class, there are, in some courses, where 
 there are holes in the wall just big enough for a motorcycle-man or tall enough or an ATV.
  
  For graphics, the moving objects and real-tracks give it the feeling of speed, and fast movement. 
 It's practically moving art that you drive on, well, virtually. There are destructible environments 
 and the ever-so dreadful flat surface texture. Really, the destruction against the vehicle isn't 
 so beautiful unlike some other games (... ahem*Burnout*ahem) , but its good and colorful to say. There 
 is people flying out here where you can select player models to use, boy from girl. Choose one 
 please. Rag doll physics when you crash on to something, which you can do it you are bad at driving (like 
 me) or some guy smashes you hard onto that rocky wall.
  
  Online is practical and simple. It consists of people head-on-head to win on a randomly selected 
 course. It is between either 2 modes; Ranked or Casual. Ranked matches is where you compete to 
 first for leveling up your rank. The better place you get, the more experience points you are given. 
 Casual is the same thing but without the intents of losing points when you began to start playing 
 'horrible', just the sheer fun. Seems that there is ALWAYS that guy who is better than you in every 
 race. When you are done with the game, do some trophy challenges for fun, such as, err, ahem "The 
 Money Shot Trophy: Boost Explode to Win 10 Matches." ... Yeah.
  
  -
  Try and get this game. It's great, and a justly different racing game among others. It's all about 
 the fun and enjoy-ness in it. If you don't have money, get a loan, or (not recommended) , take some 
 money from your parents, or more better, ASK some money from your parents. This game has some problems 
 like its physics, but is fun. I like it. Get it.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Commdraco
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 12, 2009 9:00 pm PT
Review:  I've got to tell you Motorstorm got it right on this one. 4 player multiplayer on one screen. A 
 great on-line ranking system, however you can loose points when at higher ranks. Fantastic maps 
 ranging from very difficult to easy. I would say that this game is very replayable with all the 
 options. Just about all the vehicles are fun to drive. I especially enjoy the environment affecting 
 your boost, flames and lava, yes lava, keep it from cooling quickly and water cooling it so you 
 can use it longer. The trophies you can win for the ps3 are fair when it comes to acquire them. 
 I also enjoyed the "select" button that puts you back on the track when you run into a wall but 
 don't crash. The monster truck was a good addition so that not only the big rig rule the track. 
 Just to you people that have not played it yet, stay out of the deep water!!!!!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zourlos
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 11, 2009 6:14 pm PT
Review:  To the point  it is much better then the first one (no comparison) and man I have a BLAST so 
 far!! I don't believe that I played a more fun racing game then this one. In one word it rOcks!!
 
  
  The vehicle mixes are sweet, and there are a ton of events to take on. 
  
  The lighting is fantastic and the courses are very dense, but some of the textures could have been 
 much sharper. The crashes are, of course, awesome.
  
  The soundtrack is good, though just your general licensed mix of appropriate racing tunes. The 
 vehicle and crashing effects are well done.
  
  The controls are good, but not as tight as they could be. The chaos and destruction is still there 
 in full force, and the track design is great. There could be more event variety, however.
  
  There are plenty of events to conquer, and the online will last you a good while
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: acsguitar
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 9, 2009 11:33 am PT
Review:  As a proud new owner of the PS3 I was disappointed initially by my first game Metal Gear Solid 
 IV. 
  
  I found a good deal on Motorstorm and decided to give it a whirl. I remembered my love of Gran 
 Tourismo 2 on the PS1 and thought hey what the heck! 
  
  I'm glad I picked this game. Its a breathe of fresh air! So many games these days are all these 
 wacky gangsta highschool drama racing sims. 
  
  I want FUN racing. I don't want horrific actors and tweens. This game is fast, furious, funny, 
 pretty, devastating, hard, and addictive. 
  
  Basically the premise is that you are in a big racing festival on an island with 4 unique types 
 of terrain. 
  
  Air, Fire, Water, and another one that I think its probably Ice. Who knows. Anyways the levels 
 are well designed. There are multiple paths that you can take depending on which type of vehicle 
 you are driving. The racing is fast, the crashes are wonderful. And there are no stupid teen thugs 
 souping up Honda's. 
  
  You can chose from a plethora of vehicle types including monster trucks, motorbikes, atv's, mud 
 crawlers, big rigs, rally cars, etc...
  
  There are tons and tons of races and levels. 
  
  The only downside is that I STINK online. The game is hard and the fact that I seemingly lag 
 out through my wifi is annoying.
  
  However, this game is tons of fun. highly recommended. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: myloman44
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 7, 2009 4:32 am PT
Review:  Do you ever want to pack your bags and head to a beautiful island with your Monster Truck to mash 
 up some ATV/Motorcycle riders? Well if your like me you will love this game. I still remember downloading 
 the very first Motorstorm demo and almost shorting out my controller with all the drool running 
 from my mouth. The first game was visually stunning and the second one is even better. Its almost 
 like the first game was Julianne Hough and the second game is Julianne with a boob job. The tracks 
 are brilliantly designed with even more secret paths then the first, in game custom music is saweet, 
 more customizable vehicles, and MUD+Water=Greatness! I guess the only problem one could have with 
 this game is the controls seem a bit touchy; but thats nothing once you adjust. So to sum it all 
 up, if you own a PS3 you MUST own this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vidbusters
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 4, 2009 12:37 pm PT
Review:  The scenery is simply breathtaking, in terms of the water, the trees and island fauna, beaches, 
 trails and course jumps that launch you into even better views and feelings of catching total air. 
 There are very few games that not only capture you for the gameplay, but actually make you feel 
 different - like you are feeling the rush of actually flying through the air and going full out 
 on awesome trails, taking unbelievable stunt jumps in a consequence free environment which looks 
 like your ideal vacation spot. This game is not addictive in the first-person shooter sense, its 
 just pure fun and good energy all around, which will make you want to keep going back for more.
 
  
  In terms of the various tracks and course layout, I don't think these guys could have done a better 
 job. Its simply a masterwork of creative and imaginative genius in terms of putting the various 
 environmental elements together so flawlessly and with brilliant combinations that never leave 
 you bored, and keep inspiring you to see and explore more.
  
  For vehicles, they really nailed the different capabilities of each vehicle type, and did an especially 
 great job on making each course feel totally different, depending on which vehicle type you choose. 
 It literally makes each track and course feel different, depending on the vehicle you are driving, 
 making for nearly infinite gameplay possibilities. Also, the tracks and courses have lots of different 
 "Y"s in the road, side tracks, nearly secret trails, etc., and each of these tends to more or less 
 favor certain or particular vehicle types, which adds a lot of strategy options and a bit of exploratory 
 homework and diligence, prior to going "all-out", in order to optimize a given track for being 
 able to achieve your best times or other goals.
  
  The only reason I can't give this game a full "10" is that I thought the options for driver skins 
 were pretty weak. Given the environment of the island, with cold spots, hot spots, beach scenes, 
 mountain scapes and jungle areas, their should be a practically infinite selection of clothing 
 and gear options for the drivers. Sadly, they are pretty sparse and furthermore, just plain lame. 
 They are drab and practically all the same. Also, the vehicle skins are pretty good, but there 
 should have been more generosity of vehicle skins and designs, even though the classes, functionality 
 and performance of the vehicles is probably perfect. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sonic7777777
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 23, 2008 1:57 pm PT
Review:  Pacific rift is basically the same thing as the first but with some upgraded things like, their 
 are more cars and tracks witch is a good thing because it gives pacific rift a lot of variety. 
 The game itself plays very smoothly but the cars slide around a little more than they should as 
 mentioned in the video review. It's a lot of fun with friends and water cools your boost while 
 fire makes it overheat quicker. The graphics look really good. Especially on the landscapes like 
 the water and jungles. The first Motorstorm was all about dirt and mud. Pacific Rift switches it 
 up a bit with places that have fire, water and huge ramps where you can get a lot of air. The story 
 mode is solid and fun to play along with the online witch you'll find yourself playing a lot after 
 the story mode. The sounds are good but all the engines tend to sound somewhat the same. A rally 
 car and a truck have different engines but in the game they sound just about the same witch kind 
 of takes away realism but overall its not something you stress about. It's a good solid game with 
 a few flaws that coul've been fixed easily. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: unhollykilla
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 22, 2008 2:50 pm PT
Review:  Motorstorm 1 was the first game that I bought for my ps3 since it was one of the only games out. 
 It wasn't a bad game, but it definatly lacked some aspects. Let's say that Motorstorm 2 makes up 
 for everything. I was debating on wether to get this game or not, for I wa afraid that the producers 
 wouldn't do a good job on it. My fears, however, were quickly abolished. I fell in love wit htis 
 game right when I started racing in my first race. The graphics are absolutly stunning. The specialy 
 effcts are plain beautiful ex. the water on your front window, and the inter-active environments. 
 The graphics really take this game to another level. 
  The gameplay is also very good. The controls are very easy to master and the action is brilliant. 
 I prefer to ride in the close-up point of view because the game seems to move at a faster pace. 
 In Motorstorm 2 there are way more racetracks and way more vehicles to choose from which makes 
 the game even more fun. 
  The online in Motorstorm 2 has also been improved even though the games sometimes lags. This, however, 
 happens rarely so it shouldn't affect you. The online ranking system is also a great addition to 
 the sequel. Everytime that some one leaves a race the producers made it so that the person looses 
 points which is good because now less people leave. In Motorstorm 1 you could start of with a 12 
 player game and finish with a 4 player game, but that no longer happens in Motorstorm 2. 
  The trophies are also a great addition to the game. They do appear in all recent games, but still 
 Motorstorm trophies are fun to get. You do have to play the game for sometime before you can get 
 most of them. There aren't a lot of extremly easy trophies. But again as you play through the game 
 you will get them time to time. 
  As my closing words I would like to say that Motorstorm 2 is the best off road racing game out 
 right now. It's better than Dirt, Pure and most definatly better than Motorstorm 1. Even though 
 Motorstom 1 costs less, Motorstorm 2 is the better choice because it is well worth it's value. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fatmike2127
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 21, 2008 10:13 am PT
Review:  The game was overall decent. The story mode was interesting and was had the right amount of difficulty 
 to the races. It made me mad when I started the story mode and I couldn't use the bike. The online 
 play was okay but I didn't like how if you come in last or second to last, you lost points. It 
 also didn't make sense how when you're the first rank, you win a race and you go from bronze person 
 to silver automatically, but when you are the second rank and you win a race, you only get halfway 
 to silver, I thought that was very homosexual. The trophies made the game more interestingly interesting 
 too. The game probably could've been better by making the online somewhat better and by making 
 it where you can punch cars on a bike or atv even though you can't knock the driver down. To me, 
 that was kind of weird not being able to even punch a car, even if it doesn't do anything. That 
 way, it would be easier to get the trophy; bully. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BiancaDK
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 18, 2008 1:46 am PT
Review:  
  Alright, so ive tried the original Motorstorm game, and completed the content it had to offer, 
 so naturally i was already excited about Motorstorm: Pacific Rift before i even got my grubby fingers 
 all over it. 
  
  And a let down, it was not! (thx yoda.)
  
  Its hard! hard, hard, hard, but it makes you think you can beat it, because the learning curve 
 is gentle to start out with! It boosts your selfconfidence, only to land a crippling blow on it 
 a few hours later, progressing thru the game.
  
  There are 3 different medals/trophies to be gained, depending on what spot you end up in after 
 passing the checkered flag in each race. That would be Gold, silver and bronze. Ofcourse i would 
 never settle with a silver or bronze medal, so i hit the restart race option more than once. 
 And then i hit it again. And again. And again, until i was familiarized with every crevice, curb 
 and tot of grass on every map! But it mocks me! Its simply not enough to have extensive knowledge 
 regarding every single map in the game (16 or so in total) , you have to be lucky! And not just 
 ordinarily lucky, you have to be extremely lucky in some cases in order to shake off the bronze 
 or silver that you have been branded with, as if you were a newbie, and get the greatest prize 
 that is gold. You must restart! And restart again!
  
  More! And more! Bwa-hahahaha!
  
  So if you enjoy inflicting phychological torture upon yourself, for hours and hours, only to have 
 yourself basking in the glorious light that is flawless victory for a brief moment, this my friend, 
 this is your game!
  
  I must go! I still have a bronze medal in the water world, and my fingers have healed up pretty 
 nicely.
  
  Please note: If you have a habit of losing your temper and taking it out on other people or gamesystems 
 and its respective controller, do not buy this game.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Igetyourdogtag
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 16, 2008 5:55 pm PT
Review:  Lets start this review by saying i dont like racers. But motorstorm pacific rift has changed my 
 mind. Lets start with the singleplayer. This is probably the weakest link of the game, considering 
 its so hard. Yeah theres easy things, like in every game, but some of the missions will have you 
 chucking your controller at the wall. Next is the multiplayer. Its really really really good. The 
 splitscreen is a blast first off. Its fun sometimes to invite over 3 friends and just face off. 
 This is an especially good feature these days considering most games lack split screen and im regretting 
 buying 3 other controllers. The online multiplayer is superb as well. Its very addictive. For example, 
 If you lose a close race, you'll want to play agian and win. Lastly I'd like to comment on the 
 amazing physics. Its like they took the source engine from valve, increased its ragdolly goodness 
 by 10x and then put it in a racer. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: white_n_fightin
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 13, 2008 6:43 pm PT
Review:  *The Good -The Bad
  *Speed/Motion Blur. Gives an INSANE sence of speed and slight jolts from the terrain make this 
 game amazing. Impressive.
  *Graphics Are Amazing- which from what i said about the "blur" probably makes this seem stupid.
 
  *High-Speed drifting feel is a nice hunk of "Awsomeness".
  *High-Speed Leaps Through Waterfalls... sets this guy who worked hard for this lean back in the 
 seat. 
  *Scenery is hard to describe.. so simply put.. amazing.
  i love this game, the first can hardly compare. 
  *Soundtrack turns iron to liquid. i havnt heard 
 any rap yet so YES. Metal fits this Style/Genre perfect. I dont see myself getting tired of the 
 tunes anytime soon, but thats my kind of music.
  
  Will Love This If You Are Like Me And Love Speed. Im blown away...
  
  -No Performance or Visual 
 Customozation, only a set theme for each vehicle; but this doesnt get me down because the races 
 are so intense you arent even thinking of the vehicle while in a race. 
  -AI is Demanding, so after losing alot it be become annoying, which can turn to boredom if you 
 arent a true gamer who cant help but to accept the challenge.
  
  As you can see i only listed two in the bad.. i cant comment on multi-player since i havent played 
 in either online or co-op, so im basing my score on single-player like Most will be playing, and 
 yes even alot of hardcore gamers... so im basing my score on single-player only. it is a Very fun, 
 and addicting game that i would have had to miss if i had cashed in on a 360 instead of the PS3.
 
  
  in my opinion this is a great investment for bot kids and adult gamers. its pure fun, and addiction.
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: 2headedhawaiian
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 10, 2008 7:27 am PT
Review:  The original Motorstorm was met with mixed reviews, and for good reason. The core arcade racing 
 engine was brilliant, with a good sense of speed, sound vehicle handling and physics, incredible 
 damage modeling, impressive hit detection, and persistant track deformation. The track designs 
 were nearly flawless. The seven different vehicle types (Bikes, ATVs, Buggies, Rally Cars, Racing 
 Trucks, Mudpluggers, and Big Rigs) were balanced and fun to drive. The graphics were stunning. 
 
  
  What was wrong? As fun as the tracks were, there were only eight (excluding pay-for DLC) . The environments 
 were breathtaking, but the southwestern-US desert setting of Monument Valley was somewhat monotonous. 
 The online community was small but dedicated, and the experience was surprisingly lag free, although 
 it suffered a bit from less than stellar lobbies and wait times. Though the racing itself was an 
 absolute blast, there were no other event types apart from time attack, and no splitscreen multiplayer 
 of any kind. Finally, the load times. The load times were god awful. Some of the worst I've ever 
 experienced in any game. EVER.
  
  So how does Evolution Studios follow up a great but flawed new IP? Enter Pacific Rift.
  
  Graphics? 
 Check. The visuals have been kicked up a notch, with more colors, great draw distance, beautiful 
 lighting/water/fire/lava/smoke effects, the whole package.
  
  Vechicles? Check. All seven vehicle types make a triumphant return, and herald the arrival of an 
 eighth member: the Monster Truck. The pros and cons of each vehicle class are now even more pronounced 
 as there's more than just alternate routes and scattered mud on which to base your optimal racing 
 lines. Which brings us to the next point...
  
  Tracks? Check. Try sixteen courses over the previous title's eight. Try four gorgeous environmental 
 settings: Air, Earth, Fire, and Water. Try longer, more intricate, and more varied laps. Try the 
 addition of foliage, streams, rivers, and waterfalls, fire, and lava. If you thought Bikes had 
 a rough go at the mud, try the rapids. Plus, the water and fire have additional affects on your 
 engine temperature. I bet you can figure out which does what.. This definitely makes for more strategic 
 route planning: should I take the short path next to the molten lava which will limit my boost, 
 or the longer path through the shower canopy to cool the engine and allow for longer boost? The 
 beauty of the tracks are that there really is no wrong answer, as each route is viable based upon 
 the situation.
  
  Race types? Check. The addition of Elimination races (last place explodes every few seconds) and 
 Speed events (checkpoint-to-checkpoint solo ventures) are interesting, though a more varied stable 
 of event types would have been welcome. Also, offline splitscreen is available for up to 4 players. 
 The frame rate and graphics maintain a high level of quality, though four separate screens makes 
 things quite chaotic at times. It's a nice option, but you will probably still spend most of your 
 time in the single-player Festival races or online.
  
  A. I.? Well, sort of "check." The brutal artificial intelligence of the NPC racers you square off 
 against throughout Pacific Rift's Festival seems to have been directly ported over from Monument 
 Valley. On the higher difficulty levels, even seasoned vets have to depend on random acts of god 
 to defeat some of these superhuman vehicles with unlimited boost and unholy turning ability. The 
 "rubberband" effect is still very much in play, meaning you can finish a race in 3:40 to net a 
 nice silver medal and finish in 3:18 the very next race on the same track (that's a 22 second difference 
 for those not keeping score) and still get second place. There's something indescribably frustrating 
 in knowing that skill has relatively little to do with winning the higher level races. However, 
 there is a plus side to this madness: there are few experiences in gaming which can lift your spirits 
 to the epic heights felt when finally getting first on a brutal race in Motorstorm. It keeps you 
 coming back for more.
  
  Online? Check. It's as easy as ever getting into a race and pitting your skills against real-life, 
 virtual people. Again, it is largely lag free, and proves to be an all around brilliant experience. 
 There's definitely something to be said for being roundly bested by real people, as opposed to 
 unfairly advantaged AI. Also, again, the community is small, but it's usually not difficult getting 
 into a full room of sixteen. If only it didn't kick you to the front lobby after every race...
 
  
  Load times? CHECK. Load times have been improved tremendously. So much so, in fact, that there's 
 no real need to go into any more detail.
  
  There are some other minor additions, such as Bike/ATV ducking/bunny hopping and side-swipe attacks, 
 however, it is the inclusion of Trophies which adds the most addictive wrinkle into the whole package. 
 Virtually everything from simply completing races, to ranking up online, to exploding across the 
 finish line for a gold can net you Trophies, which in turn often unlock new vehicle models, liveries, 
 and drivers. This does much to give Pacific Rift longevity, something Monument Valley could have 
 sorely used.
  
  Just like the original Motorstorm, Pacific Rift brings an incredibly enjoyable off-road, arcade 
 racing experience to the PS3. Pacific Rift stands as the best racing game I've played all year, 
 and my favorite since, well, the first Motorstorm, and probably Driver on the original Playstation.
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Darth_Pietrus
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 9, 2008 8:46 am PT
Review:  This game is really good. I got it and ever since i just cant stop playing. in the beginning it 
 seems pretty easy, but as you get further in the festival it gets harder and you have to start 
 concentrating more. Lots of vehicles which is good of course. Beautiful scenery which i think is 
 really important. In the first Motor Storm it was only desert which was quite boring. Here you 
 have 4 different type of places which spices the game up a little. Also a very important feature 
 in this game is the split-screen. Really glad they added it. If it were'nt for the split-screen, 
 I probably would'nt have bought it. I did'nt have many 2 player games. In fact only 1. It seems 
 all the good games are single player, except for this one. Nice. So yeah... it rocks you should 
 definitely get it especially if you love off-road racing. As far as I know, its the best off-road 
 racing game I've ever played. Well I did'nt say anything bad about it because I cant think of anything 
 right now, but I wont give it a 10, only because racing games are'nt my favourite genre. And i 
 would also say get this instead of Pure. Pure only has one vehicle class and although i have'nt 
 played it, it seems like it will get really dull after a couple of days, as for this, I don't know 
 when ill stop! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ropumar
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 28, 2008 6:49 pm PT
Review:  I never played the first Motorstorm, so I can't compare the sequel to the original.
  
  Nonetheless, i can say this game is a masterpiece. 
  The graphics, physics and the dynamic changing 
 course with lots of paths that need strategical thinking and lots of skill makes this game a must 
 for any hardcore gamer.
  
  It has an arcade feel, making your blood pump as you pick up the control. The core gameplay is 
 very fun with a amazing deep and rewarding experience. 
  
  Technically is perfect, the game has a amazing graphic with high quality textures, effects and 
 a dynamic environment where the course changes according to racing and crashes.
  (example: tires marks stay on the mud/ tires, barrels, rocks obstruct your way)
  
  And it's 
 graphics are blended with an next-gen physics that add enjoyment and strategy to gameplay, making 
 crashes insane and developing a handling skill very rewarding.
  
  The physics and the clever track design makes this game very difficult to master, making hardcore 
 gamers weep at hard levels.
  
  Another great technical achievement is the fact that the game offers an amazing 4 way split screen 
 which is very hard to see in a HD racing game, let alone one of the best looking of the bunch.
 
  
  The online multilayer is flawless as you should expect. And the core gameplay of the game makes 
 for an awesome display of skill online.
  
  The sound is great, the tracked music list is very good, that wont disappoint no one. Enough said. 
 
  
  It is truly a masterpiece and if you have a PS3 you own to yourself to experience the excitement 
 and bring your friends to play 4-split screen in you big LCD screen.
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: sdkingsht
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 17, 2008 3:44 pm PT
Review:  the gameplay is not radically different (the ram feature is cool) , the graphics are a little better 
 (though the crashes were sometimes better in the original) , the soundtrack is along the same lines. 
 the presentation is smoother and faster to navigate. picking a vehicle doesn't take an hour anymore 
 (thank god) . in essence... it's Motorstorm 1 upgraded in every area a little. 
  
  but where this game shines is where Motorstorm lacked most... multiplayer and variety. the variety 
 in levels and location type is a star in the game. levels really affect how you play more in Pacific 
 Rift on levels like the volcano races where you're jumping over lava and start to catch flames 
 from the sheer heat and have to race into showering cooling stations to avoid exploding. needless 
 to say you have to be smart with your nitro boost on these levels as the wrong timing mixed with 
 getting too close to the heat will cause you to explode into oblivion. 
  
  adding multiplayer is wonderful as well. but not only 2 racers, but 4 player split screen is too 
 fun with friends (if your tv can handle it... because small tv + 4 player split screen + natural 
 levels with no real definition on where to go = nightmare and lots of crashing) . the chaotic feel 
 of the races is still in tact and better than ever. some good boosting and you can catch that first 
 place car... but 1 crash and you can easily end up in 7th. the pack is all relatively even matched 
 and that adds to the excitement of the game as you really feel like you're fighting for that win. 
 the difficulty is perfect. the trophies are reasonable and fun to obtain. 
  
  in short... this is the best dirt racer around on the market and it just so happens to be a PS3 
 exclusive. pick it up. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: meatloaf1993
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 16, 2008 4:15 am PT
Review:  The first Motorstorm was ok, there is not many other ways to put it. It sold well because it was 
 the only decent racer (apart from RR7) on the PS3 at launch. All the track were the same brown 
 colour and although it was fun the repetitiveness and the difficulty meant that not many people 
 completed it.
  
  The new one i totally different with tightened handling and a wider variety of tracks and surfaces. 
 The new tracks are the best part of the game with 4 types of track; Earth, Fire, Water and Air 
 each offering different strategies of racing such as using water to cool you boost or forcing opponents 
 into the Lava.
  
  Another new addition is the Monster Truck which is an interesting addition but can also prove a 
 huge annoyance in the later races, such as when you are forced to do an eliminator even t on a 
 bike with 10 monster trucks purely focused on crushing you under their huge wheels. The difficulty 
 of this game is steep and even though I have just got the trophy for getting all silvers or higher 
 it was not easy and I spent alot of time on certain races (mainly eliminator) trying to get 2nd. 
 another small annoyance is the inconsistent physics which sometimes breaks off a wheel for hitting 
 a small stone but not when piling into a huge boulder.
  
  Even through it's faults this game is one of the best racers at the moment. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SadPSPAddict
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 14, 2008 3:38 am PT
Review:  I should start by saying I didn't play the original game - although I may now pick up a bargin 
 priced copy!
  So overall - Wow and wow. Lots of fun and a must have title for any serious off road fan and indeed 
 most racing fans!
  
  Graphics - Breathtaking - from the opening sequence to the detail lavished on the tracks it never 
 fails to delight!
  Sound - Terrific. Not normally that bothered about sound but in this case the engines roar and 
 the BGM has a good beat. Just what is needed!
  
  Gameplay - Festival mode is a good "career" progression type mode where points earned for finishing 
 in the top 3 unlock more events and more car models etc etc. Picking your way through a course 
 for the first time is great fun and can take a couple of races to get the best route for the vehicle 
 type - plenty of replay value here. Then online and split screen mulitplayer are both lots of fun. 
 There are different type of races too - not all about first to finish, some require you not to 
 crash out too many times and others (eliminator!!) the person in last explodes every few seconds 
 until only 1 remains.
  
  So great game and what are you waiting for... go buy it!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: boom_zenglish
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 10, 2008 4:35 pm PT
Review:  Well evo-studios almost hit a grand-slam on this game! 
  
  First I will hit the major differences (or significant upgrades)
  
  Location: The first game 
 took place in "Mountain Valley, Pacific Rift takes place on "The Island", with radically different 
 location comes, new obstacles. In the lush jungle environment, you get lagoons, and very large 
 cliffs, rivers, and extra debris. 
  
  Tracks: MS1 had only 8 different multi-route tracks, where as MS2 has 6 multi-route tracks.
  
 
  Multiplayer: MS1 did not have any offline multiplayer, where as MS2 you can enjoy playing the game 
 with up to three of your friends offline.
  
  Soundtrack: MS1 had an impressive 21 music tracks to listen to where as MS2 has 45 music tracks 
 to enjoy!
  
  Other then these differences, there is only a slight difference in control mechanisms (at least 
 in my opinion, some people really like to voice this, so I will take a little extra time and put 
 this in here) Some people claim that the driving is a lot looser then before, but in my eyes it 
 makes it a little more realistic. 
  
  The crashes I feel also have more realism. Not that this is the greatest thing in the world, but 
 I do feel that the phsyics applied are more to earth standards, then well... where ever they picked 
 for MS1...
  
  People have complained about graphics, but, I believe that most of those comments were made when 
 people were only playing the demo, but when I was comparing game for game, I definitely feel that 
 the shading and textures were looking a lot better on MS2
  
  Overall this title is a definite improvement to the previous, and well worth the MSRP price! I 
 am really foreseeing great things with this franchise, especially as Evo Studios increases their 
 skills!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: fmobliv06
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 9, 2008 2:41 pm PT
Review:  Motorstorm: Pacific Rift is the video game equivalent of someone shining a flashlight in your eyes 
 and screaming in your ears. It keeps you on the verge of sensory overload from start to finish 
 with its loud music blasting out of the speakers and its beautiful environments screaming past 
 almost too fast to see. If you are looking for an adrenaline rush of a video game, look no further: 
 Pacific Rift will be the PS3's biggest sleeper hit of the year.
  
  Motorstorm's gameplay hasn't changed much since the first outing, and it really didn't need to. 
 The R2 and L2 triggers feel great when accelerating and decelerating, respectively. The X button 
 is used to boost, but if you boost for too long your vehicle will go up in flames. In order to 
 keep this from happening, it is possible to drive through shallow water, which cools the engine 
 and allows the vehicle to boost longer. Hot environments, such as volcanoes, have the opposite 
 effect. And that's it. It's this simplicity in control and concept that will make Pacific Rift 
 so appealing to a wide audience, but it hides another layer of depth. Each of the eight or so vehicle 
 classes in Pacific Rift have totally different stats, and each of the tracks has multiple branching 
 paths to accomodate these differences. Lighter vehicles are suited well to high paths, while big 
 rigs can plow through deep mud with ease. This balancing act, combined with mostly clever track 
 design, make Pacific Rift a blast to play. However, if there's one problem with the controls (and 
 really, the game as a whole,) it's the screwy steering. In order to get around sharper corners, 
 it is necessary to use your boost halfway into the turn in order to propel your car the rest of 
 the way around. This is due to the fact that every vehicle except for the motorcycle has a horrid 
 turning radius. Most of the time this doesn't put a damper on the races because it is possible 
 to accomodate for the wide turning radius, but sometimes it seems like the steering just shuts 
 off altogether. A few times I've pressed the left stick all the way in one direction and even let 
 off the gas, but my car didn't even budge, launching me straight into a wall or off a cliff. It 
 doesn't happen too often, but it's extremely frustrating when it does.
  
  Pacific Rift does not seem a terribly lengthy experience, but if you want to finish the Festival 
 Mode (the game's main single player mode,) you will have to play and likely replay a long ladder 
 of races. Coupled with the free play mode, the fun online play, the trophy support, and the downright 
 amusing racing, I can see Pacific Rift lasting well over 20-30 hours for arcade racing nuts. For 
 the rest of us, PR's thrills are enough to warrant 10-20 hours of gameplay. It's a pretty well 
 rounded package.
  
  Pacific Rift's presentation, as mentioned before, is insane. The mixture of mostly loud liscensed 
 music and the great sense of speed is enough to keep you on the verge of a headache while you play. 
 The music selection is fitting for the game, but if it's not your style you can always make use 
 of the custom soundtrack feature, which works flawlessly. The graphical presentation has improved 
 since the last outing, if not by much. Since the original Motorstorm was such a looker, the graphics 
 are more than good enough. Car models are amazing, as is much of the scenery. The mud effects in 
 particular demand notice. Some of the ground textures don't actually look like, well, ground, but 
 overall this is a beautiful game. 
  
  Pacific Rift's great graphics, sound, and gameplay make it one of the best racing games of this 
 generation. It is an intense thrill ride from start to finish, even when it can be a little difficult. 
 Classify this one as a must buy.
  
  Graphics: 9.5/10: One of the best looking next gen games. The sense of speed makes sure that it's 
 barely possible to see where you're going before you crash; in other words, it's thrilling.
  Sound: 8/10: A pretty good liscensed soundtrack that fits with the theme of the game. Whether or 
 not it's actually good is up to your taste in music, but custom soundtracks are supported.
  Gameplay: 8.75/10: Simple to play, but with a few inticacies that keep things interesting. Sometimes 
 the steering just gives out.
  Entertainment: 9/10: Fast, loud, and exciting, Pacific Rift delivers on the entertainment. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FendersONLY
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 10, 2008 9:00 pm PT
Review:  I loved the original Motorstorm. I loved the racing, the gameplay, but I didn't like the gameplay 
 options. Only one (and not very good campaign mode) , online only multiplayer, and a pretty bare 
 bones track selection. Despite these things I really enjoyed it. 
  
  Now Motorstorm: Pacific Rift comes along and improves everything that the original fell short on. 
 New setting, another vehicle class, more vehicles, more tracks, more ways to play, and just as 
 much hectic fun as the first. It creates a completely new experience while still retaining the 
 original foundation that the first put down.
  
  First I'll say that in terms of graphics, sound, and sheer playability it is better than the first. 
 The jungles are lush and full of life, the vehicles are full of detail, whether clean or muddy 
 they look amazing, character animations, just everything looks and animates amazing. One thing 
 I have noticed is that certain textures are unnecessarily dull. I still have no compaints about 
 the graphics because they are still a shining example of what the next gen platform is capable 
 of. The sound also really sets this game apart from the pack. The vehicles sound almost exactly 
 like any real life vehicle of its similar class. This game also has a pretty decent soundtrack 
 setup from what I have listened to. You can use custom soundtracks as well and take the music off 
 of your HDD and play it in game, which is a great feature especially when the soundtrack thats 
 in the game doesn't exactly fit your fancy. Listening to Children of Bodom while racing in this 
 game is just a blast. You also have the ability to earn trophies, which adds a little bit more 
 to this already overflowing package. Certain things like winning a set amount of races with a particular 
 vehicle class earns you that respective trophy, or beating down 5 opponents while on an ATV or 
 Bike and going on to win the gold wins you that particular trophy. I don't know the specific count 
 of trophies you can earn but I am pretty certain its at the very least 50.
  
  Motorstorm 2 also added all of the features that made the first so bleak in terms of gameplay options. 
 In the first you had the option to do Festival, Online, or Wreckreation (as downloadable add-ons 
 became available) . Now Motorstorm 2 has added many gameplay abilities. You now can do Festival, 
 Wreckreation (Online, Free Mode, Time Trial, Split-Screen) . As GameSpot said this game is everything 
 you would want in a MotorStorm sequel. I have no complaints about this game whatsoever. Everything 
 I wanted to see in this game is there. Its a blast to play, and is great with or without friends. 
 If your a racing fan and are sick of all the street racers out there pick this up, you will not 
 be disappointed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: spunky_chrispi
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 7, 2008 11:35 pm PT
Review:  Let's get something out of the way right now. The car handling is completely different from the 
 first Motorstorm. If you are an MS1 freak, like I am, then you will probably be disappointed with 
 it. In MS1, you felt every inch of terrain under you. Mud, rock, gravel - they all felt and sounded 
 completely different. With MS2, it feels like there's a nail through the middle of the car and 
 it just floats over the terrain. You don't really feel like you're THERE. For an MS1 freak, it 
 is a horrifying experience.
  
  There are also a number of other changes that really take away from the MS1 experience. The sound 
 is not as good. You mainly just hear your engine. Gone is the glorious sound of sliding through 
 mud. The boosting sound is weak. The honking and crashing sounds are pathetic.
  
  The mud splatter on the windshield is severely cut back. Also, when you crash or explode, the camera 
 cuts immediately to a different angle, so that it doesn't feel like it's actually happening to 
 you. And when you boost, gone is the ingenious vertigo camera-lense effect. Gone also is the catchup 
 mode in online that allowed you to go balls-out crazy fast if you were behind.
  
  Now for the good things: Motorstorm is fast. All the cars are a lot faster, and while I could still 
 have more speed, I am quite happy with it. The tracks are truly beautiful. The feeling of speeding 
 through a wooded forest, or across a beach, or down a river, or through a derelict town is inexpressible. 
 The track design is pretty good, although I was hoping for better. Some of the tracks are just 
 kind of boring, however, there are some really tough tracks and some really nice touches, like 
 the interactive vegetation! There are definately a ton of OMG moments.
  
  The tracks have more detail, alla the new game engine. The crashes are more detailed and there 
 is more loose stuff on the track and more things that are destructible. However, there is some 
 texture popping and shadow jumping stuff that is inexcusable. 
  
  Even though I mainly pointed out the negatives compared to the first, this game is awesome and 
 hella fun, and if you're a racer fan, you really owe it to yourself to check it out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: adamVH1984
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 9, 2008 3:12 pm PT
Review:  Motorstorm: Pacific Rift is basically the game we all know and love, plus virtually every complaint 
 that was brought forth was solved. The core racing is still there but it has been suped up with 
 more courses, modes, cars and mayhem.
  
  Game-play-I'm going to say this first; the demo does this game absolutely no justice. The handling 
 is way different from the demo and so much better in fact that the cars are actually more responsive 
 than in the first game. Big Rigs are a little more nimble than in the first game and the new Monster 
 Truck fits in perfectly to the racing. It has a decent acceleration, but its top speed is a little 
 lower than the Big Rig. It will crush any smaller vehicle just by running a wheel over them but 
 the Big Rig still takes the cake when they square off one to one. The balance between all of the 
 vehicles has been refined and every single vehicle will appear in the top 3 more than in the last 
 game. The courses are not only very complex but they really make you feel like you're racing through 
 a raw pacific island. There are also more elements to be dealt with. Mud is now one of three elements. 
 Water and Fire play into the mix. Water is a good way to cool down the engine but you often have 
 to go out of the way to get it and don't get too deep with a smaller vehicle. Fire is always a 
 negative but it is still a great addition. There are double the courses as in the first game which 
 was a problem in the first game. There is also a split-screen mode, which again, was a complaint. 
 A free play mode was also added and there are double the vehicles and an added vehicle class. As 
 you can see, Evolution addressed every issue with the first game and fixed them. Simple as that. 
 This game is perhaps the most fun racing game you will ever play and now with the content to back 
 it up, this is the racing game to pick up.
  
  Graphics- Overall, the graphics have been improved but it is not night and day. To start, the environments 
 are much more lush and busy looking, which gives the game a much better overall look. The particle 
 effects have been improved and the shadows have been changed, in a good way. Shadows were the main 
 problem with the first games graphics. If you were facing the sun a certain way, the shadows would 
 jump out of control. Now, if you are close to the shadows, no matter what, they will look very 
 nice. But from far away you can see some problems. The textures are also a little muddy. Don't 
 get me wrong however. This game is still a beast in terms of graphics and not many games even come 
 close. Lastly, the crashes have been improved, and now the cars actually bend and twist when you 
 crash. It's a much better take on them than in the first game.
  
  Sound-The sound is pretty standard. The engines sound nice and the music is about the same as the 
 first game. But now you can have your own music playing in case you get tired of the music. The 
 most impressive sound effect though is when you drive through bushes or branches, you hear them 
 crack as you drive by. It sounds really cool.
  
  Value-As I said, this was the sole complaint of the first game, and now that the value has been 
 drastically improved, the game is close to perfect. There are plenty of tracks and just as many 
 modes as any other racing game, including speed, wreck limit, and timed events. Online is a blast 
 and split screen is nice too. This game is definitely worth a buy. 
  
  I couldn't be more satisfied with this game. I can't pick out a single aspect of the game that 
 has been downgraded, besides maybe it's a little to difficult. It's refreshing when a sequel completely 
 takes a step forward and outshines it's already awesome predecessor. Awesome job, Evolution, and 
 I'm looking forward to the DLC! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ftbllguy195
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 3, 2008 10:40 am PT
Review:  Having played many off road games, this is easily one of the best. Online is great with low lag 
 and a great leveling system with matchmaking. Offline is also great with tough but good AI that 
 keeps the races interesting. There's a good variety in the tracks and the routes you can take. 
 Vehicle classes also add another element of strategy as different classes will give you different 
 handling an speeds. Picking a monster truck will give you less speed then a bike but you can easily 
 crush an vehicle in your path that is smaller. Bikes are extremely fast, but any rock or branch 
 in the way, and your in trouble. only complaint being there could be more modes then just a standard 
 lap race and eliminator but the core game play is fun enough to keep you coming back for more. 
 If you own a ps3 and are into racing games, pick this one up! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: world69star69
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 1, 2008 6:12 pm PT
Review:  First off, I don't get why people aren't buying this game. It's so much better then its predecessor. 
 Let me just say, if you played the demo and thought it didn't look polished and the controls weren't 
 good, I have news for you, the full game is not like the demo! The full game is fully polished. 
 Textures are detailed, sharp, vegitation is thick, and the scenery plus view are outstanding. This 
 game adds tons of new elements, like the fire and water boost cooldown and heat up, water lowers 
 engine temp, and lava or heat causes your vehicle to catch ablaze, and heat up. There are multiple 
 paths, and shortcuts that you can find. A lot of times I played and thought I missed a turn, only 
 to find out I found an off road trail. The game is seperated by 4 elements fire, water, earth, 
 and air. All go with the terrian they are in. This game has a lot more vareity then the first game. 
 There are a ton of tracks. A new Mosnter Truck that is fun as hell to play, and new modes. Another 
 mode is check point, where you have to hit each checkpoint to gain time, and get them all... it 
 can be hard but is fun. Eliminator mode causes a timer to count down and repeat. Whenever the timer 
 hits zero the car in last place explodes. If you are near that car you will be hit in the shockwave 
 and can either explode yourself or be launched into the air. This repeats until the end of the 
 race.
  
  Online is great, there is matchmaking and lobby play, full voice chat, which is nice with the new 
 headset from socom. Trophies, extras, unlockables, artwork, custom games modes that you can make 
 yourself. 
  
  Another thing to take note on is that load times are very very short now! Even in online, you load 
 up your car and the race in seconds... so you are always in the action. You go up in ranks online 
 as there are ranked matches and leaderboards. The game is visually astounding! Really, I understand 
 that LbP, fallout, saints row2, dead space, resistance 2, and valkeria chronicles are out or coming 
 out, but still this game is not to be missed!! IF you were on the fence about getting this. I hope 
 this changes your mind, as the game is that much better then the already great motorstorm. Oh, 
 did I mention custom soundracks? Well it has that too. 
  
  So with a long single player festival campagin, free play, custom races, new vehicles, new modes 
 of play, 12 player online multiplayer, up to 4 player splitscreen in either vertical or horizontal, 
 matchmaking, lobbies, voice chat, messaging/friend invites, custom soundtracks, add on content, 
 trophies, great physics, eye bleedingly good graphics and a sense of speed, great sound, and a 
 game that will have you addicted for hours on end. This really is a full featured game that deserves 
 a perfect score as it does everything right. The only reason it isn't so popular right now is because 
 it got released when everything else was. By January I suspect more people will have this game. 
 Its worth it that for sure, and its nothing that can or will be done on the xbox! Thank you Sony 
 for this great exclusive off road racer that doesn't disapoint! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: peppeaccardo
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 30, 2008 11:06 am PT
Review:  Let me say this first Motorstorm was nothing short then fun. The single player campaign could have 
 had more events and customizable races (missing feature) but what made the game stand out, at least 
 for me, was the multiplayer. The feeling of seeing vehicles, or pieces of them, fling left and 
 right meanwhile you make last second corrections to not to fall on a pit or slam against an obstacle 
 could not be described by words.
  
  But lets dig Motorstorm 2:
  
  The GOOD:
  
  - Graphic: best graphic ever for an off road game. 
  The race tracks have a lot of variety and 
 each of them has his how character and will leave you breathless for their beauty. You will race 
 in forests, lava, beaches, volcanic craters, waterfalls etc. 
  Lot of chaos on the screen but I haven't seen any slowdown, frame rate is 30 rock solid.
  
 
  - Sound: Usual cacophony of engines and a really nice soundtrack which includes many many songs 
 (not sure if we can set our own play-list though) .
  
  - Gameplay: Same mayhem multiplied by 4, as 4 are the elements you will be racing on. Each element 
 will require a specific approach, so if you are racing on the beach you should quickly decide when 
 run on the water to cool off you engine. On the lava river fire will be ur worst enemy, so jumps 
 will be the best way to avoid certain death, and so on.... 
  
  - Online: No lag, excellent mic support, super chaotic.
  
  - Future DLC: Yes they are coming 
 and I hope at the proper price (if not free!!) 
  
  The BAD:
  
  - Controls: I noticed that to make the damn vehicle turn it is a pain. Controls in the first Motorstorm 
 were more tight. Here you really need to work your way with boosters and breaks to perform the 
 proper turns. (nothing that a patch cannot fix) .
  
  - Repetitive: True there are a lot of events, but it would have been nice to insert something like 
 leagues for each vehicle with trophies and tournaments in different classes. Also the addition 
 of different engine types would have been appreciated. Small engines vehicles not being able to 
 cover long jump or slowing down too much in water would have added an extra strategic factor. 
 
  
  - Too many straights on the race tracks: fast vehicles will disappear into the horizon leaving 
 the slower ones in the dust. I would have preferred more curves to keep the pack of racers more 
 compact and test everybody driving skills instead of booster management. The first MT was good 
 at making u feel closer and closer to victory and then punish you with a last second error. 
  
  Lastly to all of those people that think that this is just a "booster pack" I would suggest 
 to rent it first and experience the massive mayhem of the online racing, you will enjoy.
  
  To Evolution studio, please fix the steering .. thanks ! 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
