-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: MotorStorm
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/ps3/driving/motorstorm/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Core racing design is a riot.
 Online multiplayer is a great deal of fun.
 Superb visuals.
 Great soundtrack and sound effects.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 A shallow package with only one (not very good) single-player mode.
 No offline multiplayer.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Mar  5, 2007
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 7.9
Critic Score: 8.3, 74 Review (s)
User Score: 8.2, 5,930 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: SCEA
Developer: Evolution Studios
Genre: Rally / Offroad Racing
Date: Mar 6, 2007
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Motorstorm's rampageous brand of racing is a great deal of fun -- it's just a pity there aren't more 
 ways to experience it. 

  Sony and developer Evolution Studios' Motorstorm is undeniably one of the more anticipated of the 
 upcoming crop of PlayStation 3 games. It was one of the first major games shown for the system 
 and looked to demonstrate the kind of incredible visual fidelity the PS3 was to be capable of. 
 In this regard, Motorstorm does not disappoint. It's easily one of the best-looking games on the 
 system (if not  the  best thus far) , and you'll be hard pressed not to ooh and aah as the game's 
 vehicles crash and explode into one another again and again. Trouble is, that's pretty much the 
 bulk of what you're going to get from it. While the racing is legitimately exciting and filled 
 with visual treats, there's only a handful of ways to experience it, and the only way that really 
 holds up over time is online against friends.  

          It's safe to say that this beats the hell out of Lollapalooza.     

  Think of Motorstorm 
 as what would happen if someone in a postapocalyptic future decided to crossbreed rallycross racing 
 and Burning Man-style music-festival culture into one ridiculous orgy of vehicular violence and 
 heavy music. Of course, no one would ever do that, but it makes for a compelling-enough game concept. 
 The twist with Motorstorm's brand of racing is that a variety of different vehicle types all coexist 
 on one track, from big rigs all the way down to dudes on motorcycles. While that might sound like 
 a nightmare for those who prefer their vehicles more on the svelte side, don't worry -- you're not 
 destined to be bopped endlessly by bigger vehicles. All the tracks in Motorstorm have multiple 
 paths, and different vehicle types are more suited to some than others. If you're on a bike, ATV, 
 or dune buggy, you can take the higher ground, which tends to be loaded with jumps and other obstacles 
 not properly suited to the bulkier racers. On the flip side, the lower ground tends to be muddy 
 and less reliant on crazy turns and narrow ledges -- precisely the kind of stuff a bigger vehicle 
 would be perfectly designed for.  

  This balancing act permeates every aspect of the racing, and it actually works quite nicely. Some 
 of the vehicles can be a bit of a drag to drive on certain tracks, but as there are plenty of vehicles 
 to choose from, you're bound to find something that works for each situation. It's all about finding 
 the type of vehicle you're most comfortable with and then finding the sections of the track that 
 will get you to the finish line fastest. All the while, you'll be fighting off both other racers 
 and the track itself to survive. Make no mistake, the tracks are treacherous. Jumps are often a 
 tricky prospect to pull off, and there are broken-down cars, mud pits, ledges that will send you 
 flying off a cliff and to your doom (until you respawn, of course) , and all sorts of other unpleasantness 
 there to get in your way. As things go, you'll have to deal with the incessant bopping and other 
 antagonizing antics of your opponents. The big guys can wreck into whomever they please, but even 
 the little guys aren't left out in the cold. Racers on bikes and ATVs can attack one another as 
 they drive past, knocking opponents off their rides, which can be immensely satisfying.  

  It's too bad, then, that there's not more to it. As chaotic as some of the cinematics of the game 
 make the racing look, it's not quite as chaotic as you might expect. The racing isn't exceedingly 
 fast, and the whole core of the racing experience is really just about vying for position based 
 on size and which paths you can take. Your vehicle has a nitro boost that can be liberally used 
 to help put you past opponents and take higher jumps, but there's no real combat to the racing 
 beyond bumping and the occasionally thrown elbow. There's nothing really wrong with that, but the 
 racing in Motorstorm can still get a bit tedious in spots. Once you figure out the right way to 
 take a track for your type of vehicle, that's pretty much what you tend to stick to. That there 
 are only eight tracks in the game heightens the repetitive nature of the racing. They're long tracks, 
 and with all the varying paths, it will take you at least a few go-arounds with each to figure 
 out their various intricacies. But once you do, you'll find yourself pining for some additional 
 variety.  

  It doesn't help that there's so little to do in the game overall. All Motorstorm offers is a kiddie-pool-shallow 
 single-player mode and online racing. The single-player mode offers up a series of event tickets. 
 These tickets open up races to take part in, and how you place in each race determines how many 
 points you earn to spend on more tickets. You keep doing this until you've unlocked all the races, 
 and, well, that's it. If you're waiting for the part where you unlock new race types or new, unique 
 vehicles, keep waiting. Yes, you can unlock new vehicle types, but they're purely aesthetic changes. 
 New vehicles don't display any new or improved statistical info, so if you're racing one vehicle 
 in a weight class, you're racing any of them. As for race types, there's only one: races. You can't 
 even adjust what types of vehicles play in a race -- all that stuff is predetermined based on the 
 event, meaning you're stuck with a specific class in the vast majority of the races. The actual 
 progression of the events doesn't offer a lot beyond the ability to unlock new vehicles and to 
 serve as a practice mode for the online game. That's a decent-enough offering, though once you 
 get to the later events, where the CPU drivers turn into sadistic jerks that endlessly frustrate 
 you, you'll probably just give up on the single-player mode altogether and stick to the online 
 play.  

  The good news is that online mode is a fun time all around. The unpredictable style of racing Motorstorm 
 uses is a perfect fit for rousing multiplayer matches, and with the ability to have up to 12 players 
 in a race, there's plenty of anarchist fun to be had. The game uses a solid lobby and ranking system 
 (though it only ranks wins, not other placings) , and voice chat is supported, as well. Furthermore, 
 the online mode lets you do a few things that you can't in the single-player, like letting you 
 choose from any of the available vehicles at all times. Online matches don't seem to suffer from 
 much, if any, lag. The only real bummer about the game's multiplayer is that you can't play it 
 offline. Online play is excellent to have, for sure, but if you just want to hop into a race with 
 some friends that happen to be sitting next to you, you can't do it.  

  However, when you consider how fantastic Motorstorm's graphics are, the lack of split-screen multiplayer 
 maybe makes a bit more sense (though it's no less disappointing, all the same) . Of the current 
 crop of PS3 games, Motorstorm absolutely takes the prize as the best looking. Sure, there's some 
 ugly textures that crop up now and again, and the frame rate tends to dip during particularly destruction-heavy 
 moments (split-screen would have probably murdered it altogether) , but those few issues aside, 
 the game's a real visual achievement. It all starts with the vehicles, which are some of the most 
 beautiful jalopies you'll ever see. Each vehicle is extremely detailed from bumper to bumper. Even 
 the driver models are fully detailed, which is plainly obvious when you're driving a motorcycle 
 or ATV. And the crashes are even better. Your rides break apart in incredibly dynamic ways, creating 
 completely different forms of destruction each time out. And even when you just slam into something 
 and don't completely wreck it, you'll see that damage. Tires will bend or start to come off, bumpers 
 will deform, paint will chip, and every vehicle eventually becomes so caked with dirt and mud that 
 the paint job is practically irrelevant from the get-go.  

  That the tracks are just as excellent looking is really saying something. Again, there are only 
 eight of them, but each one is a long, drawn-out trek through one form of desertic hell or another, 
 and they're all a treat to look at. Motorstorm has some of the most impressive lighting effects 
 you've seen in a racing game to date, and depending on the time of the day, the sun is either completely 
 washing out a barren wasteland or coloring a beautiful landscape with gorgeous oranges and reds. 
 Even the distant mountains and hills in the background look excellent, though it's the up-close 
 pieces of the track that really impress. Dirt and mud fly everywhere, deforming the track itself 
 in the process, and many of the pieces of junk littered about the track can break or be otherwise 
 moved. The copious dust and dirt is maybe a bit overboard when it drenches the screen, but it's 
 a neat effect all the same. Less impressive is the array of available camera angles. The standard 
 from-behind camera view is fine no matter what vehicle you use, but the first-person camera mode 
 is really only enjoyable when you're on a bike or ATV. The view isn't exactly a hindrance in any 
 of the other rides, and you do get to look at some of the track details much closer this way, but 
 it's just not as enjoyable a way to drive. A real, in-the-cockpit view would have been nice in 
 this case. But cockpit view or no, it's hard to find much fault with the way Motorstorm's visuals 
 are presented.  

          Oops.     

  Motorstorm's audio is also pretty great. On the track, engines have a ferocious roar to them, and 
 every time you wreck into something, the booming, crunching sounds of the crash really make you 
 feel it. While you race, you get one of several rock or techno songs from major artists like Nirvana, 
 Queens of the Stone Age, Wolfmother, Spiritualized, and Slipknot, among others. It's a diverse 
 soundtrack that always manages to fit the vibe of the overall game, in that every song heightens 
 the intensity of a race in one way or another.  

  Motorstorm is a good game that also feels like it has a great deal of untapped potential. As an 
 over-the-top, gorgeous-to-look-at racer, Motorstorm is absolutely a success. As a deep and lasting 
 experience, it's far from it. The question, then, is what's more important to you? Is it of greater 
 import to you that a game feature great racing mechanics and incredible graphics, features be damned? 
 Or does a deep array of lasting modes and features make or break a game for you? If you answered 
 yes to the former, then Motorstorm is unequivocally the game for you. If you answered yes to the 
 latter, pay consideration to just how much you're going to get out of a solid online mode and a 
 cheap-feeling single-player mode that you'll probably never go back to once you finish it. Either 
 way, here's to hoping that the next time around, Evolution turns in a more fleshed-out experience 
 to go with its great game design.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (433 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: PSFreak241
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 10, 2009 4:35 pm PT
Review:  MotorStorm takes the Burnout formula and takes it off-road, and adds more brutral crashes and gritty 
 music. The game is great, but the biggest problem of the game is that there's a lack of modes. 
 With only 3 modes, Single Player, Online and Time Attack, you find yourself wishing there was more 
 modes, and the fact the Time Attack mode is DLC, the people without a Playstation Network account 
 are in a problem. MotorStormdoes have non-laggy online play, whichis helpful, espacially in a game 
 where death sorrounds you at every corner in every race. Yes, the game does boast with in-depth 
 crashes and sound effects, but the game's main purpose is to show off the PS3's power. If you're 
 looking for a crashing racing game with different ways to play, maybe you should buy yourself a 
 copy of Burnout Paradise. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: calvinsora
Rating: 7.5
Date: Mar 1, 2009 12:04 pm PT
Review:  Motorstorm is one of the first games on the PS3 and the first exclusive racer as well. On many 
 facets, it does pretty well, but its flaws are hard to overlook.
  
  The game looks great, and it shows the visual power of the PS3 from the get-go. However, the race 
 tracks, even though they look good, are very much alike and so are the various vehicles in the 
 game. Overall, though, it does a good job.
  
  The vehicles are varied in use and handle well. The driving mechanics are smooth and polished, 
 and every vehicles have its pros and cons. The AI is also smart and won't be pushed off track so 
 easily. Motorstorm utilizes a smart boost system, which can only be used for a limited time before 
 overheating and exploding. The motor has to then cool down before it can be used again. Smart boosting 
 is truly the key to victory. Another cool factor is the crashes. If you take to much damage or 
 drive off the track, the game slows down and shows the crash in much detail. This is especially 
 fun on motorcycles.
  
  One thing that is missing in the first version of the game (a later patch was released) is multiplayer 
 in any way, which is disadvantageous for any racing game. This is one of the core factors in a 
 racing game and without it, it doesn't rise to the challenge with other racing games. The variety 
 of levels and different vehicles of every type is disappointing as well.
  
  The music in the game consists almost completely of metal and rock songs which might impress many, 
 but ultimately lacks flexibility for other gamers who don't like those music genres.
  
  This game could have been much better, but is a decent title and jumpstarts the PS3 pretty well. 
 Bottom line, an OK racing game and nice addition to the PS3's library. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rijahs
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 28, 2008 8:16 pm PT
Review:  MotorStorm is pure arcade racer acceptably remixed and retuned to the next generation of gaming. 
 The gameplay is delightfully aggressive in design and in the opponent A. I., the races normally 
 run between 2 and 10 minutes which get longer the more your progress. There are a large number 
 of vehicle types that each has their strengths and weaknesses. Some races are class specific, but 
 the real fun is in open class races. Nothing is more fun, and visually pleasing then seeing Motorbikes 
 racing against Buggies, and large off roading trucks. If you need a mental picture, think of the 
 movie Mad Max when the cars are racing through the desert, ready to rock. Vehicles variety and 
 aggression are another two aspects that help build up Motor Storms winning formula.
  
  The visuals are one of the best seen in the next generation of gaming, showcasing the potential 
 of the PlayStation 3's capabilities. Motor Storm has pleased me with its aggressive hard pounding 
 action, unique track design, and variety in vehicles. Motor Storm surpassed my expectations and 
 will be one game in my collection that I will be constantly revisiting. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kevinjia32
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 20, 2008 3:50 pm PT
Review:  Motorstorm was the first game I picked up for PlayStation3 and I have to say, it must be the most 
 brilliant graphics I have ever scene in an offroad racing game. 
  
  Gameplay: Basically, Motorstorm, is just an off-road racer with... nothing really more to it. This 
 is a disappointment because there is so much to offer, yet so little. You could be sitting in an 
 ATV or Dunebuggy, or even a BigRig. The wide variety of unlockable cars, and ranges is simply amazing. 
 The car models looks fantastic. Driving through mud pits and dirt will turn the car dirty, and 
 it looks simply amazing. Crashing and wrecking cars are a lot of fun as well. Pieces of car go 
 exploding everywhere in a huge fireball which is fun to look at. The maps are long and great looking 
 with lots of detail. The problem with Motorstorm is that there isn't enough to do. Basically, there 
 is a single player mode, where you unlock races and such, but, there isn't enough to do. That's 
 it. After the 21X4 races that's it. There isn't new challenges or anything. After the single player, 
 it's just a multiplayer which gives you much more control of what you want to do. This does bog 
 down on the game quite a bit. The races can be simple, and very difficult and will make you want 
 to smash your controller because of all the mess-ups you make in the game. 
  
  Sound: The sounds and car wrecks sound amazing. The engines also sound great.
  
  Graphics: 
 Best I have seen.
  
  In short: This game, is something you need to get for the PlayStation3. The only problem is there 
 isn't enough, and can get extremely repetative. There is only 7-8 tracks. In 10 races, you've experienced 
 the entire game. However, the game has been released for a while, and you can get it for about 
 20-25 bucks. 
  
  My score:
  8/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: misterhumbug
Rating: 6.5
Date: Dec 19, 2008 2:12 pm PT
Review:  I'm really not a fan of racing games, so I'm really not a person who should be reviewing a game 
 like Motorstorm, but since I got a free copy when I bought my PS3, I guess I'll talk about it briefly.
 
  
  As racing games go, this one is pretty cool. The gameplay is pretty straightforward, and I like 
 the fact that it's really an off-roading game. There is a great variety of vehicles to choose from, 
 and the tracks are really great to look at. The selection of tracks keeps things interesting, and 
 the overall game has a cool feel to it. I haven't played it all that much, but I can certainly 
 see why it was such a popular racing game. 
  
  I guess my big problem with racing games in general is that I'm not really the type of person who 
 gets off on timed goals/tasks. I understand that, as a racing game, the time you take to finish 
 the course is really the whole point. Since I'm more the kind of person who likes to look around 
 and check out all the stuff around me, zipping through a racetrack at top speed doesn't really 
 meet my needs.
  
  Again, not really the kind of game I go for, but I have to give credit where credit is due. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ayushd
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 15, 2008 9:53 pm PT
Review:  Now after buying it i believe i could have spent my money on something better. This game has the 
 great graphics great sound but the gameplay is just not fun. It's the same thing over and over 
 again. You just race on different types of terrains.
  
  GRAPHICS AND DYNAMICS
  One word- GREAT. the vehicles have great visuals the close up environments are very good. But then 
 comes the far off environment graphics. They are quite horrible. They have this grainy and pixel 
 look like in the old PS2 games. The dynamic effects are quite good also. The crashes look absolutely 
 amazing and i never get bored of them. Unlike old crashing games in which there are only a few 
 pics of crashes this game crashes the way the environment and somehow comes up with it's own crashes 
 which is crazy.
  
  GAMEPLAY AND MULTIPLAYER
  this is where the game gets VERY VERY BAD. First thing i wanna point out is that it has no split 
 screen. A game with such good graphics and dynamics doesn't have two player is such a shame. Unlike 
 street racing games in which there is a story line and crazy twists you do the same thing again 
 and again in this game in different plains which gets extremely boring. If this game didn't have 
 the awesome graphics and dynamics this game would have been extremely bad. So basically if you 
 do the same thing again and again you will get really bored which this game does. So the gameplay 
 sucks. The multiplayer well sucks just like any other racing game because it just isn't fun. Overall 
 this game isn't the best best and you should save your money for something better unless you are 
 crazy for graphics and don't care about the gameplay. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ACE-414
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 30, 2008 5:18 am PT
Review:  MotorStorm has got to be one of the best racing games and the best off-road racing game. It has 
 a wide range of different vehicles types, Motor-cross Bikes, Quad Bikes, Buggies, Rally Cars, Racing 
 Trucks, Mudpluggers and Big Rigs. There are a multitude of tracks each containing a variety of 
 routes, which is one of reasons why MotorStorm is so good. Because in most racing games there is 
 one route to take and one route only for all the racers to follow, but in MotorStorm of course, 
 because of the variety in vehicle types, there would need to be a variety of routes for each vehicle 
 to take - but this doesn't mean that a Fire Engine (Big Rig) can't follow a Sports Car (Rally Car) , 
 each vehicle does have their own beneficial route  whether the driver takes that route is up to 
 them.
  What's also great about MotorStorm is the damage, the ability to punch other riders and the humorous 
 taunts the drivers can make whether they're on a Bike or in a Car, there always seems to be a way 
 of getting your opponent angry.
  
  Note: I realize that the people who have told me that they don't think MotorStorm is 'not great' 
 is because they either found it too hard or well that's it, it's just to hard, and like most humans, 
 they don't like games their no good at.
  I GIVE MOTORSTORM A 9.8 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: layinblazer
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 24, 2008 7:36 pm PT
Review:  ok first off i got this game for free it came with my ps3 and i was really sad that it wasnt 2 
 player local i live in the country and wireless internet is unavailable for me, anyways this game 
 is really fun for 1/2 hr or so but since there is only like 6 tracks it gets boring especially 
 playing alone but if you have psn this game would be sweet its like burnout but offroad. the graphics 
 are amazing and the songs and sound is incredible. i love the different vehicles to choose from 
 i love how they have atvs and bikes but the bikes are kinda hard to control and being able to have 
 3 different paint jobs on each is also cool. the tracks are really fun but like i said theres only 
 like 6. bottom line this game is really good and you should only get it if you have psn or you like 
 playing the same tracks over and over again by your self 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JB1994
Rating: 7
Date: Oct 24, 2008 7:32 am PT
Review:  Gameplay- (8.5) Fun, fast, furious, and intense gameplay. Motorstorm is a very fun and with plenty 
 of vehicles to chose from make the racing very intnse and mayhem.
  
  Graphics- (9.0) Motorstorm's graphics are brilliant. Since this was one of the first PS3 titles, 
 this promised alot of great graphics to be seen of the console.
  
  Sound- (7.6) The vehicles sound pretty good and generic, but the soundtrack is just rock an stuff. 
 Some songs are pretty good but it depends what taste of music you like.
  
  Value- (5.5) Now this is were the game falls flat on its back. There is almost nothing to do in 
 Motorstorm. Theirs a single player mode which is pretty poor for the most part, all you do is just 
 pick from a selection of certain vehicles and race, there's online which is great but that's all 
 there is in Motorstorm. So in my opinion you defiantly should not buy this, if your friend has 
 it or something and he is willing to let you borrow it, then i say do that because you should def 
 not buy this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheAcejoel99
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 18, 2008 5:07 pm PT
Review:  I got what I wanted out of motorstorm in the end, I got a fun, fast, and fernetic offroad racing 
 game. If you want something more than the fullfilling feeling of bumping other vehicles off cliffs/crashing 
 in overly crazy explosions and puffs of smoke with shrapnal flying everywhere, then look elsewhere, 
 because thats what this game is. Motorstorm is like a rollercoaster. It's fast, exilerating, uproarisly 
 fun, but it also has an overly abrupt ending. It has everything you could possibly want, but not 
 enough of it. With a wealth of vehicles/classes of vehicles, you would think that the same attention 
 would go twords the tracks. But it go's astray when it comes to this. EVERY level has three things 
 in common, They have dirt, mud, and huge F&%$ING jumps. This is good, and oddly enough, bad. The 
 levels are all based around cliffs, mountains, dead trees, mud, and dirt, and not much else. Nerry 
 a green tree or other foliage in sight. No water, animals, or realy anything. The game feels far 
 to barren. The levels just have too much in common, and to make matters worse, there are only about 
 8 tracks in total. On top of which there are only a very limited selection of modes. All of which 
 are fun, but are just to lacking of features. Motorstorm will take you on a wild ride, but the 
 ride will end far to quickly, for I have been left wanting more. But if short is ok with you, you 
 are sure to have fun, and alot of it, but when the ending comes and smacks you in the face, don't 
 be suprised. Overall, I say buy it. (12 players online) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Acexx
Rating: 7
Date: Oct 14, 2008 7:09 pm PT
Review:  When the game starts off, you wait a long time for it to load.. I guess I shouldn't be complaining 
 since it's one of the 1st games. The main problem that I see with this game is that there's too 
 little maps. There's a decent amount of vehicles and a lot of variety, but there's not enough maps. 
 You'll find yourself racing on the same track a lot of the times. The multiplayer is ok. The graphis 
 are great and the sound is good too. I wouldn't buy this game for anything more than 19.99.. but 
 I guess it's ok to come with a system, though you probably won't find yourself playing it too often, 
 hopefully the second in the series will fix  
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: minimme
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 14, 2008 12:04 am PT
Review:  Music: 10.0
  Very good soundtrack... beautifully good. It is rock-ish...
  
  Sounds: 9.0
  Sounds are very good as well, although it always sounds the same and you can't really 
 hear it over the music, which is a good think i suppose.
  
  Gameplay: 9.75
  Very very fun gameplay. It's not perfect but it is still very very good! It's probably so good 
 because it's just so unrealistically fun. The people who made this game were probably just like 
 'why don't we just do some random car game with big unrealistic air and unlimited boost (that overheats... 
 of coarse) with millions of shortcuts!' love it.
  
  Graphics: 7.75
  Not the best graphics, but the gameplay makes up for it. A good thing about the graphics are that 
 when the vehicles go through mud it makes a full 3D shiny wet track, so pro...
  
  Value: 8.0
  Only because of the cons below.
  
  PROS:
  Gameplay
  soundtrack
  
  CONS:
 
  8 Tracks
  Bad Story
  Hard 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FrozenDragon123
Rating: 7
Date: Oct 12, 2008 6:51 pm PT
Review:  First off the core gameplay of Motorstorm is extremely well crafted and the concept of the game 
 is totally creative, with the basics in the bag how could Evolution studios go wrong? Well, to 
 start off the main problem of this game is that it seems that the developers did the absolute minimum 
 amount of work they had to do to call it a game. The whole single player game is an arcade style 
 racer with beautifully designed tracks and challenging AI opponents. The presentation is very well 
 done to say the least. Even so, the game will only seem impressive for a moment because the game 
 has very few levels and only eight tracks (although there are multiple pathways for each track) . 
 Another problem with single player is that the AI seems to spike when you are ahead and those cars 
 will constantly work together to bring you down a few positions, and this could be pretty frustrating. 
 A lack of modes also brings the game down. There is no split screen multiplayer and the only alternative 
 mode is a time trial and an online multiplayer. 
  
  Most of the game's fun comes from the online portion of the game. Online racing is both fun and 
 challenging, and will be where most of your time will go into the game. Each track is memorable 
 and well built for specific weight classes. While the online is fun, the wait time for the matches 
 to finish if you enter mid-race can really test you patience.
  
  Overall if you like online racing, this game may be worth a look, but for anyone looking for a 
 fleshed out game, avoid this game. With its fun core gameplay, it's a shame to see it wasted on 
 such a linier game. Motorstorm had the potential to be a great racer, but many things stopped it 
 from being a full experience.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: linyoa
Rating: 7.5
Date: Oct 10, 2008 11:08 am PT
Review:  If you've tried the motorstorm demo (multiple tiems if your like me) available on PSN you'll probably 
 be amazed by the action from one simple race. However once you start the game, youll find the actaul 
 races are much less exciting. Infact, ive found myself, for some inexplicable reason, going back 
 to the demo even though I own the full game. Thats not to say Motorstorm is a bad game. You just 
 need to be a real racing fan for me to recomend it to you. The main "Campaign" starts out fun, 
 but will get increadably hard, and unless your great at the game, or are very patienient, youll 
 probably give up on finishing it. The game has a good multiplayer online, but for some unkown reason, 
 it has no split screen multiplayer, which would have been great. (my 10-20 hours time would have 
 easily gone to 40-100 hours if it had split) there are also no custum race options. you are forced 
 to choose a race from the main campaign rather than setting up your own race, choosing map, cars, 
 difficulty etc. 
  Bottom Line:
  The game has good (not great) action which is completly destroyed by an underwelming feature set. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Hiyoal
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 9, 2008 5:32 pm PT
Review:  Motorstorm is a single player Playstation 3 off-road vehicle racing game which takes racing simulators 
 to a whole new level.
  It is both fun an addictive and it also comes with an online component which supports Download-able 
 Content (DLC) . 
  
  You first start off racing a vehicle of your choice on "Motorstorm", a track designed for every 
 vehicle in the game as there are many routes to take to finish the race. You unlock different tracks, 
 tickets and cars by completing racing quota (Eg. Finish all Level 1 tickets on Gold to unlock this 
 ticket) and every car has its own style of racing. A truck is very good in the mud as it does not 
 slide and is very good on low ground as the track is usually shorter while a bike is prone to win 
 a race while staying on the higher ground where it is usually dryer. A bike will slip on the mud 
 and you will find yourself gripping the controller to the point that it may break just because 
 your bike is about to smash straight into a rock wall with spikes sticking out.
  
  Motorstorm is also one of the first games for the Playstation 3 to harness the power of 3D Camera 
 angles for smashes and crashes. At any time of the game when you crash, a slow motion camera will 
 show you all the detail of the car crumpling on a wall, biker flying off his/her bike etc.
  This is a great feature, although it gets very frustrating when wanting to skip because you may 
 be seconds from the finish line and some guy behind you has been tailing you up until this point. 
 It adds to the difficulty but also adds to the frustration of the game.
  
  The Online Component for Motorstorm is quite good, giving riders the chance to gain "Reputation" 
 in the forms of names like "Grunt" and "God" (God being the highest rank) . You may find it hard 
 to start winning online games at the start because past players have planned their routes to give 
 them the maximum amount of probability to win, but you will soon find those routes and exploit 
 them for your victory.
  
  Overall Motorstorm is definitely a game to go out and buy, both for single player and for online 
 play but it does lack settings to remove the frustration from the game play (removing the slow 
 motion crash cam)
  
  I give it an 8.5 out of 10!
  
  Hiyoal :D 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ChainRecc359
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 28, 2008 5:58 am PT
Review:  This game is overall amazing! The first time I saw it I thought it was all cars and trucks, but 
 then after seeing a trailer on gamespot I saw Big Rigs and I loved it. Then I saw a bike and ATV 
 and I thought wow this is something new. (most games have one main vehicle) So when I got my 80GB 
 PS3 and it came with a motorstorm in it I was playing it so much for like 3 hours. It was fun, 
 mud looked OK, vehicles looked awesome, the fire effects looked pretty bad, not many modes in it, 
 Online is great, load time was SLOW but it was OK for me, and I did not have a lot of fun with 
 the slow mo thing when you crash. but over all i gave it a big bash of 8.5
  
  OVERALL
  The good:
  great game for hard core gamers, Keeps the gamer in the game, great visuals
  
 
  The bad:
  The game gets pretty hard for the non hard core gamers, not many modes, hate the slow mo thing, 
 Slow load timing but it was OK for me but not to other people, and the fire effects looked very 
 bad.
  
  AND GOOD JOB SONY!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ratchetcooper1
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 11, 2008 7:14 pm PT
Review:  Wow, I never thought I would ever agree with critics. Its pretty cool but tends to be repetitive. 
 I prefer the Dirtbikes and ATVs but it still is cool. I would rent it first though. I didn't actually 
 buy it. It came with my 80GB PS3 so I decided to play it and it was pretty cool. Gotta admit though, 
 not a big fan of racing games aside from Midnight Club and Need For Speed. Out of the three I'd 
 choose Midnight Club IMO then Motorstorm. The races can be fun, but its too much of the same thing. 
 When, I got the game and tried it out, it was fairly new and I could of traded for another game 
 from my friend but it was pretty cool. Now I'd trade it though, not much replay value. I'll probably 
 rent or borrow the sequel: Moptorstorm Pacific Rift because it reminds me too much of its prequel. 
 I recommend it not really worth 60 bucks maybe 40 though. Don't sweat it though it gets quite good..... 
 I'll leave you with that. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: benboz
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 7, 2008 1:27 am PT
Review:  Motorstorm was a launch title for the PS3 but today, it is still a great game to play and if you 
 don't have it, a great game to buy. 
  
  Motorstorm is a rally driving game that has all kinds of vehicles like Motorbikes, Buggys, Big 
 Rigs etc. The game has no rules so you do whatever it takes to win the race. 
  
  Motorstorm supports up to 12 players in one race online which makes it fun and amazing. There is 
 a rank system so you can get to the top. The online is really fun and addictive.
  
  The game's graphics are just mind-blowing with awesome scenery and rally tracks. Even the dirt 
 from the road comes on to the screen to make it look real while driving.
  
  The gameplay is fun and very addicitive. The tracks are excellent with jumps and mud puddles. The 
 game also includes boost but it heats up your engine and if you overheat then you explode.
  
  So Motorstorm overall is a great driving game with a lot of fun. Some areas it gets frustrating 
 but its a lot of fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sasruko
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 3, 2008 12:42 am PT
Review:  Outside of existing franchises like Metal Gear Solid, Killzone and Final Fantasy, perhaps the biggest 
 and most anticipated game coming to the PlayStation 3 has been MotorStorm. After the extremely 
 impressive, but fully CG, trailer that was shown at E3 during the system's first unveiling, PlayStation 
 fans worldwide have been waiting to see if the final product could live up to the target render. 
 The downloadable PlayStation Store demo gave gamers a taste of what was to come, but the full release 
 is finally upon us.
  
  MotorStorm lives and thrives on the moments when you're right in the middle of a pack of vehicles, 
 everyone pushing each other towards the cliff sides and you're doing all you can just to survive. 
 There are more "Oh $#@&" moments in MotorStorm than any other game around, and no matter how many 
 laps around the same track you've made, you'll constantly see new crashes and vehicles careening 
 to their death.
  
  Really, there are very, very few racing titles (or even games in general) around that deliver as 
 engaging an experience as MotorStorm. There's really no better way to put it than that.
  
  The game lets you choose from a number of different vehicle types, each of which have their own 
 strengths and weaknesses. For example, motorcycles are very quick and agile, but can't stand toe-to-toe 
 with bigger rides and slide in the mud like a hound dog on ice. On the flip side, the large trucks 
 can plow through hazards and other rides, and the changes in environment types barely affect their 
 handling. But, they're not very quick and must stick to the slower and wider sections of the tracks. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vega666
Rating: 7
Date: Sep 2, 2008 11:38 am PT
Review:  Well, lets start like always on the good part.
  Graphically, it's hard to believe this game was one of the first on the next gen system. It looks 
 amazing. Even though the mud is a bit shiny and the rocks are a bit blocky. Overall, it's solid 
 to look at. Real immersive.
  
  The Frantic pace, tight tracks and lots of opponents make this a real fun driving experience. And 
 despite some weird physics attributes (Cars suddenly bursts off on a lunar trajectory for no apparent 
 reason) it feels really natural on most surfaces. Way to go, people who made Motorstorm.
  
  The career is a bit so and so, though. This is another game that forces you into a vehicle you 
 don't necessarily like, or in the worst case, that you straight up hate. That's something that 
 has always annoyed me beyond anything. If there's one thing that defines all petrol-heads, it's 
 that they are explicit in the vehicles they like. Forcing everyone to drive specific vehicles, 
 then, is not very reasonable. Giving the choice between just two different vehicle-types would 
 have been infinitely more intelligent.
  
  Then there's the outright bad things about the game itself. There are only a very limited handful 
 of music tracks in the game, and they aren't even that good, and you can't play your own playlists.. 
 What's the point in having a mediastation if you can't play the media on it?
  
  The game is also very very unforgiving. Most races take 6+ minutes, and when a half second mistake 
 can cost you the entire race, it's easy to get frustrated. Just a tiny bounce at the end of a short 
 jump can take you off a cliff or into a mountain, which subsequently blows up your vehicle. Even 
 small bumps in the middle of the road can take your car out, which leads to a lengthy slow motion 
 view of the crash. In the space of the time it takes to get back on the track, you'll be trailing 
 the whole pack. When you spontaneously combust, you are also most of the time taken to the lowest 
 racing-line on the track, which is the mud line, which only two vehicle types in the game can handle 
 well, and it may take you as much as half a lap to get back in the right line. STUPID when picking 
 out the right racing-line is the whole challenge with the game.
  
  All in all, this is a game I'll come back to many, many times. If only for a couple of hours at 
 a time. I'd recommend this game to any die-hard petrol-head, but it won't convert anyone who is 
 not already a racing game-fan. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: floor3013
Rating: 7.5
Date: Sep 1, 2008 6:49 am PT
Review:  Motorstorm takes rallying to a whole new level, by taking the concept of rally and completely distorting 
 it, adding Burnout-style gameplay and huge variety in the mix.
  
  --
  
  Graphics: First off, the graphics. Motorstorm is set in Monument Valley, Arizona, and any fans 
 of the Grand Canyon track in GT4 will notice the similarities. However, this is the PS3, and so 
 crisp details in HD are everywhere. 
  
  The game includes jaw-dropping textures that the range all the way through the game. The game also 
 includes a realistic mud-effects system, which will leave your car dirty as anything, and will 
 leave little remnants of your paintwork. 
  
  The game also features a damage system, which will see doors and other body panels flying off, 
 before you car exploding. 
  
  The game features a replay system that will leave you thinking, how the hell did I manage to navigate 
 that, as well as providing crisp detail throughout.
  
  In terms of menus, they look fairly ok, but the lack of a HDD Install means loading times are long, 
 however the loading screens are equipped with race-specific text and pictures, whether it be a 
 map of the circuit, advise or a simple pun to entertain you, for example; "A Rally Car On Mesa? 
 Surely a Recipe for disaster? Pretty much. Enjoy!" 
  
  --
  Gameplay: The gameplay in Motorstorm is largely chaotic, and take much getting used to. Even first 
 go's of certain tracks can be challenging. Once you break through this barrier, you will find the 
 gameplay to be rather fun. All the jumps make for a good high-octane race, and the brutal AI are 
 very close together, meaning you can jump from first to last in a matter of seconds, which also 
 adds to the chaos. This adds an element of fear to the game, someone in first place will be worried 
 about the fact that opponents lie seconds behind, if that, and a single mistake could put you in 
 jeopardy. 
  
  The game adds to the pressure by saying that you can only qualify from a race and progress to the 
 next if you finish in the top 3, which is fair enough but given the rapid change in hands of these 
 places means you can never be sure if you'll win. 
  
  A thing to note about the gameplay is that later on in the game, it gets much harder than it should 
 and while a difficulty curve is appropriate, this is almost too much. You will find yourself at 
 a disadvantage starting at the back, and often in races given the packed-in-ness you will find 
 yourself stuck behind a Big-Rig, or being wrecked by one. This makes for very smart AI, but makes 
 the races much more challenging. 
  
  I usually measure stress levels in the game through how much excess dead skin is left on my controller 
 at the end (the grey patches) . Just a few minutes of gameplay at the penultimate Level 3 can amount 
 to the same level of stress as that in burnout, and then some. This shows how frustrating the game 
 can be.
  
  The gameplay also benefits from a system which adds mud trails to the game, so you would have much 
 more mud carved in through everyone's routes on Lap 3 than Lap 1, which will prove challenging 
 to some, although it making use of the nice mud effects.
  
  A nice part of Motorstorm is that with Bikes and ATV's, you can go up to a fellow ATV/Bike rider 
 and punch them off, or do a gesture against another racer in a larger car. This can be hilarious 
 when done right, and makes up for the fact they could be flattened by a big rig at any moment.
 
  
  --
  
  Vehicles: The vehicles are unique to Motorstorm, and although the vehicles in each class don't 
 vary too much from eachother apart from in design, the different classes vary widely. Different 
 classes have their fortes in different areas, and suffer in others.
  
  Bikes-Bikes are the smallest vehicles in the game, but not the slowest. The bikes are fast, but 
 not that fast, and are vulnerable to larger vehicles, but more than make up in terms of mobility. 
 Best suited to shorter, more twisty tracks, these can prove well.
  
  ATV's-ATV's are essentially bikes with 2 extra wheels. They seem very slow, especially in mid air, 
 and the speed with boost on can seem a bit unreal (for an ATV) . These also have the 'punch' ability 
 of the bikes.
  
  Buggies-Buggies are the next step up from a Bike/ATV, and boy can you feel the difference. These 
 are the most well rounded, and it recommended you use them on the 'Anything' races. 
  
  Rally Cars-Rally cars speak for themselves, and are designed to rally fast. However the whole 'Turn-up-in-whatever-you-like' 
 attititude in Motorstorm means that the rally cars are forgotten and tuck themselves in a little 
 corner. 
  
  Racing Trucks-More really a cross between Buggies and Rally-Cars with a dash of Big-Rig, these 
 are much more useful in races and some of the Dakar-inspired trucks can be useful in the desert 
 environment.
  
  Mudpluggers-Getting bigger, these are larger versions of Racing Trucks and can go through anything, 
 including (as the name suggests) mud. Because of this, they are best suited to the dirtier routes.
 
  
  Big Rigs-Somehow in the midst of Motorstorm, these monstrous beauties made their way in. These 
 are huge vehicles you wouldn't expect racing things like bikes or rally cars, that act as the bullies 
 of the race. These can simply brush off Bikes and ATV's and in fact almost any other type of vehicle.
 
  
  --
  
  Tracks: The tracks in Motorstorm are brilliantly crafted with multiple routes to cope for the range 
 of vehicles, so for example deep mud-pits would be at the bottom for the larger and more capable 
 vehicles, while more dangerous but faster routes lie separately (usually higher) for smaller vehicles, 
 such as bikes, although if you want to win and you aren't in either a Big Rig or Mudplugger then 
 you should take the latter, as lighter vehicles could literally get 'stuck in the mud.' A slight 
 disadvantage is that the muddier routes suited to the heavier vehicles stick out like a sore thumb, 
 and that the higher-routes entrances are hard to find in certain occasions, which puts most people 
 at an advantage.
  
  In Motorstorm, quality rules over quantity, and so while the tracks are polished to perfection, 
 there are only 8. DLC can bump this up to a slightly more modest 12, but this adds an extra 10 
 to the price (its noted however that this will add more races, cars and music in addition to the 
 extra tracks) . 
  
  You shouldn't really be worried however, as the 8 tracks provide almost endless fun, and all of 
 them have their own niche which you will love, for example Dust Devil contains an epic fast paced 
 race that a 3-lap race could take roughly 7 minutes to complete, while the Coyote Rage contains 
 a mix of mud-fests and sharp turns and a 3-lap race can be completed in around 3 minutes (if that) . 
 In the same respect all of the 8-tracks have a wide range of variety, from mountain-tops to gorges, 
 and no track feels like it's copying the good points of another, with the exception of 'The Grizzly' 
 which is more of a compilation of all the tracks rather than a simple copy. 
  
  An idea before you start racing is to try out the Time trials of all the tracks, they seem daunting 
 at first and to learn the short cuts and win you need to memorise the course. Now I will go through 
 the initial 8 tracks providing a brief (ish) description.
  
  The Grizzly-Without doubt, the 'jewel' in the crown, The Grizzly prides itself on being a mix of 
 all the parts of Motorstorm, and quite right it is, as it does. It ticks all the boxes and all 
 of the sections are tuned to match the Bikes with the Big-Rigs. Buggies are best suited to this 
 track
  
  Coyote Rage-Best suited to smaller vehicles (although there are routes for larger vehicles, and 
 races in these can prove a laugh) , Coyote Rage takes the concept of Motorstorm and wraps it tight 
 in a neat, small package. The shortest course in the game, it provides shortcuts, various routes 
 and packs in a small muddy S-Bend which everyone must go through: Lovely!
  
  Dust Devil-If rallying had a speedway, this would be it. A Fast, long and epic course through a 
 dusty terrain, including many 'Will I make it?' style jumps and long breezy turns. 
  
  The Rockhopper-One of the more niche tracks in the game, this is one of the most fun. It feels 
 much like an assault course and with good reason. One massive jump follows another massive jump, 
 and places such as the Banked curve at the end amount up to a large amount of fun. 
  
  The Tenderiser-The Tenderiser shows the meaning of the word 'Chaos'. Set in a canyon, this track 
 proves a test of mental strength, as it can be very challenging. A route for bikes and ATVs is 
 somehow carved in, however the entrances to these routes are hard to find, so its most likely you'll 
 take the bottom part, which in addition to large amounts of mud in later laps has a various collection 
 of large rocks scattered all over the place, meaning routes cross numerous times. 
  Rain God Mesa-Don't be fooled by the name, there's no rain here. Instead what you get is a Cliffside 
 race among the mountain tops. You get a nice view, but you should be concentrating on the huge 
 jumps and epic banked turn instead. 
  
  The Mudpool-As the name suggests, this contains many patches of mud and shows off the gorgeous 
 mud tech used in the game. Also includes many jumps, rocks and cars littered about the place so 
 watch out!
  Sidewinder Gulch-A Chasm track similar to the Tenderiser, but minus the many rocks. Enjoy the massive 
 banked turns while they last as the rest of the race can be long and arduous challenge.
  
  --
  
  Sound: 
  The soundtrack is impressive, and includes a variety of Rave, Rock and Mosh 
 music, which may not be to your taste, but definitely go's with the high-octane chaos. The sound 
 effects of the game are also impressive too.
  
  --
  
  Other: Motorstorm suffers seriously from the 'Lack Of...' Syndrome. It lacks an arcade mode (a 
 time-trial mode is downloadable for free and an Eliminator mode in payed for DLC) , or in fact any 
 other mode other than the main career, and online, which is fine, it's just the fun-ness of the 
 game could be milked a lot more than it is. This quickly leads to you leaving the game to rot, 
 unless you like the online.
  
  --
  
  Sum-Up: Motorstorm's original purpose was to show off the PS3's graphic capabilities, and it did 
 that with flying colours. The game is still now one of the best looking games on the PS3, matching 
 the likes of Uncharted and Gran Turismo 5 Prologue, and this game was put on sale over a year ago. 
 However the lack of extensive gameplay and the mountainous difficulty curve mean that this game 
 takes a perfect game concept and ruins it. However, if in the inevitable future sequels these problems 
 could be erased, Motorstorm could become of the best rallying games to date. 
  
  -floor3013
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Midevilatheart
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 29, 2008 8:18 pm PT
Review:  Motorstorm is a kick-ass ride. You have the ability to choose many different vehicles, all of which 
 are fun to drive. The terrain is all dirt allowing for some massive fun: high air, awesome jumps, 
 etc. If you should ever crash, the visuals are amazing. Not only do you see the damage to your 
 vehicle, but you have "slow-mo" crash replay; awesome and funny. 
  
  The only downfall to the game is that there isn't a lot to choose from. Not many tracks are available. 
 The screen shots and camera angles, like any "driving game", are limited and repeating. 
  
  The on-line play is not very good. It is best to play single. 
  
  It's instant fun once you 
 get into the game because the controls are easy to master. I would recommend this to anyone wanting 
 to play something easy just for fun. Can't go wrong with MotorStorm because there's nothing better 
 than leaving your competition in the dust!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: PS3_Reviewed
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 23, 2008 10:56 am PT
Review:  
  THE STORY:
  
  Well there's not actually much of a story here, basically motorstorm is the name given to the race 
 events which take place in monument valley, Arizona. and you get to participate in this races through 
 a variety of vehicles: ATV, bikes, big rigs, rally cars, mudpluggers and buggies.
  
  THE GOOD:
  
  Firstly, the graphics of this game are a perfect next-gen showcase. The textures, 
 scenery and vehicles all look phenomenal. The races themselves though are something else. The best 
 word to describe them is fun. It doesn't matter what position you come in, you always have a blast. 
 Take us for example we keep coming in the bottom three every race and yet we keep playing like 
 there's no tomorrow just to see the gorgeous scenery, to do the heart stopping jumps and best of 
 all to see the deadly crashes.
  When you crash on this game the whole screen turns in slow motion and if your in a ATV or bike 
 you see your guy (or girl) fly through the air like a rag doll breaking bones and crippling their 
 body in ways we would never imagine. And if your in a car you see your wreck fly through the air 
 will all the spring, body kit and flames flying off it. 
  The thrill you gain when winning a race is next to none. You see the phrase "anything can happen" 
 is tossed around a lot these days but in this game it's true. Take one of our races for example 
 we were 1st. Then BAM! out of nowhere we turn too late and fly off the cliff we respawn to find 
 we've shifted back to 7th place. Annoying, yes but imagine this vice versa. Basically what were 
 trying to say is in this game nothing is certain until the end.
  
  THE BAD:
  
  The main thing about this game is how unreal it is so for driving simulator fans this isn't for 
 you. Another point to make is the lack of tracks. There are only 8 in the entire game not including 
 the downloadable one's which we'll just leave by saying it seems no effort was put into the unfortunately. 
 These tracks although good are too often repeated so things start to get a little dull after a 
 while. We'll round off this section by adding there's no offline split screen. Forgivable but not 
 exactly hard to include.
  
  THE SUMMARY:
  The Best
  + THE SCENERY
  + THE CRASHING
  + FAST PACED ON THE EDGE OF YOUR SEAT RACING
  
  The Worst
  - NO SPLIT SCREEN
  - NOT ENOUGH 
 TRACKS
  - GETTING OUR ASSES KICKED ONLINE
  
  THE REVIEW:
  GRAPHICS - 9.0- Still remains one of PS3's finest
  
  GAMEPLAY - 9.0- Fast paced and often unpredictable
 
  
  LIFE SPAN - 7.5- With lack of tracks and split-screen it won't keep you occupied for long but until 
 then it's great
  
  OVERALL- 8.5- PS3's top racer until Pacific Rift that is!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: bcviper
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 18, 2008 6:39 am PT
Review:  I have never personally been a fan of games in the racing genre besides the occasional wipeout 
 on PS1. Games that were promoted to be "super realistic"
  like Forza or Gran Turismo never interested me. But it takes a fantastic game like Motorstorm to 
 make devs realize that instead of focusing on realism and graphics and focusing on how fun the 
 game is the game will needless to say be better.
  
  Motorstorm is about a big race fest in the middle of a desert that you want to win. The game is 
 setup so that you pick a race, you choose a vehicle and color for it and you jump in. You go around 
 a track 3 times and if your in first you win. Sounds simple and it is. But the game features racing 
 action very similar to arcade racers. You can run people off the track, smash into people, and 
 run over people in dirt bikes. The level of detail in the game is also impressive. Cars and trucks 
 all fall apart and blow up beautifully. And effects like the dirt on the screen and in your car 
 only makes the game look better.
  
  Now there are a few problems, mainly with which features the game doesn't have. The game doesnt 
 feature a real story mode its just a bunch of races. However the added multiplayer races and downloadable 
 content adds a bit more depth to the game.
  
  Thanks to some fun entertaining racing, i recommend Motorstorm to any racing fan, or somone just 
 looking for fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Strikerfan116
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 13, 2008 1:13 pm PT
Review:  As you all probably know, this game has awesome crashes. But is that enough to get it to be a good 
 launch title? Survey says..... YOU BET! Motorstorm is awesome. The racing, the ONLINE racing, the 
 crashing, the events, the crashing, and all that stuff (did I talk about the crashing?) Motorstorm 
 is kinda a copy of Excite Truck, but that isn't necessarily a bad thing! Being a copy to a game 
 that has the 2nd most kick ass crashes EVAR must have some appeal! This game was only ruined by 
 two things.
  
  1. Can't play with your buddies that are sitting next to you.
  
  2. It's entertainment doesn't last very long.
  
  Regarding reason 2, in a few days you will 
 get bored of the racing, BUT, there is your one saving grace. You know what i'm talking about. 
 The CRASHING! When you crash/use too much nitro/drive off a clif/get knocked of your bike, you 
 go FLYING, and when that happens, you can watch your driver's carcass go SPLAT! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sonic0491
Rating: 4
Date: Aug 13, 2008 2:35 am PT
Review:  INTRODUCTION
  
  Motorstorm for the Playstation 3 was set to be a huge success in next generation games and in most 
 cases it has been. However I feel that the only thing bringing me back to Motorstorm is my sheer 
 love for rally, destruction and motorbikes. With millions of purchases worldwide and soon to go 
 platinum, why am I rating Motorstorm as a pathetic cash-in of 3.0/10.0 Find out in the review below.
 
  
  Motorstorm is one of those games that you think will be revolutionary. However I know there isnt 
 much to add to the racing genre as most gaming enthusiasts will know. The E3 05 video of Motorstorm 
 was the first thing that made me excited to purchase my Playstation 3 in the future and I bought 
 Motorstorm without hesitation. While Motorstorm does have its quirks, it is however, NOT worth 
 $99.95 or even the now low platinum cost of $49.95.
  
  Motorstorm begins the game with having you play the track Grizzly where you can choose any type 
 of vehicle so you can get comfortable with the controls. You will notice many things as soon as 
 you get into the game. Below are in-depth looks at each factor of the game.
  
  GRAPHICS
  
  The graphics, while superb in some areas, are extremely lacking in others. One of the worst 
 I experienced was when I used the Sixaxis, deciding to use the first person view to enhance the 
 realistic experience. The bonnet has utterly horrible pixelation up close as do many of the cliffs. 
 While playing I also noticed weird outlines around the wheels and dust which was definitely not 
 my high definition tv. Other than these flaws the graphics are stupendous and enjoyable to look 
 at.
  
  GAMEPLAY
  
  Evolution seemed to pride themselves in the fact that Motorstorm has the most realistic racing 
 physics. It is actually the main flaw of the game. It is no fun when your inches from the finish 
 lines and a car somehow crushes your bike rider from the top causing you to loose. Or that you 
 dont land just right after going over a ramp and your car springs onto its hood. Or that you clip 
 one of the many deadly edges of the race track such as a small rock, causing you to blow up. There 
 more than I can list in that department. Even the Death cam makes you wait about 5 seconds or more 
 forcing you to bitterly watch every single car pass your position leaving you dead last. The other 
 cars AI is atrocious. In one instance a rival car decided to pass me but better decided it was 
 better to push him and myself onto the edge of the racetrack. I sighed and tried to continue the 
 race without re-spawning but he kept me pinned to the rocks. How is that great AI? I'll tell you. 
 IT ISNT. There are many instances Ive had like this and the physics engine doesn't help. Considering 
 all these problems it is a chore to get first in all the races to fully 'complete' the tickets 
 and move on. I rated the game as hard, not because the game is actually hard, its just that the 
 poor AI and physics hinder much chance of a passing the hardest tickets 3 and 4 out of all 4. The 
 games other major flaw I have noticed is the fact of all out racing classes battling it out. No 
 matter what pathways are included it will always be an unfair punishment on the player. Trucks 
 will be slow and horrible at turning making it difficult to turn. Motorbikes will get tapped out 
 of control by any other class and are way to nimble. Rally cars get pushed around too much by the 
 bigger classes and the Lighter trucks block up the tracks by hitting all the edges. They should 
 have made them individual class races. Evolution seems to have not learnt this lesson by seeming 
 to make Motorstorm 2 have the exact same structure, but add in a Monster Truck class, making it 
 even worse.
  
  SOUNDTRACK
  
  Motorstorm's soundtrack is a painful mix of the whiny Wolf-mother and several other Scream bands 
 and slack jawed country songs. Considering that there are only a handful, once you have played 
 the game for about 40 minutes or less, songs will start to repeat heavily and become a huge annoyance. 
 If only the Playstation 3 currently had custom soundtracks like the Xbox 360. I have heard of it 
 being included in an update, but the future is uncertain and it could possibly even be a myth.
 
  
  LONGETIVITY
  
  If the game manages to not make you break your controller or you are stubborn enough to retry many 
 of the Ticket 3 and 4 races over and over in vain hopes of getting even second, this game may have 
 something called longetivity buried within. However it may seem the game has more in store to make 
 it a game of great depth, for Multi-player is included. Oh wait, I forgot to mention that it is 
 online only. Therefore if you have no broadband connection or anyway to make a PSN account you 
 will only have the single player plainly titled as 'play'. 'Wreckreation' was included as a download 
 but is an uninteresting and punishing time-trial version of the single player, nothing of great 
 value. The recently released Dualshock 3's rumble patch was introduced to Motorstorm, which does 
 in-fact turn the game around in some aspects. But because its addition should have already be included 
 from launch, its hard to justify that it makes the game any better.
  
  Overall Motorstorm is a servere case of 'flash over substance'. It is all fun and games when your 
 winning, but that is a rare case as the games physics and AI will push you over the edge, and I 
 don't mean the adrenaline way. I mean over a cliff, which is where you might see your controller 
 if you even try to have fun with this game.
  
  
  + RECENTLY I have noticed that Motorstorm 2 looks exaclty the same as Motorstorm except the change 
 of scenary, Split screen Multiplayer and the addition of monster trucks. This is a strategy called 
 'milking the franchise'. Hopefully people would have learnt the first time around instead of believing 
 the hype!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Buzzcrow
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 11, 2008 11:20 am PT
Review:  There are good racing games and there are bad ones. They are all based around the same sort of 
 places with the same sort of idea that they must win. This new generation of racing game is totally 
 different to those let downs who call their games "fun".
  
  This is an off-road racing game set in the glorious Monument Valley, where racers use their vehicles 
 to represent their anger and hatred, smashing each other to pieces with wonderful special effects 
 and crash scenes.
  
  The sound effects are also great, the music features bands like Slipknot, Nirvana and Kings of 
 Leon!
  
  This may sound a little weird, but it's also a great family event! Me and my brother and cousins 
 were all sitting together in the living room playing it and even though it's not 2 player it was 
 still brilliant.
  
  GOOD:
  Fantastic specail effects and crash scenes, great music and sound, fun online play.
  
  BAD:
 
  Could have a wider variety of tracks (music and racing tracks) , online players are d*** heads! 
 Needs multiplayer, mud on the screen as you're driving can get a bit annoying.
  
  Thank you for reading and i hope it helps =-) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Wozmcfc
Rating: 7.5
Date: Aug 9, 2008 2:02 pm PT
Review:  May I just say first that I have had this game along time and only just decided to write a review 
 now because I am becoming rather hyped for the second one. The game appeared at E3 '06 the build 
 at the show was only 50% complete but still showed some effects such as motion blur and deformation 
 of the tracks, now what we saw at E3 may not actually be what we got this game is still very impressive 
 and was a brilliant game to help boost the PS3's popularity when it was released. When I bought 
 the game I was shocked by how little tracks are included in the game, there are 8 tracks each with 
 different characteristics, although this may not seem a lot, each race feels completely different 
 due to the fact that the vehicles you drive and the lighting conditions e. g day or night can massively 
 effect which routes you take and the visibility of the track. There are 7 different vehicle types 
 which are these;
  1. Bikes 
  2. ATVs 
  3. Buggies 
  4. Rally Cars 
  5. Racing Trucks 
  6. Mud Pluggers 
  7. Big Rigs
  If you can acquire the maximum amount of 
 points in career you should unlock 5 vehicles for each of these classes. A factor of this game 
 which I found disappointed is the lack of a free race mode in which I was hoping you could choose 
 track, the amount off cars racing etc. which was a bitter disappointment. The game can be frustrating 
 as one mistake can lose you the race as the rival racers always seem to be right behind you and 
 some of the races can be unfair. On the whole if you are thinking on buying this game I would rent 
 it first because of the lack of content included with it but the graphics are impressive and the 
 soundtrack works well with this aggressive style of racing.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: WWE_TNA
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 3, 2008 8:30 pm PT
Review:  Sony did everything they could to create a revolutionizing racing game, and they did not disappoint. 
 Motorstorm is without a doubt one of the greatest racing games of all time with one of the greatest 
 multiplayers of all time. This game has everything from amazing graphics to incredible gameplay. 
 You can drive all sorts of vehicles from an MX bike, to a race car, to a semi-truck and everywhere 
 in between on 8 different tracks all across Monument Valley. The detail put into every aspect of 
 the vehicles and tracks are just spectacular. Every spring, every tire spoke, every piece of sheet 
 metal on the vehicles are so detailed and real. Put them on incredibly detailed tracks with all 
 the dirt, mud, sand, rocks and what not, and you'll feel like you're actually in the game. 
  
  The soundtrack for this game is also incredible. It has all sorts of artists like Wolfmother, 
 Primal Scream, Nirvana, and Slipknot. The songs play throughout the menu screen as well as during 
 gameplay. What's amazing is that you can here the songs and the rev of the engines both very well. 
 
  
  The only down part in the game is the fact that there are only eight tracks in the game. And while 
 each track takes about 10 minutes to complete 3 laps, the gameplay gets pretty repetitive after 
 playing for a few hours. Plus the single player seems to be a "practice mode" to prepare yourself 
 for the incredible racing in multiplayer mode.
  
  But still, this is an amazing game with unmatched gameplay, graphics, and sound. This obviously 
 isn't a perfect game, but it sure is close. I advise anyone with a PS3 to at least check this game 
 out, because you don't want to miss out on the most detailed racing game of 2007. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gamereviews2008
Rating: 5.5
Date: Aug 2, 2008 5:08 am PT
Review:  Motorstorm, a dirty, racing game. I think it's a total letdown, poor graphics at times and bad 
 vehcil handling...
  
  First of all, the transport. You can choose our type of bike or truck whatever, which is good, 
 and you can pick the color and look etc, but why? It's so boring, riding a bike in dirt, and usually 
 blowing up by falling over a stone! The graphics are good, but murky, dull and you can see some 
 rocks made up of squares. There are few levels, and are easy to complete. Riding low transports 
 like bikes and buggues make it hard, but the trucks make it easy. Just no point to is. This is 
 going to be a bad and short review, due to the fact that this game is a total piece of crap. Bad 
 road graphics and ever worse music. The cover makes it look good, and the game is just not good.
 
  
  A rent only game as you can complete it in about a hour, total let down and waste of money!
  
 
  5.5/10.0 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Alpha-Foxtrot
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jul 29, 2008 5:52 am PT
Review:  The game is beautiful. Monument valley is stunning. When you see the openning video you will be 
 amazed. The in-game graphics are awesome too.
  
  The races are awesome. If you're on the bikes or ATVs you can taunt other drivers with gestures 
 (involvinjg sticking two fingers up at them) and you can knock people off their bikes and ATVs. 
 If you pick the Big Rigs you can smash in to other peoples vehicles and leave them in a big pile 
 of smouldering ruins.
  
  Now there are a few problems. The Big Rigs become a chore when you have to use them after the novelty 
 wears off. The levels towards the end off the single-player mode are a tad ............. sadistic. 
 There is also no splitscreen mode but there is an online multiplayer mode.
  
  If you want a beautiful game with a fun, if at the end sadistic, single player buy this game.
 
  
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: jackrocks123
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jul 22, 2008 3:52 am PT
Review:  This is quite a hard game to review because its very good in some parts, and annoyingly frustrating 
 in others, the most fustrating part of it is when you are coming near to the end of the race and 
 you crash, or roll over, the A. I just go straight past you and BANG! race over you come straight 
 last, that is very annoying, also another anoying thing is the rubber band A. I, but they might 
 of done this on purpose to keep the action intense and exciting, if you remember burnouts a. i, 
 they are rubber band, but it keeps the intense of the race up even higher
  
  The best thing in this game is its so fun. it never gets boring, and keeps you wantin to play more, 
 after you update it, if you need to you get to play online and well its FUN, but prepare to be 
 beaten, its good has no lagg, but you will get beaten as some people are extremely good.
  
  No split screen is annoying but who wants to do that anyway, most people just play online, but 
 over then that its a very good game, you can pick up a copy of it for cheap now.
  
  So pick up a copy of this game whenever you can, but don't get to annoyed if you lose a race
 
  
  
  also you could just wait for the motorstorm 2: pacific rift, this looks very good and the graphics 
 are alot better, there is monster trucks now, which look fun to drive and its also set in a different 
 place. which is good, there is also destructiable enviroments
  :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ps3wizard45
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jul 17, 2008 9:08 pm PT
Review:   
 is a very fun racer , visually motorstorm is photorealistic with stunning enviorments and mud and 
 dammage affects , another thing to note is the incredible physics , it feels so close to real driving 
 its not even funny . the online is really good wit pretty good customization options weather fx 
 , tracks , vechiles aloud .etc , the only down side to motorstorm is lack of content theres no 
 career mode vechile customization no split screen not enuff ptions , but in the end motorstorm 
 makes up for this in kick ass off road fun racing. definetly must play . RENT first , then buy 
 . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: polishkid99
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jul 17, 2008 6:05 am PT
Review:  to me this is my favorite racing game i ever played... it's a little hard and a diffrent feal then 
 other racing games but if you like off-road racing you will love this game.. 
  
  The events of the game take place at the fictional MotorStorm Festival in Monument Valley. The 
 objective of the game is to win a series of off-road races and to be the overall winner of the 
 Festival. Players are in control of seven different types of vehicles throughout the game: rally 
 cars, big rigs, dirt bikes, ATVs, racing trucks, buggies and mudpluggers. Each race requires the 
 player to choose a particular vehicle type and often race against many of the other vehicles. Every 
 track has many different ways of getting through it, each catering to a specific class of vehicle 
 thereby making the racing field more even. The events in the game occur in real-time, such as the 
 mud effects, tire marks, and crashes (for example, if a car loses a wheel, it will remain where 
 it lands for the duration of the race) . Each track is filled with a variety of jumps, bumps, cliffs, 
 ledges, mud pits, and other obstacles. Races are generally three-lap events with two to fifteen 
 racers. There are 8 tracks in the game: - The Grizzly - Sidewinter Gulch - Rockhopper - Rain God 
 Mesa - The Tenderizer - Dust Devil - The Mudpool - Coyote Rage.
  
  Tracks experience real-time deformation, which means each lap is different from the last. Larger 
 vehicles can create large holes or leave ruts that can easily upset smaller, lighter vehicles, 
 and every vehicle responds differently to different track environments. Vehicles like big rigs 
 and mudpluggers get excellent traction in mud, whereas lighter vehicles like dirt bikes and ATVs 
 will slip and slide.
  
  Nitrous Boost plays a large part in MotorStorm and is used to either catch up to opponents or pull 
 away from them. Players must keep an eye on their boost meter, which shows how hot the car's engine 
 is. The longer the boost is held, the hotter the engine becomes. If the boost is held when the 
 engine reaches its critical temperature, it will explode. Since explosions resulting from the boost 
 typically rocket the player's vehicle forward, they can be used to edge out another racer across 
 the finish line. This can be very useful when behind, although this does not work all of the time 
 if the AI opponent gains the upper hand.
  
  In online play, Catch-up mode can be enabled. This means the leader of a race has less boost than 
 everyone else, allowing players further back in the field to "catch-up". If the leader changes, 
 so does the racer with less boost. This makes using boost for the leader a technical task, in theory 
 they should only use it when necessary, and relying on their individual driving skills to win them 
 the race.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: ONLYDOD
Rating: 8
Date: Jul 25, 2008 5:10 am PT
Review:  When I first got Motorstorm I expected it to be your typical off road racer, with a few trucks, 
 buggys, motorbikes and quad bikes. But what I recieved was a whole lot more, I got an fun yet challenging 
 racer with enough action and carnage to rival that of some of the best action games available! 
 There is a nice selection of cars, vechiles rather. Including Bikes, ATV's, Rally Cars, Buggys, 
 Trucks and 'Big Rig's. All of those count for a different class of vechile, where there are plenty 
 of different vechiles to choose from, each with a selection of paint jobs. Why the game is set 
 in only one environment, the tracks do boast variety, with multiple paths to take and obvious land 
 marks that will have you remeber them for years to come. The gameplay is very fast and keeps you 
 greatly occupied, making sure you choose the correct route for your vechile, make steady landings 
 over jumps and avoid crashes is vital to your sucsess in the game, like I said, the game provides 
 a challenge but remains fun at the same time. I would like to add that when you do crash on either 
 a bike or ATV, pausing the game whilst your driver flys through the air is great fun just to look 
 at with the fully rotational camera. 
  
  The bad points are that while the game does boast a challenge, it can sometimes be very easy to 
 screw up an entire race from the start, crashing early will give your competitors a decent head 
 start and even while you rush into the lead you will often find the other racers appear almost 
 out of nowehere, as though they keep up with you automatically. And there is no split screen multiplayer 
 which was a bit of a shame. These problems don't make the game bad though, they feel like minor 
 inconviniences if anything
  
  Overally, Motorstorm is a great game and for a PS3 launch game this one has in my opinion outdone 
 itself, there aren't many racing games that can compare to this, if anything it feels like an off-road 
 version of Burnout. If you have got it, well done, if you haven't, then go and buy it now! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jason2guy
Rating: 8
Date: Jul 1, 2008 7:26 am PT
Review:  The first time I played MotorStorm got me so addicted to it, I wanted to play more of it. Great 
 vehicles , a good variety of them to choose from but personally I would choose the motorcycle because 
 it felt as if I was riding one during the race. That's how much interactive it made to me which 
 also made this so addicting. Not only is it addicting but it has great visuals. The visuals make 
 the driver and the car itself so realistic. I love the part where you crash into the wall... it's 
 insanely excting. Single Player is fun but it was shorter than expected, I wanted more maps placed 
 into it. Which lowered the replay value of this game. The online gameplay is alright nothing special. There 
 isn't split screen offline multiplayer which also bugged me about this game. If it weren't for 
 that this would be a higher rating game. 
  
  Addicting game no doubt one of the best racing games on the PS3!!!! I also recommend to buy even 
 though it may become old. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mangoslayer
Rating: 8
Date: Jun 28, 2008 1:40 pm PT
Review:  What a great, explosive game. Awesome sound, graphics, vehicles, just about everything is spot 
 on exact. It has everything it needs to make it a top racing game. One problem, its missing offline 
 multiplayer. Co- op, offline multiplayer... whatever you wanna call it. HOW THE HELL COULD YOU 
 NOT HAVE AN OFFLINE MULTIPLAYER IN A RACING GAME? I mean , dont you have more than one car in racing 
 games? SOOOOOO you need more than one person. It has great online multiplayer, great graphics, 
 great sound, but at the same time it misses two things.... a FUN single player campaign and an 
 offline multiplayer. it lacks very much, but what it does have, it is amazing... thats why it gets 
 and 8.
  
  
  Summary:
  
  Good- Great graphics, sound, and online multiplayer.
  
  Bad- No offline multiplayer and awful single player campaign. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Hellboyx
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jun 28, 2008 3:14 am PT
Review:  Motorstorm was a game that came out without much hype, and was surprisingly good fun and a very 
 good way to show just exactly what the PS3 is capable of, offering lots of vehicles, a handful 
 of well designed tracks, and an online mode just to prove how good you really are at this.
  
  The problem with motorstorm is that there is not much content, the game comes with 8 maps which 
 to some would not warrant the price tag, and glitches sometimes get you asking why on earth did 
 i just crash, but even these can be overlooked by the great visuals and just all round fun of the 
 game in general.
  
  Many times you will be finding yourself stopping to admire the way you just crashed in slo-motion, 
 and finding that in doing that you just lost 5 places in the race! all in all a very fun game that 
 all PS3 owners should purchase and enjoy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: IIHitandRunII
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 27, 2008 4:43 am PT
Review:  When i just bought the Motorstorm PS3 bundle, i was blown away by Motorstorm. It is an old game, 
 although it really represents the Playstation 3 in a really good way.
  
  Gameplay: The Gameplay is awesome, when racers drive while in the mud or sand, they leave tracks 
 on the path which stay throughout the race, which is a pretty new feature which we don't see in 
 other older racing games. Another cool thing is tht there a re 5-7 types of racing vehicles, including 
 ATVs and bikes and BIG RIGS. All vehicles have their preferred tracks in each stage. 
  
  Online: Surprisingly many people still play Online! i was really surprised about that. There are 
 ranks throughout online, like God etc. 
  
  Stages: The Racing tracks in this game are pretty interesting, their perfectly layed out and every 
 environment in the track is reactive, for example once the wooden wall was colapsing when i had 
 my bike there was a piece of long wood ready to hit my character in the head (exactly) when i thought 
 to myself nothing would happen suddenly......... my character smashed into the piece of wood and 
 my character was on the ground. That really made me say OMG!!! 
  
  To me this game is by far better than ATV vs. MX since you don't fall from your vehicle really 
 easily like MX vs. ATV and this game seriously to me doesn't get boring. I AM REALLY LOOKING FORWARD 
 TO MOTORSTORM: PACIFIC RIFT. 
  
  This game is really the funnest racing game that i ever had.
  
  (Although there is one problem 
 i hope they resolve in Motorstorm 2 is that they did not include Offline MULTIPLAYER!) although 
 every other aspect of the game is really cool and i think this is a must get for people who want 
 to kick a** while driving, and it DEFINATLEY deserves more than a 7.9......
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: dutch777
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jun 12, 2008 9:49 pm PT
Review:  What MotorStorm offers is a really sophisticated package that's surely at the forefront of detail 
 this generation. An intricate physics model makes sure that every crevice and imperfection on the 
 road directly affects your car one way or the other. Likewise, Evolution has gone as far as exploiting 
 a certain vehicle's weakness as it treks over a specific kind of terrain. Because of this element, 
 the racing suddenly becomes a bit more strategic; in that it'll make you think twice before going 
 about a certain path. If you're using a bike, your best bet will be to avoid muddy terrain, as 
 that's only for the big boys to plow through. You're going to want to stick to the most solid ground 
 possible, and that kind of tactical logic goes for every other vehicle you pilot -- but of course 
 with their respective variations. And the physics aren't just limited to your interaction with 
 the environment, but suspension physics of each car are also superbly done which creates a very 
 realistic feel to the game. 
  Regardless, the vehicles that you can race with are: bikes, rally cars, ATVs, big rigs, racing 
 trucks, buggies, and mudpluggers. Within the seven vehicle types are a number of different vehicles 
 you can choose, featuring various paint schemes and drivers. You'll unlock more vehicles as you 
 progress through the Festival by completing events in first place. Thankfully, you can select your 
 vehicle of choice when you go online. Up to 12 people will be able to compete, and the game comes 
 complete with rankings and voice chat. Huge chances are that if you purchase MotorStorm, you'll 
 likely get entangled with the game's online mode more so than anything else. I suggest running 
 through a few single-player races just to unlock a few vehicles, but online is certainly where 
 you'll spend most of your time. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: somanshreddy
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 11, 2008 6:42 pm PT
Review:  Awsome game i did not give it 10 because it does not have multiplayer only online multiplayer. I 
 heard that motorstorm 2 pacific rift is coming soon. I hope that it has multiplayer. I love the crashing 
 in this game. this is one of my favorite racing game. rank 73 this game should be rank 17 or 18 on 
 ps3. this game has awsome graphics. my favorite vehicle is the bike because when you crash the driver 
 falls off the bike and sometimes when i crash on the top the driver falls down the mountain. it 
 is so fun. there are only 8 tracks which repeat in single player (i think) . I am still in the 2 race 
 because the is so hard but fun. I played 8 times and that is how I beat 1 race. It needs practice 
 for each track and you should know which route to take. that is why this game is hard. if you are 
 confused if you should buy the game or not rent it if you want to. hope you like the game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: danyalhk
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jun 3, 2008 2:35 am PT
Review:  Well i dont know how to start but Sony must have worked hard on this one. I wasnt very interested 
 in this game, but i thought of giving it a try and man i loved it so much its just awesome, it 
 truly is an experience and worth my money. They named the game right, it brings a storm with it 
 and takes you away blowing you again and again.
  
  The single play campaign is decent, with difficulty getting higher as you proceed to next level 
 eg 1,2,3,4 and the last one is 5 which is of course the toughest. The first 3 levels are rather 
 easy, you would enjoy destroying or getting destroyed and in the end win them. But with level 4 
 and 5 things get very very tough, you would have to kill yourself and blow away up to the finish 
 line to win a race, yeah sometimes you gotta do that and it gives real pleasure. I played with 
 an empty mind i wasnt expecting much but this game really gave me what i wanted te action and all 
 the stormy thing everything racing and throwing dirt.
  Plenty of vehicle classes and vehicles in them to choose from bikes to rigs, rally cars and trucks, 
 atv (s) ,buggies and all of them handle nicely, the acceleration is made very good. all that gives 
 good feeling. And with a bike or ATV you can taunt others to tease them and then ram into you or 
 just honk them till they mess up.
  The nitro effect is nice but it doesnt last long and if you try to juice it hard it will blow your 
 vehicle into bits and throw your driver out in the field to be crushed by others. good cutscenes
 
  Lastly the multiplayer is decent, there is alot going on in it, you can kill plenty of people 
 out there and become famous, earn respect, but i never saw many people racing but whoever is there 
 it is fun to race along and ram. The update has really improved the game's perfromance. So now 
 i am waiting for the Motorstorm Pacific Rift.
  One thing i think would make this title a beast is the inerior view, it must be included that would 
 make it a life time experience. I am really a big fan of motorstorm, it gave me what i never expected 
 from a racing game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: loporina
Rating: 9
Date: May 28, 2008 4:39 pm PT
Review:  despite the lack of many tracks and split-screen Motorstorm is the best launch title for the PS3, 
 and is still one of the best game for the system. GTAIV and GT5P of course nudge it out of it's 
 top ranking (as well as GH3 and Rock Band) but it is definitely still in the top 10 of most PS3 
 owners lists.
  
  If you own a PS3, you must own this game. This game alone makes up for the lack of many good launch 
 titles.
  
  It is like Test Drive: Eve of Destruction on steroids and crack. It is just constantly insane. 
 there are usually always cars to battle against.
  
  I cannot wait of Motorstorm 2: Pacific Rift. Motorstorm in the jungle will be interesting and with 
 Split Screen it will be sweet. I half want Motorstorm 3 to feature snow tracks, because that would 
 be sweet as well, I think.
  
  Motorstorm rocks! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: marc002
Rating: 8
Date: May 27, 2008 2:47 pm PT
Review:  Motorstorm is great fun. The sense of speed is great. When you boost -- and why wouldn't you!? 
 -- the camera shakes and blurs. The physics are also handled nicely, feeling like you really are 
 tearing through mud and sand. Plus the game, the vehicles, and the environments all look completely 
 amazing. The only thing that could have looked better are the explosions. Racing itself in Motorstorm 
 is fun because you get to pick between motorcycles, ATV's, jeeps, trucks, buggies, and big rigs 
 which offers a lot of variaty -- and plus they all race together, making for some interesting dynamics. 
 Different vehicles handle differently in different terrain, ie mud, sand, rock, etc. But more interestingly, 
 they can handle different paths better than others. All the tracks in motorstorm have multiple 
 paths to them, meaning you can mix it up, which is really cool. The track design themselves are 
 brilliant, having you jumping off ramps and montain ledges all over the place. The only thing that 
 sucked was the lack of 2-player split-screen play.
  
  Despite that, Motorstorm has the potential to be classic. It's distinctive approach to racing, 
 ie multiple vehicle types and multi-path tracks as well as track designs akin to pure stunt work, 
 can make it a memorable experience like your first time playing Mario all those years ago. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Thetaguru
Rating: 7
Date: May 27, 2008 9:42 am PT
Review:  Fun and beautiful game with spectacular crashes (you can see screws, bolts, pistons, and driver 
 flying every which way) . All the courses have multiple paths you can take, depending on which one 
 fits your vehicle the best. This does however cause the game to become repetitive halfway through. 
 There are less then 10 courses initially (you can download more at PSN for an additional price) 
 so each time you race the track, it is only a matter of findind the vehicle specific path and not 
 getting hit. The load time is a little slow between races. Multiplayer plays smoothly online and 
 increases the gameplay. By the end, the only real point of the race is not to get hit. Doesn't 
 matter how good you are, the game becomes racing dodgeball. Not a bad game when bundled with the 
 PS3 but not a game for every racing fan. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ANIALATOR136
Rating: 7.5
Date: May 26, 2008 8:44 am PT
Review:  Motorstorm. Very Exciting to play for the first time. I did lose my patience a little with the 
 menu system taking for ever to load. 
  The visuals are quite spectacular. When you connect to an HD tv it really adds contrast and colour. 
 There is a big vehicle selection including: Buggies, Racing Trucks, Big Rigs, Rally Cars, ATVs 
 and Bikes.
  Your aim is to become first in every single race. You have to put alot of time into this game meaning 
 you have to dedicate more than 20hrs playing it.
  The only let down is there isnt a split screen option.
  But,
  It is great to skid around the 
 sand speeding past canyons and plants.
  This is a hard game so I don't reccomend you people buying it unless they are just playing it for 
 fun.
  You can use six-axis to control the vehicles but it does seem to have a little delay behind it.
 
  Overall its a great game with a few minor problems.
  I dont reccomend you buy this game. Wait for Motorstorm: Pacific Rift as you can get Monster trucks 
 and there is the all important split screen feature.... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: robertcain
Rating: 9
Date: May 26, 2008 1:49 am PT
Review:  Motorstorm was revealed 3 years ago at the E3 conference. Everyone thought it looked awesome. Now 
 years later its finally here and the question is does it deliver? The answer is mostly yes. In 
 Motorstorm you choose from a selection of Bikes, quads, Buggies, Rally cars, Mudpluggers and Big 
 rigs and get out on the dusty desert landscape to race. As you win you unlock more races to do. 
 Now on the positive side it is extremly fun and the graphics really use PS3s power to show off 
 the spectacular crashes plus you really feel the boost from your car as you propel yourself towards 
 the finish line. Unfortunately there are only 8 tracks to choose from and there is no split screen 
 play at all. There is some downloadable content to keep it fresh but the lack of both of these 
 renders it scrambling in the dirt until a sequel comes out. Motorstorm may be short but its the 
 most fun to be had with PS3 racing games until more arrive such as Gran Turismo 4 and Race Driver 
 Grid 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sony_Patriot
Rating: 6
Date: May 21, 2008 7:11 pm PT
Review:  One of the early PS3 games and showed us what the PS3 could do The 
  
  Good: Amazing graphics still looks better then some of the newer games coming out. Good online 
 play. Nice soundtrack. Plenty of ways to get around the track. Decent amount of different vechile 
 types such as bike, Atv, buggy, rally car, big rigs etc
  
  The Bad: Extreme lack of vechiles and tracks which means you'll be racing on the same track alot 
 of time. Repetive. No multiplayer. Steep learning curve. One little tiny mistake and your vechile 
 will be blown up and you'll be at the back of the pack and you'll find it hard to get to first 
 again because of it's high difficulty. Long and frequent load times.
  
  I know this isn't much of a review but there really isn't much to talk about with this game. But 
 let's hope pacific rift makes up for this one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: contracts420
Rating: 9
Date: May 9, 2008 10:49 pm PT
Review:  I personally fell in love with this game the moment I started it up. The soundtrack gets you right 
 into it and fits the game perfectly. The racing is all out and the driving is fierce. The single 
 player is fairly linear but is still a great deal of fun. The difficulty is something that will 
 take getting used to. I know for a fact alot of people dont win 1 in 10 races most of the time. 
 But if you get used to the tracks and different vehicles you should do just fine. Thats one of 
 the things that makes this game stand out... In other racers its usually whoever is the fastest 
 or whoever takes the corner the best. But with this title its who knows the track best. If you 
 know what vehicle is best for what track then you will do great. But the game does have downfalls 
 like the absence of 2 player split screen. The games only real other problem that sticks out would 
 be that there is less than 10 tracks to begin with. But you can buy more tracks from the PStore. 
 The vehicles are fun to drive and the graphics are great. If you havent already picked this game 
 up then go out and get it. But dont drive like you would in the game. Otherwise there is gonna 
 be one hell of a car wreck :) Have fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ali147
Rating: 9
Date: May 4, 2008 9:50 am PT
Review:  for one of the first game out for the ps3 i would say a sucess,
  a good choice to choose from eg: bikes, ATV'a, buggies, rally cars, trucks, mudpluggers and big rigs, all 
 have good points and bad,
  shame there arent that many tracks,
  but the downloads from the pls3 store makes up for it kind of,
  the music is quite good,
  a 
 real beefy game if you get me.
  but the single player mode is boring after a while,
  the graphics are really good,
  gameplay is 8.5/10 
  th SIXAXIS driving makes it fun, and i like 
 when you crash you get to see a explosion of your car, worth crashing for lol,
  online is better then offline even though if only done it a couple times, good fun i like the fame 
 thing whether your a legend or a god gives you something to fight for,
  but i found online very hard,
  its a great game and i cant wait for motorstorm 2 thanks for reading, 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tudyniuz
Rating: 6.5
Date: Aug 8, 2008 5:00 am PT
Review:  This is one of the few reviews in which i won't just say facts i will just say my personal opinion 
 about the game. I personally hate this game and would be willing to change it for anything else 
 out there. But, here comes the but, it's a game in which you can see that the developers did care 
 a little about you, the customer. The graphics are quite impressive and the cars look really good 
 when they crash. The game-play is also very good and the use of the motion sensor in the PS3 controller 
 is amazing. So why do I hate this game?..... I hate it because it's to hard, I personally find it 
 very difficult. But besides that i don't see any other reason to hate it. I always finish the games 
 i buy. From beginning to the end. All of them, well most of them. But not this one because of it's 
 difficulty, i do think that if I would try to finish i could do it in a couple of weeks playing 
 only this. But I don't want to. I just hate it. I would change it for anything else. Well this is my 
 opinion. If it weren't for the difficulty i would have granted this game a 9 but because of it I 
 can't and it just makes me mad.
  
  My Score 6.6 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sony-tha-champ0
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 27, 2008 11:07 am PT
Review:  Motorstorm Is a great game , the tracks ar pretty good (There really hard) The vehicles looks good 
 but its really short.
  
  1st Tracks ar awsome the blow/destruction scene ar the most fantastic parts of the game. The game 
 isnt so easy what so ever , but it should keep u long cause the game is hard, But if ur an expert 
 of driving racing u will beat the **** ov it in no time.
  
  2nd No ofline mod thats kind ov strange, but the game itself isnt so bad. the sound track gets 
 som times annoyingbut som songs ar cool other ar just annoyence.
  
  alsoEnjoyment is plentiful and visuals are superb, even if it is held back by its lack of depth 
 - 7.5
  
  + Awesome graphics
  + Great crashes
  + Decent online
  - No offline multiplayer
  - Lacks depth 
  
  
  Overall Motorstorm is a good game with some 
 good gameplay but a bit a short campain. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: fuzzysquash
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 25, 2008 1:17 am PT
Review:  Motorstorm is a fantastically entertaining racer with great music, beautiful visuals, and heart-pumping 
 racing action. The game conveys an immersive sense of speed and competition is fierce as AI opponents 
 constantly try to ram you off the road. Luckily, the crashes are fantastically over-the-top and 
 never fail to entertain. In some ways, the game plays like a boxing match between yourself and 
 your opponents as you struggle to reach the finish line. All in all, it's great fun, but it's directed 
 more towards a casual audience, so hardcore racing fans shouldn't expect something ultra-deep from 
 a gameplay standpoint.
  
  However, there is good variety in terms of the vehicle set and how they play -- driving a firetruck 
 and a race car through the same track will necessitate different strategies and different routes. 
 The main weakness of the game is the lack of enough race courses. As such, repetition begins to 
 sink in relatively early. The game tries to compensate for its poverty of tracks by placing you 
 on the same course with different vehicle sets, but it's not enough to hide this glaring flaw. 
 But even with its content shortage, Motorstorm is a great game that features a lot of exciting 
 racing action. If face-planting people into mud puddles with your front bumper and exploding in 
 a four-wheeler crash sounds like your cup of tea, Motorstorm delivers it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: snowkarver
Rating: 7
Date: Apr 22, 2008 6:26 am PT
Review:  This game was a rental, and also the very first title I played on the PS3 platform. Although I 
 tend to prefer more realistic simulators such as Gran Turismo or Need For Speed, Motorstorm seemed 
 like a fast and fun introduction to the console, playable by casual and more serious gamers alike 
 in quick sessions.
  
  Well, ditch the quick - despite being a next-gen title, the load times, especially when choosing 
 vehicles, is absolutely atrocious and more reminiscent of the PSP UMD drive rather than a hot Blu-ray 
 disc. In addition, the opening sequence is, as another reviewer put it, rather "pretentious", which 
 is the perfect word to describe the game. The overall concept is excellent, but there are just 
 too many flaws in the implementation to make it a true platform showcase.
  
  The choice of vehicles itself is rather straightforward and many of them are a bit silly when compared 
 to the serious tone set by the intro movie - it would have been better to hew a little closer to 
 realism. Once you manage to get in the game, the environments look pretty good - okay but not fantastic 
 - and similarly, the controls are also "not bad". I found the analog controllers a bit hair-trigger 
 and ended up playing mostly with the pads, as did the other players. On occasion, after a weird 
 flip or burnout, the vehicles would sometimes get stuck in frustrating positions and no amount 
 of simple reversing or turning would get them out.
  
  The biggest problem with the game is that after trying out all the courses, the whole thing feels 
 rather repetitive, with little incentive to go back and try harder. Goals and rewards aren't well 
 defined, so after a few hours, you feel like you're wasting your time a bit and would rather ditch 
 the game and watch a Blu-ray movie, which is exactly what we did.
  
  Overall, it's a fine title to get for free in the box, or to rent for a week, but I wouldn't pay 
 retail for my own copy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: scaredofchaka
Rating: 6
Date: Apr 19, 2008 10:02 pm PT
Review:  Motorstorm isn't too bad of a game. To get it free with the 80gb model is a nice presentation. 
 The graphics are incredibly detailed and i'm sure it took a lot of time to get all of that done. 
 I can really tell what time of day it is but looking off into the distance. In fact, I have sometimes 
 even admired the settings so much that I have crashed or lost the race. It's too bad that the only 
 place you can race is the desert (hint hint for Motorstorm 2) . The game also features a lot of 
 vehicle choices so anyone can be happy with at least one brand.
  However beautiful the graphics may look, the game is plagued with many problems. For starters, 
 some of the vehicles can handle horribly when it comes to turning. You'll tilt the stick just a 
 little and the vehicle turns a little bit, but if you tilt it just a tad more, your vehicle turns 
 too much and you lose control. The terrain will also sometimes play tricks with you. I cannot stress 
 how many times my semi has blown up because a pebble was on the road.
  The AI will also frustrate you beyond belief. I have had many instances where my semi explodes 
 after I ram into a guy on a motorcycle. Therefore you would think that if you were driving a motorcycle, 
 the semi would blow up after it hits you, right? Wrong. It seems no matter what you do, the AI 
 wins.
  Also, the AI sneaks up behind you like Michael Jackson sneaks up on a ten-year-old in a kiddie 
 pool. You could be miles ahead of your competition but they always find a way to super boost or 
 teleport right behind you just as you are about to finish in first place. You will also try to 
 side swipe or fishtail an AI but they will remain as stiff as ever and you will be the one swerving 
 out of control. It also doesn't help that if your vehicle rolls over, it takes at least seven seconds 
 for your car to recover (without refilling your boost) but if you explode, you get at least three. 
 It really makes a difference.
  Throughout most of the bad stuff still lies an o. k. experience (although the single player is not 
 really something to get excited about) . If you got it for free, then good. It will hold you off 
 until you can shell out the dough to buy yourself a decent game. If you bought it (even in a clearance 
 section for $9.99) , then you should have just bought a better racing game for the PS2. By the way, 
 i marked the game on hard, but really it varies. It can be easy to begin with but it loses its 
 easiness quickly and can start to become tedious and unfair. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Hessian823
Rating: 3
Date: Apr 17, 2008 6:13 pm PT
Review:  Motorstorm is, quite frankly, a visual feast that leaves you very disappointed after investing 
 some time playing. What makes it so frustrating is total lack of control you have in racing. For 
 example, you might be in first place and a car will land on you and you explode, not so bad except 
 that while the game is gratifying itself with a stupid explosion cut scene, which cannot be skipped, 
 you are getting further and further behind. Further, there is not point to the whole deal. You 
 race and race and race and nothing cool happens. No storyline, no character development, even the 
 scenery gets old after awhile. What's more is that while you can play online with tons of jerk 
 offs you've never met, you can't have a buddy play it with you because you can only race online. 
 If Gamespot, IGN and the other honks weren't in Sony's back pocket, we might have gotten some advanced 
 notice about this short sighted, boring, farcical game. Instead, these outlets jerk Sony off and 
 probably make a few bucks under the table for giving a 2 star game a 4-5 star review. Its crap 
 and it sucks. That would probably explain why PS3 gave the game away with the system, otherwise 
 no one would have cared about this game. Lack luster? I should say so! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Blaiyze1
Rating: 7
Date: Apr 15, 2008 5:33 am PT
Review:  Going with the same simile.... you have brought your s hopefully that wont be an upsetcuba gear 
 and you splash around in the water exciting.... refreshing but after that boredom kicks in after 
 you've cooled down ( finished the single player stuff) . Personally the multiplayer didnt appeal 
 to me i did 2 races but was just annoyed at how long i had to wait for a game to start even though 
 there were so many i just seem to come in at the wrong time but i cannot be bothered waiting as 
 it always take soooo long and even when the racers are idle and i join i wait and wait nothhing 
 ever happens. Not a great choice by me to buy this game although i was drawn in by the great cinematic 
 at the start of the game. And the racing was abit addictive when i started but once i finished 
 all my tickets it got really boring and i was done with it. It has some problems like the aggression 
 of other racers... which is really good but to pair this with some physical problems on the track 
 such as flipping or jumping into the air from a small bump.... or as i was saying before someone 
 comes up beside you and you two start trading paint and then you will get ahead he will do something 
 like a pit manouver on your and you'll flip over whilst going 10 kmh.... not the best start for 
 a eries although i will be buying motorstorm 2 hopefully that wont be an upset. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: -ArchAngeL-777-
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 9, 2008 4:31 pm PT
Review:  Too much has been made of the low race track content in Motorstorm. The fact is, it just gets in 
 your blood and keeps you coming back. I am a huge racing fan, and never before have I played a 
 multiplayer racer that addicted me like Motorstorm. Sure there are only 7 or so tracks, but you 
 have 7 different vehicle classes to try, each with its own unique strengths and preferences on 
 the tracks. 
  
  The single player races are highly challenging as you are limited to what vehicles you can use 
 per race. In addition, the computer is always trying to run you off the road or wreck you which 
 adds to the excitement. As you go along, you unlock more cars and skins for each class.
  
  The multiplayer is the best of any racer I have played for Playstation in general. It is seamless, 
 very little lag, and can be a total blast. It takes some time to get good enough at the tracks 
 to place high, but after that, its a race for the top! 
  
  I would rate this higher if there were more tracks for the games, but it still gets an excellent 
 rating in my book. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Chaos_Eagle
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 9, 2008 1:32 pm PT
Review:  I have to start off by saying that this game is (along with DIRT) the definitive PS3 off-road driving 
 experience. A game set in a huge desert festival called Motorstorm (unsurprisingly) in Monument 
 Valley couldn't have really failed. Everything is thorough, and the races are action packed, adrenaline 
 inducing, and most importantly, fun. 
  
  The mud and dust on the game is quite frankly, amazing. Another good point is that if you crash, 
 your vehicle stamps it's mark on the road, leaving a huge ditch. Even better, if you're on a bike 
 or ATV your rider will make a human-shaped imprint on the ground. The frame-rate is constantly 
 smooth and does well to keep up with the relentless brutality of the game.
  
  Spectacular crashes can also be performed, with an opportunity at every huge ramp, which are scattered 
 spontaneously across the tracks. Flailing riders being crushed by oncoming trucks is fairly morbid, 
 but Motorstorm does a good job of it, and makes it even more entertaining with good slow-mo movement. 
 
  
  You can pick from a wide array of vehicles; bikes; ATVs (quad bikes) ; buggies; rally cars; racing 
 trucks; mudpluggers and big rigs. There are plenty of races and tracks to keep you going for a 
 while, so value isn't and issue. However, there aren't much extras except online mode, so don't 
 expect anything.
  
  Overall, a great racing game with brilliant visuals and game-play, but more features would have 
 helped. I for one cannot wait for the second instalment. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: prodiqy32
Rating: 7.5
Date: Apr 6, 2008 6:25 am PT
Review:  boy this game had alot to live up to.
  first of all the graphics are nothing like the E3 trailor which pretty much sucks. the game looks 
 amazing and still dissappoints because of that pre-rendered, uh, target. but it still blows every 
 other racer out of the water at the moment so there you go. the frame-rate is smooth, the mud flys 
 everywhere, the wear and tear of the track is awesome. its a beautiful game that couldnt of possibly 
 live up to the expectations. o'well.
  there are only 6 or 7 tracks in the game with several more avalible for download. it doesnt seem 
 like alot but each track hasseveral different routes. you can seriously race each track 20 times 
 without seeing everything. the tracks are different enough where they dont get repetitive and they 
 are all gorgous and well done.
  the control is spot on. each car class feels different from each other. there are rally cars, buggies, 
 bikes, trucks, and rigs! deciding which vehicle to use on what track and which route to take is 
 the key to winning. 
  you also have nitrous which will refill up constantly. learning when and where to use this can 
 be the difference between a win and a loss. if you use to much to fast, boom, you explode. you dont 
 have to worry to much however because motor storm commits the biggest sin in racing games. it has 
 a bad case of catch-up logic. no matter how bad you suck or how good you are, your opponents are 
 always right next to you. and when you lose on a perfect run but make one small mistake at the 
 end of the race and finish 3rd you will cuss sony and demand the prick at evalution studis head 
 who thought this was a good idea. worse then that the computer drivers dont need the devs help 
 because they are ruthless.
  mutiplayer more then makes up for it and this is the way to play motorstorm anyway. 
  warning. 
 the load times in the game are terrible. the worst on the PS3. even the select your vehicle screen 
 loads. its ridiculous. plus the game ships with a barebones package. all you have to do if you 
 have no onlie is race. thats it. no time attack or versus mode. just race. ofcourse race is like 
 a season mode where you gotta get enough tickets to move on but still. skimpy as it can be. but 
 if you have online you will have a blast and you can download time attack. 
  its a great game.... when its not loading. the load times and catch-up logic drop the score for 
 me. to an 8.0. but for those without online? well then your screwed. your getting 2/3's of the 
 game. 7.5
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: NYuuRaKuS
Rating: 6
Date: Mar 31, 2008 7:48 pm PT
Review:  This game was my first PS3 game, and it looked pretty amazing. The slowmo with ragdoll effects 
 was intense, and for a while I had an addiction of crashing my vehicle. I found gameplay disappointing, 
 but Im not much of a fan of dirt or offroad racing.
  
  I felt the AI was out to get me. For one race, I could not get first place after numerous times. 
 It felt like the computers were out to screw me over. The Ai would seem to work together to make 
 a block ahead of me... Id boost and crash or try to dodge and crash. Also, the AI would pull off 
 some obviously intentional assaults on me.... that would be suicidal. i got so fustrated after being 
 blocked from first everytime (I mustve replayed at least 15 times) that I just stopped playing.
 
  
  This game needs multiplayer along with online play. it also needs to cut down on load times. It 
 has a load time when you switch thru the car selections (even when you switch back) . Most of the 
 music is not to my liking. Just not a game for me, but it was bundled with my ps3.... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chrismaster36
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 29, 2008 7:04 pm PT
Review:  Motorstorm is a racer that was headed for Sony's console and one of the first talked about games 
 on the ps3. This off-road racer has 4 unique vehicles through the tracks in this game. The only 
 problem with it is there aren't alot of of tracks in this game (8 tracks) and you'll see them within 
 1-2 hours. The vehicles are big-rigs, trucks, motorcycles and dune buggys. A cool addition is the 
 idea to swipe people off their bikes and make them crash, which is really fun to do! The graphics 
 are amazing in this game and when you crash, you will see all the parts of the vehicle which is 
 a really neat sight and can be funny at times. The cons in this game is there is no offline multiplayer 
 and there are not that many tracks. Online is lot's of fun and there can be a little glitches at 
 sometimes. BUT ANYWAY 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dirtkart
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 26, 2008 1:06 am PT
Review:  Motor storm is breathtakingly brutal off-road racing game. It's a hardcore game with non-stop action 
 the hole way through the game. Good choice of vehicles like motorcross bikes, ATVs, buggies, rally 
 cars, trucks, mudpluggers and big rigs. The racing is very good because it keeps you on the edge 
 of your chair. The SIXAXIS Motion control is a bit hard But a good feature in the game. Because 
 its fun and different from other game I have played. The crashes are big part in the game because 
 with our the crashes it would be a bad game. The soundtrack is great with a good line-up of acts 
 like Wolf mother, Nirvana, Kings of lean, Queens of the stone, Slipknot and Primal scream!!. One 
 the game needs is TWO PLAYER where is the TWO PLAYER. It should have TWO PLAYER it would the so 
 much more fun. The race tracks are all different and good. So if you like Breathtakingly fun off-road 
 racing with cool crashes and a awesome soundtrack. Then Motorstorm is the game for you.
  
  MOTORSTORM ROCKS!!!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: tfres747
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 22, 2008 10:38 pm PT
Review:  Ok this game is great and a lot of fun, but there are some down sides to it. Here's the negative 
 things first:
  1.) There if no offline multiplayer, that is a big disapointment
  2.) There isn't a lot of tracks which makes for a reptitive feeling
  Now here's the positive:
 
  1.) Great gameplay and fantastic racing
  2.) Fantastic visuals show what the ps3 is capable of (screw the xbox 360)
  3.) A lot of different 
 vehicles make for a variety of different racing styles for the limited tracks
  4.) Online multiplayer is fun as hell
  
  So really even though there are some downsides the 
 positives of the game really do outweigh the negatives of the game.
  
  **I'd wait for motorstorm 2 b/c there are going to be a lot more tracks and new vehicles to play 
 as, and offline multiplayer... If you are interested in this game**
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: jawshoeuh
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 19, 2008 7:22 pm PT
Review:  This game is such a blast. It has some of the best online fun you can find anywhere, especially 
 in the racing genre. The driving is pure arcade style adrenalin rush badassity. It is one of those 
 titles where, months after purchasing it, I still am compelled to pop it in my PS3 and go nuts. 
 Even vs a lot of my newer games, this one holds it's own. I could just as easily put in DMC 4 when 
 I just bought it or go for a bout of motorstormin. That's how addictive it is.
  
  The graphics are on par with the best you can find in offroad racing titles. The soundtrack is 
 killer. The Nirvana song Breed is a perfect example of what to play to get you pumped up and ready 
 to race. The single player will keep you coming back just as much as the multiplayer. This was 
 one of the first online games I played on PS3 that had really good voice chat support and that 
 makes it so much better.
  
  I can't recommend this game enough, if you like to play good video games, it is for you. If you 
 like racing, it is for you. If you like hamburgers, I don't care, this game is for you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xericity
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 14, 2008 3:41 pm PT
Review:  Introduction
  MotorStorm has been one of the most anticipated games coming out for the PS3, but was it really 
 worth all the excitement? With a serious lack of split-screen multiplayer, and a limited range 
 of game-play modes, you'd think that it wasn't... think again. Evolution has managed to completely 
 ignore these shortcomings and create an overall, extremely fun game. Of course there are those 
 perfectionist out there, who criticise every aspect of the game, but if you like driving your car 
 into a large rock, or the other numerous racers, and watching all hell break loose, then this game's 
 for you. 
  
  Gameplay
  "In this ageless valley, a new breed of warrior has been born. Born to rage against the silence 
 of these ancient rocks... Born to tear apart the very fabric of the desert... Born to win... at any 
 cost. The stage is set, a storm approaches, the land braces itself... Welcome, to the Storm."  
 Game Intro
  The game takes place during an event called the MotorStorm Festival, which is basically an (I'm 
 guessing yearly) event that takes place in Monument Valley, Arizona. The Festival is basically 
 a week of racing, anarchy and insane music attracting hundreds of thousands of people to the desert. 
 There are four levels of difficulty in the game, each of which are divided into 3 races, also known 
 as "tickets". Once you have qualified in all the tickets, more tickets may be unlocked by earning 
 "respect points". These can be earned by winning Gold, Silver, or Bronze Medals. 
  From the moment the race begins you find yourself totally immersed in the constant action. Racers 
 doing, literally, whatever it takes to win. You start off by choosing your vehicle from a variety 
 of different classes, each one having it's advantages, and disadvantages. Each track is designed 
 specifically to accommodate each class, by giving each one a different vantage point, and it's 
 up to you to figure out what those are. From the very start of the race you are bombarded with 
 choices as to how you are going to play it out; you could take the high route, the middle route, 
 the low route, you could weave through obstacles, or just plough your way through. It's choices 
 like these that make players feel like they are free to do as they like, and not feel restricted. 
 
  There are basically only two options in the game: to steer by left stick, or to steer by tilt. 
 I find steering by tilt a lot more fun, because it feels like I'm a lot more involved in the game. 
 Other than that, there really isn't a lot of choice as to how the game is played, which definitely 
 damages the lasting appeal of the game. The fact that there is no offline, split-screen ,multiplayer 
 is pretty disappointing. What kind of console racing game doesn't have split-screen multiplayer? 
 Definitely a let-down. 
  
  
  
  Graphics
  When the downloadable MotorStorm demo was released to the PlayStation Store, it got most gamers 
 extremely excited about what was to come. With a promise from Sony of 60fps and a 1080i resolution, 
 everyone was disappointed when it was released with only 30fps, and a 720p resolution. What was 
 released in the demo was definitely an exaggeration of the real thing, though the final release 
 did come close. Definitely not a good start on Sony's part. Now, don't get me wrong, the graphics 
 in this game are amazing, just not quite what was promised. 
  If there's anything in this game that really astounds me, it's the mud. The one thing I normally 
 wouldn't look at, turns out to be the thing I look at more than anything else. It's so detailed, 
 and realistic, and when you go around a lap twice, your mud tracks are still there! (You can tell 
 I'm easily amused.) Another aspect of the game that really took my breath away was the scenery. 
 Evolution did an amazing job in recreating the desert of Arizona. The background images are almost 
 flawless, and really make it feel as if you were actually driving through the desert. Several small 
 touches throughout the game, such as, when you're in a buggy, MudPlugger, bike etc. and you begin 
 to back up, you can see the head of your character poke out of the vehicle, and look back. Just 
 small things like this, add a lot to the realism aspect of the game. 
  
  Overall
  Presentation: 100 The cinematics in the game are breath-taking, the menus have an awesome, attractive 
 design. I can't deny, the menus and cinematics in MotorStorm are, by far, the best I have ever 
 seen in any other game. 
  
  Graphics: 90 Don't get me wrong, the graphics in this game are far superior to most other games, 
 but, the game is filled with stupid graphical errors (some obvious some not) , that could have easily 
 been fixed. Not to mention Sony originally promised us far more than what was released, and they 
 taunted us with a relatively misleading demo. 
  
  Sound: 100 The sound in this game is just perfect. The music chosen matches the feel of the game 
 incredibly, and even adds to the experience. The sound effects are amazing and are far from repetitive.
 
  
  GamePlay: 85 I'm sorry but, what kind of racing game has no split-screen multiplayer?? In my opinion, 
 this is "The Fault" of this game. Other than that, the realism of the game is awesome, and the 
 choice between tilt steering, and stick steering is great when you really feel like jumping into 
 the game, or when you just don't feel like lifting your arms. 
  
  Lasting Appeal: 90 This game is incredible in the sense that, each time you play, you'll never 
 find yourself doing the same things over again. No matter how many times you've raced a track, 
 there will always be new crashes, new competition, and new obstacles. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: subyman
Rating: 6
Date: Mar 12, 2008 7:21 pm PT
Review:  I wanted this game to be great. Well, it is great at what it was designed to do... show off the 
 power of the PS3 and give retailers a great game to display on their HDTVs. The graphics, physics, 
 sound, and handling are wonderful but where's the game at?
  
  Graphics: The graphics really raised the bar for racing games. To this day (Q1 2008) the graphics 
 are still arguably the best for any racer out there. The color palette is rich and colorful which 
 really compliments the arcadey style of the game. The lighting looks great with not too much bloom 
 like in a lot of other games. On a large HDTV the game looks fantastic and is a joy to watch. The 
 physics are stand out as well. The vehicles shatter when impacting a wall or another vehicle. Don't 
 expect burnout quality crashes, but they are still very good.
  
  Gameplay: The handling is very diverse in the game. The game does a great job of differentiating 
 between the different classes of vehicles. When riding a motorcycle the handling is spastic and 
 there is major oversteer like I would think a off roading bike would have. Contrast that with massive 
 lugging big rigs that have huge understeer and lumber over ramps. The diversity of the of the tracks 
 is stunning as well. Driving a buggy on the same track as a big rig is totally different. Rigs 
 and mud trucks have to stay down in the muck to make the best times while ligher vehicles can stay 
 up on the cliffs ramping from ledge to ledge. This type of diversity in vehicle play style is really 
 unrivaled. It is a shame that the singleplayer is so flawed. The entire singleplayer experience 
 consists of racing track after track for "tickets" that do nothing but open more tracks to race 
 on. It is just a linear progress of tracks without any purpose or direction. Time trial was released 
 later on PSN and can be downloaded for free. A career mode would have made this game a hell of 
 a lot better.
  
  Sound: The sound is as good as the graphics. The positional sound is great on a surround sound 
 system. I could hear a big rig barreling up on me before seeing him smash me into a wall. The trucks 
 give off deep bass while the bike scream as they hit the rev limiter. It is great hearing all these 
 sounds come together in the larger races.
  
  Multiplayer: Not much to see here. Hook up on PSN with other players to race around some tracks. 
 There isn't anything to keep the player wanting to continue other than just the thrill of the race. 
 There aren't any advancements to be made by the player. It gets old after a couple of hours.
  
  Replay value: It's a shame that such a beautiful game has nothing to keep the player watching 
 it. As great as the graphics are, as realistic the sound, the game gets old after a few hours. 
 Nothing keeps the player wanting to continue except unlocking a few new vehicles and a few more 
 tracks. There aren't any modifications, credits, custom paint jobs, continuations in a story, or 
 anything to make the user want more. Once the pretty graphics wear off this game has nothing to 
 offer.
  
  Conclusion: For the third time, it is a shame. I really wanted this game to be better than it is. 
 I wanted a career mode with some depth and a multiplayer mode that makes me feel accomplished. 
 This game offers none of that. If you want a no frills racer that looks beautiful and handles good 
 then this might be worth a rent. For those who have played any racing game in the last 5 years 
 then just admire the awesome HD graphics from the brick and mortar retail floor and move on to 
 something more complete. Hopefully Motorstorm two actually gives us a game this time around. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: abshakies
Rating: 7.5
Date: Mar 7, 2008 6:21 am PT
Review:  Its an Amazing game, but doesn't have the wow effect, in the beginning you would have limited choice 
 in choosing your vehicle, but as you progress you have access to other cars, but still it is not 
 nice since you can't choose the car you want and upgrade it as you go along the stages. its more 
 like choose among the following and go race. and the sad thing is that you don't know about their 
 horse power, acceleration, Top speed, weight, etc... which would make the most difference in certain 
 tracks. I loved driving the truck because it was the hardest in push aside in the game. 
  
  It took me a lot of time to finish it, because it was challenging which i like but i wasnt addictive, 
 meaning that after i finished a race i turn off the PS3, and the only reason i have this game is 
 because it came with the amePS3.
  
  When i heard about the Motorstorm 2 and the new engine they are making. there is an 85 to 90 percent 
 i will buy that game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: scarletlvswayne
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 6, 2008 6:46 pm PT
Review:  This game for me is very exciting! When I first started playing it, I was really impressed with 
 the graphics for one. Even for the PS3, I was just floored at how perfect the graphics are here. 
 I mean, in the start of the game, when you watch the play scenes of the desert and race track, 
 it's just breathtaking how crystal clear, and real it is. The racing here is just plain fun and 
 totally exciting. I mean, for me, it really kept me on my toes! In every race, your just trying 
 EVERYTHING to get first place. This is definitely worth the time to play, and totally worth keeping 
 just for the pleasure of beating everyone you know online! LOL Very exciting! ~ I am trying to 
 think of something... anything that I didn't like in the game, but I just can't. This is one of 
 those kinds of games that you can play forever because it never gets old. It really is a challenge 
 to get to first place, but that's what makes this game so exciting. I also love how you can switch 
 from first-person to regular play. Sometimes it's easier to see when in first-person during a race. 
 I also loved the fact that if for some reason you get knocked off the track or crash, you start 
 back up in the race where you crashed from, so you still have a chance to win. I thought that was 
 an awesome addition to this game... So, HAPPY GAMING AND ENJOY THE RIDE! ~Scarlet 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rstankos
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 28, 2008 6:32 am PT
Review:  I love this game. My friends and I have spent many a session going after each other and had a lot 
 of fun doing it.
  
  The visuals and tracks are first rate! The add-ons are well worth the few dollars they cost, and 
 keep the excitement going! Online or solo, the races are challenging, and just plain fun. It is 
 worth noting here, that when you purchase or unlock additional vehicles, they are always available 
 to you online or offline. Additional tracj packs you buy, however, are only available for online 
 action, if everyone else owns them.
  
  I just can't give it a 10, because the online voice chat is hit or miss when it counts the most.! 
 Like when you're whooping your buddy soundly, and can't taunt him personally in real-time! Too 
 often this feature fails to work! Still, the outcome is apparent.
  
  Love it, and recommend you give it a try. There is still a demo version available on PSN, so give 
 it a try. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: naughtydogmania
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 23, 2008 10:11 am PT
Review:  Best car game I've ever played!
  As I usually do... the goods and the bads of motor storm:
  
  The good things:
  - Excellent graphics!
  - Awesome explosions!
  - Violent racing!
  
 - You can punch your opponents XD;
  - Great number of vehicles, including: rally cars, bikes, trucks, ATV, big rigs, mud plugers and 
 buggies;
  - You can taunt your enemies... (fun)
  - Great music, gives you the adrenaline to win the race!
  - Free game update! (for music and 
 other stuff)
  - download content from PSN: new tickets (races) , new vehicles, and other things!
  - MotorStorm 
 festival... it's an awesome idea (cool images behind the menu: car crashing, live music...) (see 
 rest in bad things)
  - 5 difficulties to distinguish the best players: levels 1, 2, 3, 4 and only one ticket (4 races 
 in this case) for Apocalypse!
  - Mixed vehicle races!
  - Great tracks! with awesome mud effects!
  - Amazing jumps!
  - Online:
  - many ranks;
  
 - it's totally different from the carrier mode because people are better and have a different st*le; 
 making it harder to win a race;
  
  Bad things:
  - NO MULTI PLAYER!!!! WT F? racing game without multi player? hope they make a FREE update to solve 
 that problem (this is the worst problem of motorstorm)
  - I don't think anyone talks.... besides people on online mode of course...
  - it could have 
 a story tho... like jak x for example...
  - The festival... it could have some other modes... like takedown mode were you have to knock out 
 your opponent... just saying... (plz don't beat me up!)
  
  I can't remember anything else right now... I'll update it later if I missed something... pay attention 
 to my blogs!
  
  This is your host: Naughtydogmania in a not that bad review :P lol 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PSWII60user
Rating: 7.5
Date: Feb 23, 2008 10:07 am PT
Review:  This game looks great, when it came out it had the best graphics on the market. Since then games 
 have come out with better graphics, but they are still great. the first few hours of this game 
 are a great experience; with a great selection of vehicles, maps. but again it gets old quick. 
 the maps get old, the vehicles get old. there really is no difference between them, you can win 
 with all of them (even later on in the game the first vehicle can still win) . lots of map packs 
 came out for this game, the only problem is that the game isn't fun enough for me to feel like 
 i have to download them. this game was a good start, there are still many flaws that need to be 
 worked out, and i feel that they will do that in the next game (which i look forward to) . OH and 
 another huge problem is no offline multiplayer, i mean are you kidding me, that should be done 
 way before online, i know thats the wave of the future, but people still like to kick their friends 
 butt at their house and online. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SAGERMANN
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 18, 2008 2:00 pm PT
Review:  I want to start off by saying that the PS3 if the first game console I have ever owned (crazy, 
 I know) , and I am very happy with my purchase. The Motorstorm game with the console and I am really 
 enjoying the game.
  
  The graphics are probably the best part of the game. All the courses are detailed and the cars 
 look amazing. You can really tell how detailed this game is when you are viewing the crash camera 
 where you get to see your collisions up close and in slow motion (best part of the game) .
  
  The gameplay is also really great. Like any other racing game, it takes a little while to get 
 used to the controls, but once you figure them out, it's all fun and games. The races at first 
 aren't to difficult, but once you advance to higher events, it becomes pretty hard.
  
  The music in this game is one of the weaker elements. There is a couple of good songs, (Women by 
 Wolfmother) , but other than that, they are really annoying. Having to listen to a singer repeat 
 a line over and over and over and over again gets really irritating.
  
  Overall, I really enjoyed this game and recommend it to any who likes racing or is looking to get 
 some practice for their G2 road test. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Cartman86
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 14, 2008 12:19 am PT
Review:  Motorstorm is a hard game to review. On one hand it's full of great graphics, and fun gameplay. 
 On the other it lacks features that many of us have come to expect in our racing games. Despite 
 this I still can find a lot to have fun with.
  
  Motorstorm is first and foremost an action game. It has some simulation elements, but for the most 
 part its a what-if game. What if you could take a huge semi truck race it against a small motorbike 
 in huge mud filled environments? Motorstorm answers this in what is probably the best aspect of 
 the game. The combination of bikes, ATVs, buggy's, trucks, rally cars, and semi's really adds a 
 layer of strategy and depth that no other racing game has. The tracks are littered with multiple 
 paths. Different vehicles run better on different paths. It's up to you to choose the best vehicle 
 for each path. The controls are tight and the wrecks are great.
  
  To help with all this chaos Motorstorm has sublime graphics. While at first glance they may not 
 seem too amazing after a run around the tracks you really get the sense of the tech behind the 
 game. You can see cars all the way off into the distance. The grooves in the dirt and mud created 
 by a dozen vehicles racing around is impressive, and the destruction of your vehicle is probably 
 the best seen on any console currently. The game runs at a very steady 30fps and hardly if ever 
 slows down. The only hickups occur on the main menu. For some reason the background video likes 
 to skip a lot. I suppose it could be my copy.
  
  Sound is good enough. I prefer to turn off the music so I can hear the crash effects and cars coming 
 up behind me. After awhile of playing however you will start to go crazy after hearing that same 
 turbo boost sound turning off and on.
  
  Where Motorstorm truly shines is online. Playing against really people and trash talking your foes 
 is what a game like this requires. It's amazing that all of this crazy action is completely lag 
 free. Sadly the online features are lacking which brings us to the problems with Motorstorm.
  
  Offline you have one mode. It's a race mode called "Festival Mode." It consists of multiple 
 races in which you are given a vehicle and track and have to race the AI to unlock more races and 
 vehicles. It's repetitive and gets old pretty quick. The problem is that every race is the same. 
 It's all a typical finishing first race. You can't even play a mode where you choose your own vehicle, 
 tack, number of laps, A. I opponent number etc. The lack of 2-player splitscreen is sad, but not 
 a huge letdown when compared to the lack of singleplayer modes and features. The saving grace of 
 online play even is lacking some basic features. The online lobby is terrible and the ranking system 
 is as bare boned as they get, and some small features like being able to see what car your opponents 
 have chosen is missing.
  
  Despite all of this Motorstorm is very fun. The graphics are amazing, gameplay is top-notch, and 
 the online play makes it all worthwhile. If you have a PS3 this is one of those games that should 
 be on your shelf.
  
  PROS
  + Amazing graphics and tech
  + Great fun gameplay
  + Great design on tracks
  + Online play is lag free and fun
  
  CONS
  - Complete lack of 
 single/multiplayer modes and features
  - Vehicle stats?
  - Vehicles take forever to load
  - Online Lobby is lacking
  - Where is that damn inside the car view!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mad_krips
Rating: 5.5
Date: Feb 12, 2008 4:08 pm PT
Review:  Got this with the PS3, never had anything else to play at the moment so naturally I pop this in 
 to check out the system's capabilities. Surely it has demonstrated to me the power that the Playstation 
 3 has and this has really captured me when just looking at it on my HDTV. But problem is it doesnt 
 go much beyond that. The racing is good, but in no way exciting. It just feels like you're racing 
 thru mud and jumping ramps to see yourself crash by accident at some point. The crashes are nice 
 to see, Burnout-esque, but only happens when you yourself crash. You cant even force someone into 
 a wall or anything to eliminate competition which I think would have me and many others playing 
 this game a lot longer. I try getting online but I have to download an update which never seems 
 to get to me before it disconnects me from the server.. I've given up on trying to get online because 
 I dont think it has anything more to offer anyway than the same ol' race. 
  Bottom line.. Unless you're a motor-head or have an insatiable lust for great graphics and technical 
 design then dont spend more than $20-30 on this. By the third hour into this you've seen and done 
 everything there is to do except watch a crash from another dimension. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: indzman
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 12, 2008 5:56 am PT
Review:  MOTORSTORM is awesome arcade racing game (exclusive to PS 3) from SCEA and Evolution studios . 
 This game lives upto its launch title fame .
  
  In MOTORSTORM you get to race in beautiful wastelands of monument valley , Arizona , canyons .You 
 get to ride different kinds of bikes , ATV's , buggies , rally cars , mudpulggers , big rigs , 
 trucks in the game .You have to come best 1st to 3rd in races ( win tickets , points) to progress 
 further in the game .You get boost option for fast speed but its timed , take advantage of the 
 boost control. The best thing in MOTORSTORM is you can finish laps by choosing your favourite routes 
 . You can take high ground to ramps to race ahead , example you can trick your way to win like 
 taking shortcuts , mowing down other opponents (if you happen to ride in trucks) , or race through 
 muds where others few dare if you ride in mudpluggers etc .But you will crash often slowing down 
 your progress , while others'll speed up by you if you happen to crash often . So first try to 
 get a general idea of the racing area , if you lose it dosen't matter as you get retry option .And 
 be careful of the boost option , if pressed to its fullest it will blow up your vechile sky high 
 so use it wisely . If you get stuck , simply press SELECT on your controlller to reset your vechile 
 .The racing events gets more challenging as you progress further in the game , but you will enjoy 
 losing or winning for the sake of the awesome fun racing game .You get various dangerous tracks 
 to race .
  
  
  MOTORSTORMS graphics / visuals rocks , its pure next gen and to get the real essence of its graphical 
 quality play the game on a HDTV .AI is very challenging and will outsmart you easily if you not 
 careful .The games soundquality rocks and ingame you get awesome heavy metal rock soundtracks from 
 Nirvana , Kings of Leon , Queens of the stone age , slipknot , primal scream etc .
  
  Its multiplayer is awesome .You can create your own server or simply join a server to play .
 
  
  I recommend this game highly to my PS 3 freinds , its a must have racing game for PS 3 . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: carl_may_cry
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 23, 2008 11:41 am PT
Review:  
  This game is really good. the graphics are great, the gameplay is very good, and the single-player 
 story mode is lots of fun. This game is lots of fun because you may choose from bikes to big rigs 
 and there are lots of models of vehicules and colours. 
  
  The only flaw is that there aren't any offline multiplayer which is really too bad because it would 
 of made the game a lot better. But the online multiplayer makes it balanced out, I guess. 
  
  There are a lot of courses which makes it really long and fun to play. This game is kind of 
 realistic 'cause you have a boost and when you use it to the max, the vehicule explodes and there 
 a big slow-motion video (only when you are on a bike or atv ) that you see the guy fall and crack 
 a bone or a neck... (awesome) . And it also happens when you have an accident. 
  
  I think this is enough to make you buy it or rent it.
  
  
  sincerely,
  
  Carl Maycry 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lo_Rising
Rating: 7
Date: Feb 17, 2008 2:04 pm PT
Review:  I have to say that i am pleased with the way Motorstorm looks, the graphics are some of the best 
 that i have seen in a racer of this type. The game itself is really mediocre, not really any depth, 
 and can get quite boring after a 30 minute session. This game was supposed to show what the PS3 
 can do graphically and it does a great job of that as a launch title but, over the course of time 
 it starts to look dated compared to newer games. The gameplay is only fun in 15 minute spurts, 
 if you are looking for something more then I suggest you wait for the Gran Turismo game to be released. 
 This game now comes free when you purchase the 80 GB system. If you happen to buy a system that 
 does not have this game as a pack in, please rent it first before you just go and buy it. In conclusion, 
 while its graphics are superb when compared to launch titles on any next gen system, this game 
 is lacking in the depth department and at sustaining a high fun level for more than 30 minutes. 
 Thanks! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cyborgplatypus
Rating: 3.5
Date: Feb 6, 2008 3:38 pm PT
Review:  Oh joy!!! Shiny cars get muddy! Great! Wow, look at those graphics! Fancy! Wait... wait a minute, 
 I thought I just played this track. God, is this all that that you do?! Sweet crackers this game 
 isn't worth the plastic it's burned on!" I'm sorry I have to rip on this game so hard, wait a minute, 
 no I'm not. Why couldn't I have gotten heavenly sword with my Playstation? My guess is they had 
 to give you this game with the system or no one would have bought it. The graphics and sounds are 
 of course quite impressive. What really rubs me is the mindless game play. I felt like a hamster 
 on a wheel. Why would they force you to play a track over and over again? Maybe if I had the attention 
 span of a goldfish, maybe then I'd really understand why they can pass this off as entertaining. 
 It isn't as though the tracks are anything close to being complex either. On top of that, why do 
 we need another off road game? It's not as though there's anything innovative about this one. To 
 me it feels like they combined atv offroad with some form of burnout. That ain't exactly peanut 
 butter and jelly in my book. Do what I did and send your copy to GITMO, they'll make better use 
 out of it than you ever will. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: EXxile
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 4, 2008 5:33 pm PT
Review:  Motorstom is a great racing title. It not only looks beautiful, but it also lets you get alot more 
 aggressive than any other racing title out there asides from Burnout. 
  
  THE GRAPHICS are a site to see. Never before has dirt being kicked up into your face seemed so 
 beautiful. Its simply eye candy that never ceases to amaze me. Just seeing the well done car models 
 plow through these dirt terrains looks awesome.
  
  THE GAMEPLAY is frantic. Take this; your a guy on an ATV racing dudes in buggies, rally cars and 
 even rigs. How the hell would you feel? Brave and ambitious. You get that sense of outrunning these 
 fools everytime you race and even feel as if these guys are intending to knock you off that cliff 
 or slam you into that boulder to see you crash. 
  
  THE SOUND is top notch and done extremely well. Great music is added to keep your adrenalin pumped 
 and all the cars sound authentic.
  
  THE LIFESPAN in the game is where this falls short. Now you can take this game online and battle 
 it out with other racers ready to taste dirt however where the hell is the local multiplayer? Why 
 can't I enjoy this game with my girlfriend who is sitting right beside me? Add in a lack of different 
 looking environments as well as only a slew of tracks that make this a game that can easily start 
 becoming somewhat tiresome. Not only that but you are left with a somewhat lackluster single player 
 that not only gets old but also a bit frustrating at times due to the pushy A. I..
  
  All in all, Motorstorm is a game that really is an ambitious dirt racer. Its very fun, frantic, 
 and gorgeous. And if you are into racing period, you definately should try this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mpg
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 4, 2008 3:36 pm PT
Review:  Just love the visuals and the way everything comes together nicely. This game has so much potential 
 for a sequel. It takes off road racing to a different level. I would love to see it as a simulation 
 with a career mode and the an option for arcade with the beat em up style of the current game. 
 I have not missed nary a night since I have purchased my ps3. Is beautiful and is first gen for 
 this system. Can you only imagine what the next iteration of this game will bring to the table. 
 Sony has made a wise choice with this and I am pleased to have purchased the game without any reservations. 
 Go and get it now. I give a 9 out of 10 rating. Playability 9, graphics 9, replay 8, cons no career 
 mode. Just excellent overall. All ps3 owners should give it at least a rental. Its just plain old 
 good fun, something that has been missing from many games. I would recommend this game to all. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BullOfRage
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 1, 2008 10:11 pm PT
Review:  Motorstorm is a great game, it has everything you want and need in a racing game, excellent graphics, 
 cool cars, awsome music, big jumps, cool crashes, and large, unforgiving tracks. Motorstorm is 
 the best PS3 game i have played, i just can't get over the graphics the mud and dirt flying everywhere 
 looks phenomenal, and i absoulutly love the soundtrack. There is however one thing that lets this 
 game down and that is that in the later levels all the other cars and bikes on the track don't 
 want to win anymore, all they try to do is kill you, they will use all of their boost to get in 
 front of you and then for some stupid reason brake right in front of you, which gives you **** 
 loads of road rage. despite the extreme anger you can get from this game sometimes this game is 
 friggen sweet. Recommended if you have have a PS3, even if you don't like racing games this one 
 is fun 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sharvie
Rating: 8
Date: Jun 21, 2008 3:15 pm PT
Review:  There is no doubt that Evolution Studios has crafted one of the most visually appealing experiences 
 that PS3 owners will enjoy since the system's launch. The game features persistent terrain details: 
 tyres ripping through mud will leave dents and ribs that will remain for the duration of the race, 
 while the collision of vehicles will leave scattered debris. The game truly is a graphical array 
 of photographic textures; sublime cars sprayed with mud and skidding and grinding through races, 
 and the way mud splatters onto your first- or third-person view all enhance the overall experience.
 
  
  What is disappointing about MotorStorm is its shallow singleplayer mode. Not only does it have 
 very little volume, but it is paper thin. The basic idea of the game is high octane racing on a 
 total of 8 tracks to beat your opponents. However's across a race's three laps, you'll struggle 
 to remain in first place the whole way through, but the challenge is trying to find the balance 
 of driving well and finding the right route to take. If you find yourself at the back of the pack, 
 navigating among the perilous and often heightened path to a better route may get you level. The 
 move is risky but it is extremely rewarding if it is done successfully.
  
  MotorStorm also features an impressive soundtrack which is suited perfectly for such a crazy racing 
 game. The fast paced music helps to really get you into the game in such a way that will have your 
 heart racing from the start to the finish of the race. The sound effects are also top notch. Engines 
 roar with such ferocity like they are right beside you. The crashes and collisions also sound terrifyingly 
 real and you really feel the impact of two or more crashing cars.
  
  What can be particularly frustrating about the game is the AI unforgiving aggressive behaviour. 
 Your opponents will bash you around quite a bit and if you collide with something, the respawn 
 feature will rob you of speed which will allow opponents to pass you. This may not be a problem 
 for the majority of gamers, but for casual gamers it can be very frustrating when you're in the 
 lead.
  
  Races are also a very frustrating experience at times. Vehicles can go flying at even the slightest 
 bump, particularly with lighter vehicles which may plague you with failures and constant race restarts. 
 You shouldn't be put off by the relative simplicity of the tracks and modes, nor the general slower 
 pace as MotorStorm's use of physics and technical racing is a spectacle to behold.
  
  MotorStorm is also not a party game when friends are round, especially since it doesn't have split-screen 
 multiplayer. The game does have a pretty good multiplayer mode though, with twelve players able 
 to rave at any one time. The multiplayer is an add-on to a short singleplayer, but it is a fun 
 experience to play with little lag and what seems to be a fairly populous online community.
  
  In conclusion MotorStorm's unpredictable nature is vivid in single-player mode and the online 
 gaming community is downright vicious. Despite its lack of content, MotorStorm offers spectacular 
 visuals, sound and an experience that will thrill you to the very bone. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Star_Wars117
Rating: 7
Date: Feb 3, 2008 11:45 am PT
Review:  Story: Your a dirt racer. Lets Race.
  
  Missions: Race through the random dirt tracks using lots of diffrent cars
  
  Controls: PS3 
 Sixaxis can be used as a sterring wheel. Overall good controls.
  
  Features: Sixaxis support, lots of cars, good graphics
  
  A. I.: Smart. Very hard to race.
  
 
  Loading Times: inbetween races. Not to long 15 seconds or so.
  
  Graphics: Great graphics. Could be better on the PS3
  
  Audio: Great. The cars rumbling of 
 the engine sounds great. good music
  
  Multiplayer: online/splitscreen raceing
  
  Requirements: A  Sense.
  
  The Good: Good racing game 
 that last for a short time.
  
  The Bad: Graphics
  
  The Ugly: Some Of the cars look stupid.
  
  Replay Ability: lots. play on every mode and unlock 
 all cars
  
  The Bottom Line: A good racing game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sony-PS3-fan89
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 26, 2008 3:57 am PT
Review:  Motorstorm Is a great game , the tracks ar pretty good (There really hard) The vehicles looks good 
 but its really short.
  
  1st Tracks ar awsome the blow/destruction scene ar the most fantastic parts of the game. The game 
 isnt so easy what so ever , but it should keep u long cause the game is hard, But if ur an expert 
 of driving racing u will beat the **** ov it in no time.
  
  2nd No ofline mod thats kind ov strange, but the game itself isnt so bad. the sound track gets 
 som times annoyingbut som songs ar cool other ar just annoyence.
  
  alsoEnjoyment is plentiful and visuals are superb, even if it is held back by its lack of depth 
 - 7.5
  
  + Awesome graphics
  + Great crashes
  + Decent online
  - No offline multiplayer
  - Lacks depth 
  
  
  Overall Motorstorm is a good game with some 
 good gameplay but a bit a short campain. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: andyplatinum
Rating: 7.5
Date: Feb 10, 2008 6:44 am PT
Review:  PS3 had quite a powerful collection of launch titles, and probably the most praised one was Motorstorm. 
 PS3 owners were promised awesome gameplay, great graphics, amazing detail, good online, and thats 
 exactly what they got. Just not enough of it. Motorstorm does have fun and realistic gameplay. 
 Controls are simple to use and races and locations are all spot-on. Visuals are just as good aswell. 
 the amount of detail put into scenery and cars is phenomenal. most impressive are probably the 
 crashes though which are actually enjoying to watch. Online play is also very fun, all the tracks 
 are included and an online status tis given ranging from 'Zero' to 'God'. So what is wrong with 
 this game you may ask? Well what you see is what you get, and its all you get. there is no offline 
 multiplayer and there isn't much variety at all. This game would probably work the best as an arcade 
 game or a PSN download like Warhawk. Enjoyment is plentiful and visuals are superb, even if it 
 is held back by its lack of depth - 7.5
  
  + Awesome graphics
  + Great crashes
  + Decent online
  - No offline multiplayer
  - Lacks depth 
::::::

::::::
UserName: playmemike01
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jan 21, 2008 12:48 pm PT
Review:  One of two games I bought with my PS3, and at the time of release, it was the second best game 
 to Resistance: Fall of Man. For a launch title it provideds the excitement, looks and thrills that 
 it should make you want the console in the first place, which Motorstorm does. 
  
  Firstly, it is a great looker. Its like a mudpack on some top model's face. The mud oozes and squelches 
 as you slide your way through it within the bustling comotion of the heard of metallic monstrous 
 racers. landscapes span for miles, and for a racing game, highly impressive. Dirt kicks up and 
 dust flies and when you crash all your bits dart off in a flurry of glorious destruction. It makes 
 Burnout look like Paris Hilton's chiuaua. 
  
  Competitors are agressive and make you feel genuinely worried and concered about racing by applying 
 pressure and dirty tactics. Bikers can get knocked off their rides with the gentil shove of your 
 three ton lorry and run over by ur massive wheels. Nice. Everything acts realistically, or as real 
 as you believe it too and the atmosphere is fantastic.
  
  There are a good number of tracks, with more downloadable from the Network at bargain prices. Favourite 
 being Rain God Mesa, which is truly a staggering spectacle. It is also the best track to demonstrate 
 Motorstorm, it has mud, dust, ramps, jumps, corners and breakable scenary. 
  
  There are seven or eight classes of vehicles, each with their own strengths and weaknesses and 
 routes on the track. Smaller vehicles are generally nippier, like the bikes and buggies, the rally 
 cars are the fastest but are highly vaulenrable and liable to get crushed. On the other end of 
 the vehicle-size-o-meter there is the trucks and big rigs, which are weighty and slow but powerful 
 enough to knock you stone cold. It all does become a bit tactical when choosing your vehicle, but 
 it's balanced enough that no vehicle is the best at every track. 
  
  Unfortunately, after the great deal of momentum Motorstorm builds up, it tragically falls short. 
 The lack of modes for a start. No free play mode, like just into a race for the hell of it. You 
 either have to do it in the Career Option or Time Trial or newly added Eliminator. There is no 
 mode, like Arcade Mode, that is there for you to just race for the fun of it, and to be honest 
 I think this is what this game is purely about.
  
  The decision not to include this leaves you almost clueless in some races to where you're going 
 and what are the best routes to take, also it doesn; t give you the chance to experiment with different 
 vehicles that aren't pre-set on Career.
  
  The online mode is great, nice and easy to set up and arrange a game, does take a while though, 
 and there is the tiniest notible dah of lag, but nothing life-ruining. You are free to choose from 
 all the tracks and vehicles and you're ranking is displayed to the entire world. However, this 
 is the only way you will be able to play your mates on Motorstorm as it lacks any fully fledged 
 Split Screen Racing, which is quite frankly, a poor show. Criminal almost.
  Motorstorm seems to think this can be recovered through the downloadable Time Trial Mode and Eliminator, 
 which you have to have an obvious net connection for, still though they don't make up at all for 
 what could have been. So if you're not online, then your just stuck with Career. 1 mode. Fun.
 
  
  Time Trial does give you the oppertunity to test out tracks but apart from that it is no substitute 
 for Muliplayer Offline.
  
  However, Motorstorm is fantastically playable, and excitingly frantic with extravagent visuals 
 and a brilliant roster of vehicles and tracks though feeling a little lacking. It's a bit of a 
 donkey and carrot experience. It dangles what could have been in front of you but you never quite 
 get it. If you get what I mean. Motorstorm 2 maybe? Yes please. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: snake_peacher
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 20, 2008 4:30 pm PT
Review:  This game is really fun but only for a while.
  it's a good racing game because it combines all kinds of vehicles and put them all together in 
 a series of OFFRoad Races.
  the things that i "capture" from the game are the lighting effects, ( when going up on a hill and 
 the sun comes up is very realistic) , the diversity of the tracks, the diferent roads to take, the 
 action and the adrenaline when you are driving a simple bike while being chased by a HUGE Rig. 
 i also like the efects when your driver falls into the mud. and the physics
  for example i was riding an atv and behind me a car exploted. i was in mid-air and a part of the 
 car went flying in the air and got stuck in my driver seat (the driver is standing while in air) 
 and the weight of the car part made my atv fall down and that caused my crash.
  there are a couple of things that i dont like... and they are:
  Not being able to do some stunts 
 on the bikes or ATV's
  Many of the races are in the same tracks.
  when your driving a car or any vehicle not being an atv or a bike, your driver cannot fall of from 
 it.
  i dont like the Audience ( when you are racing you can see peapole standing on the mountains) they 
 look like cardbord peapole.
  
  any way its a good OffRoad racing game with Big amount of adrenaline and action.
  
  if you 
 like racing games with a touch of action you should buy this one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lil_common6
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 20, 2008 10:32 am PT
Review:  this game was the third game i got on ps3 and at first i thought it was absoloutley brilliant but 
 after about ten races i noticed that i seemed to keep doins the same track i did the day before 
 so after about three to four weeks i was bored stiff with the game. but as soon as i heard you 
 could start buying tracks on the playstation store i saw a route back into one of my favourite 
 games. the other thing i like about the game is the amount of routes on each track. at least two 
 to three. so this game is bril but only for a while. beats every other racing game i've played 
 in the last year. i strongly  
 mx V untamed comes out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DI_666
Rating: 7
Date: Jan 9, 2008 4:01 pm PT
Review:  Okay, lots of people have no doubt heard of Motorstorm for the PS3 by now, and here is my review 
 of it
  
  The first thing you will notice are the graphics in the game. The visuals are absolutely beautiful, 
 all the backgrounds look almost photo realistic, and the foregrounds look absolutely Marvelous. 
 But they are nothing compared to the cars in the game. The vehicles are so gorgeously detailed 
 that it's stunning to look at them, and when they crash, hundreds of little pieces of it go flying 
 everywhere. 
  
  The inevitable next thing you will notice is the AI. The difficulty of this game is SADISTIC. I 
 don't think I've ever had so much of a challenge in a racing game before. All of your opponents 
 truly want to win, and they will happily run you off the track, or crash into you, or push you 
 into a rock. This game is HARD! 
  
  Now for tracks. There are only 8 tracks in the game, but as said before, they are stunningly beautiful. 
 Also, with the Playstation store, there will probably be free downloadable levels.
  
  And finally, online play. Motorstorm has a very fun online mode, it works like most racing titles 
 you see that play online, and you can choose what track you want, what time of day, what kind of 
 car you want, etc. 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: ghost_dtpt
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 8, 2008 8:16 am PT
Review:  Motorstorm is a must have for all ps3 owners. 
  The graphics are brilliant and the dynamics envolving the vehicles reaction to the terrain, colisions, 
 etc are really great, showing some of the potencial of the ps3. 
  The sound and music are great. 
  I would love to have a kph on screen, maybe on ms2.
  The computer 
 AI is evil, they will smash you whenever they can, sometimes is really annoying :)
  I hate the fact that there is no offline multiplayer option. I'd already playing a little online, 
 and it works with no problem. I would expect more tracks, just 8 tracks. The good thing is that 
 almost all tracks have multiple paths to choose from, depending on the vehicle you use.
  
  What I loved:
  Dynamic and effects.
  Inside view for 200% adrenaline driving
  
  What I 
 hated:
  No offline multiplayer
  Few tracks 
::::::

::::::
UserName: unreal1212
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 6, 2008 8:22 am PT
Review:  This is my second game I've played for the PS3. ( first is RB see my review) .
  
  It came with my PS3 but I was so exicted about RB that I played that first. :)
  
  On the Positive 
 Side:
  - Pretty graphics!!
  - fun to crash people ( and be crashed)
  - can play as a number of vehicles
  - you can get it free with PS3
  - online play
  
  On 
 the negtitve side:
  -online play but you can't play with the person next to you
  - the AI doesn't really want to win they want to crash you
  -not the best racing game ever
 
  
  Like I said above it's not the best racing games ever but if it's free with the PS3 and you are 
 not paying $50 for it then it's worth it.
  
  an 8................... out of 10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: weddlecm
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 5, 2008 9:09 pm PT
Review:  Agh, another racing game. I bought the eighty gig Play Station Three and this game came with it. 
 I really have never head of it, but I thought it was a pretty cool game. The first thing that cought 
 my eye of course was the graphics, simply amazing. Almost every detail is put into great "detail". 
 Anyways this game doesn't really have much of a career but it's still a fun party game. It does 
 though have a great soundtrack and a lot of cool vehicles you can choose from. And throughout the 
 game you unlock different cars, bikes, tracks, and lots of other stuff you find in car games. Anyways 
 if you are new to the Ps3 you should definetly consider this game for some fun time with your friends. 
 You might thing it might be boring at first but you will seriously be hooked on it. And if not 
 you can always take it to ebay games for money or something. I would definetly also recamend this 
 game to any audience. 8/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JeffNipples
Rating: 4.5
Date: Jan 3, 2008 10:50 am PT
Review:  Here I was expecting a pretty good racing game when really all I got was some half ass game with 
 great graphics but a lackluster of anything else. As many reviews state this game only has 8 tracks, 
 no at home multi player (only online) and even though online is fun if you have a friend over you 
 don't even have the option of playing the game with them. 
  
  To me I don't like how once you learn where the vehicle you pick works best on every track you 
 pretty much are gonna win.... thats the problem though, it doesn't have a lot to do with skill, 
 your first time around the track is more of just a crap shoot guess. You gotta have patience and 
 play the tracks over a few times at least to learn the best way for each type of vehicle and once 
 you know it pretty much you're always going to keep taking that path and keep winning. Before you 
 memorize the best paths though its just a random guessing game until you figure it out which means 
 a lot of replying the same race over and over. As far as single player it has no replay value once 
 you beat it in my opinion.
  
  The strong points of the game obviously are the 12 player online multi player and the graphics... but 
 as I have stated many times before I can't be sold on a game just for graphics when the game itself 
 reeks like garbage! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: oumir
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 31, 2007 4:57 pm PT
Review:  many thing would have this become a great game like a least having two player and online two player. 
 also some if the matches are miss matched and makes it hard. the game is fun, but not that fun. 
 it's a better rent than anything, but getting it for free so much better than buying it or renting 
 it. the go side to the game that it a good first game and that you can get it for free, but that 
 also means you have to buy a ps3. anyway is has a good sound track and some good maps. so in the 
 long run it's a fair game worth playing it at least ones. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kakashi_Itachi7
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 31, 2007 10:17 am PT
Review:  Motorstorn is a game that is different but different in a really good way. it's a really good game 
 that you will have fun playing your way throw the single player story line is kind of sloppy and 
 not that good, but the online makes just for it, the online is great and is a whole lot of fun 
 but there is not any offline multiplayer with that said the graphics and sound in the game is fantastic, 
 the visuals of the explosions are really good when you crash the game slows down and you see your 
 car flying throw the air if you are like me your probably going to crash in purpose, now the sound 
 in this game is great like the sound when you crash while turning the sound is almost perfect, 
 the sound tracks are also really good. So if you have a PS3 and you like resing games or any kind 
 of games you should really check this game out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DonHamoodi
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 28, 2007 10:22 am PT
Review:  Motorstorm has to be one of the best racers I played in a long time! This game is so fun and it 
 has everything you want to see and experience in racing game, such as: A vast selection of cars, 
 lots of modes (there are kool downloadable modes as well from the playstation 3 network - some 
 are free and some are not) , and full car destruction! I think that gamespot had underrated this 
 game, frankly because it has no "offline multiplayer mode" which is not a major concern for me!! 
 If you still haven't bought this game, buy it!! Don't rent it because you will end up wasting your 
 money, by renting then buying the game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: filiwian
Rating: 7.5
Date: Dec 27, 2007 11:29 am PT
Review:  A game that will make you think if this was really worth the 60 bucks. Motorstorm includes vehicles 
 of all types that ranges from atvs to mud pluggers and has various amounts of vehicles to unlock 
 along with new tickets that gain you access to new races. Game gets a little repetetive when you 
 find yourself playing the same tracks over and over again. The vehicles tend to just explode too 
 easily even when you're going at an average speed.
  The game has some interesting songs to offer like Woman from Wolfmother and many more. It includes 
 online play which is fun to play. Other than the fact that it's get repetetive it's worth it if 
 you were to get the 80 gig ps3 which comes with it ($500) . So if you're thinking of getting this 
 game consider what you like in a racing game from lots of crashing or what the game has to offer 
 with its off-road racing vehicles. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: A3trix
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 26, 2007 8:11 pm PT
Review:  Despite its tough critics and repetitive gameplay, Motorstorm proves to be a true winner in the 
 form of a PS3 starter. I bought the 80gb PS3 bundled with this game and it is definetly all you 
 need to get started on the Blu-Ray powerhouse. I'm not really a racing gamer, more of a FPS guy, 
 but this definetly makes me want to see more of what the PS3 has to offer. The story, has no cutscenes, 
 no talking... absolutly nothing, which is kind of a let down and some of the venues can resemble 
 each other very closely, but with its many racing vehicles like trucks, cars, semi-trucks, ATVS, 
 dirt bikes, and much more... All of which keep you occupied for quite a while, ITS GREAT!. The 
 racing is pretty good overall, and all of the turbos and ways to blow up make you want to go off 
 looking for ways to die (especially when your losing) . Crammed altogether with a surprisingly "more 
 fun" online experience this game in my eyes is no more then a starter. If your a die hard racing 
 gamer i'd consider picking this up, or if you buy a 40gb and are looking to get a long lasting 
 action game... you'd be better off with Resistance. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Harsadi
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 25, 2007 4:05 pm PT
Review:  
  Motorstorm has beautiful graphics, animation, soundtrack, vehicles which all boils down to a trully 
 exhilirating racing experience, but unfortunately there aren't many track variations to race on 
 and few modes of play. This game is all about racing and doing whatever it takes to win it even 
 if it means playing dirty and thats about it. There are no other modes of play besides online and 
 if you decide to download the time trials mode, but that does not give the same satisfaction as 
 racing with other people or the computer. The music selection really made this game what it is. 
 It gave the gave the game its identity and the feeling of extreme competitions while racing with 
 the different types of vehicles there are seven to choose from and they all are a gem and you can 
 even go online and purchase more vehicles to add to your original lineup and two extra tracks that 
 was not included in the game. If you really love this game then it is worth it to make upgrades 
 on the Playstation Store. The biggest letdown is the limited number of race courses you can compete 
 on. They are all very beautiful tracks but should've had more of them I think think in the future 
 the developers will fix this problem to make a sequel top the first Motorstorm. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheMach_5
Rating: 6.5
Date: Dec 22, 2007 5:57 am PT
Review:  You start out on level one with an anything race, which you can use any vehicle in, which was fun. 
 after that you have a bunch of races with specified vehicle types, which wasn't that bad, but I 
 didn't really like having to use certain vehicles on certain tracks, because they were obviously 
 not made for the course; for example: using a rally car in mudpool, which is basically a pool of 
 mud, and the Rally cars just bog down in the mud, so it makes it really frustrating, when big rigs 
 and mud pluggers go flying by. 
  
  After you complete level one you go on to level two which is a little bigger and a little harder, 
 but basically it's the same thing, just with different combonations of vehicles and courses. Then 
 you continue you through the levels and up to level four, which is actually quite hard, and at 
 this point your bored out of your mind because you've done this about a million times, and don't 
 feel like redoing a race to beat it, so I just gave up on it and played demos instead which were 
 a lot more fun.
  
  i would recommend to not get this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dawsonboy07
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 20, 2007 5:09 pm PT
Review:  Motorstorm was one of the first exclusive PS3 Games as it was released at the same time as the 
 PS3. I personally was not going to get this game as i absolutely hate racing games but got it anyway 
 as i had to choose three games and there was not much else that was out that looked good at the 
 time. Oh Boy.... Im glad I chose this game! I was addicted to the game as soon as i first played 
 it. The visuals and graphics are absolutely stunning i must say and the open spaced tracks are 
 also another great point in the game. Yes, the single player campaign is quite lacking and has 
 no real story or point to it but it is great to try out selected vehicles on courses that do not 
 suit their turf at all! I was pretty upset to find out their was no offline multiplayer but the 
 online multiplayer does make up for that. Its easy to find or join any lobbies and enter a race 
 and the connection is very smooth and does not lag at all. 
  
  All the FIFA games usually have the best songs and soundtracks but Motorstorms soundtracks are 
 immense! Nearly all the songs get stuck in your head and they really seem to have an effect on 
 your racing lol!
  I recomend this game to both Racing Fans and Non Racing Fans ( Like Me ) as it is a new a crazy 
 experience.
  I must warn you though, if you are a very impatient person you might throw your TV or your PS3 
 out your window as this game requires a lot of patience as you seem to constantly keep crashing 
 and respawning lol.
  Other than that.... GET THIS GAME NOW!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mrnoxxville
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 20, 2007 5:03 pm PT
Review:  Great graphics, good physics, and the endless fun of watching your rider fly through the air. This 
 game gets dissed far too often, yet provides a pretty solid off-road experience. For a launch title 
 (and a bundled game in some instances) , this game is great.
  
  Pros: Fairly easy to pick up and play, nice tracks, good music, fun with friends online, Time Attack 
 mode great for clans who like to compete with each other.
  
  Cons: Limited track set (although DLC is making it better) , and limited vehicle options (same DLC 
 note) . Weak lobby system. There have also been some pretty annoying collision detection issues, 
 but these have been largely addressed with updates.
  
  Overall: After owning this game for months, I still pop it in every now and again to run some time 
 attacks to try and knock clan mates out.. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: totalgame78
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 20, 2007 10:29 am PT
Review:  motorstorm is a hardcore offroad racing game. with superb graphic and amazing racing realism it 
 is quite hard not to love motorstorm. when racing you can do a variety of things on your motor 
 bike/car including making amazing freestyle jumps of cliff edges, taunting fellow racing opponents 
 and crashing your vehicle in the most amazing ways (lol!) it is highly realistic as the tiniest 
 stone scrating your bike or specks of mud appear on your bike/car. even the mud flicked up appears 
 on the camera for extra wow! my overall opinion of 
 
  
  .................... A PS3 MUST HAVE! 
  
  note: motoratorm takes a while to master turning without going out of control ( on the subject of 
 control, if u want u can turn the six-axis on to enable you to turn with motion sensitive technique) 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: akiwak
Rating: 4
Date: Dec 16, 2007 6:25 pm PT
Review:  I would never have bought this game but it came with the PS3 when I got it. The only driving game 
 I bought was Burnout 3 and if I do buy another racer it will be in the Burnout series. Lets get 
 on with the review.
  The first bad thing about this game is that it only has about six tracks and you have to spend 
 all your time just driving these same 6 tracks but in different vehicles to make it more Challenging? 
 Some tracks have have 2 options as far as route goes whether you want mud or dirt. Depending on 
 vehicle choice it makes sense to learn them both.
  The next ugly part about this game is getting stuck on different parts of the track. IN some places 
 if you get touched by another car you will loose control and wind up head first into a boulder 
 or wall. If you are lucky your car crashes and you are just reset and set in the middle of the 
 track and possibly back just so you can try that stupid turn one more time. There will be several 
 times when you just get stuck and your car wont reverse or go forward. If the other racers do the 
 same they are just reset but you your stuck. Other frustrations are when you take a turn too fast 
 or hit a bump that your car flips and you are left like a turtle on its back. The same goes for 
 the side, instead of blowing up or getting reset sometimes you are left on your side or your back 
 while the other racers just pass you by. If you are lucky, one will crash into you and blow you 
 up or set you back on your tires. Most of the time no!
  The game gets very frustrating also when you are up against different vehicle class and are getting 
 smoked. Ex: Big rig passing you up on flat dirt road when you are in a much lighter rally car. 
 I could understand in the mud because of course the big rig will get more traction.
  If you are thinking of purchasing this game save your money for other racers. Grand Turismo 5 possibly 
 or Burnout Paradise might be good bets. If you still want to purchase the game rent it first or 
 i will let you borrow my copy so you wont be sorry. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Morlune
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 16, 2007 6:53 am PT
Review:  For a while now I have been missing a game like MotorStorm. To me it seems that nowadays it is 
 all about being realistic, and no time for pure fun. MotorStorm is a break from this trend and 
 is a reminder of the fact that gaming is about having fun. Nothing more, nothing less. Beeing able 
 to race against a motorcycle with big rig (or vice versa) and actually winning is fun. Driving 
 the same tracks over and over again to find the perfect route for the car you are driving is fun. 
 And then testing your skills against other racers is fun. Everything about this game is fun.
  
  Still I am missing some more tracks, because there are only 8 of them (and a few more are available 
 for downloading at the PS-store) . This just ain't enough, and a few of the tracks are a bit short 
 as well, while others just doesn't have enough options for any car to win. Especially when it comes 
 to the big rig and mud plugger.
  
  I'm giving this game a score of 8,5 out of 10. The graphics are great, the sound is great, the 
 gameplay is SUPERB, but the value is.. well... it just isn't enough tracks to keep you going for 
 hours and hours and hours. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: skeeter1255
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 15, 2007 8:40 pm PT
Review:  There are some aspects of the game that are appealing good while others are just ehh... to start 
 off the game has a good potentiol of being a great racer!!! 1 it has no unlockables so its just 
 race and keep racing and mostyl all vehiles dont have many advatages. the motorcycles controlls 
 are really off and its a tad hrd to controll especially in the mud now for the game itself it does 
 have its fun factors and WOW!! moments but nothing to really hook you up for a long time. Now comes 
 the multiplayer, heres where the game shines more. the rooms are easy to get into plus it makes 
 the compettion harder. But i have to say that it does not have that bad of AI for the racers no 
 where to go and if u take a bad turn they wont take it. as the end of it i wont buy this game for 
 60 yet maybe 30 or a rental do to the fact that its and arcade racer plus has no unlockes makeing 
 the game harder to keep playing noing that all you get in the end is a next timet race!!! also 
 the sound is horrible all you here is the music rather then the sound of the cars themselves 
::::::

::::::
UserName: OnlyCommonSense
Rating: 6
Date: Dec 10, 2007 5:04 am PT
Review:  It's a bit worrying when a racing game comes out where the vehicle of choice, that used by the 
 hardcore race fan, is a truck.
  There is only one place for trucks in racing transporting the cars and bikes to the track.
  
 Here, it's not only an option to race, but easily the best one to use.
  And that sums up what's wrong with Motorstorm.
  Ignoring the lack of options that you'd expect 
 to find in a racing game, ignoring the boost cheat that means if you tap away at the boost button 
 it'll never overheat or explode, ignore the fact that the game looks very little like the CGI preview 
 shots even ignoring the fact that as with Resistance the game is predominantly brown the fact 
 that the best vehicle to drive is a bloody truck sucks.
  Motorstorm also sees the return of something that should have been made extinct long long ago in 
 racers, something that certainly shouldn't be tolerated considering the supposed "Power of the 
 Cell" elastic band AI.
  You can drive the perfect race, never putting a wheel out of place, make one small error on the 
 final bend and wham you finish fourth, because everyone behind you has also driven the perfect 
 race and all the inferior vehicles behind you that should have been over half a lap down because 
 they aren't good enough to compete, have managed somehow to keep up with you.
  And these problems ruin what could have been a good game.
  But its not.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Themanzjii
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 8, 2007 9:41 am PT
Review:  Yes indeed.. Motorstorm delivers the ultimate offroad racing to you....
  
  Why is this game better than any other? Well it's graphics are awesome. It runs at 720p in HD but 
 it still makes it look as real as it gets! The variety of vehicles is one of the best features 
 of the game... Riding with ATV's, bikes, rally cars or any vehicle presented is totally different! 
 Some slide more in the mud, some can fly over canyons and believe me, they all crash and burn.
 
  
  The crashes are one of the games qualities that really stand out. With highly detailed cars and 
 trucks crashing and burning around you, Motorstorm makes you feel like you are really driving in 
 the canyons and deserts and there is no better feel than to run over a bike with your huge truck 
 :P
  
  If you have a PS3 and don't have Motorstorm in your collection.... What are you waiting to go get 
 it ? One of the best games for PS3 that can keep entertaining you for hours. 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: pspholder
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 8, 2007 7:25 am PT
Review:  this is a great game it has all the stuff you need to enjoy a nice race there is allot of stuff 
 that you can do in this game but there is one thing missing and that is multi player this game 
 has no multi player but still it is a fun racing game that you should get i got mine with my 80 
 gb ps3 also this game dosent really have a story mode in it but still there are these tickets that 
 you can get to unlock other races. online for this game is allot of fun as well you play online 
 upt to 16 players at once so ya that pretty fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: brain_slug
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 7, 2007 9:32 am PT
Review:  MotorStorm provides a racing experience like no other by emphasising an aggressive play style and 
 shoving in vehicles that just weren't built to collide in the mud.
  
  You can sense this game is different straight away when you dive into the action, as you will notice 
 the classes of vehicles you can pick from. For your first race, you aren't restricted to a race 
 type, so you can choose to ride on a Motorcross Bike, an ATV, a Buggy, a Rally Car, a Truck, a 
 Mudplugger or Big Rig. Once you've chosen which one you want to most likely die in, you have limited 
 customising options which just consist of different colours, but you will unlock many different 
 vehicles of each type later on.
  
  You will then be thrown into the mud with all the other small and huge vehicles and then it's all 
 about coming first. Each class has its own strengths and weaknesses. For instance, the motorbike 
 is fast and agile but a little knock from other vehicles could send you flying, whereas the Big 
 Rigs can knock almost anything out of their way and travel in the mud with a firm grip, but they 
 really lack in acceleration, so if you do crash it could be disastrous. On the small selection 
 of map choices you have on offer, there will be intertwining routes which support some vehicles 
 over others, but they will always join back in, to make sure you get maximum mayhem.
  
  The scenery is just a great joy to be zooming past, but really most of the graphical brilliance 
 is in the mud. It looks photorealistic and everyone's skid marks will be visible in it, and with 
 the correct lighting reflections on the wetter patches too. It is just fantastic. And this is probably 
 more important than it initially sounds, because your vehicles do tear up the terrain and leave 
 a nice trail of slime and grunge for the next lap. Also, if a crash causes something to get moved 
 right in front of everyone's path, there will be twisted metal and sparks everywhere.
  
  The detail to totalling your car looks so good that crashing is actually fun. Anything can get 
 damaged and when you go tumbling out of control, you will have wheels, rods and bolts getting sent 
 around like shrapnel. If you're on a bike or ATV, you can add your body to that list too. Thanks 
 to a decent slow motion camera for crashing, you can enjoy every bump and explosion that will happen 
 in such a fast paced game.
  
  As a less traditional method, you don't have a speedometer but simply just a boost bar. Used correctly 
 you can reach incredible speeds and on such unbalanced terrain mixed with a great use of motion 
 blur, you really do get an adrenaline rush. With all of this combined into a festival setting, 
 we are rewarded with a great, varied soundtrack that really suits the chaotic mood of this game.
 
  
  So while the gameplay is great, it suffers quite badly on other options. The single player works 
 on a ticket based theme, where you complete races on a ticket to unlock another one. Unfortunately, 
 there is no quick play mode where you can dive right into the action, and this is made even worse 
 with no local two player options. A split screen mode would have really made this game that much 
 better. At least there are quite decent online features, though. Once you're into a game, it can 
 be great fun with banter going down the headsets that might make you reconsider having small children 
 near the game. But this is an aggressive game and the style sticks with it perfectly all the way 
 into multiplayer. The host can even set many options like restricting vehicle classes, choosing 
 maps and maximum amount of players, but annoyingly, it can take a while to get a race going, so 
 some waiting will have to be endured.
  
  With a free online update from the PlayStation Network, there is also a time trial mode. This is 
 really quite intriguing, as you can download ghosts and have several on at once. Just by looking 
 at the leaderboards, you can select different players' times with whatever vehicle they were using. 
 This is great for practice and sometimes you may discover better routes once seeing someone's ghost 
 do it, or changing your preferred class once you've seen what other people can do with them.
  
  This is all packed into one of the best games that was released in conjunction with the PS3 
 launch in March, and is still one of the stronger games on the platform. With rather cheap booster 
 packs being sold via PSN to add more content like maps, this is one of the exclusives that makes 
 the PS3 worth having.
  
  See more of my reviews at www. sector7arcade. com 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Krycek9mm
Rating: 7.5
Date: Dec 6, 2007 5:50 pm PT
Review:  This game amounts do a decent arcade-style off road game. No futzing with any kind of career mode 
 or modification. Just pick your vehicle and race, unlock more vehicles, race more, race online, 
 blow up. And the blowing up is awesome. 
  Controls are simple and straightforward. Aside from gas, break, and steer, there is also taunt 
 which acts as punch for ATVs and Motorbikes and boost which makes you go faster but can overheat 
 and blow up (not always a bad thing) . The physics are exaggerated but consistent. 
  One of the draws of the game is the various classes often racing against each other. The classes 
 are balanced based on varying degrees of agility, speed, durability, and ability to plow through 
 mud as opposed to trudge. 
  The racing is definitely aggressive and it can sometimes get frustrating to have a bottleneck pileup 
 cause you to drop behind.
  The visuals are great, MS is one of the more cinematic game experiences out there with a gorgeous 
 backdrop of desert valleys and canyons. The slow motion crashes are beautiful and satisfying, especially 
 when you explode across the finish line. The sound effects and music provide a solid atmosphere.
 
  
  Overall MotorStorm is just a fun game thats not too involved. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Machine758
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 1, 2007 1:59 pm PT
Review:  Well, after playing MotorStorm on my best friend's PS3 for a longer collective time than he has, 
 I'm ready to give my opinion on it. And oh yes, it's gooood.
  
  This game reminds me of a game released a couple years ago on the PS2 called Jak X: Combat Racing. 
 This game, like that one, features brain-rattling offroad racing, turbo boosts, and incredibly 
 detailed slow-motion crashes. But enough of that.
  
  +Story+
  The game contains no actual story that takes place, so the score I give it will not go to the overall. 
 
  
  The game is set at the MotorStorm Festival in Monument Valley, Nevada. From watching the ENTIRE 
 (very long) sequence that plays during menu screens, it is some sort of raucous music festival 
 with added dirt racing. (I want me tickets NOW.) You play as a driver who noone ever sees who is 
 hopelessly fast and has no fear. I've nicknamed him 'The Stig'. However, during actual gameplay, 
 there is no actual indication of actual people... although considering the content of the races, 
 I can understand why they're not at the actual events.
  STORY/SCORE: 9/10
  POINTS OMITTED FOR: Slight plot hole between story and gameplay
  
  +Gameplay+
  
  MotorStorm 
 couldn't be simpler really. It's an off-road racer. You win by placing first out of 14. And it 
 uses very few controls. You use the R2 button to accellerate, L2 to brake and reverse (although 
 believe me, you won't be using it very often) and the X button to use your boost. You can use either 
 the left analog or the SIXAXIS motion sensing to steer your racer, a la Excite Truck. I personally 
 prefer the analog, but that's just me. Start pauses, Select changes view and the right stick will 
 move the camera. You can move the camera during races, but it's really just for crashes.
  You get nitrous boost to help you in your race. At the start of each race you must give the boost 
 system 10 seconds to charge up (but luckily, everyone else has to as well) . Then you can hold down 
 the X button to rocket forward. Your boost will heat up the vehicle's engine the more it's used. 
 If you keep using the boost at critical temperature without being in ther air to cool it, you will 
 explode. Again. However, boost explosions will rocket your vehicle forward at around three times 
 its top speed, so you can use one to win a race at the last second.
  The controls are realistically sensitive, but unlike Gran Turismo you won't ever go skidding out 
 of control, so you will feel little use for the brake button. But if you crash into a tiny rock 
 at 10mph, you will explode. And I mean even the smallest of rocks. But it's helplessly good fun, 
 so it's still a good thing.
  The Square button is an infinite source of amusement. Pressing it when noone's around will activate 
 your car's horn. Press it when a vehicle is nearby and your driver will shake his fist or even 
 give the finger/Vsign to passing drivers. Better still, if you're riding an ATV or bike and you 
 press it when you're right next to another bike or ATV, you will actually knock them off, causing 
 them to crash. But be careful to pull away quickly, because you could explode too if you stay too 
 close to the exploding car. It's terrifc and heaps of fun.
  CONTROLS/SCORE: 10/10
  POINTS OMITTED FOR: No points omitted, baby!
  
  
  There are just two gameplay modes available 
 to you in MotorStorm, 'Play' and 'Online'. There's also a third gameplay mode called 'Setup', if 
 you like that sort of thing. 'Play' is a single player... sort of campaign, and 'Online' is a single 
 player... well, online gameplay option. There is no split-screen multiplayer whatsoever, but I can 
 see where they were coming from... there would end up being absolutely TREMENDOUS lag and FRDs if 
 that happened (more on that later) . However, you could do something like System Link, which would 
 be infinitely cool. But this is therefore a game that is designed for being as fun to watch as 
 it is to play, and that's good as well.
  GAMEMODES/SCORE: 8/10
  POINTS OMITTED FOR: No spit-screen multiplayer options
  
  
  There are just 8 tracks to race 
 on (excluding any updates available) , but there are many, many different routes through it, so 
 that's at least 40 different ways to race. 
  There are lots of classes of vehicles to race on too. Bikes and ATVs are fast, but are very unbalanced 
 and will slow to a crawl in mud. They also have the best boost value (speed gained/amount of time 
 you can use the boost) . Rally cars and buggies are the all-rounders and Mudpluggers and bigrigs 
 take ages to get to top speed, have helpless boost value, but are completely untouchable once they've 
 reached full speed. The vehicle class you choose is chosen for you for most tickets, but for all 
 but the MotorStorm Festival Events (MSFEs) you are racing against the same class. It is only for 
 the final few races and online play that you can freely choose which class to use. Fortunately, 
 there are lots of vehicles in each class to choose and you can even choose a colour sceme. However, 
 you can only choose preset schemes, not your own custom ones. Luckily, there are about five schemes 
 that will satify most types of people, so unless you want a mauve and orange big rig, you won't 
 be left crying into your SIXAXIS over this.
  VARIATION/SCORE: 7/10
  POINTS OMITTED FOR: Only 8 tracks, limited colour options.
  
  
  GAMEPLAY/SCORE: 8/10
  
 
  
  +Presentation+
  
  There is really no question about it; the game looks beautiful. From the highly detailed car models 
 to the mud splashing onto the screen to the tires visibly shaking during a powerslide to the driver's 
 fluidity as they give V-signs to each other (it's true, press Square) , each individual grain of 
 mud and sand is rendered brilliantly. On some tracks you can see (freakin' massive) TV screens 
 that display a live view of the race from various angles. It's truly a stunning game. But when 
 you crash, the game really shows itself off. The way the cars crash is controlled by the game's 
 engine rather than preset animation, meaning you can never crash the same car in the same way twice. 
 It really has to be seen to be believed.
  ACTUAL GAMEPLAY/SCORE: 9/10
  
  
  The game has a good host of sound effects, and a huge array of artists donating songs for the soundtrack, 
 with the likes of Slipknot and Wolfmother being worthy additions. It's a good listen so it more 
 than makes up for the PS3's (current) lack of custom soundtracks. The music is also quite blended 
 with in-game effects and can be listened to individually in the Soundtrack section of the Options 
 (?) menu.
  SOUNDTRACK/SCORE: 9/10
  POINTS OMITTED FOR: The soundtrack has to repeat sometimes and can sometimes forget to load new 
 songs
  
  
  The game's name is displayed at all times at the top of menu screens, and a subtitle below it reading 
 the purpose of the screen ('Select a Race' or 'Select an ATV', for example) , but interestingly 
 for the main menu screen the subtitle reads 'Monument Valley'. Yeah, that's the game's setting, 
 but it gives the whole game a seemingly full name of 'MotorStorm: Monument Valley'. Maybe the sequels 
 will be set elsewhere, hummm? We shall see. There's a perpetually looping, brilliantly rendered 
 movie that plays at the title screen which displays the MotorStorm Festival. It's almost as fun 
 as playing the game itself to watch XD.
  Your current highlighted option is denoted by a bright yellow ' ' symbol. It seems to have a mind 
 of its own and will disappear after a while, leaving a nice display to leave the game on, and when 
 you select the next option, it will completely miss it and then travel back. This process can't 
 be skipped, but it's fun to watch anyway. It's a really nice GUI and it fits. 
  The only problem is the prohibitively long load times - it's alright when you are booting up, but 
 when you're selecting cars or loading a race, even the loading busy icon freezes on occasion. However 
 there are no frame rate dips during the actual race, which is meritable.
  The in-game HUD is as simple as it gets. You get a position meter and lap meter, a boost temperature 
 meter, a course map and... that's it. The boost meter is very helpful for the races. When you are 
 reaching critical boost temperature (the red section of the meter) you will hear an alarm and the 
 meter will visibly vibrate (as your SIXAXIS moans with envy nearby) , telling you to let go of X. 
 Or keep it down if you want to score a quick win (see above) . The interface is very easy on the 
 eye during races, which helps you keep your eye on the ro... I mean dirt... I mean mud... erm, you 
 know what I mean.
  INTERFACE/SCORE: 9/10
  POINTS OMITTED FOR: Smooth and sexy, but the   can get on your nerves sometimes. 
  
  
  PRESENTATION/SCORE: 
 9/10
  
  
  
  +Overall+
  The fact that there's no split-screen multiplayer doesn't stop this game from being one of the 
 most fun games to have when your mates are round. It's as fun to watch as it is to play, and it's 
 a testament to the fact that this game, not the more popular and multiplayer-capable Resistance: 
 Fall of Man, is bundled with the 80GB PS3. Even if you don't have the 80GB, or plan on it, if you 
 have a PS3, you have to have this game.
  
  
  GAMEPLAY/SCORE: 8/10
  PRESENTATION/SCORE: 9/10
  
  OVERALL: 8.5/10
  
  This has been my first review, so please 
 go easy on my reasoning.
  
  -Machiney 
::::::

::::::
UserName: brownthrilla
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 1, 2007 9:49 am PT
Review:  Motorstorm is defiantly a great game. It is a game that keeps you coming back. The game is great 
 for racing fans, casual gamers, and first time PS3 owners.
  
  First let's start with the game play. The game play is quite entertaining. The one highlight of 
 the game are the crashes. Whenever crash, you go in slow motion and blow up. You cant help smiling 
 every time to see the destruction. The racing is really fun too. I like the boost mechanics in 
 the game. I like the single player mode too. There's no real story, its just a tournament. You 
 can unlock many cool cars and tracks.
  
  Online is not bad either. There are different modes like just regular racing, elimination, etc. 
 Online sometimes takes a while to join games. I rarely have any lags which makes this game have 
 a solid online.
  
  Graphics in the game are quite solid. They have many details throughout each track. The mud in 
 the game and its effect on your car/motorcycle is really cool too. The sound in the game are great 
 too. The sound (especially in surround sound) sounds terrific!
  
  Lastly, I just want to say that this game is a great buy if you're either a casual gamer, racing 
 fan, or a new PS3 owner. Would I recommend this game if you've had a PS3? I would have, but now 
 there are better games available (Call of Duty 4, Assassin's Creed, etc.) . However, I still believe 
 this is the best racing game on the PS3 so far. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MagicPhil
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 30, 2007 6:48 am PT
Review:  Great game for the racing fans, a bit too arcade and not realistic enough though!! Graphics are 
 licked, environment is beautifull, music is great.
  The first drives were very hard, once you got the hang of it, it became quite easy to go trough. 
 I played it for about 3 hours now and have unlocked 7 races.
  
  Cars or bikes are nice, not realistic which is a bit a pity. There is not an ample choice and you 
 don't really feel the difference in the different cars/bikes, which only adress the high arcade 
 level.
  
  Conclusion: great in his genre, not too difficult, a bit lineair and doesn't give the open feeling 
 you wish to have when you see the scenery.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: cubelover38
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 24, 2007 1:00 pm PT
Review:  i have had motorstorm for a while now and thought i'd throw in my 2 cents. the game is absolutely 
 gorgeous and the vehicles are a rip each with it's own attributes but in the right hands any one 
 of them can dominate. the single player game is just practice for the online component, because 
 if you talk to anybody that has played it online the'll tell you that is where this game truly 
 shines. against the right people this game will get your heart beating out of your chest, it is 
 by far the most fun i've had online. i've had it for like four months and still can't get enough 
 and with the download content you really can't do better this game will show you exactly why you 
 bought a ps3 ....... absolutley perfect 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Supertcarlo17
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 24, 2007 1:27 am PT
Review:  Lets face it, Motorstorm is one hell of a game....... if u have internet connected to thje ps3. 
 the game has no offline multiplayer so u cant play against your friends if you bring them at home, 
 the best you can do is a time attack which is downloadable from the playstation store for free. 
 
  
  Graphics: 9.0/10
  
  the graphics in the game are one of the best racing/combat games. even if u touch a stone THE SCRATCH 
 CAN BE SEEN. If you are using an atv or a motorcycle you can knock out people off from other atv's 
 or motorcycles and the graphics in that is great, even the physics when you fall on the ground 
 is awesome.
  
  Sound: 8.0/10
  
  the sound is great in the game, however, they could have added a bit more songs to the list.
 
  
  value: 8.0/10
  
  the price of the game is good. (i had t for free with the 60Gb playstation system alond with Resistance: 
 fall of men)
  
  Overall 8.0/10
  
  I give it an 8 on 10. if there was offline multiplayer they game would surely deserve a 9.0/10 
 and one last thing, the ofline races are some sort of training to unlock some different vehicles 
 for the online multiplayer 
::::::

::::::
UserName: speedjunkie4
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 23, 2007 11:25 am PT
Review:  Motorstorm was one of the better demos on those PS3 kisosks, and now, the down 'n' dirty racing 
 game is finally here. You take a bike, a ATV, a racing truck, a big rig, a rally car, etc, and 
 race like you really mean it. The graphics push the PS3 to its limits, making it one of the best 
 racers on the PS3, visiullay. The speed of Motorstorm aint the speed of Burnout, but still, for 
 a off-road game, it is fast. Also, the tracks are awesome, mainly becuase you are racing in canyons, 
 mesas, etc. The soundtrack is okay, but still, that ain't what matters. It is the consequences 
 of using boost for too long. If you use boost for too long...... BOOM! Explosion! See? Now that 
 is consequence! Also, the A. I. is okay, but also that dosen't really matter to me. But with the 
 good comes the bad. The main mode is pretty shallow, and there is no other mode for single-player. 
 The only other mode is online. All in all, Sony really worked hard for this game to be good. But 
 if it had more single player modes, more tracks and more cars, it could have been better. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: joshboy1991
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 21, 2007 11:57 am PT
Review:  Although not the longest game, it is definetly the messiest, welcome to motorstorm, and annual 
 event of vechile races which is set in the Nevada desert, and as you might expect with any racers, 
 there are vechiles, (I'm such a genius) , and many of them, 7 in total, which ranges from bikes 
 to big rigs. The music in motorstorm is basically indie and hard rock, which personally I really 
 like, and when your racing, the music blends in with the atmosphere fantastically, the graphics 
 are a stunner, everything from the mountains in the background to the mud being slung from the 
 wheels onto the screen is near to perfection, if ever you have friends round, and really want to 
 gloat about how good your ps3 is, show them motorstorm, and you will be the envy of your friends, 
 (except of course if they guess that you are really gloating and instead of envying you, they just 
 hate you) sorry, got a bit off track there, yes, anyway, although the presentation of the game 
 is fantastic, and online play is ace, the game is horribly short, and because of this it holds 
 back the game, so much so that it is no way near being classed as an essential game, which to tell 
 the truth, would be a massive shame. Besides this motorstorm is a decent game and would definetly 
 advise that all ps3 gamers have a go on this, and decide for yourself if it is an essential, beasically 
 motorstorm is short and sweet, and personally, that's the way I like 'em 
::::::

::::::
UserName: OMGitsZAL
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 21, 2007 11:47 am PT
Review:  I got this game with my PS3, and to be honest, I never gave it much of a chance, Resi just drew 
 me in. I wanted to finish Motorstorm before I got skate. though and I did, took me 5 days of 2-4 
 hour plays. On the way, it was some of the best racing I've ever played. No speedometer or track 
 display, just your position, lap, time and boost. The racing is fast and thrilling, the pleasure 
 of knocking over a bike or ATV is just excellent. There are 6 groups of vehicles, bikes, ATVs, 
 mudpluggers, racing trucks, big rigs and rally cars. They all have their strengths and weaknesses 
 so it is fairly balanced out. The graphics are brilliant and the tracks (even though there isn't 
 that many) have many routes for the different types of vehicles. One thing about this game though, 
 YOU WILL GET FUSTRATED, but this means you'll try harder the next time. Enough of the single player, 
 the best part of this is the online.
  
  Online is amazingly fun. There's little lag and lots of races so you'll never get bored. Plus it's 
 funny when you boost over the line just to beat the relaxed player in first. ;) The races are always 
 different, many settings and getting your gloating index to 10 is a challenge. The balancing thing 
 doesn't work as well online though, as everyone seems to go for rally cars (including myself) except 
 in Mudpool.
  
  Overall, this is a fun game with a excellent online system and lots of extras to buy. Worth investing 
 in. :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: je_taime_RB_27
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 19, 2007 9:12 am PT
Review:  Motorstrom
  First of all, when I saw the review of the game, I thoutght it would be great but difficult. But 
 I was wrong, it's really good and not has difficult how I thought.
  Let me begin with the story. There's none. That's one of the bad parts of the game. I'm sure that 
 I'm not the only one who would love to play a story in this game. It could be fun but particular. 
 The career mode is fun. You have many challenges to make with each cars in each racing tracks, 
 for a total of 21 tickets challenges and arround 3 to 4 races in each. Of course by winning races, 
 who can unlock more tickets that would be harder. 
  For me, the smaller vehicules are easier to controll, like the ATV, the motorcicles, rally cars, 
 etc. But the bigger cars are more strong, so with them you can put down the little guys.
  Whats funny in the game, is that when you are in motorcicles, ATV (little engines) you can see 
 your character react. Ex: he makes to a opponent, a smack my ass, you know what I mean.
  When I had the game, I hoped that the're was a multiplayer mode, but there isn't. There's only 
 a online mode that I play (15 min) . It's a bit boring.
  The soundtrack of the game is really good thought. There's some Slipknot, NickelBack and more. 
 P. S. When you race, Before I forget (Slipknot) goes really well with it.
  Another thing that isn't really good, is that there isn't kind of sort of vehicule. Only 3 for 
 each vehicule and 2 of the 3 are womens on it and the rest is the guy.
  So in a few words, the game is quite a big fun. But it could be better. But if you saw the news, 
 there making a Motorstorm 2. If the game is on sale, go buy it. And if not, go rent it. But this 
 game is worth playing.
  Thanks for reading this review. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: robdonpritchard
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 19, 2007 8:30 am PT
Review:  At first glance this is just a pretty off-road racer but delve a little further and you will find 
 a game with hidden depths. The premise of the single player game is to complete tickets, these 
 are a selection of 1-4 races varying in tracks and vehicle choice. The tickets increase in difficulty 
 as you go, but difficulty is not set by computer AI improving or new tracks becoming more difficult, 
 it is set by the vehicle restrictions set on that ticket.
  This is where Motorstorm starts to separate itself from the crowd, each vehicle in Motorstorm has 
 its own unique attributes, rally cars are good on hard flat surfaces and big rigs are excellent 
 in the mud etc. As the game develops and the tickets get more difficult you are given a vehicle 
 which at first may not seem the best choice for that specific track, however each track in Motorstorm 
 contains multiple routes to get round, so what at first may have seemed an impossible mission is 
 now an enjoyable romp through the dirt.
  Minor criticisms would be the low number of tracks although the multiple routes does compensate 
 for this and the computer AI can sometimes feel clumsy.
  Take Motorstorm online and its a completely different experience, races are easy to join or create 
 and there's always someone ready for a race. You are given a ranking but this can only be used 
 for a very brief outline of skill. 
  You will spend hours finishing the single player, then the multi player will take over your life!
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: supertank310
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 18, 2007 1:52 pm PT
Review:  Motorstorm is an Off-Road, Extreme, And Quite Violent Racing game. The offline career is fairly 
 short, but can be quite long depending on how hard you are finding it. There is also content constantly 
 being released on the PS Store, such as:
  3 New "Wreckreation" modes; Time Attack (a sophisticated mud bath, that hasn't really been done 
 before; Coyote Revenge (It's Coyote Rage, reversed, with some new paths added in, and more cars 
 at the start and finish of completing the three extra tickets; Devil's Weekend (It's Dust Devil, 
 reversed, perveresed, and more cars added in (so sort of same as CR, but different content) ) .
 
  Extra Cars; Not only do you get more cars from the wreckreation events, you can buy even more 
 awesome cars, to beat each other to a pulp in.
  Extra Skins; New paint jobs for the cars, including a festive halloween revamp for the "Castro 
 Robusto".
  
  Unfortunatley, once you have completed all the tickets, they don't have much replay value, so the 
 next thing to conquer, is online!
  
  Now, I'm not particulary a huge fan of Motorstorm online. It leaves most of the carnage of single 
 player behind, and just turns into another online track racing game, with an enviroment that kills. 
 However, it is fun when playing against people the same skill level as you, because then you will 
 get back into the buisness of "My car is bigger, so that means I win". There is a small inempt 
 ranking system online, showing you how many times someone has blown up, left a race before it has 
 finished, races participated in, races won, and win streak.
  
  Oh, and another thing about the Time Attack mode, is that if you get an insanley fast time, you 
 can upload the ghost of your lap, so that other people can try and beat it, and vice versa with 
 them going fast.
  
  Graphics wise, for one of the first released PS3 games, it has very nice effects and rendering. 
 The one place where is lapses, is that if you go very slow, you will notice all the bushes and 
 things are just 2d sprites. Seriously. HOWEVER, this shouldn't matter, because if you're any good 
 at the game, they will usually be covered in motion blur, mud, blood, dust and car wrecks.
  
  All in all, a pretty darn good release title. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sleepy0610
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 16, 2007 12:45 am PT
Review:  well i mean there is no story to it.. u race.. fun online with others.. but there is NO OFFLINE 
 MULTIPLAYER? thats pretty stupid.. that means that if i wanna play this with my friend while hanging 
 out we need a second everything tv game system.. very stupid! but yea the game is more of a drunk 
 fun.. it gets annoying to me after so many explosions.. but after u had a few in u with ur buddies 
 then its fun to see it blow up.. and just laugh it up.. other than that that game could have been 
 way more fun that it is. the soundtrack isn't that great either.. i usually turn it down and turn 
 my own music up. i guess it all depends on what u like . but that was too much for me. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SoralinkGS
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 13, 2007 8:18 pm PT
Review:  Motorstorm for the Playstation 3 is one of those exclusives that definitely worth checking out, 
 of only for its visuals. The game really shows what the Playstation 3's graphic engine can do, 
 and the replay camera angles are superb. Lets start the rundown on this one:
  
  Gameplay:
  Motorstorm's gameplay is definitely unique thanks to the physics engine. The cars, 
 ATVs, trucks, buggies, and all the other types of racing vehicles in the game act different from 
 each other, and having them race together seems so natural. The physics also a great sense of challenge 
 to the game thanks to the realistic crashing. Of course, its not perfect since the physics sometimes 
 has flaws that make it where you crash into a small rock and your car gets completely stuck and 
 you stop immediately. However, besides that, the learning curve for Motorstorm is high since its 
 starts off on high amount of difficulty.
  
  Graphics:
  Utterly amazing. This game is probably the first to show what the Playstation 3 can do. The dirt, 
 mud, cars, characters, and so on are so uniquely enhanced that most of the stuff you see doesn't 
 have any jagged lines or opening. The developers really meet my expectations on this game, and 
 caught the energy that the first trailer of this game brought to the people who saw it back in 
 2006. 
  
  Sound:
  Great selection of music for this game. It has that feel to it, especially the main theme, that 
 makes you wanna off-road and race others in the mud. The engines have a beautiful sound to them, 
 with the nitros almost perfect. The atmosphere perfectly captured. This game is genius with it 
 came to sound.
  
  Plot:
  No, there isn't a storyline for this game, other than you are at this big tournament called "Motorstorm" 
 in Nevada. The game is generally short, with only 6 tracks in the base package (more online for 
 a price) and a couple vehicles (again, more online for a price) . This game is pretty short for what 
 it has to offer, and those eager to pick it up might find this disappointing. More so, the fact 
 that the oldest Downloadable content of the game is still a good chunk of change makes all the 
 more agonizing to own the game. However, it also makes you question whether this game was really 
 ready to go out the door when it did since it doesn't ever feel like complete.
  
  Overall:
  I enjoyed the game, and I'm still playing it from time to time. I never jumped online 
 so I won't judge that component. However, I will say that its worth a pick up for racing fans just 
 getting a Playstation 3. For non-racing fans, the graphics will dazzle, but you might be pushed 
 away by a steep learning curve. I recommend Uncharted over this because that has the same astonishing 
 graphics in it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fuzzy_hippo
Rating: 6.5
Date: Nov 11, 2007 1:55 pm PT
Review:  to start things off, this was the first game I bought for my PS3 and I lost intrest in less than 
 2 weeks. for starters, no multiplayer, what the heck were they thinking. reason number 2, there 
 are only like 6 tracks that come with the game that get boring fast. Reason 3, the sound track 
 sucks in my opinion aside from some nirvana. reason 4, the explosions are unrealistic, take up 
 alot of time and just piss you off. the game has some pluses though such as, fairly good graphics, 
 the mud that splatters on the screen is a good effect, and there are many different vehicle choices. 
 But the bottom line, dont buy this game ,wait for pro street, GT5 or the new midnight club to come 
 out and buy those. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: warsac
Rating: 6.5
Date: Nov 11, 2007 10:54 am PT
Review:  It is a great game overall I think. The graphics are really good and the game-play is awesome. 
 Nice with the different types of vehicles, strange though that there is no "stats" on each car 
 so one can tell the different between the different cars. It is quite a let down that there is 
 not more racetracks and also that there is no more music-tracks. So far MoterStorm would get a 
 higher score than 6.5...
  
  ... and what's lowering the score is "Where is the f***ing split-screen mode?", It is crazy that 
 it is not possible to play multi-player on the same PS3 and TV. I just don't understand why they 
 wouldn't include a two-player mode in the game........ 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dEtHsLaYeR
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 10, 2007 9:04 pm PT
Review:  Who can't be addicted to this game. Lightning fast racing with complex, clever, and potentially 
 dangerous tracks, and a humongous diversity of vehicles to select from. From agile, yet delicate 
 bikes to nearly invincible, yet sluggish big rigs, you have a mesmerizing and exciting arsenal 
 to take with you to the next, highly anticipated race that the last one led you to. All of this, 
 complimented with some of the best graphics I've ever seen on a game like this. Some things were 
 so awesome looking, like the mud, that they even made me laugh. There is no way you can hate this 
 game.
  With all the advantages and features you can look forward to, there are, however, its disadvantages. 
 
  First of all.... Its only single player. This game would be nice with a quick-race feature or something 
 so my little brother can play with me as well. I don't like to take turns. 
  Secondly.... the soundtrack is good.... and bad. 5 out of 10. 50/50. It has some catchy tunes, all 
 of which I don't know the name of, except for Woman, by Wolfmother. That one song cracks me up. 
 How can't you love a sound-alike Jamaican guy hollering about his woman. But, the funny thing is 
 that the game LOVES to play that song over the healthy list of about 20 that they have. Haha every 
 race I remember being in had that song playing. 
  But, besides that, the game gets boring after the same based race on the few tracks there are. 
 I can't believe I'm saying it really... but its true. The first 10-15 races are golden. Then, they 
 get sooo repetitive.... there should have been some more racing modes. Or maybe a Crash Mode, something 
 similar to the Crash Mode that help Burnout become one of the best racing games ever. 
  When you compare Burnout and Motorstorm, they are quite similar.... slow-motion crashes complete 
 with countless details and shrapnel that serve as nothing but pure, sweet eye candy, along with 
 the boost feature that can make you sit back in your seat, almost as if you really are going 300 
 miles per hour. But.... the differences, like the Crash Mode and better gameplay in Burnout just 
 knock it down.
  So it basically comes to this.... Motorstorm is fun, but not long enough. To much play can make 
 you easily bored, and want another game to try to beat. Its really just hop in a race, win, repeat. 
 Almost like they never finished the game..... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: insomniac_dog
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 7, 2007 1:03 am PT
Review:  It has to be said. MotorStorm has the best graphics on any PS3 game so far released. It really 
 is that breathtaking. Back to basics, and MotorStorm is an all-new game by Evolution Studios, creator 
 of the rally sim WRC franchise. In their PS3 outing, Evolution has brought the dirty, fast and 
 exhilirating sport of rally and cranked up everything to 11.
  
  You are part of the MotorStorm festival in Monument Valley, Arizona, and are participating in a 
 championship of a lifetime, one where a slip of the boost can spell disaster before your very eyes. 
 There are eight tracks, each with their own unique feel, and there are seven vehicle classes, ranging 
 from the fast yet vulnerable Bikes to the slow yet nigh indestructible Big Rigs. Mix these cars 
 and tracks together and you end up with an intense, chaotic, hectic, exhilirating and fun experience. 
 I. E. MotorStorm.
  
  On every track there are alternative routes. The mud, sand and dirt tracks often plit up into multiple 
 paths, allowing you to choose which route your vehicle is most suited for. This multi-route system 
 is fantastic, and adds to the mayhem on each race. Choosing the right way can make or break the 
 race.
  
  Each vehicle also gets a boost supply. Using the boost supply will take speed to a whole new level, 
 but use it too much and you're engine will explode, turning you into a fantastic fireball of ferocious 
 flames! This strategy is surprisingly deep, as you'll need to work out where boosting is best used, 
 and where not to use it.
  
  And now the graphics. They are sexy. The sun will glisten on the mesa rocks, your car will crash 
 and deform in such a beautiful way, and everything else is just spot on. When you see some of the 
 tracks, you really begin to appreciate how much work Evolution put into the graphics.
  
  Its a shame that there's next to no replay value, no two player, and nothing to unlock after you 
 complete the main mode. Online is interesting, but when your mates come round, its annoying having 
 to sit and watch and wait for your turn of playing. Resistance: Fall of Man has outstanding co-op, 
 and while that's a shooter, MotorStorm is a racer. It needs split-screen. The story mode (I use 
 that term loosly) is long, but after that, you're screwed. It really is a shame.
  
  So all in all, MotorStorm is excrutiatingly beautiful, and so intense there's a surprise around 
 every corner. The AI is definitely aggressive, and you'll often fight to the finish line with your 
 life. It's so superb, and fun has never looked so good. If only it could last longer. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 3eloff
Rating: 1.5
Date: Nov 4, 2007 7:21 pm PT
Review:  Got this with my 80 gig ps3, now I know why Sony included this game instead of Resistance...
  
  Gameplay : 1
  While it is not horrible, i will not push myself to give more. Mainly because 
 I cannot beat this game. You can be 20000000 miles ahead of your opponent, one crush brings you 
 on last place. And it keeps jumping from from 1-st to last throughout the game. Beside, you only 
 can ride 8 maps with dumb selection of cars. NO OPTION TO CHOSE MALE/FEMALE RIDER? Even $5 PC racers 
 have this option, not saying that $60 game requires to have it.
  
  Graphics : 5
  They are close to next generation, however I have no time to look at environment, thankfully to 
 horrible gameplay, I have to boost like a rocket with some hopes to avoid last place. Sound : 6
 
  Decent music playing, but all car sounds feel the same. Not much to say anymore. Multiplayer has 
 only 1 mode and It's a deathmatch. They want you to pay your hard earned money for some bonus stuff 
 from PSN - Not that stupid! They should give this stuff out for free because $60 game having only 
 3 vehicles, 8 maps and 2/3 riders are female is laughable. Oh, did I mention you have to wait a 
 lifetime for this thing to load? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ps3_fanatic001
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 4, 2007 3:35 pm PT
Review:  MotorStorm has great graphics, gameplay, and a lot of vehicles to choose from. Its great fun, but 
 it can get boring. The reason for this is that even though you have different vehicles and tracks, 
 it is quite repetitive. Also, if you are only a bit into racing games, it won't pull you in so 
 easily. The advertisements for this game showed much more action than the game actually gives the 
 player. It integrates the Six-axis controls very well into the racing process and it does a good 
 job of putting in some good AI crashes now and then. During races, the AI are very competitive 
 and will knock the crapola outta you if you get in the way, overall there's good AI. The difficulty 
 is just right for an average racer... even for one who isn't too used to it. The camera is in a 
 good spot, however, the dirt and mud flying onto the screen every once and a while can get annoying 
 if you have low patience or bad vision. If you crash the slow-mo camera gets extremely annoying 
 because you end up in nearly last place if you aren't already in first because it spends too much 
 time showing you flipping through the air - though it is very cool- it just gets in the way after 
 a while. The game gives awesome sound effects and music. The multiplayer is fun, however sadly, 
 there is no offline multiplayer. I just don't really think the game lives up to its full potential. 
 If you want this game for action, I would suggest you rent it to see just how much action you are 
 in to. If you want it for the racing, have at it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PS3_Champ
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 3, 2007 1:19 pm PT
Review:  Motorstorm Is a great game , the tracks ar pretty good (There really hard) The vehicles looks good 
 but its really short.
  
  1st Tracks ar awsome the blow/destruction scene ar the most fantastic parts of the game. The game 
 isnt so easy what so ever , but it should keep u long cause the game is hard, But if ur an expert 
 of driving racing u will beat the **** ov it in no time.
  
  2nd No ofline mod thats kind ov strange, but the game itself isnt so bad. the sound track gets 
 som times annoyingbut som songs ar cool other ar just annoyence.
  
  Overall Motorstorm is a good game with some good gameplay but a bit a short campain 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chainbladeONps3
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 30, 2007 7:44 pm PT
Review:  hmm lets see
  
  now i got this game a long time ago but i still have fun with it
  (probably the trill factor of going really fast off the side of a cliff)
  but anyways theres 
 not alot to the game its just how you play it
  i know this game is not for everyone since its a rock hard racer BOOM!! get used to it
  
  not 
 saying blowing up is a bad thing just that if u hate getting so close to the finish line then flipping 
 over and or blowing up.
  this is probably not for you but for all you caffeine drinkers out there this is a hyperactive 
 game if u let it be EXAMPLE: GOING SUPER FAST NEXT TO YOUR FALLING PIT OF DEATH BOOM A HUGE TRUCK 
 FLYS OVER YOU LIKE A MISSILE ANOTHER ONE LUST SLAMMED INTO THE CAR NEXT TO YOU CAUSING IT TO SPIN 
 OF THE CLIFF YOU LOSING CONTROL FLIP FLIP flip BOOM!!!!
  
  its great to play and to watch
  cars wrestling over each other to get first place (literally) 
 so if u want to just have a nice DESTRUCTIVE game
  with lots of mud and cliffs with cars that are driven to kill THIS IS THE GAME FOR YOU
  
  i 
 had a bunch of fun with it
  so fortunately i got a game thats right for me
  8.5
  
  -chainblade 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ger14
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 30, 2007 12:37 pm PT
Review:  we need more games like Motorstorm and Test Drive eve of destruction!! i like this game cause of 
 the variety of cars a tracks to choose from. the mud sprays all over, the cars slide in the mud 
 the trucks dont..... wicked detail!!! totally recommend this game. I also like to take the mud pluggers 
 out on a time trial and do some rock crawling, its fun as hell, i just drive all over and mess 
 around on the tracks. Racing is nuts your on a bike and you have a big rig come up behind you, 
 makes my heart drop hahahahah. i just wish they had a multiplayer mode (split screen) and also 
 some fun tracks like figure 8 and other tracks like in eve of destruction WICKED GAME!!!!!!!!!!! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Quadrifoglio
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 29, 2007 10:02 am PT
Review:  While certainly not packed to the brim with features, Motorstorm is one of the most enjoyable racing 
 games for your PS3.
  
  Motorstorm was one of the games that people were expecting to 'save' the PS3 and while certainly 
 not packed to the brim with features, Motorstorm is one of the most enjoyable racing games for 
 your PS3.
  
  The basic concept of Motorstorm is brutal off-road racing mixed with some amazing graphics and 
 some amazing looking crashes, and that concept works extremely well. Although Motorstorm might 
 not deviate much from the formula that Burnout created, the tracks, even though there aren't a 
 lot of them, are meticulously balanced to accomodate each cIasses that are wonderfully balanced. 
 The cIasses range from Big Rigs to Mudpluggers to ATV's and Dirtbikes, and they are all equally 
 fun to play.
  
  What Motorstorm doesn't do to well is variety. Throughout 15 to 20 hours it will take the average 
 player to complete the game (yes, it will take you that long) , you will pretty much play the same 
 thing over and over again, and while that's not a bad thing, by the end of the game you will yearn 
 to play another mode. More specifically, a crash mode. Because Motorstorm's crashes are so awesome 
 and over-the-top, it would pretty much be the icing on the cake if it had a crash mode ala Burnout 
 where you get money for wrecking as much havoc as possible. Because the game doesn't have a lot 
 of variety, it is really great that the game has an online mode, and the games online mode is really 
 great. The game has an option for which 'universe', which is basically a fancy name for region, 
 you want to play in, and there is an option for EU 'universe' or the Australianz, as they call 
 it, universe. The games host options are also pretty in-depth. You get your option for which track 
 out of the total eight you want to play, your choice of vehicles and your time of day, and while 
 that might not sound like much, the choice of vehicles really forces you to choose the routes that 
 are suited for your type of vehicle. The dirtbikes and ATVs are suited for the higher ground with 
 a lot of jumps and big air whereas the Big Rigs and Mudpluggers are best suited for the, you guessed 
 it, the mud and the routes that don't have a lot turns.
  
  Even though Motorstorm is such an excellent game, there is a thing that isn't so excellent, which 
 is its difficulty, that isn't very well balanced. Throughout the first two sets of tickets, the 
 game provides a challenge without being too easy and during the last two sets of tickets, the games 
 difficulty skyrockets to borderline sadistic. The average player would probably crash a couple 
 of within the first couple of minutes of playing their first level 4 race.
  
  Another thing that is a huge dissapointment about the game is that it doesn't have a splitscreen 
 multiplayer mode.
  Given the competitive nature of Motorstorm, and just about any other racing game, it definetely 
 sucks that there isn't a splitscreen multiplayer mode.
  
  Although a handful of dissapointments keep Motorstorm from being all that it couldve been, the 
 biggest being no splitscreen multiplayer, breathtaking graphics, addictive, albeit a bit repetitive 
 gameplay and amazing looking graphics make Motorstorm one of the best experiences you can possibly 
 get for your PS3. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thecoolhh
Rating: 7.5
Date: Oct 28, 2007 6:27 pm PT
Review:  This game is very fun and has some great graphics but there is barely anything to do.
  
  Gameplay: It is an offroad racing game with vehicles such as bikes, atvs, rally cars, dune buggies, 
 trucks, and more. It is a lot of fun but not much to do. All you can do is single player, online, 
 and if you go on the Playstation Store you can download a time trial mode called Wreackeration. 
 Overall not much to do but a lot of fun.
  
  Graphics: Excellent. It really shows off the power of the PS3.
  
  Sound: Great. It has some 
 nice artists such as Slipkknot and more.
  
  Overall a great racing game that has great graphics but not much to do. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Morfessa
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 27, 2007 3:56 am PT
Review:  Let's clear out the bad points first:
  In the vehicle selection portion, the vehicles take too long to load onto the screen. A simple 
 act like choosing a vehicle shouldn't be so painful and slow! Vehicles can maneouvre in mid-air! 
 I don't like this! Yes, it's true that motorcycles have SOME limited mid-air maeouvrability, but 
 cars, trucks, and buggies should not have the ability to pivot or steer in the air! MotorStorm 
 loses points for these two things: Vehicle selection loading times; mid-air steering .
  
  The single-player mode is challenging and rather lengthy. In my opinion, you get your money's worth 
 with just the single-player mode. It's difficult and dynamic enough that am more than satisfied. 
 I like it. However, I do tend to shout at my television set more often when playing this game. 
 I am happy to have purchased MotorStorm.
  
  Multi-player mode is where MotorStorm really revs up! Aside from the  
 problem that I'd mentioned above, this game absolutely ROCKS! As a side note, I wish I could turn 
 off the head-set chat thing, though, since many players seem to be real idiots (just my opinion) ! 
 But don't let that discourage you. You could easily spend an entire night with your friends playing 
 the online mode! I have had several evenings with friends coming over and we take turns playing 
 against some really tough competition.
  
  Over all, MotorStorm is a really great game! It's a lot of fun and that comes from someone who 
 does not normally enjoy driving or racing games. They are usually too repetitive and boring for 
 my tastes. I have a feeling that fans of the genre will like it despite the fact. If you are considering 
 a purchase of MotorStorm, you won't regret it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: skyhwk91
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 25, 2007 8:09 pm PT
Review:  Motorstorm is a great addition to any PS3 owners collection. But does it have what it needs? The 
 gameplay of the game is amazing, the wide variety of cars is excellent, new content downloads are 
 perfect, and the multiplayer is fantastic.
  
  But it does have a big weakspot. The single player mode is dead, theres only 2 modes, Tournament 
 and Time Attack. Both leave you hungry for more... LOTS MORE. Also it would have been better if 
 there was more to the multiplayer modes, like more racing styles and maybe even mini-games.
  
  But all in all I have to give motorstorm the solid 8 it rightfully deserves. And hopefully 
 new modes will be added in the future like the time attack was. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: eleKtron
Rating: 3.5
Date: Oct 23, 2007 1:14 am PT
Review:  Pro:
  
  Graphics are great. Effects are great. Explosions are great. Lots of flash.
  
  Anti:
  
  Collision detection is AWFUL. You can just be driving along on a pretty much flat 
 surface and hit nothing and either be jerked completely sideways or just explode... with NOTHING 
 around you. You spend 75% of the entire race in the air because the SLIGHTEST rise or bump will 
 send the vehicle flying like it's got wings.
  
  Difficulty is off the charts. I can't come in ANYTHING but 11th or 12th place on the second freaking 
 race in the SP game. There are NO difficulty settings that you can change. It's all or nothing. 
 You can unlock all the levels using a cheat, but that's lame, I want to beat the game MYSELF, and 
 on top of it they're all insanely hard
  
  Loading times are insane. You have to wait around for 15 - 20 seconds to get a single vehicle model 
 to load up so you can choose a vehicle. Want a DIFFERENT vehicle? hit the change button and you 
 wait ANOTHER 15-20 seconds for it to show up. Forget just choosing and hitting X... you have to 
 wait for the vehicle to load before you can select it. Waiting almost a full minute for the race 
 to load in and start is also completely unacceptable. Plenty of other next gen racing games load 
 twice as fast as this one.
  
  Online play. There are VERY few people playing this game online anymore. Less than one hundred 
 every time I've gone online to play. The problem is, those 100 are utterly addicted to the game 
 and their skill ratings are either Legend or God and you might as well kiss them goodbye as soon 
 as the race starts. NO fun at all.
  
  Conclusion:
  
  I've really tried to make this game work for me. I've tried to enjoy it despite its many flaws. 
 Tomorrow it's being taken back to gamestop. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: marbing
Rating: 5
Date: Aug 8, 2008 4:48 pm PT
Review:  Unfortunately, it appears that my first negative review was a bit too direct and so has mysteriously 
 disappeared. Needless to say, I do NOT like this game. It just isn't very much fun to never win 
 a race. Of the few races that I actually managed to finish, my only reward is "You have failed 
 to qualify".
  I wonder why NONE of the other racers ever crash and burn like I do? There are always exactly the 
 same number of racers as when we start. How can I always be in 12th place at the end if 4 cars 
 have driven off a cliff in the first 2 seconds of the race? I suppose they respawn but it appears 
 they always respawn ahead of me... and at full speed.
  Sure, I can use the 'Boost' but that is either a competely out of control rocket ride into the 
 side of a mountain or, at the very least, drops you several positions in the race every time the 
 'X' is hit.
  What I want in a driving game, is the ability to drive and NOT nececessarily 'race'. I would be 
 perfectly happy if I could eliminate ALL other cars and have the track all to myself. Then I could 
 have fun!!!
  I don't want the racing. I don't want the 'career'. I don't want to be locked out of tracks or 
 cars because I haven't followed the 'path' that the designers wanted me to. I don't want to have 
 to race the 'circuit' in order to keep racing. For these reasons, I am not enamored of this game. 
 I wish that you could avoid the 'races' altogether. 
  In my first edit I said "If I had a free driving mode in this game, I would NEVER use anything 
 else." well, the addition of the free Time Attack downloadable add-on is pretty close to the free 
 wheeling that I wanted. I don't care about what other people's times are... so I ignore the phony 
 'leader boards' anyway.
  I like to 'invent' my own games (with my own win/lose criteria) within the contect of the commercial 
 game. Before I downloaded the Time Attack module I had a 'Take out the leader' game I played. In 
 any race, I spun my car around so that the 'Wrong Way' notice was shown and I headed at top speed 
 in the opposite direction. The object was to catch the race leader and hit him head on using boost... thus 
 taking him out of the race. I gave myself extra 'points' if I also took out several other cars 
 too. This is harder than it sounds because you have to intercept them at high speed. I guess this 
 could be done online too but I don't care what the online community does... who wins or what their 
 times are. It is meaningless to me. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TIMMYMAINES
Rating: 7
Date: Oct 18, 2007 4:30 am PT
Review:  Ok lets get this over with. Motor storm is a decent racing game but does have lots of flaws. Well 
 thats kinda of common for good graphic games.
  
  The gameplay is your usual racing but you decide either your a race car motor cycler or a truck. 
 If you pick one of the 3 you will have a diffrent path to follow than the other choices so dont 
 expect getting speed by going off jumps in the motorcyler path with a truck. There is a boost in 
 this game but thats really how other games makes the race a little more interesting, but boost 
 to much and expect yourself to self destruct.
  
  THE GRAPHICS ARE AMAZING but of cource if you play this game that will be one of the only good 
 things about this game.
  
  Theres no multiplayer for some reason but there is online multiplayer so its kind of weird becuase 
 you wont expect all of your friends to have a ps3. Though people who are online kind of guys you 
 will make yourself at home doing online.
  
  Theres not many extras andmotor storm limits you becuase most of the things that are in a racing 
 games this game basicly onoly have about half about what racing games have. EX) Notice theres not 
 a time trial well that stinks.
  
  Also watch out for unexpected deaths becuase you never know when there are tree roots sticking 
 out and you just happened to barely touch it then you will suddenly be in 6th place.
  
  All in all this is kind of a decent game but its not recomended to racing fans becuase you will 
 surely be dissapointed about this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: godslim
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 16, 2007 6:02 am PT
Review:  Best racing game ive ever played graphics r sum of the best ive ever seen, well me im a shooter 
 fan really and i like the gory sword game like god of war not really a racing game guy..... but 
 when i played this i luved it amazing graphics.... plays well..... if u like racing game you'd score 
 it higher han what i gave it.... only 2 down sides to it loading times r annoying and no splitscreen 
 racing other than that best damn racing game ever much better than thse crappy racing sims on 360!! 
 NIce cars, bikes nad lorries to play around in and an added bonus of online and headset chat while 
 racing. The maps are really well designed and are a joy to play with ramps etc and its great when 
 u ram sum1 off the road and its even great when u crash just to see the cool slo mo scene!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kong_viking
Rating: 6.5
Date: Oct 15, 2007 9:36 am PT
Review:  I've had this game for a few months now and I must say, that at the end I'm very dissapointed about 
 this game! It's great fun and the graphic is good, but this is the sort of game you play together 
 with your friend in a two player mode!!
  
  After 5-10 hours I got sick of the single player mode, and I was too bored to finish all the tickets.. Of 
 course you can play it on the internet, but it's not the same as a real split-screen fight with 
 you best friend!
  
  The cars are great and I like the courses as well. The gameplay is also nice, but for me it's frustrating 
 and I think the game is missing something very important! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zellwwf
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 12, 2007 7:14 am PT
Review:  Ok... I will make this my shortest review ever! I liked playing this game... but really it isn't 
 like need for speed or any other racing game! Ok! It's better in visuals than most games... It 
 get impossibly hard or mokering easy! WTF?
  there is basically nothing! You always begin with an annoying language chooser bar!! (anyone knows 
 how do get rid of it?) Then you choose single player! tickets? why tickets, no problem... as tickets 
 fly and you win and win and win! But then? where is the storyline? nothing!! It looks like an arcade!! 
 You just basically choose one of the 3 tickets you get at the beginning, then you race, and lose, 
 race and lose ............ till you finally win! Then you choose another ticket.... race .... lose 
 .... race .... lose .... etc
  I enjoy playing it since i've finished all my other games! and Waiting for assassin's creed!! LOL! 
 GTA 4 and the god of them all : METAL GEAR SOLID 4!!
  .... Out 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Orgando
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 11, 2007 5:55 pm PT
Review:  First off, 7.9, I don't think so. This game is the freaking nicest looking game I have ever seen! 
 (and I own Gears of War) . I think it should get a ten in graphics. As for the action, well, lets 
 just say it is the most brutal racing game ever made! There are so many different vehicles and 
 the action is heartpounding. The A. I. in this game is superb and they will try to run you down 
 until the bitter end. The sound in this game is okay, but the soundtrack does get repetitive fast. 
 The SFX are really good though and your engine roars like a lion. The loading times are a real 
 flaw, they can take a long time just to preview your vehicle before a race. Overall I have yet 
 to find a better racing game on the PS3, 8.5/10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tuckett-l
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 8, 2007 2:21 pm PT
Review:  Motorstorm was one of the early releases for the PS3 and although the game is played in 720p the 
 grapchics are amazing. The offline gameplay is fun and the AI is not stupid so you'll have to be 
 ready for a fight; but it still lacks more variety. Downloads for the game such as the Coyote Revenge 
 Weekend and Time Trial modes are fun and gives the game a little more to do but it still lacks 
 some sort of tournament mode. The online is a load of fun and players can have great matches with 
 2-12 people but again lack of modes is an issue. The graphics are amazing on Motorstorm but they 
 do lead to extremely boring and long loading screens. Even choosing a car can take minutes if you 
 pick and choose. Motorstorm is a generally solid game for the PS3 and shows what kind of graphics 
 the PS3 can produce but not enough types of gameplay and no offline multiplayer hold the game back. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: skaterbob001
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 7, 2007 4:27 pm PT
Review:  I love this game. It was the first game i got for my ps3 and i still pull it out from time to time. 
 It looks amazing and its a ton of fun.
  (Id giv it a 9 if it had a free race or something to flesh it out more)
  Awsome Awsome Awsome 
 Awsome Awsome Awsome Awsome Awsome Awsome Awsome Awsome Awsome Awsome Awsome Awsome Awsome Awsome 
 Awsome Awsome Awsome Awsome Awsome Awsome Awsome Awsome Awsome Awsome Awsome Awsome Awsome Awsome 
 Awsome Awsome Awsome Awsome Awsome Awsome Awsome Awsome Awsome Awsome Awsome Awsome Awsome Awsome 
 Awsome Awsome Awsome Awsome Awsome Awsome Awsome Awsome Awsome Awsome Awsome Awsome Awsome Awsome 
 Awsome Awsome Awsome Awsome Awsome (it said i need atleast 100 words) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: maddogg74
Rating: 7.5
Date: Oct 6, 2007 10:39 pm PT
Review:  I played this game thinking it was going to be one of those racing games that you keep playing 
 over and over again but it was'nt. After an hour of playing I got bored of it. The graphics are 
 great. I dont think everyone who plays this game is going to like it but its alright. The six-axis 
 movements are very sensitive and took me about an hour of crashing the car of a cliff to get used 
 to it but ill stick to the analog sticks.
  
  The game isnt that bad but not tha great either so I say try it and see if you like it before you 
 buy it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wdave92
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 5, 2007 9:03 pm PT
Review:  People have bashed this 1st party game like no tomorrow but its a great game
  
  In the visual department -its running at a smooth 30FPS at most of the times at 720p resolution 
 this game is absolutely gorgeous The controls- The controls are great they are responsive and the 
 back triggers give more depth to the racer because of its pressure sensitive controls so when you 
 entering a curve you ease up on the r2 button to make it through
  
  The Maps- Well there are about 10 maps to the game people say this inst allot for a racer but the 
 maps each have 3-4 paths made for different vehicles that add an element to the multilayer aspect 
 The Multilayer -- Multilayer here is only online no split screen action whatsoever but sony's servers 
 over the PSN tend to be always lag free but the races are enjoyable Overall its a good buy and 
 a great game for the ps3 its an excellent racer that will have you wanting more unfortunately. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: slionheart_8
Rating: 7
Date: Oct 4, 2007 1:08 am PT
Review:  Motorstorm is not just any off road racing game, its game system has something other racing games 
 don't have, the Al's goal is not to win the race but entertain the player. The Al's have 3 goals, 
 1 to entertain the player, 2 I can't remember at this moment, and 3 to win the race. The scenery 
 is absolutely magnificent and detailed, but thats normal now with 50 GBs of memory to use. It is 
 just plain fun but it gets harder further into the game and soon gets boring, and for those that 
 are racing game pro's you'll find that the game is really short with about only 5 levels and about 
 7 races per level.
  
  Overall, just plain fun game but short lived. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lil_zelda_dude
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 3, 2007 6:09 pm PT
Review:  Motorstorm is a PS3 showcase. The Graphics are fantastic, the physics are fun, and the vehicles 
 run very smooth, you definitely feel in control. Lets just start off by saying this game is very 
 fun. Crashing falling off cliffs etc. Its just that there arent that many maps, theres not many 
 modes, in fact theres only one. But after your done with a singleplayer mode that is disguised 
 to be very good through unbelievable gameplay you have the multiplayer. And that will keep you 
 sticking around for so long. After that your are finished with the game and you can move on to 
 other PS3 titles. But during that time, I dare you not to repetitively come back to the game every 
 now and then.
  Buy it
  play it
  keep coming back for more 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SandSpiderII
Rating: 7
Date: Oct 2, 2007 5:25 pm PT
Review:  Yes, this off-road racing game has great graphics and gameplay, but is it worth the $60? Not in 
 mind! When playing this game I feel restricted in a way, I feel like there's no point to what I'm 
 doing.
  
  SINGLE PLAYER: The object of the game is to win races to unlock more races. There are no trophies, 
 prizes, credits, or even a single player stats system. Another thing, the races feel unbalanced. 
 Some races are unreasonably easy and other are unreasonably difficult. When you finally complete 
 all of the given races you are awarded nothing, just the satisfaction of completing another video 
 game. One that that really disappoints me is that you cannot create custom races to play in single 
 player AND the is no 2-player split screen!
  
  ONLINE: The online feature of this game is also somewhat of a letdown also. It feels the same as 
 playing single player (except all laggy players) . The stats system isn't that great. Very basic.
 
  
  ADD-ONS: The add-ons disappoint me! All of them are things that I feel should have been a part 
 of the game in the first place, not things that you should have to pay for later!
  
  Make a friend buy this game before you do! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fishdalf
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 2, 2007 2:01 pm PT
Review:  --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  
  The Good
  + Stunning visuals
  + Nice array of vehicles
  + Great online play
  + Large expansive 
 tracks with multiple routes
  + A solid soundtrack
  
  The Bad
  - Shallow gameplay
  - Forced to play certain vehicle c|asses
  - Frustrating and unforgiving AI
  - Linear single 
 player
  - No offline multiplayer
  
  --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  
  Motorstorm 
 was one of the very first games to be showcased on the PlayStation 3 and early previews already 
 had gamers foaming at the mouths. When game footage was released jaws drooped at its absolutely 
 stunning visuals. Even now, after months, it's still one of the best looking games around. From 
 the impressive lighting effects and inspiring back drops, right down to the way the mud splatters 
 up onto the screen and deforms the ground right in front of your eyes. Sure there are some horrid-looking 
 textures thrown in and a few graphical glitches in spots but overall what Sony and Evolution Studios 
 have done is provided us with a true feast for the eyes. However it is worth noting that those 
 who still own a standard TV won't feel the full force of the games graphical prowess unless they 
 splash the cash on a shiny new HDTV.
  
  Unfortunately for all its visual might the game falls short in many areas. For instance, you won't 
 find any trace of a storyline here and if you were looking for a selection of race modes you've 
 come to the wrong place. Instead they focus on pure adrenalin-filled racing, flying through desert 
 landscapes whilst smashing into anybody that stands in your way. While this is pretty fun for a 
 period it soon becomes apparent just how shallow an experience it really is, with very few ways 
 to play through the game.
  
  The single player mode is made up of various events or 'tickets' as the game refers to them, and 
 as you complete these races you rack up points which then unlocks new vehicles and even harder 
 races. Sadly there are only 21 of these tickets to play through and if you give the game your full 
 attention you should be able to breeze through them in three or four hours.
  
  The game offers you a choice of seven different vehicle c|asses, each handling radically different 
 than the next. The bikes are light and agile, superb at jumps and turning yet small and fragile. 
 The big rigs however are huge and bulky, turning like a ship out of water yet glide through the 
 thick mud as quick as anything. The key is usually picking the right vehicle for the right situation, 
 although sadly the game does like to force you to play as certain vehicles for certain races, this 
 again takes away some of the games variety. The selection of vehicles within each c|ass is also 
 pretty limited and the changes from one to the next are, for the most part, aesthetic.
  
  The tracks featured are all stunning and expansive to boot, offering multiple ways to tackle each 
 one. Within every track you're bound to have high ledges and plenty of jumps for the bikes, ATVs 
 and buggies to attempt, hard flat surfaces for the rally cars and large annoying obstacles that 
 only the heavier vehicles in the pack have any chance of clearing. Unfortunately there are only 
 eight courses to play through and after only a short time with the game you'll already feel the 
 repetitiveness creeping in.
  
  Apart from attempting to survive the treachery of the courses you'll also need to be on full alert 
 for your rival racers. These aren't just along for the ride, pushing them or annoying them in any 
 way will probably end up with you face-first into a wall or head-first over the nearest cliff. 
 They also have a habit of ramming you from behind which spins you and knocks you off course onto 
 terrain that your vehicle isn't suited for. While this sounds like a welcome challenge it isn't. 
 It can make the game unbearably frustrating at times, not to mention extremely unforgiving. They 
 don't even make that many mistakes either, especially on the later levels and that's when things 
 go from difficult to almost impossible. Only by mastering the courses for each vehicle and using 
 your nitro boost effectively to the point of perfection can you win, even then it's not guaranteed. 
 It doesn't matter how good you play most of the time as the majority of races are purely down to 
 luck, then there are the restrictions placed on you as a result of the rubber-band racing that 
 has so clearly been incorporated, you can never get more than a few feet away from your rivals 
 before they're slamming you in the back and taking your position away.
  
  In addition to the games graphics the audio also does a pretty solid job. Every engine roars with 
 passion and ferocity, every crash is met by a resounding boom and crunch as your vehicles are ripped 
 apart. The only problem with this is you seem to hear your vehicle exploding even after the most 
 minor of pings or scrapes. The soundtrack is filled with a mixture of rock and bass, with bands 
 such as Nirvana, Wolfmother and Slipknot booming out over the frantic action. Sadly there isn't 
 a whole lot of variation here and some of the songs start to get a little repetitive after only 
 a few plays through.
  
  The online portion is a pretty fun experience, with up to twelve players able to race at any one 
 time. There isn't that much lag either, not when you consider just how many things are happening 
 on the screen at any given time. Unfortunately, there isn't any sign of an offline multiplayer 
 mode, this is extremely disappointing considering the single player portion is pretty short and 
 one can only think they had issues with slowdown.
  
  All-in-all Motorstorm is a fantastic looking game with great design and a whole lot of potential, 
 sadly at times this can get overshadowed by agonizingly long loading times (sometimes taking up 
 to 20 seconds just to load one vehicle) , frustrating AI and extreme repetitiveness. There's definitely 
 a base here though which can be improved upon, and with a little care and padding around the edges 
 this could be one to look out for in the future.
  
  UPDATE: The game now offers downloadable vehicle packs and a full time trial mode for it's users 
 via the PlayStation Network. These however aren't free like they should be, not only did they give 
 us a sub-par single player experience to begin with but now they want to charge us to enhance what 
 should have been included in the first place. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sw1tched
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 2, 2007 10:02 am PT
Review:  Motorstorm, without a doubt just feels better than any other racing game i have ever played to 
 date. Once you get the controller in your hands, you will know what I mean. You can actually feel 
 the mud on your tires make your controller heavier the controls feel so spot on. Every vehicle 
 has distinct handling and you really have to drive to their strengths. Avoid mud with bikes, avoid 
 dirt with racing trucks yadda yadda.
  
  Graphics: Absolutely beautiful, in SD or HD i don't care what anyone else says this game is flay 
 out gorgeous
  
  Sound: Awesome, absolutely love the audio in this game. music and sound is A+
  
  Control: Perfect, 
 like i said have never felt better controlling any of the vehicles here in any other racer. it's 
 amazing
  
  Game play: start, finish, unlock stuff, race again. This is the only lack in this game. Very simple 
 game modes. i want to fix, tune paint my own cars... hopefully this will improve with part 2. I 
 want a better feeling career mode.
  
  Multiplayer: Good, no lag issues, just racing fun. Modes a little lacking, but stuff is being added 
 VIA Playstation Network
  
  Add that there is alot of tracks, vehicles and downloadable stuff starting to pile up VIA Playstation 
 Network, and this game just screams BUY ME . It's well worth $60 
::::::

::::::
UserName: punkhead66
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 2, 2007 7:05 am PT
Review:  this was one of the first games i bought for the ps3. and it was awsome the graphics are awsome, 
 the gameplay is awsome and the online is great. this game is about racing in the dirt and just 
 to win and its great fun. just fun seeing the smashes. it good te see what you can unlock, what 
 is the best way to use and shortcuts, the vichles are awsome and there are trucks, motorbikes, 
 cars and atv and so many more. online is awsome its great fun and the people on there is great, 
 i have won a lot of games online, it fun but it gets anoying when people screw up your games.
 
  
  the tracks are fun and are different but there should be more of them, but they are fun to play, 
 you can make people crash and find shortcuts, they good and it is said more will be up on psn.
 
  
  overall it a good game, fun to play with friends, just fun to play when your in the mood to race 
 i had a good time playing this game, i will go back to it a couple more times and then just wait 
 for the next one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Teo_7
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 30, 2007 10:05 am PT
Review:  Motorstorm. Truly next gen graphics (especially if u have an HDTV) .
  The monument valley and arizona are REALLY good.
  The circuits, although they are not a lot, 
 they are also really good.
  The sound is absolutely cool. This rock music is travelling me to heaven for sure!
  But the most 
 amazing is, of course, the gameplay! The cars are destroyed with a so real way (the most developed 
 one until now if u ask me) . The driving is fabulous, too. And finally, the Sixaxis movement!
  If u just practice enough u will have a truly next gen experience! It is so f***ing fun. Of course, 
 if u are going to finish the game u have to use the analog stick or the pad cuz the gameplay is 
 sooooooo challenging.
  They dont care if they win, the opponents care only about how you will become a dead meat! To sum 
 up, this game is really cool and u won't regret for the money u spent to buy it. It is also a proof 
 if u are a capable driver cuz as I said its definetely not a walk in the park this game.
  I've finished it but only God knows how much hours I've played it to finish it.
  
  P. S. The 
 only issue is that there is not an offline multiplayer! Horrible and terrible. Why did u do that 
 to me SONY? WHY? : ( 
::::::

::::::
UserName: godhatch
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 25, 2007 3:39 pm PT
Review:  From turning on your ps3 for the first time and seeing the stunning visuals of Motorstorm you realize 
 just where you &pound;425 have gone.
  
  This game has brilliant physics and graphics, especially when you crash into a wall or get taken 
 out buy another vehicle. the car explodes sending parts flying everywhere.
  
  The vehicles are all equally balanced, with the bikes, quads, rally cars being better in the higher 
 dry track and Mudpluggers and big rigs being better stuck in the mud.
  
  The missing split screen multiplayer is a big draw back however online gaming is pretty addictive 
 even if you do get the odd player hanging around the finish line waiting to take you out and ruin 
 your game.
  
  Overall Id give Motorstorm a 8.5 
::::::

::::::
UserName: creepster32000
Rating: 7.5
Date: Sep 24, 2007 7:56 pm PT
Review:  The Games Graphics are top-knotch the handling an the different routes for each class of vehicle 
 are down to an art. The ease of the game makes it fun and as you get deeper into the game becomes 
 more of a challenge. Theres no gameplay to this game at all, besides the racing. This game has 
 a great feel to it but lacks something i dunno. Theres online content that you can buy for this 
 which includes new races an vehicles. To unlock other races you have to win tickets, and when you 
 do so the races start to turn into a real challenge you may begin to feel as if your vehicle is 
 getting slower but a challenge is a challenge no matter how you put it. With what little that could 
 be said i give this game 7.5. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mars188
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 20, 2007 9:14 pm PT
Review:  Yes racing Games as a rule with me i dont like they get old and boring fast. but Motorstorm with 
 the Great music and Great looks and Crashes in the Game is just plane FUN . downside no two player 
 mode at home with the Family this is bad why why make a Game without 2 player mode offline just 
 plane DUMB SONY. but over all the Game ROCKS and FUN BIG TIME. i bought the Game i like it so much. 
 Motorstorm does have the online play but i am not much of a online person . i sure wanted to race 
 with my kids so the no two player mode hurt the game and the score i will give the Game. but still 
 a lot of fun thanks mars188 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AlanHD
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 18, 2007 7:48 pm PT
Review:  .MotorStorm is a great game, which offers realism and fun, and introduces a new sub-genre in racing 
 genre, BRUTAL!!!, being brutal and doing anything it takes to come in 1st which can lead to kill 
 your openents is one of the main aspects of the game.
  .MotorStorm offers gorgeous images with lot of detail, and hopefully lucks frame rateproblems.
 
  .Gameplay is amazing, specially when you are driveng on mud, it really looks like if you are in 
 mud, explosions are detailed and realistic, as well as damage (both vehicles damage and character 
 damage) .
  .MotorStorm lacks a variety of cameras, you can play hood camera and 3rd person camera, there are 
 missing cameras where you can see the interior of the vehicle.
  .It is true that MotorStorm is fun, but you will get bored after playing it for too long.
  .Online 
 gaming seems to be great although i had never played online, so i will not comment on it.
  .In conclusion if you are looking for realism and fun, and you like brutality combined with racing, 
 then MotorStorm is the game for you, play it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: drummer4drb
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 18, 2007 7:24 pm PT
Review:  The Playstation 3 exclusive Motorstorm features beautiful environments and beautiful cars, but 
 thats about it. The single player is a blast but becomes boring too quickly. Another downside is 
 the multiplayer, or the lack of it. The online gameplay is a nice feature, and even better if you 
 have a headset. Sadly, Motorstorm does not have offline multiplayer for if you and a buddy want 
 to race head to head, which is a serious letdown. I think Motorstorm is a blast for a while, but 
 you might want to rent it before you buy it to see if it's worth it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: benleslie5
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 15, 2007 2:08 pm PT
Review:  Motostorm was one of the luanch titles at the midnight sales for the PS3, Mostly its a motodirt 
 racees such as bikes, car, t rucks and more vehicles to choose and drive. There alot of races and 
 tracks to race your way through, and good graphics which are almost perfect for a PS3 game.
  Online mode you'll enjoy the most where you can play other gamers around the world, loads stuff 
 to do, the Online shop has upgrade for the game you can buy and get such as Time Trail, Race Tracks 
 and new vehicles which are worth getting for Motostrom. If you finish races online if you win you'll 
 get to a higher rank on online mode.
  It is worth playing and for your collection but Online mode will keep you busy for hours. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: p4yned
Rating: 1
Date: Sep 11, 2007 4:05 pm PT
Review:  Amazing, but this time gamespot overrated the game, not underrated it. The reason why this game 
 is overhyped that much are simple: 1. Dorks play this game for 5 minutes and rush to give it a 10; 
 2. PS3 fanboys. This game is done by old annoying formula : Make a game hard as hell so the peoples 
 will not complain about shortness of the game. Taped conversation of game creator with his mother 
 MOM! I want to have replay value rated 10 on gamespot, but I'm too lazy to add new features to 
 this game! Oh my little boy! just make this game extra hard so nobody can beat it at all, lol! 
 LOL, MOM! 
  I know, i know. Go ahead trash me and tell how noob I am that I can't beat the game. You're the 
 one sitting 24 hours near your playstation wipe every dust that falls on it. Game is extremely 
 hard. What I mentioned before, is that creators think by making this game possible unbeatable they 
 can provide us with more time playing and interest boost. WRONG! This game got really frustrating. 
 I feel bad for waisting hours to beat one single level. You crush once, and from place 1 you got 
 to last place. So much of funky crushing replays, when you fall down to last place! Just tried 
 to like this game again, after a week of sitting on Resistance. Not happening. After hour I did 
 not complete any race and I am really pissed off right now. It's just killing your nerves. Forget 
 the brutal offracing, it is not brutal since you always the last guy who comes on last place. Games 
 suppose to entertain you, not sending you to psycho clinic! Boosting does not help, computer will 
 outbeat you anyway without using boost. And I did chose good routes and tried not to crush, I am 
 a careful driver! I don't even used boost that much. Poor vehicle selection. 3 type of cars and 
 one or 2 riders are chick, umm.. Sorry! I am not transsexual. Car colors are horrible, with some 
 dumb commercials that you don't give a crap about and no way to change it. Maximum 7-8 maps, and 
 only 1 of them is sort of normal., where you have some fun crushing others and really feels like 
 the race. You can't choose a car to ride, they give u some freaking bike to race against rally 
 cars on dirt map. Graphics are good, but not next generation at all (still looks animated) . With 
 so low number of cars, graphics don't show much detail you will like. From condition, you can choose 
 day and night. No snow or rain. Laziness!
  Online is ok and very overhyped. Everyone chose rally cars and no reason to choose the car you 
 like. Only 1 game mode - race against others, thats what this multiplayer is all about. Simple 
 battle against human brain.
  Terribly long loading times.
  
  In the end, this game is just a piece of trash. The best thing to hate about it is how unfinished 
 it is. Poor choice of vehicles and other things I mentioned. I feel sorry for peoples paying $60 
 dollars to some lazy 40 year old fat guys who live in their mom's basement and make this video 
 games. Do not buy this game. Avoid it all costs. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: d_ano
Rating: 6.5
Date: Sep 10, 2007 2:19 pm PT
Review:  as far as launch titles go this is quite a good 1 for graphics. the cars are very well detailed 
 and nothing is left out. you can see all the hard work that has been put in when you crash and 
 see car parts fly all over the place. but give the game a week and youre soon sick of it. there 
 is no story to it and there isnt any sort of special races where you get to do something new. in 
 the story mode of the game there a list of races that you have to do on certain tracks with different 
 types of cars, this is good you get to do all youre races and unlock new cars. this is more of 
 a training mode though as you start off easy and it gets harder and harder when thats done you 
 head online.
  
  online is great you get to race on any map with any car against people which is perfect for a racing 
 game.
  
  although i did like this game it didnt have a long life for me. the biggist thing this game was 
 missing was a single race mode. if i want to race a track with a car i cant do it unless i go online 
 or find that race in the story mode of the game. this is a big thing for a racing game not to have. 
 there is some good songs in the soundtrack but there is only about 10 of them which isnt nearly 
 enough and you can hear the same song twice in a row.
  
  but overall i did enjoy this game. i like off road racing games but this doesnt have anything special. 
 i would recommend getting it if youre a fan of these type of games but if youre just looking for 
 a game to buy because you have nothing else i wouldn't recommend buying it 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Stalemate99
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 12, 2008 1:55 pm PT
Review:  This game has amazing gameplay. The Tracks, Vehicles, Crashes, Graphics etc are all 10/10. Each 
 track is very intesreting, they all support different vehicle types and depending on which type 
 you are using you its quicker to go different ways.
  
  The music in this game is great, sounds amazing through a surround sound system, same goes for 
 the Graphics, this game on a HDTV looks very nice.
  
  Its just a shame there isnt much depth to the game, a simple single player only 8 tracks and 35 
 vehciles.
  
  They are fixing this though with updates, you do have to pay a small fee for them thogh.
  
 
  Overall an amazing game I would reccomend it.
  
  Due to all the awesome DLC I am upping this game from an 8 to a 8.5. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Johnny5pr
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 9, 2007 11:15 am PT
Review:  Good music, excellent vision of the game, the accidents is great with good parts of the vehicles 
 and good movement of the conductor who makes interesting. Playstation updates for the game SUPER. 
 Hours of entertainment. Good game... sequel serious interesting , we needed games like these innovators 
 and but important SCEA . Serious very good for adding some maps to complete with updates for massive 
 fun since it is a game for all the family. However, online it is much more violent and is great 
 fun to know that somewhere in the world, someone is cursing as i ram them into a boulder. Sadly, 
 there is the gaping hole that is NO SPLITSCREEN = [ but other than that, brilliant fun.
  I also like the free time attack mode on the PSNetwork, nice touch sony.
  It would have been 
 a 9 if it had split screen though... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Pepsodentalspy
Rating: 7.5
Date: Sep 8, 2007 6:36 am PT
Review:  The first look at Motorstorm gives always pretty nice feeling of the game. That's why I bought 
 it. The first couple of hours the game feels fresh and exciting, but after a while it gets dull. 
 Not even the multiplayer can't really hold your interest any longer. Only a few tracks and game 
 modes are propably the weakest link among the fact that there is no split-screen multiplayer.
 
  
  The graphics of the game a very nice. Cars are especially nicely done and the tracks are spectacular. 
 The crasher also look very impressive, and the game actually never has any framerate issues. But 
 after you play it for awhile everything gets dull. The crashes are not really so breathtaking and 
 you'd just want to skip them.
  
  The game's AI is actually hard to describe: sometimes they seem to be ok, but later on you'll notice 
 the ruthless rubber band. It's really damn annoying especially in only one of the tracks which 
 is awkward. And that hardest race in't even close to the last one.
  
  After you've played thru the game you've kinda seen it all, so the multiplayer gets boring really 
 fast. I'm sure that if they would have made a 2-4 player split-screen multiplayer, the game would 
 have had better value.
  
  The good things of this game is that it works perfectly on the technical side, tho when playing 
 online with some laggy guys their cars seem to crash to wall and stuff all over the time and that 
 causes some serious trouble when the unreal laggy cars hit your way. But that rarely happens, so 
 it's not a big deal.
  
  Closing comments:
  With fine adjustment the game could have been a real hit, but that really doesn't matter right 
 now. Even with some value issues, Motorstorm is still worth playing or even bying for some cases. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: killzone_gamer
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 7, 2007 2:22 pm PT
Review:  The First thing that i noticed about Motorstorm was the awesome graphics. For a launch title, this 
 has to be a sign of incredible things that are yet to come in the PS3's lifetime. Then i played 
 the thing and i was hooked. I only got a PS3 on monday of this week, and with it this and RFOM, 
 and i love both to the point that i am stuck what to play.
  The normal/story mode of the game has you playing against the computer AI on set difficulty levels, 
 1-4, which are outstanding. I love racing against the computer, as they are very intellegent, especially 
 on the later levels, and are fun to drive with.
  However, online it is much more violent and is great fun to know that somewhere in the world, someone 
 is cursing as i ram them into a boulder. Sadly, there is the gaping hole that is NO SPLITSCREEN 
 = [ but other than that, brilliant fun.
  I also like the free time attack mode on the PSNetwork, nice touch sony.
  It would have been 
 a 9 if it had splitscreen though...
  
  k_g 
::::::

::::::
UserName: X-5
Rating: 7.5
Date: Oct 31, 2008 6:57 am PT
Review:  NOTICE PLEASE: This is my first review ever in english, so I'm sorry if I'm not very clear. I do 
 not live in an english speaking country.
  
  GRAPHICS
  
  I own a "regular" TV, NOT a HD one, and still, this game looks definetly great! especially the 
 envoierment which looks just... real. no doubt. you cannot say from the graphics that this is a 
 video game. Still, some of the cars look like they are made of some kind of cheap metal, untill 
 you get use to there very special look, that is. The high speed effects are awsome, too.
  
  SOUND
  
  The sound effects are real awsome and really get you "into the game". Except maybe 
 for the boost sound effect, but even then, it just sounds a little weird, that's all.
  As for the soundtrack, there are tones of songs from the Rock/Punk genre, and all of the songs 
 are awsome.
  
  GAMEPLAY
  
  First, I just want to say that once you get use to it, Motorstorm's gameplay is really cool, sort 
 of like "Burnout 3: Takedown"'s, only alot better.
  But don't get it wrong, this isn't a "pick-up-and-play"game. Sometimes, it's really hard and frustrating, 
 which is too bad.
  
  OVERALL
  
  Although this is not a game for "everyone", the cool gameplay, awsome soundtrack and sound effects 
 and the simply amazing graphics, make it a must buy, and not only for racing games lovers. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DarthaPerkinjan
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 6, 2007 10:37 am PT
Review:  I'd wait until this drops in price.
  
  The game is fun, but there are several key problems.
  
  The AI is rediculous. When you get 
 in the lead they will just sit right on your heals and wait for you to make a mistake. You can 
 drive a perfect race and spin out on the last lap and finish 10th.
  
  I thought online would be fun but the races become way too spread out. Ever want to crash somebody 
 else online? The cars get so spread out you will hardly ever have the chance. The tracks have way 
 too many hidden bumps and the game loses the balance between fun and challenging. It is hard. Too 
 hard. And I'm a driving sim ace.
  
  The graphics are great and the damage is great. But the above reasons ruin the experience to a 
 point. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SP3AR101
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 31, 2007 12:38 pm PT
Review:  ive owned this game since the realease of the PS3 and im still playing it a alot
  
  my brother also loves the game
  
  what makes it good is the amount of races and unlockable 
 cars
  
  i also am a good fan of online
  
  only 1 dissapointment is no 2 player in game : (
  
  the graphics are amazing and innovotive 
 with the shadows and lighting.
  the reflective-ness' on different surfaces is imppressive to
  
  the driver a. i is clever with 
 drivers protecting themselves and remembering if you took them out (this can come back and bite 
 u!)
  
  a must by for all PS3 owners
  
  SP3AR
  
  online id:
  
  SP3AR101 
::::::

::::::
UserName: -D3MO-
Rating: 7.5
Date: Aug 29, 2007 3:00 pm PT
Review:  Motorstorm (PS3) Review
  
  Motorstorm is a great racing game but it falls short of being a killer app. The game lacks many 
 features that a racing game should have. The games graphics are amazing, the sounds is great, the 
 vehicle selection is pretty good but the games gameplay is mediocre and leaves a lot to be desired. 
 The game can be hard to get into as well which might scare away new players. The racing is brutal. 
 Your opponents will have no sympathy for you and will not hesitate to cut in front of you, bump 
 in to you, get you off the course.
  
  The Good:
  
  - Amazing Graphics
  - Amazing Sound Effects
  - Online Multiplayer is superb (a no lag experience) ... purely awesome 
 and required for this type of game
  - The vehicles are plenty, a truley great selection of vehicles
  - The tracks are interesting 
 and easy to get into but a challenge to master
  
  The Bad:
  
  - The gameplay leaves a lot to be desired
  - The single player could have been a lot better.
 
  - No Offline Multiplayer which is a major minus for this type of game. overall this game is good, 
 but nothing special or must have. I don't believe that it is worth a purchase but definaley worth 
 a renal. If your not into racing games this game is probably not for you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: judas-savior
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 30, 2007 7:56 am PT
Review:  Motorstorm has the workings of an almost perfect racing game. Great Graphics, Gamplay, Sound etc. 
 and is honestly one of the best racing games I have ever played. The only thing that lets it down 
 is the lack of anything else to do other than an arcade style mode. This particular mode is fun 
 for awhile but you have nothing to gain other than harder races, new vehicles and tracks which 
 is something you would expect out of a PSONE game which has worked but not satisfying enough in 
 this gen. The lack of customization, some form of story mode or any other kind of extras is disappointing 
 as I would have loved to customize my vehicle as there is such a wide variety to chose from, it 
 would have been awesome. I didn't happen to notice much difference between vehicles within the 
 same class other than looks as there were not even differing stats between the different vehicles.. 
 As a result there is not much to encourage you to finish the game.. the true replay value could 
 have been better if off-line multi player was available, its kind of frustrating but I understand 
 due to the amount of the screen you have to pay attention to why they did not include it.. The 
 online multi-player as it is fun but still not enough to save the game from itself. The game has 
 bought allot to the genre and I think it sets itself up for a very promising sequel! Graphics - 
 10/10
  - Unbelievable graphics.. all those legendary shades of brown do not disappoint in anyway, top 
 marks to them in that respect =)
  
  Gameplay - 9/10
  - Fun exciting with new ideas that work extremely well and have set a new standard for similar 
 games in the genre. I had no issues with the controls, even the motion sensing was fun!
  
  Sound - 9/10
  - Sound was great, nothing was out of place and it had a soundtrack which fitted 
 the game perfectly.
  
  Plot/Story/Modes 6/10
  - Offline Arcade, Online Arcade... border-line satisfactory in that regard..
  
  Value/Tilt - 
 8.5/10
  - For what it is the value is great as it is alot of fun and not many other car games come close 
 to the fun experienced whilst playing this game. The game does have online multi-player to go with 
 it but unfortunately its not enough to keep you going forever as no offline multi-player or modes 
 give you any urge to keep playing is frustrating. I still rate the value high due to the over-whelming 
 fun you can have playing as the actual races are totally awesome and I have come across nothing 
 that compares. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PlYsTaTiOn_rock
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 28, 2007 1:20 pm PT
Review:  when i play this game it just feels amazing... there is nothing like.. killer OFFROAD playin! i 
 dont want to compare this to other games.. that might be offroad! because this game makes its own 
 genre! it is the dirtiest offroad playing ever! it has certain things that make it this way:
  - u never have to TOUCH the real road.... its all rock and DIRT! ( not like other games.. ahem 
 )
  - it has the nastiest compat racing the really shows what happens OFFROAD!
  - when your online... u can really show your skills... and or get owned!
  - time attack gives 
 great practice and really can let u race .. without getting hit off the rock! or.. into a rock!
 
  - graphics that really show off what youve done to you vehicle!
  But there still is a few things missing in the game:
  - NO OFFLINE MULTIPLAYER!!
  - single 
 player ...... is so so! ( this does not mean the racing is bad )
  - u can really get frustrated when u crash so many times ( its not really a problem ... but.. i 
 just hate when that happens! ) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: the-darcwake
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 27, 2007 9:56 pm PT
Review:  Motorstorm is a lot more than just a racing game. It's a battle between you and other cars. The 
 whole point of Motorstorm is to destroy &amp; flip the bird to other cars.
  
  Gameplay: There are about 7 maps total, and each is a totally new adventure to embark on. From 
 the long map The Grizzly. To the narrow and difficult map Sidewinder Gulch. The only problem with 
 this game is that it does not support split-screen play. So if you and your buddy want to race 
 eachother.... it ain't happening. There are many different vehicles to chose from also. The vehicles 
 are: Dirt Bikes, ATVs, Buggys, Rally Cars, Racing Trucks, Mudpluggers, and the huge Big Rigs.
 
  
  Graphics: This game is totally mind-blowing. Proving why the Playstation 3 is one of the best consoles 
 of this generation. The mud effects are extremly excellent and the way the sun glares in your eyes 
 is very realistic. It is very amazing how each lap is different because everytime a car goes over 
 the mud it makes an impact which changes the way you have to turn, and look at the map.
  
  Sound: The Sound is amazing also. There are no custom soundtracks, but the songs chosen are perfect 
 for racing in this type of race. You will actually begin to remember some songs and start to sing 
 a long while you are driving.
  
  Online: The online play is great. There are leaderboards and of course the usual Join a Match or 
 Create a match . The load times are quick and the driving doesnt get any slower just because you 
 are online. The amazing online play makes up for the lack of split-screen. Also a new addition 
 from the PS Store is a Time Attack mode (you must install to your hard drive) which is loads of 
 fun too. You can try to beat a person from Japans time on a certain map.
  
  Extreme: Motorstorm is extreme because of the amazing Physics and the killer Graphics. It is a 
 lot of fun to go online and play people from all over the world!
  
  Final Statement: I rate this game a 9.0. I would have rated it a 10.0 but because of the no split-screen 
 it has been pushed down far. Other than that, this game is an amazing experience any Playstation 
 3 owner should enjoy! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pavel_nedved_br
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 27, 2007 8:14 pm PT
Review:  Since I have played most rally and off-road games out there I'm biased to say they're improving 
 in many aspects.
  The difference between Motorstorm and another off-road game, for instance DiRT, is the wider areas 
 you can actually explore and drive. There are no limitations on the courses (except mountains of 
 course) and you can practically drive through where you think is the best place to defeat your 
 adversaries.
  
  Being one of the first games released to the PS3 system, the graphical advances and improvements 
 are great, however they do not reach the quality of DiRT for example. But, as said before, it was 
 one of the first PS3 releases.
  
  Playing DiRT demo on the PS3 made me think that now we're starting to show some of the next-gen 
 consoles power, in this case the PS3.
  
  Now, going back to Motorstorm. Unfortunately the game has only a few tracks, and after some time 
 you seem to be running over and over on the same course. It there were more tracks the enjoyability 
 of the game would have improved a lot.
  
  Sound however is very good, not revolutionary but good.
  
  My closing comments about Motorstorm 
 are that it's a worthy game and provides many hours of fun. Now and then you'll eventually return 
 and play again, however it's not a longtime experience like other racing games out there (for example, 
 GT5) .
  
  Worth buying! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Spyro4President
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 15, 2007 11:37 am PT
Review:  All of the crashing, smashing and thrashing will make thrill seekers go nuts! But the lack of a 
 multiplayer split screen will make players thatenjoygoing head-to-head sad, fortunatly the online 
 multiplayer makes up for most of the very few mistakes in this game! Sure, players will continue 
 to come back for some more crashing there big rigs and blowing up there dirt bikers, but the thing 
 that will really draw players back is it's incredible online play! The really cool thing about 
 the game is, as you unlock content in the single player races, that content is also added onto 
 your online play, so you can show off your single player skills while you also show off your online 
 skills! The graphics don't show off the very best of the PS3's power, but they sure do show off 
 alot of it! The environments are really beautiful and fun with the kind of excitement you would 
 want out of a next-gen game! Of course, it's not just the PS3 that you have to thank for this wonderful 
 game, but also the guys down at Evolution Studios know a thing or two about awesome off-road racer 
 games and have quite a bit of experience from there awesome WRC (World Rally Championship) series! 
 The ups: Great graphics! - Crashes are extremely enjoyable. - Plently of vehicles. - Tons of tickets. 
 - Online play is a blast! - Plently of downloadable content to keep you happy for a while.
  
  The downs: The occasional glitch is usually a bad one. - Crashes will get old after a while.
 
  
  You can buy this game with confidence, knowing that you're making a wise choice for a game! It's 
 an 8.5/10! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tikiz
Rating: 6.5
Date: Oct 8, 2007 3:43 pm PT
Review:  I found this game to be fun when you're just crashing and stuff, but eventually after you've died 
 like 10 times tyou get bored, and online is OK but I'd rather play on RESISTANCE online.
  
  The good: - Nice graphics - - Lots of tracks - - Cool trucks to choose from - - The soundtrack 
 is OK for a racing game - - Its fun to crash - The bad: - No offline multiplayer - - Races get 
 too hard - - Time attack mode is a bust - - No on-screen map - - No speedomider - - Most of the 
 cool vehicles suck - Having limited speed sucks big time - 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ILOVETHEENOT
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 26, 2007 1:35 pm PT
Review:  Motorstorm is a great game, the physics of the car feel good, the AI is fairly smart, and the graphics 
 even on a non HD TV are killer!
  
  Right so I only just got this game today with my 80 GB PS3. It's a great game, However things that 
 need to be improved apon are:
  better breaks (cars feel hard to control in corners even when not using boost, with boost it's nearly 
 impossible)
  more camera angles, it's either see in the car or out of the car, no pull away view etc. Cars off 
 the start are too agressive and make the trucks a little more durable oh and motion sensors are 
 too sensative
  
  the good however is:
  great graphics
  cars feel fast
  senery is the best I have ever seen for a racing game
  dirt hitting the camera though can at 
 times be a nusience is a great thing to add. Just fun gameplay.
  
  Over all if you love Rally or Offroad racing this game will have you begging for more, casual racers 
 will also like this game but will find it harder to get into, and if your just a casual gamer looking 
 for a fun game this should be one of your top choices 
::::::

::::::
UserName: joesonhorses
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 23, 2007 5:16 pm PT
Review:  one video said that this is only possible on the ps3. the ps3 is stronger than the 360. i already 
 mastered it, i now use the sixaxis motion sensor on the game. if you have a ps3 you need to get 
 motorstorm instead of like need for speed. the graphics of this game will blow you away. i have 
 a 55'' 1080p tv in my living room and i play my ps3 there. my computer is about 5 feet away from 
 my ps3. so i can play online, too. motorstorm to me is the most advance offroad racing game in 
 the world. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thetrudon
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 23, 2007 4:08 am PT
Review:  I have had my playstaion3 for 3 weeks now, and this game was one of those that was chosen in a 
 pack.
  First play of it and i thought lovely graphics, good sound (apart from the soundtracks that play 
 in the game, not my cup of tea) and how hard it was.
  I thought this game was impossible to play, until i realized this ain't the type of game you permanently 
 speed around at top throttle!
  When you sit and take in the controls and different vehicle physics, the game does become very 
 addictive.
  The framerate is top notch, the crashes can be spectacular (apart from that if you have crashed 
 very weakly and not done too much damage, it can be very annoying waiting for the slowed down sequence 
 to finish, as you just wanna get back to the race) , but perfect for multiple pile ups! I can't 
 believe I've read reviews where people have stated the terrain physics are a little poor and off 
 putting. Where you can hit a small bump and fly off somewhere!
  WHAT?
  That is what the games suppose to be like..... what do you think driving over rough rocky desert 
 terrain and muddy paths is suppose to be like?
  I'll admit the game is pretty short with not many tracks, but that suits me just fine.
  The tracks 
 on offer will grow on you and you will soon find your way around these tracks with shortcuts and 
 all fresh in mind.
  I honestly think the number of tracks in this game is quite pleasing.... ok... one or two more would 
 be welcome, but i cant stand racing games where there are tons of tracks, with whom, most are just 
 plain boring and rubbish!.
  This game uses what tracks its got and can make you a god at negotiating them..... just check out 
 the online mode!!
  Online is just great and you will soon learn what your skill levels are like up against the legend 
 players that already own the tracks.
  Now with the 'time trial' mode which the game updates for you or you can get from the online store 
 is a nice welcome addition and I'm sure theres still more life in this game with HOPEFULLY, more 
 support from Evolution Studios as this game is just a superb and different racing game then the 
 rest of the racers.
  A welcome addition to your games collection!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kelpish
Rating: 6.5
Date: Aug 22, 2007 5:55 pm PT
Review:  This game is the most known game for the PS3 because for all of the playable demos in EB games 
 and Game Stop. When I first got it, I played it for hours on end but as it got harder and with 
 so few races to choose from it just lost its magic. The limited number of races and the lack of 
 a quick race really brought the game down. Don't get me wrong the online play is fantastic and 
 really enjoyable, but if you do not have internet cababilities that the game is only good for renting. 
 The lack of a split screen is also disappointing. The fact that you can not have a split screen 
 quick race in which you can choose where and what to race really ruined the game for me. Great 
 rental, but if you intend to buy it make sure you think first, trust me. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: aguststef
Rating: 7
Date: Aug 22, 2007 8:25 am PT
Review:  When you begin playing MotorStorm you're out of words because of the graphics in the game. The 
 games graphics are stunning and awesome and the first level in the game, when you can choose between 
 every class of vehicles, is good.
  
  When you finish the first levels which are just-right in difficulty you reach levels where you 
 have to compete with a bike or other class of vehicles.
  
  Competing on a bike or a big truck is just boring, I have to say this, and I just don't like competing 
 on a bike or a big truck. I, on the other hand, love the four wheeler and the buggy.
  
  The boost is good in the game, you can use much of it but not too much, if you use too much you 
 explode. It's fun racing but when you start the race it's very irritating that you can't drive 
 at the same speed as the other competitors. If you're driving a bike or a big truck and the race 
 starts you're way behind when you finally can use your boost. You have to wait for 10 seconds before 
 using your boost and these 10 seconds are like hours because you really need the boost in the beginning 
 of the race.
  
  I have to say that the lack of 2-player mode is a big let down. This is a game that would be great 
 to play with your friend when he visits you.
  
  I expected more from this game and will only give it a 7 out of 10. It's obvious that this game 
 was rushed out so it would be available when the PS3 was released and it really damages the game.
 
  
  Make MotorStorm 2 and spend a bit more time on the actual gameplay rather than just thinking about 
 the graphics and to get it out on time, you see that GTA IV gets more time in development and will 
 be better for it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LeePowers
Rating: 7.5
Date: Aug 22, 2007 8:12 am PT
Review:  Basically thats all you get from the game start to finish really.
  
  When I first got my PS3 I was kind of excited yet thinking maybe I should have not have bought 
 this. As I got my PS3 setup this was the first game I put in. When it loaded up I was like ok, 
 how I do a single race.. Bummer you cant, because what youre faced with is just a career mode 
 and as you progress by qualifying races and such you get points and these unlock cars tracks etc. 
 Of course you get online but ill talk about that later on. So ok I go for race and I choose a car, 
 which you have to wait way to long for the cars to load up. Its kind of ok I guess for changing 
 colours but to switch car models it takes around 5 seconds. Which we can agree is not good especially 
 for a next gen title
  
  So ok we finally get into the race itself and the first thing anyone is going to notice is the 
 visuals and well they really disappointed me on what I was expecting to be honest. The way they 
 have done the filtering of the textures just makes it look so bland and bad. So I was like hmmmmmm 
 ok lets race. I swear to you now as soon as I turned the car was felt like a RC car it just turning 
 everywhere and since I am used to simulation racers I was completely thrown out of it. Anyways 
 I was off and it felt like a really fun game and since I had picked up speed the poorly looking 
 textures were blurred and so it looked loads better, also the smoke and dust the cars pick up looks 
 great aswell. I came across this mud pit and wow it looked great and noticing things how the mud 
 actually comes on your car in a realistic way was is a great feeling when you have spent &pound;500+ 
 at Gamestation. Later on I pressed the pause button and since people who have the game will know 
 you can zoom into your car and zoom out and even to this day I believe this game has the best car 
 models out of any game. The cars are just so greatly detailed its amazing. Also if you go above 
 the cars and zoom out the textures look really good and the mud looks even better. Playing on it 
 again a few months later of buying I realise this game has so much potential but the things like 
 offline multiplayer, cockpit view more tracks and a slightly better sense of speed this game would 
 have been an instant classic in my view. Its got a lot going for it at the moment its set in a 
 awesome place, the idea of different vehicles is great and the tracks themselves are great with 
 the bigger rigs (big lorries) to the nimble bikes and atvs having to take different routes to get 
 the most out of their machine is a fantastic idea.
  
  Online Multiplayer is fun but since the rally car seems to be the only car people choose and the 
 track always seems to be the same rockhopper (less challenging one) its just not what Motorstorm 
 offers. Its still a blast but it doesnt keep you on their for hours.
  
  Only a few things stick out for me on Motorstorm, 2 of those are things that have happened to me 
 while playing. One of which was a 3 mid air collision which was awesome to press pause and admire 
 it. Secondly was having 6 near misses on a bike looking behind just to see this Mud Plugger (big 
 4x4) land on my head. Its things like that for me make this game a good game but you do kind of 
 feel it could have been so much more. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Woodsy1991
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 21, 2007 9:57 am PT
Review:  - MotorStorm -
  
  MotorStorm is one of the most impressive Racers Ive ever had the pleasure of playing, Im not 
 very good at racers and dont ever find myself ever enjoying them but this racer is so much fun 
 its made my favourite Racer of all time! The Online on this Game is pretty cool, because there 
 are no rules, I can now abuse the opposition with vehicles like Big Rigs against Bikes. Despite 
 the Game has only got 8 tacks, 7 of them are pretty lengthy and takes practise to know the best 
 routes for certain vehicles. The crashes in this are very realistic which for me is a big plus. 
 The Game only has two Features Play and Online, there are no quick race options so you have 
 to find your desired race by flicking through the tickets to find them. And there is no Two Player 
 Option to play with a friend. But if you have an internet connection you get the brilliantly fast 
 paced multiplayer, and have the option to download the Time Trial Feature. Despite the lack of 
 features you have 7 vehicle categories to choose from which about 6 vehicles in each, so there 
 is quite a selection, also the creators of MotorStorm are continuously designing new content for 
 download. Nevertheless this game is great for rainy days, and is something you can play time and 
 time again even when new games are being stacked on the shelves. Thank You. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: manuel-martens
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 21, 2007 6:27 am PT
Review:  the good:
  -Great graphics: most beautiful racing game Ive seen so far
  -Very exciting racing game due to the aggressive opponents: each race really is a struggle to survive
 
  -Cars break apart incredibly nice
  -The way you have to take the heat of the engine into account when deciding whether youre going 
 to boost or not ( when you use boost, the engine heats up and when it becomes too hot your car 
 explodes )
  -Great track design
  -Great physics: the cars react as they should on each bump in the road
  - it is fun!
  the bad: 
 -small glitches when it comes to collision detection: the tires for example sometimes clip through 
 environmental hazards like stones.
  -Small frame drops once and awhile, particularly when theres a lot of cars crashing at the same 
 time
  -Rag doll physics of the driver sometimes get a little goofy
  -Load times!!!
  -Only 8 tracks in the game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Darkmaster46
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 20, 2007 12:00 pm PT
Review:  I have always been a fan of racing games and this game brings racing to the max. You race of road 
 and even on mountains. I have a PS3 and this game is my second favorite game. l My first is Sonic 
 the hedgehog. I only have four games and most of the time im playing motorstorm. You may be wondering 
 why im telling you this and that question i cant answer cause i dont know. The features thats what 
 we will do next. You can be buggys, atvs, mud pluger, big rigs, racing trucks, rally cars, and 
 more. they have alot of races and really good tracks. The tracks are good and you can play 12 players 
 through the playstation network and that is a good thing i think. You can make cars flip and push 
 people off their atvs if you are an atv or a motorcle and you can squah small cars when you are 
 a big rig. It is sweet. if you have a PS3 get this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DarkFrankhs
Rating: 4.5
Date: Aug 20, 2007 7:47 am PT
Review:  Positives:
  Choosing a vehicle is fun,
  Racing with different kinds is refreshing
  The crashes are cool, and pausing and rotating and zooming in on them is great.
  Pick up and 
 play game. The motion sensitive controls seems to be a hit with my friends that are girls. I can't 
 stand them!
  The graphics are good, esp the mud.
  Nice Physics. Great Soundtrack.
  
  Negatives:
  Becomes dull, very quickly. A bit too easy. Some vehicles aren't fun. The boost system 
 and racing is hollow. No split screen multiplayer. Doing 3 laps of a long course is boring.
  There are very few race courses (about 8, I think) . Single player literally consists of those race 
 courses and being forced to do them in 'A' vehicle. No customising/pimping of anything!
  
  So, yeah.... I'm not the biggest fan. I'm just about to trade it in. I'm sure some people like 
 it, I just like depth to my games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Zell_Forever
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 18, 2007 10:29 am PT
Review:  I got Motorstorm together with the PS3 Starter pack 6 days ago.
  And for the next 5 evenings, I spent my time glued to the TV, playing the solo races.
  
  My 
 first impression of Motorstorm was: WOW! The graphics are unlike anything I've ever seen on a racing 
 game.
  You can pause the game during the race at any point, and pan the camera around your car, zoom in 
 and out, and see how detailed the vehicles, drivers, and environment is.
  I tend to ramble on alot, so I'll focus on the main points separately from now on.
  
  Graphics:
 
  As I said, unlike anything I've experienced on racing games. Perhaps there are already games out 
 on the next-gen consoles with better graphics, but if you are new to next-gen , you will be thoroughly 
 impressed!
  When your vehicle explodes, you see the different components of your vehicle flying out in all 
 directions: Brake discs, wheels, nuts and bolts, bonnet and doors, suspension, exhaust pipes, and 
 a lot of scrap metal.
  The tyres dig into the dirt when you are racing, and you can see the mud building up on your car 
 while your wheels fling dirt behind you and leave detailed grooves in the dirt/mud.
  The sky, lighting, and all surrounding objects are so well detailed, that you enjoy the race even 
 more due to the sheer beauty of the map.
  If you aren't impressed by these graphics, then I'm not sure much can impress you.
  The only 
 issues i had was that text is almost impossible to read on a 480p TV, and if you don't know the 
 map emblems yet, it's impossible to know online which race you are preparing for, hence which vehicle 
 to pick.
  
  Physics:
  Usually reviewers don't talk about the physics as a stand-alone section, but the physics were so 
 good in this game, i just have to talk about it.
  The developers of this game spent a hell of alot of effort to make sure that all the different 
 types of vehicles handle realistically on the many types of surface you race on. For example, you 
 feel the difference when your motorbike goes on mud, dirt, rocks, sand, etc. And when you bring 
 a truck on the same surfaces, the truck will handle on them appropriately as they should in reality.
 
  Not only this, but the vehicles all interact with each other realistically. For example, two buggies 
 racing next to each other can get their wheels hooked to each other, and sometimes that leads to 
 one buggy flipping over and breaking apart.
  One time i was in the air with a mud plugger, and a motorbike came full speed into my side, and 
 while the rider fell off his bike, my vehicle tilted to one side due to the impact and the door 
 was a destroyed.
  
  If you think that the doors/bonnet/wheels etc just fall off , think again!
  Once i had my doors 
 open flinging around, and I used the boost to the maximum till the engine exploded. The bonnet 
 flew off as did one front wheel, and the other front wheel was hanging off very loosely... The 
 car was flipping over in slow motion, and the car landed on one of the open doors (which were still 
 attached of course) and the door broke without affecting the car much, while the other slammed 
 shut.
  When you hit a rock or something and don't explode, your wheels could be badly damaged and hence 
 wobble around etc.
  
  Even more impressive physics: The road is never the same on 2 laps. When i read that on the back 
 of the game box, i though yeah well... sure the grooves remain in the mud, but I'm sure that's 
 about it .
  Wrong. If you go close to the rocks in a wide mud road, depending on the weight of your vehicle 
 you will leave varying widths of tracks behind. As do all vehicles.
  When you come back in the next lap, it will still be there, and you will handle better if you stay 
 on there. The line where most cars go on (usually close to the middle) will usually become a big, 
 slimy mud-bath by the 2nd or 3rd lap, and believe me, it's slippery as hell.
  Also, the roads are bumpy, but different vehicles handle them differently, and thus you must figure 
 out which lines/routes to take which is best for your vehicle.
  That will be covered in the gameplay section.
  
  Gameplay:
  There are 21 tickets in the game, 
 most with 3 or 4 races in each, but some with 1 or 2.
  Apart from that, there are 4 levels, clearly corresponding to difficulty. When I started playing, 
 I didn't know the tracks, nor which route suites which vehicle best. I just raced, and on all level 
 1 and 2 tracks I won the races on my first try.
  When I got to level 3, things started changing. The races became harder, and on some tracks, it 
 became very important to find the shortest and best route for your vehicle.
  For example, on a Big Rig on Sidewinder, you'd take the muddy and long routes as they were mostly 
 easy on the turns, and with boost you got there quick.
  But with the Rally Cars or Motorbikes, you had to find different routes that were quite tricky, 
 but payed off once you became good at them.
  
  Close to the end of level 3, I noticed something really irritating.
  To make the races harder 
 , the developers set some of the AI vehicles to target you... You are probably thinking, yeah the 
 Big Rigs play aggressive and knock you the f*ck out! .
  Well, in a way yes. But the way it's been implemented is rediculase.
  Trucks will come out of 
 nowhere and T-Bone you directly into the wall... You can be on the outside of the track minding 
 your own business, thinking you are clear of the baddies, but yet you get constantly T-Boned and 
 cannot do a thing about it.
  You think that's bad? Worse yet, is that the AI is completely retarded. If you are coming 2nd for 
 example, and a big bad yellow truck is 1st, he will suddenly break to make you crash into him, 
 then turn and try hit you more.
  You can break till you are stopped completely, and the idiot in front of you will stop too... Ehm, 
 aren't you racing? Don't you want to win? Idiot!
  Even worse is that in order to make you crash into a rock/cliff, the opponent vehicle will sacrifice 
 itself just to kill you... again, not caring about the race at all.
  
  When you get to stage 4, you get sometimes 7 big rigs or mud pluggers just all ramming you into 
 the wall or stopping in front of you so you cannot pass.
  Apart from that, the difficulty level forces you to figure out the best paths for each vehicle, 
 and prepare you to be an online God. If you can finish all races on Gold, I'm sure you will be.
 
  However, no matter how well you race the 3 laps, the ending is always dependent on your luck, 
 as you can have 3 trucks T-Boning you on the last corner because they are abit faster than you 
 in level 4, and thus all your efforts have gone to waste.
  In the end, unfortunately finishing a race feels more like OMG got so lucky. Thank God I don't 
 have to play this one again... rather than Oooohhh yeah i beat your asses! 
  Also, due to the fact that there are only 8 or so maps, when you get to the end of level 4, you 
 know them off by heart and hope that the final race will perhaps have a new map or at least a longer 
 race with 10 laps or something, as opposed to the same old 3 lap races.
  The sense of accomplishment fades with such circumstances, and thus finishing the solo campaign 
 didn't really give me any feeling of.. accomplishment.
  
  Sound:
  There isn't alot to say about the sound.
  The environment sounds are really great, making you 
 feel like you are on that mud/dirt/bridge, however the engine sounds don't really feature much, 
 and are very monotonous. Also, the booster sounds gets a little old fast. After playing many races 
 of Motorstorm in an evening, I would go to bed with the booster sound constantly repeating itself 
 in my head.
  There are some really great songs in the soundtrack, featuring big names, and really fitting into 
 the feeling of Motorstorm. They are very appropriate.
  However, I wish they had a bigger selection of songs, but since the single player campaign was 
 so short, the list of songs was big enough to entertain during that time. But I cannot see myself 
 playing this game online alot with those same songs playing over and over.
  
  Online:
  I had the pleasure of experiencing a few races on the Motorstorm servers.
  I hail from South 
 Africa, so I was at first a little disappointed to see that there are only European and Australian 
 servers for the PAL territories, due to the high ping I would have.
  However, in the races everything was smooth. I could crash into other vehicles most of the time 
 and have positive consequences. Of course sometimes a car would keep veering to the right and teleporting 
 causing accidents to me, but that was rare, and the online races really ran very smoothly. I was 
 thoroughly impressed with that.
  With the high number of players online at any time you will always find plenty of servers where 
 you can join and race. Plenty of fun, and this is where i think Motorstorm's replayability comes 
 in.
  
  Graphics: Smooth and beautiful, with few issues on an SDTV. 9/10
  Physics: Wow. 10/10
  Sound: Could have been better. 8/10
  Gameplay: Lasts longer than it should 
 only because of retarded AI, and is still very short. Would have liked more maps. Otherwise very 
 fun to play. 7/10
  Online: Very smooth and instantly ready for action. However, giving us new maps to download would 
 have been logical after all this time Motorstorm is out. Time Attack should have been one of many 
 upgrades . 8/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: acwt111
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 13, 2007 2:12 am PT
Review:  Motorstorm is really a must-have for every PS3 owner as it is fast, fun and muddy! The controls 
 are easy to learn and the gameplay is a revolution. The graphics are also great as the attention 
 to detail to the cars, drivers and even the mud are exceptional. Bikes, ATVs, Buggys, Rally Cars, 
 Trucks, Mudplauggers and Bid Rigs are all playable and the tracks are great. The soundtrack to 
 the game is also great. However this game is shallow after the first week of playing it so really 
 this game seems to work the best with online play. Overall it join Resistance Fall of Man as a 
 must have game and definitely worth playing even if it is a bit overrated - 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bazzatuk
Rating: 8.2
Date: Aug 12, 2007 3:18 am PT
Review:  When I first heard of Motorstorm I fully expected it to be a poor title. Off road, arcade racer 
 games rarely turn out to be anything more than mediocre. So long before the title was released 
 I had switched off to the game completely. Opinions can change and certainly has in my case. After 
 recently purchasing a Playstation 3, Motorstorm was one of the demos I downloaded from the Playstation 
 Store. That was enough, I purchased Motorstorm.
  
  Sony originally showed rendered footage of this game, most of which looked far too detailed to 
 be part of the actual game. However the final game is pretty close to that initial footage shown. 
 Maybe not in terms of the graphics, which are extremely impressive for a launch title, but more 
 so in terms of the action portrayed. Sheer adrenalin fuelled action, it achieves it all. Motorstorm 
 is pure action from the get go, the races are frantic, closely called, shunting, exploding, manic 
 affairs from the moment the race starts. Its this aspect where Motorstorm makes you feel great, 
 surviving a race unscathed is an achievement in itself and the fact that the AI controlled vehicles 
 can be so aggressive adds to the experience immensely.
  
  Graphically it succeeds as well. Every environment looks rough and ready. The ground looks bumpy, 
 cracked, muddy or rocky. Every terrain in the game looks realistic and impressive, combined with 
 the fantastic design of the courses themselves ensures you are drawn into the experience. The fact 
 that the courses are so well designed, laced with jumps, hazards, pitfalls and other various obstacles 
 that can hinder your quest for the finish line, is testament to the work that must have gone into 
 creating them. However there is a downside to this, there are only eight courses in total. Some 
 of which are exceptionally long, but this doesnt help when you feel that you have seen everything 
 within the first few hours of play.
  
  However the gameplay is superb, the cars handle how you would expect and the fact that there are 
 various classes of vehicle adds to longevity of the game somewhat. Buggies, Motorbikes, Trucks, 
 Rally Cars all handle differently. Due to this there are several different routes around any given 
 course and finding the ones that suit your vehicle is absolutely fundament to finishing in first 
 place. Trying to negotiate the high narrow ledges with a truck is asking for trouble, whereas staying 
 low and carving through the mud will reap success. Despite there only being eight tracks, going 
 around them several times with different vehicles taking the various routes can make them feel 
 like a different course altogether.
  
  In the single player campaign you are given tickets. Each ticket has a number of races with various 
 points given to unlock more tickets for further races. These races often force a particular vehicle 
 type, only occasionally allowing you a free choice. With only twenty one tickets available the 
 single player game is over pretty quickly, although many of the races you will end up repeating 
 as you should not expect to finish first every time, you must master the courses first. The online 
 mode is where Motorstorm will keep you coming back. For the most part it has been a lag free experience. 
 The racing is more realistic online, more crashes, more shunting and a high class of player than 
 the AI will maintain.
  
  Thats really where Motorstorm fails, without the online aspect it remains a pretty poor single 
 player game. Once the initial thrills of the racing wear off, there is nothing to keep you coming 
 back to the single player game. Not everyone will be able to play online, so they will find that 
 Motorstorm gets relegated to the shelf a lot sooner than those that will experience the online 
 aspect. Even so everyone has to play this game that has a Playstation 3. It is certainly an impressive 
 introduction to what this console can achieve and its a great game, even if the long term appeal 
 may fade due to a lack of options. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: snwboardn08
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 10, 2007 11:55 am PT
Review:  Welcome to the beautiful and sunny Arizona. Where mesas and cliffs roam the area. A giant racing 
 festival known as MotorStorm has rolled into town and your put behind the seat as a driver. The 
 menu interface is quite nice to look at. You are given one ticket which is either good for 1 to 
 4 races. The more races you qualify (by placing 1st, 2nd, or 3rd) the more tickets you unlock. 
 You also receive points for races and tickets completed or by coming into 1st place. These points 
 are what unlock the new tickets as well as new cars to race with. Some of these cars do come in 
 handy.
  
  The graphics are absolutely amazing and the fact that there is a real time terrain dig away, such 
 as when your tires go through mud and you leave your imprinted tire which does effect the race, 
 is amazing. Overall the single player feels like a training session up until the end which can 
 get fairly hard. Throughout the single player you will find races that you liked so much you would 
 play them again. However the multi-player is the place to be. The online interface is a bit weird 
 at first but it grows on you. Online races add a whole new level of intensity. With smack talk 
 flying left and right and amazing what would be photo finishes. The online defiantly takes the 
 cake.
  
  All in all the game is a great one and is worth the buy. I did miss the off-line multi-player so 
 hopefully they come out with a patch for it. I did like the new time-attack feature that lets you 
 try to beat yourself or hone your skills off someone else. They managed to patch the boost glitch 
 as well.
  
  Hope you enjoyed the review and I hope you enjoy MotorStorm as well.
  
  ~Firelad43 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hillar
Rating: 8.8
Date: Aug 8, 2007 12:40 pm PT
Review:  wow wow owo wo ow owowo wow ow its so damne nice **** game that very harde great game can you pass 
 this wow owo wowowow owowowowowo wo w ow owo wowo w owo wow oweo wow ow wo wo wo wo wo wo wo wo 
 wo wo wo h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h 
 h h h h h hhh h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sa_mccormick
Rating: 7.6
Date: Aug 12, 2007 2:24 pm PT
Review:  I so desperately wanted to be blown away by MotorStorm  the opening graphics are very impressive! 
 After playing, though, I cant say that I am. Dont get me wrong, it isnt a bad game, and is probably 
 a great game if off-road racers are your thing, but I had more fun on Colin McRae, on PS2, than 
 this. The game graphics are sharp but dont live up to the pre-rendered cut scenes and intro.
 
  
  Somehow the physics seem too light and fluffy, and the vehicles are light and insubstantial. Also, 
 the track physics are very unpredictable: you can be thrown off the track by very innocent looking 
 bumps; so sometimes the outcome seams more good fortune than skill.
  
  This game is fun and has the ability to make you smile. As with many racing games, I think this 
 game is a bit shallow, so dont think that it will hold gamers interest for too long.
  
  I havent tried the online multiplayer and dont think that I ever will.
  
  In summary: probably 
 a reasonable game, just not my thing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jay_k3
Rating: 8.9
Date: Aug 7, 2007 1:53 am PT
Review:  I remember playing this game at walmart and I didn't think it was a big deal. I also only played 
 it for 2 minutes. When my friend finally bought the game. I decided to give it a second try. Its 
 not because its the ps3 or because of my first impressions of the game, I just don't like racing 
 games. This game changed my perception on racers. This game is actually exciting and the graphics 
 are great. The thing that really stands out is the physics. It really shows the ps3s potential 
 on that department. You have various vehicles to choose from and also maps to race on, so the game 
 is exciting. I really enjoy playing this game, and its one of the few racing games that I will 
 play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ExtremeMagnion2
Rating: 9.3
Date: Aug 6, 2007 8:47 pm PT
Review:  Off Road racing, is ther anething else that can make adrenaline run through your body faster? probably, 
 but im too focused on this game to care.
  when i first played this, i fell in love with the VERY realistic looking models and level. the 
 Six Axis controlling needs getting used to , but once you master it, you literally own the road. 
 the choice of vehicles is pretty mild and could be better but its good enough for me.
  The racing is fast paced and watching others crash in front of you is satisfying. Also the multiplayer 
 is great, and racing with others has never been so much fun! but i do have complaints. The racing 
 is sometimes too difficults and sharp turns are almost impossible to do. The game developers couldve 
 put a split screen multiplayer option, but they didn't and that makes me very pissed off. but overall, 
 i loved it and i reccommend it to all racing and non racing game fans 
::::::

::::::
UserName: snorlaxmaster
Rating: 8.6
Date: Aug 3, 2007 12:33 pm PT
Review:  As i smashed through the various stages, i found great enjoyment in watching the first truly next 
 generation game for the PS3. But i couldn't help but feel it could have been more. The game while 
 it lasted was great fun, but when you finish the career mode (which is rather short) there is little 
 left in the game. The online is fun for a while until it too becomes as tiresome as the career 
 mode. The game would have benefited from split screen multiplayer, and a wider variety of challenges. 
 The latest update of the time attack mode is entertaining, but Sony needs to make a mode that focuses 
 less on the racing and more on the crashes (which is what this game excels at.) Even still, the 
 newest level (which should be available shortly) should add a couple more hours to the game. The 
 game does have its flaws, but for anyone who wants a good racing game, or good PS3 game for that 
 matter, should find this a worthy addition to their collection. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: munu9
Rating: 7.9
Date: Aug 8, 2007 12:15 am PT
Review:  When I first saw motorstorm and read the gamespot review, I was pretty appalled. How could this 
 game be anything less than high AA? Well, after playing the the game extensively (finished all 
 21 tickets of single player and playing a 100 online races) I found out how. And this is my honest 
 review of the game.
  
  
   
 The gameplay is what it is. The game offers you a set of 8 tracks and a multitude of cars, ranging 
 from big rigs to motorcycles. All viable in races. The racing is basically avoid crashing and boost, 
 boost, boost. In a lot of cases the AI or you opponents will try to knock you out and into stuff. 
 So you can easily do the same. It can be a very aggressive game. Boosting into the red hot zone 
 to catch up and exploding over the finish line by over heating your boost just before you cross. 
 I've been in races where I was in second place and I won by exploding over the finish line. And 
 I only won by .05 seconds!!! Plus the game can be very challenging. Sometimes ridiculously challenging. 
 Once you get to the harder races you'd be lucky to win a race by more than 1 second. (depending 
 on how good you are) .
  
  But then come the negatives. The game seems to get old after about 5 hours. Sometimes I had to 
 take long breaks in playing the game (weeks) before I felt up to playing it again (and beating 
 the single player) The game can be really fun but it's shallow at the same time. The tracks are 
 pretty huge with mutlitple routes but sadly, most people just end picking a route they're comfortable 
 with and sticking with it every time they race. What would have helped is adding more tracks and 
 different ways of playing the game. They added a time trial mode but really it's still the same 
 thing, just more competitive. The AI also can sometimes be overly aggressive, trying to knock you 
 out of the race and can end up leading themselves into a wall or off a cliff. Which, though it 
 might be funny sometimes, is quite annoying. Overall the gameplay is good. It can be really fun 
 and enjoyable but the shallowness keeps it from becoming superb: 8
  
   
 The graphics could possibly be the most impressive aspect of this game. The car models are excellent. 
 And they're not like GT4 cars or even forza 2 cars. According to lemming logic, motorstorm could 
 theoretically be a better driving sim than forza 2 because how good the damage modeling is. The 
 rally cars are the best example. Very detailed. It has everything from small dents and mud splatter 
 on the car, bumper falling off to the door, hood and the wind shield of the car falling off. The 
 wheels can sometimes even warble if you drive a little to aggressively. Though the physics aren't 
 as impressively realistic as forza 2's, motorstorm damage could technically be considered superior 
 and it's more fun to watch. The game also uses motion blur when you're going really fast and if 
 you go fast enough it has a really good sense of speed. It may not be as fast as maybe burnout 
 but the way I say it is that in burnout, they make it seem as if you're approaching the speed of 
 light. In motorstorm, it actually seems that you're going an excess of 250mph....
  
  And the tracks aren't too bad either. They're huge and the dynamic mud and track deformation is 
 pretty good. Plus he dust and sense of scale is amazing as well. It's weird that when you take 
 big jumps in your car, it seems like it's going really slow. But do yourselfs a favor and press 
 start and a get as far view of your car from the side. Sometimes the distance you're traveling 
 can be amazing and that's why the jumps seem slow. You're traveling farther and higher than it 
 really seems. The only thing really holding back the game is some of the textures and some of the 
 few problems the game has with car physics sometimes. Overall, the graphics are superb: 9
  
   
 I found the sound to be relatively basic. You have the engine sound, the boost sound, music and 
 crashing sound. Some people complain that they get annoyed of the music because it's seems as if 
 there are only a few song. But they're aren't! In fact, I recently counted and there were ~21 songs, 
 each of them at least 3 or 4 minutes long!! But the problem is there something wrong with how the 
 game seems to choose what song to play. Certain songs seem to simply be repeated way to often and 
 some songs aren't played enough. This is not a good. And because of it, the sound is only good: 
 7
  
   
 Hmm... The value of this game. Like I said, this game can be somewhat shallow. If you're a serious 
 racing fan, it might take you 8 hours of play before you start to get tired of the singleplayer. 
 Which, though it has many types of races, even admits that you'll be racing with the same track 
 multiple times. Vehicle variation helps but not enough so. And then there's the multiplayer which 
 could have been really good to but has it's own problems. It plagued with cheating and kids. It 
 can be seriously annoying. Plus there is no such thing as ranking. You could end up playing with 
 someone who's never played before or people who've played 10 times as many races as you... Sometimes 
 you will want to throw away the game in disgust sometimes you'll open up to it again and play 2 
 hours strait. Though overall, the value is good. Though if you're not a serious racing fan and/or 
 are worried about a game getting old, then this is most likely a rental: 7  
 Overall, motorstorm is a good game. It could have been a great or even superb game but it had things 
 that held it back. This game is worth at least a rental. I can't wait for the sequel and bonus 
 content: 8
  
  BTW, this game has already sold nearly a million, if not more.... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rass_atom
Rating: 8.2
Date: Jul 28, 2007 8:15 am PT
Review:  Ok, first review and all i'm going to split this up into plus and minus points, i'll probably get 
 lost and start rambling midway through so apologies in advance.
  
  Good Things!
  
  + Graphics are great - It was truely important for Sony to have a pile of games that made you want 
 to rub your eyes the first time you saw them for launch. The first time people sit down with their 
 new shiny PS3's having not truely experienced the next generation should be a memorable one. I 
 will certainly remember sticking this disc in and cooing at bits of mud slimeing down the back 
 of my mud plugger for some time to come.
  
  + Music is good - I'm big on music and i think it's important for games like these to have a good 
 and suitable soundtrack, which this does, but... (see minuses)
  
  + The online mode is great, you have to get a few of your friends online and have a bash, and as 
 this game pretty much comes with the console, it's pretty accessible, most peple will have it.
 
  
  + The controls are incredibly easy and the handling of the vehicles is pretty great too, i'm not 
 big on real life driving games like Gran Turismo, so the fact the handling was slightly dumbed 
 down really helped hold my attention. By dumbed down i mean when driving a Big Rig, if you go off 
 balance you may make it past 45 degrees, it'll still right itself and you can carry on. Dont get 
 me wrong, the bikes and ATV's are still fast and 'skiddy', the racing cars smoooth (on flat ground) 
 to drive and the big rigs feel like your driving a shed. It's just good fun and pretty accessible 
 to all.
  
  + Graphics II - I know i've done graphics already but i forgot to mention, under extras there is 
 the option to the opening sequence and flyby graphics of the festival and monument valley in HD, 
 these still have my jaw somewhere around my knees, completely and utterly amazing.
  
  Bad Things!
  
  - One Player Mode is a bit repetative. the Difficulty level only tilts depending 
 on what vehicle you're in and what your competitors are in. i. e. Early on you will find yourself 
 the only on the field suited for the track you are racing, making it a walk in the park. However, 
 as you progress, the field will even out, and eventually you find yourself on the other side of 
 the balance, with no technical advantages you have to use your knowledge of the tracks to progress. 
 This would be fine, but it is the only Offline mode of the game, leaving little variancies.
  
  - The CPU's AI is violent - Like, makes Manhunt2 look like LocoRoco violent. This gets worse 
 as the game progresses. I personally found myself going from hopefully enthusiasic about each race 
 to dragging myself along just hoping to god i'd make 3rd so i could qualify for the next race. 
 There is only so many times you can be shut down and forced to crash by two massive Big Rigs. On 
 occasion you would actually see competitors side-swiping themselves off cliffs, lemming-style, 
 trying to take you out.
  
  - The Slowmo crash sequences - They made me very angry. When you crash, you are treated to a bullet 
 time style clip of your car bouncing off in flames, while the timer continues to tick away and 
 you see all your rivals zooming past you. While this does look quite cool, when the adrenaline 
 is pumping and you are in the crux of an important lap, it all but kills the pace.
  
  - The Music - Yes the tunes are good, but from the 21 tracks featured on the game, the same 5 or 
 6 seem to come up on litterally every race. I know this seems like a small factor to moan about 
 but with the repetative one player mode, this really adds to the nauseum.
  
  Overall, Good game, looks awesome, alot more could of been done with the offline game in general, 
 and just a few minor tweaks here and there could of made this the most important driving game for 
 the PS3. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Condor23
Rating: 6
Date: Sep 23, 2007 2:21 pm PT
Review:  GAMEPLAY:
  In Motor Storm, you get to be a dirt bike or somesort of racing car. The races can be intense, 
 but the controls are whack and unbareable, I had trouble steering trying to move left, then I tried 
 the six axis controllers which was even worse, but one cool thing I found was the very real crashes 
 and great physics. But the controls stopped me from liking it more.
  
  GRAPHICS:
  The cars and bikes loot great and the wonderful splashes mud look even better, but the rocks and 
 cliffs look plain terrible, sharp sqaures and what not, I expected more from a 600 dollar machine!
 
  
  SOUND:
  Has an OK soundtrack, the in game sound effects are decent and the screams the people make are 
 nice and realistic.
  
  VALUE:
  No multiplayer offline, but online is free, but single player is very fun and re-starting the race 
 is lots of fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: HK-47-M4
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jul 27, 2007 1:44 pm PT
Review:  MotorStorm is in one word: Awesome. Not only does it come with motion sensing steering control, 
 but it has awesome tracks, seven different types of vehicles that can all race each other, online 
 play, awesome crashes, and an awesome engine. This could be the reason why it sold one million 
 copies.
  
  The gameplay is awesome as said above, however it does lack offline multiplayer. Although Sony 
 has stated that it may include offline multiplayer in a future patch for the game. Also the game 
 is kind of hard, and there is no difficulty selection. The sound is very good to and the game is 
 probably the best looking game of all available on the PS3. Any gamer should really enjoy this 
 game, however no offline multiplayer really hurts the value of this game. As online play is the 
 only thing that will make the game able to be popped in your PS3 after you have beaten the campaign. 
 And don't listen to Gamespot, there is nothing wrong with the campaign.
  
  However any PS3 owner should make this their 2nd Game to get on the PS3, after they pick up Resistance: 
 Fall of Man. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: himankz
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jul 27, 2007 9:37 am PT
Review:  Motorstorm takes place around a racing festival in Monument Valley where eight courses have been 
 set up and anything goes as far as vehicle types. Everything from 18-wheel trucks to motorcycles 
 represent and its a credit to the game that no one vehicle is obviously superior to the others. 
 Bigger vehicles are slower but more stable, where smaller vehicles are quicker but easily wreck 
 or spin out of control. There are even multiple paths to take on every track depending on your 
 vehicle class and personal skill, adding new layers of depth so that the limited number of tracks 
 isnt as much a hindrance. You unlock track by track according to racing tickets  placing on one 
 ticket earns you the next race on the same ticket, doing well on each of these races earns you 
 points to move on to the next ticket. Its just linear enough to make sense, though an unnecessary 
 complication to what is more or less a straightforward affair of unlocking one race at a time. 
 Whatever makes it feel like we have more choice, I guess. Graphically the game is nothing short 
 of amazing. Every course has been rendered in exquisite detail as far as the eye can see, tire 
 tracks are left in the mud and the framerate is flawless. If youre looking for a game to show 
 off that new plasma screen this is definitely one of the PS3s heavy hitters. Combine this with 
 rock-solid sound design and a soundtrack full of popular rock bands and youve got a tour de force 
 for your home theater. The only drawback here are brutal load times - the visuals come at the cost 
 of long waits, especially when you're choosing your vehicle. It's not a dealbreaker, but certainly 
 takes the wind out of your sails when you're looking for a shot of speedy adrenaline. Even the 
 prettiest game still needs to be fun to play, and thats where things start to get complicated 
 for Motorstorm. When the game works, it works  the cars handle well, the camera seldom gets in 
 the way and when youre neck and neck with your fellow racers theres nothing in the world like 
 it. Where the game becomes frustrating is its absolutely merciless attitude towards even the slightest 
 of slip-ups. The crashes are spectacular and look awesome, but knock you so far behind its impossible 
 sometimes to take back your position. I lost track of the number of times that I was in first place 
 until a slight bump or a nudge from a racer in second sent me spiraling back to languor in last 
 place. If you dont finish in the top three you dont unlock anything, so that kind of setback 
 in the final seconds of the race is especially frustrating. At least when youre racing other humans 
 online (up to a dozen) youre not the only one struggling with this. Motorstorm may appear to lack 
 a bit on the surface, but offers a surprising amount of depth once you dig in. With multiple paths 
 for every track and the wildly varying strategies necessary for seven different vehicles it offers 
 a lot for the dedicated racer, but the simple pick up and play mechanics and high-speed fun make 
 it a great choice for the casual gamer as well. If you own a PS3 and like racing games at all this 
 one is a must-have. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: evklinken
Rating: 8.3
Date: Jul 27, 2007 9:36 am PT
Review:  First what you should know: this game is technical a masterpiece, has strong and fun gameplay, 
 but has just 2 modes. There is a Play and Online mode, and that's it. No offline multiplayer, no 
 time trial, not even a Crash mode or something. It lacks our need to play multiplayer offline (but 
 online multi works great, I should say) .
  
  Gameplay: This is what keeps the game above a medium score. It is all about the gameplay, and this 
 game has some pretty good stuff of that!
  
  Graphics: Not beautiful like Colin McRae DiRT, but more like Oblivion (it has the same engine, 
 the Havok Engine) . Great work.
  
  Sound: Alright, but not more than what you would expect.
  
  Value: Well... Not so high. It 
 is a short game, and only 2 modes. Awful score.
  
  Tilt: It gives you something. It is fun to play, and has some pretty good controls. Good score. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Eliteshooter
Rating: 8
Date: Jul 26, 2007 2:40 pm PT
Review:  This game is alright. The gameplay is almost like all racing games. The Sixaxis controls gives 
 a little for depth to the game. Using the sixaxis is alot more fun but also frustrating. Once you 
 get pro with the sixaxis you'll destroy all your opponents. The online mode is also really fun. 
 You unlock your cars in single player then use them in online mode. The graphics in this game is 
 amazing! The cars and the maps you play on look so realistic. The sound in this game is also really 
 great. The car engines sound like real engines. Overall I give this game a 8/10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: punkybruiser83
Rating: 7.8
Date: Jul 25, 2007 11:48 am PT
Review:  I know we all get bored quick with racing games, especially off road ones. But i do have to say 
 that this one was pretty interesting for me. The SIXAXIS control is FRUSTRATING AS HECK, but i 
 love it. It gives you the sense of actually driving and honestly that option is really for those 
 who enjoy overcoming annoying things. But as far as graphics... well its nice to look at and my 
 favorite part is that the boost can help you, but also hurt you and change the outcome of a race 
 REALLY REALLY quick. Not only that, but as you are using it , to me, it almost gave me the feeling 
 that i was truelly going as fast as the screen showed, making my experince with this game and awesome 
 one. If you like to go fast and watch people fall off cliffs... go ahead pick it up. It might not 
 be addicting but it will certainly become your guilty pleasure. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: travis73005
Rating: 8.4
Date: Jul 23, 2007 10:40 am PT
Review:  This game is nice. I enjoy the variety of vehicles to race with and against, but i have to say 
 that the fact there are only 1 player missions offline is ridiculous. After a while the game gets 
 a bit repetitive and boring too.
  
  Don't get me wrong, I love the graphics, the gameplay and all that, I just want a little more meat.
 
  
  The difficutl I feel is just right, yeah sometimes you have to do the race 3 or 4 times over, which 
 adds to the repetition, but eventually you figure out your route and can win, granted that you 
 don't fall off a cliff, or explode yourself.
  
  Overall: I will more than likely trade in or resell when I am done, I do believe this a rent all 
 the way. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bobz101
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 22, 2007 7:20 am PT
Review:  What could possibly be enjoyable about a racing game which sees you gloriously thrash the field 
 for 97 per cent of a race, only to be shoved straight into a tire barrier six agonizing yards from 
 the finishing line? And not even by a malicious human competitor, but through the seemingly entirely 
 random behavior of a computer-controlled one? Life is spectacularly unfair at times.
  
  Well, if it was just about any other game, the answer would be to hell with it. But this isnt 
 just any other game. This is MotorStorm, Sonys hi-def, high-octane posterchild for PS3 gaming, 
 and thankfully its a game of extremes - the excitement is intense, the frustration at times, is 
 unbearable. Yet that nervous tension is merely the by-product of a game which will push you right 
 to the edge. Believe me when I say youll slowly grow to love the rapid onset of pad-smashing fury. 
 Youll take it as a sign of how deeply and completely MotorStorm manages to burrow under your skin. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rooster2991
Rating: 8
Date: Jul 21, 2007 10:50 am PT
Review:  Gameplay 8/10
  Its kind of fun, but you crash a lot, and a couple of the races become extremely tough. Theres 
 alson not to many tracks to choose from. and only ONE game type. Wtf???
  Graphics 9/10
  Well, the game looks nice, although the frame rate could have been a little better, the mud effects 
 are really awesome
  Sound 8/10
  Good sound effects and sountrack, but theres really only a couple songs on the soundtrack
  Value 
 7/10
  Only one single player mode, but the biggest downfall is no offline multiplayer. That would have 
 added a lot of value to the game. THe online thankfully is very fun and much better than the single 
 player game and should keep you coming back
  Tilt 8/10
  I rented it, played a little, and returned it. Didnt really keep my itnerest, but it was fun while 
 it lasted. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Alex_grist
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jul 20, 2007 4:28 pm PT
Review:  Motorstorm is a fast paced game with great slow motion crashes.
  Downloadable tracks are to come and will also improve the gameplay of Motorstorm.
  
  Multiplayer 
 is a big bonus to Motorstorm because it allows you to have contests with friends just like any 
 other online racing game, but is also fun to compete and win by wreckage.
  
  If your hoping to get into the game quickly then your in luck, easy controls and easy gameplay.
 
  
  Gameplay with the Sixaxis is allways a great challenge!
  
  I have only found 1 bug and that was being placed 4th when I came 1st.
  
  A great exclusive 
 game the Playstation 3! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BlueAtlas
Rating: 8.3
Date: Jul 17, 2007 11:42 pm PT
Review:  First of all, this game has really incredible graphics which demonstrates the power of the PS3. 
 However, there are some things this game is missing compared to other racers. The single player 
 career mode is really dull and repetitive. You only get about eight tracks to race on, and what 
 makes it worse is that you can't sometimes choose which vehicle you want to race with. If you don't 
 plan to play this game online than you are wasting you're money. The online gameplay is where it's 
 all at. Although the ranking system needs to be fixed. One thing that I am really happy about recently 
 is that they finally fixed the boost exploit in the game. Players were cheating using infinite 
 boost by tapping the x button making it unfair for me and other players who rely on true skill 
 to win the game. I remember I raced 150 races before they fixed the cheat exploit and I had only 
 won 3 races out of those 150. But after they fixed the cheat exploit I won 30 out of my last 50 
 races, those cheaters aren't so tough without their cheats. Overall though I would recommend this 
 game, ONLY if you're going to play it online. Don't buy this game if you can't play online because 
 it is a waste of money. The single player mode will bore you after one day. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: skillzdatkill
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 5, 2007 3:49 pm PT
Review:  If you like racing games, you should definately get this game. This game also has online. The graphics 
 are very good but the sound isn't as good as the graphics. I recomend this game to anyone who likes 
 racing games. . .. .. . . .. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. . . .. . . 
 . . . . . . . . . . .. . .. . . . .. . . . . .. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
 . . . .. . . . . . . . . . . . . .. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thetombradyhate
Rating: 8.4
Date: Jul 14, 2007 3:40 pm PT
Review:  A beautiful racing game, with eye popping crashes. Being able to race in a variety of vehicles 
 ranging from ATV's to Big Rigs all with their separate advantages and disadvantages. Multiple paths 
 on every track each of which gets ripped up as you race over them. Sound that makes the crashes 
 seem real and a soundtrack that fits the game. What more could you ask for? In the case of Motorstorm 
 depth. As stated above the gameplay, graphics, and sound are near perfect particularly the graphics. 
 But the fatal flaw of this game is there isn't a heck of a lot to do. The lack of depth starts 
 with the tracks. There are only 8 of them. Another place where depth lacks is the fact that there 
 is no splitscreen or any offline mode besides the main set of races (at release) . Though a time 
 attack mode has been released recently and thankfully for free it feels to little to late. Apparently 
 there will be more maps available for download soon but nothing is out yet.
  
  The online is solid but nothing exceptional in my opinion. If your a racing fan you may feel it 
 is great but if you are like me you won't get to much out of this mode when there are better online 
 games out at the moment (Resistance, Vegas assuming you like shooters like me) . So overall it is 
 a good game that could have been so much more. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: skaterchrick
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 14, 2007 12:03 am PT
Review:  This game is very fun and definitely a ps3 must have. I love racing games and not to toot my own 
 horn but i usually have them beaten 20 times in one week. This game is no exception, a lot of the 
 races are pretty easy and the single player isn't as elaborate as most other racing games BUT... most 
 the visuals are good and they give you an amazing sense of realism that just made me want to keep 
 racing my dune buggy through the arizona desert. It gives you a pretty varied choice of vehicle 
 for an offroad racing game... which i like. And the thing is, i didn't want to buy it because I'm 
 not a big fan of off road racing games but this one is my favorite so far (well, super off road 
 is but that was a while ago)
  Some of the levels are more graphically spectacular than others but you can see the experimentation 
 they were doing develop right in front of your eyes... there are some differances through out the 
 levels. But I wasn't expecting perfect graphically and that's not what should be concentrated on 
 with this game... instead the gameplay is just simply amazing. The controls aren't sloppy and you 
 get the sense that you're really driving a truck or a bike or an atv. Also i jus thought I'd add 
 in that sony did a great job with the sixaxis motion sensor on this game. It is certainly more 
 fluid than any racing game i've played so far on the wii (and i love the wii and hate to admit 
 that but it's true)
  so stop reading this review and buy the game already... it's worth your duckets! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Wonad
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jul 14, 2007 7:06 am PT
Review:  Environments and car models looks amazing for an early launch title.
  
  Sound wise, the game has a pretty descent sound track that adds to the whole festival feel, and 
 the car sounds fit the vehicles.
  
  Game play is fun, with the hectic racing and multiple path choice.
  Each vehicle type gives a 
 different experience, from the light and maneuverable motorcycles to the bulky run over everything 
 trucks.
  
  True the game lacks the track variation, but with the download content coming soon, we can expect 
 a good value out of this purchase.
  
  The only thing that does annoy me about this game is the crash animations, after you played the 
 game for a while they feel a bit to long. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: skooks
Rating: 4.2
Date: Jul 12, 2007 11:18 pm PT
Review:  This game is dull and that's all there is to it. Getting round the course feels like a massive 
 effort, and once you finally cross that finish line it's more Thank God for that and less mustplaymorerightnow 
 . It plays like a PS1 racer for God's sake. Next-gen? Nice graphics do not a good game make.
  I found this game so tedious that thinking back to it in order to write about it is hard enough. 
 Boring really is the most appropriate word here.
  
  On-line play was slightly more satisfying, but only for an extra five minutes or so. Hardly a saving 
 grace. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DuhQbnSiLo
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jul 12, 2007 12:00 am PT
Review:  Gameplay: From Bikes to Big Rigs, Motorstorm has the ride for you! The side-by-side racing really 
 gets your heart pumping. The crashes really give you that wow! that feels good! It only has 7 tracks.. 
 but all the tracks are different depending on which vehicle you select. Each one has there own 
 path, bikes have the high and dry roads while big rigs and mud bluggers stay low and in the mud. 
 Selecting which ride to go out in is part of the fun, and a huge factor in you coming out with 
 a win or a lost. Online the game plays great, no bugs.. and i really enjoyed and still play it!
 
  
  Graphics: The game looks great for being rushed and developers not using all of the PS3's power. 
 The mud wears down perfectly and the tracks really look beat up in the late laps. The car damage 
 competes with that of the burnout series, and the crashes couldn't look more painful. The tracks 
 are really well done and are huge!
  
  Sound: The game sounds great! would be nice if the bikes sounded a little more like dirt bikes 
 and not ATVs. All the other cars and trucks sound great, and the nitrous sounds good. You can hear 
 the engine overheating as you pound nitrous into it! Value: Go buy this now! $59.99 is well worth 
 it. With more add-ons coming on PSN for free the game is well worth it. More cars, tracks, and 
 modes coming on the way never hurt. A must buy for every PS3 owner. Long single player and smart 
 AI all make for some great racing offline and online. The new time-attack gives you a perfect way 
 to practice and perfect your path before you go online.
  
  Tilt: Go buy this now if you own a PS3... you wont be disappointed! Great game and shows you what 
 the PS3 can do! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DADA_007
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 10, 2007 2:50 am PT
Review:  MotorStorm is a best game for ever on the playstation 3 and without a doubt a great racing game, 
 even if doesn&amp;#8217; t last forever. It&amp;#8217; s fresh in a way racing games haven&amp;#8217; t 
 felt for years. The motion sensing of the controller is make amazing to gameplay. When i go to 
 my friend's home and i play it .i can feel i am driving in the real on world. I need to give the 
 score of this game is 9.0 and when i will buy playstation 3 i will must play it and my request 
 is play this game not more only one time but must play with motion sensing controller thanks 
::::::

::::::
UserName: toni_xhoni
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 9, 2007 9:37 pm PT
Review:  OK, so Motorstorm is my first game for the PS3, and the first time i played it it was just amazing! 
 I loved it, the graphics, textures, physics, everything! I just love this game, its a really great 
 game, in my opinion its a killer app.
  OK now lets talk about the tracks: They look just Awesome, the textures are mind blowing, it just 
 looks sooo realistic, the mud, the dirt you get on your wind shield, everything about the tracks 
 look realistic, and the way you get to change the ambiance is so cool, these are probably the best 
 graphics on a game today (in my opinion) .
  OK now lets talk about the vehicles: Wow what could i say about the vehicles, they look just amazing, 
 so realistic, and when you crash, the parts of the car (pieces) just go flying everywhere, it looks 
 so cool, like a real crash, and the motion sensing make you feel like your really driving!
  Well i dont know about you guys but im just glad theres a game like this out there, this is a definitely 
 must have for every playstation 3 owner, if you own a ps3 and dont own this game go buy it now, 
 if you dont have the cash... ill lend it to you! Just get this game because trust me, you will 
 enjoy it alot, it never gets boring, it actually gets funner each time you play, so go pick up 
 Motorstorm for the PS3.
  And this is why I give Motorstorm for the ps3 a..... 10 out of 10 (10/10) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: knnth
Rating: 7.6
Date: Jul 10, 2007 11:38 am PT
Review:  It's love at first sight. The intro is absolutely epic, some of the best 3D we've ever seen. A 
 whole  culture has been invented and implemented right before 
 your eyes. You get behind the wheel, get some mud in your teeth, and grin for the first several 
 hours of playing it. Lots of oos and aahs. Then you realize that you've already seen pretty much 
 everything, save a few more tracks and a bunch of vehicles. While it is very cool to drive these 
 wildly different vehicles around, it's not so cool to do it on the same 8 tracks, over and over.
 
  
  Eventually the grin wears off. The long load times for the weirdest actions (like switching vehicles 
 during selection) get pretty annoying. The motorcycles handle like Weeble-Wobbles that are hurtling 
 forward. You begin to grok the mechanics a bit too deeply and it begins to feel strangely easy 
 to manipulate. Suddenly, you realize that you're stuck in an online multiplayer match by yourself.
 
  
  It is an amazing technical achievement, but the real disappointment here is that it was one of 
 the reasons many of us in the States were early adopters, but it ended up being released so very 
 long after US launch.
  
  So it's a wonderful experience, and one not to be missed, but it's unfortunately a renter... that 
 is, unless you have lots of friends who play and want a quick party game. For that, it would get 
 a higher score. That's not my focus, so I have to rate accordingly. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 0rin
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jul 8, 2007 3:18 am PT
Review:  Remember when you were a kid, and you'd play with your hotwheels in and around the mud puddles 
 in your yard? Ok, now take that memory, and picture yourself in the front seat of one of those 
 hotwheels. There you have it. Motorstorm.
  
  The game took me a good 15-20 hours to complete, spread over the course of a good 4 or 5 months. 
 (granted for 3 - 4 of those months I was playing World of Warcraft) . Each level getting increasingly 
 difficult, However, there are only a hand full of extra hard races in this game, peppered through 
 various difficulty levels. I found the majority of the big rig races to be some of the most difficult 
 in the game.
  
  On average, the game is relatively easy once you learn the tracks. I was rather disappointed to 
 discover that there is generally one main drag path through every course that will generally always 
 (regardless of what vehicle you're in) net you a first place spot. This isn't true for ALL the 
 tracks mind you, but a good majority of them. Another thing that kinda let me down was the extremely 
 non-climactic end of the game. There is virtually no replay value other than online or the new 
 time trial mode. I was kinda hoping for some sweet unlockables or whatnot, but nope. It looks like 
 we will just have to wait for evolution to release some new tracks and models for us.
  
  Aside from those things, This is all together a very decent racing game, complete with high-energy 
 boosting, and amazing crash sequences. This game is by far no slouch when it comes to actual gameplay.
 
  
  If you're looking for a game to sit down with, and have a good challenge, or just a game to show 
 off your new HDTV, then this is a good choice!
  
  But if you're looking for a game to play for years to come, you might look for Motorstorm 2, which 
 is sure to have split screen. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gamers-heaven
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jul 6, 2007 8:13 am PT
Review:  MotorStorm was arguably one of the best PS3 release titles, and now, months later it still stands 
 as one of the best games the console has to offer. MotorStorm is a highly addictive off-road racing 
 game. Unlike Colin McRae DiRT which sticks to a specific track, on MS you can take multiple routes 
 jumps, and race in several different types of vehicle.
  
  The best parts of MotorStorm include the real challenge that the game offers: in some races, you 
 have to choose a specific type of vehicle, for example a rally car, but then you have to decide 
 which of the multiple routes to take on the course - or you might get a free choice, in which case 
 you have to ask yourself the question - Which will I be quickest in? - it could even be a Big Rig, 
 or maybe the agile yet fragile motorcycle...
  
  Another good point is that every lap is unique in its own way. Taking a trip through some mud? 
 Not only will your tyre tracks be there next lap, but your car will bump through them, and it could 
 even get stuck. If you're in a Big Rig, just charge right through it - if you're in a bike, get 
 outta there! Find another route!
  
  And so, the score:
  Gameplay: MS offers ever-changing gameplay, with multiple types of vehicles and an ever-varying 
 level of difficulty. The online modes offer a new challenge as well! Score: 9
  
  Graphics: The game looks absolutely beautiful. Even when you crash, the sunlight shines down on 
 the hundreds of bits of car flying in every direction (or quadbike, depending on what you chose) . 
 Score: 10
  
  Sound: The sound in MS is great. All the sound effects are there, and when there's a car behind 
 you, you'll know, because you'll hear the great roar of its engine. There are quite a few tracks 
 playing the background, most of which suit the driving, or as we like to say, it's Driving Music 
 . None of it sounds repetitive. Score: 9
  
  Value: You can find this game for a mere &pound;29.99, or perhaps less on some other online stores, 
 maybe even &pound;24.99 on eBay. &pound;30 is a real bargain for a game of such quality. Certainly 
 better than the &pound;49.99 price that the games come out at! Score: 10
  
  Tilt: I'm going to score this reasonably high, because MotorStorm really is a work of art. It just 
 looks beautiful in every way - the cars, the tracks, the mud that flies from the ground when your 
 wheels are trying desperately to get a grip on the slick surface of the ground. Score: 9, because 
 if you're a PS3 owner, you desperately need this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 9469
Rating: 8.4
Date: Jul 6, 2007 12:42 am PT
Review:  This game has amazingly good graphics probably the best graphics on any ps3 game so far. The mud 
 ooooooooh the mud how i loooooove the mud! sometimes a forget about the race and just spend time 
 ripping up the glorious shiny thick gunky mud. the graphics are really GOOD on the MUD! This game 
 is so much fun but there aren't enough ways in which to experience the thrill which is Motorstorm 
 . This game really needed the extra add-on off the time trial mode and that adds a bit more incentive 
 to the game but it still feels like it is lacking. There are meant to be future releases of vehicles 
 and tracks but chances are they will cost. This game would 100% benefit a 2-player mode which it 
 lacks. however rumors are that it has been hard to create such a mode for an add on so we may never 
 see one.
  if you want an amazingly graphically high, quick, fun, pick up and go thrill ride, arcade racer 
 then this is for you. if you want a huge game with many modes and customization with extras and 
 extras this isn't the one, but i recommend hiring it at least because its an experience everyone 
 should enjoy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: merch
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jul 5, 2007 3:16 pm PT
Review:  motorstorm one of the most anticipated games of this year came out about amonth ago and now im 
 reviewing it with a pros and cons.
  
  pros:
  a lot of cars to choose from
  great online multiplayer
  great music the game looks great overall in the cisuals department 
 it has great controls added into this racing game and its flat out kik ass how ur cars get destroyed 
 it is one of my favorite ps3 games out now apart from its cons which it has a big hit to the game 
 score.
  
  cons:
  one single player game is not cool not only to add to that but it only has 8 levels and most of 
 them feel the same since there all offroad in a desert setting. 8 levels come on and u dont even 
 give us offline multiplayer to add to more fun.
  
  the difficulty of this game is just right
  took me about 5 mins to learn the controls.
  time 
 spent to date about 30 hours
  i just have mixed reactions from the game
  i would say rent it.
  score 7.5 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jpsnagi
Rating: 7.2
Date: Jul 5, 2007 9:45 am PT
Review:  Motorstorm, yes the amazing trailers that Sony showcases before PS3's launch is out (for a while 
 now) . And it is a good game. This review is based on playing this game on 720p resolution screen. 
 The Basics: Game is a post-apocalyptic racing game with setup us like Arizona's vast deserts. One 
 of the neat features of the game is that you can pick any vehicle from a dirt bike to big rigs. 
 And you get to push other folks off track to their doom &gt;:-)
  
  Pluses: HD Resolution - Amazing graphics. Beautiful Physics engine, stuff falls apart when you 
 crash. Responsive controls, Great Punk/ Techno/ Grunge soundtrack.
  
  Minuses: ONLY 8 Tracks (thats it? Yes, Sir) . Don't expect that there will be some tracks you unlock. 
 Pretty much 30 minutes into the game and you have unlocked every vehicle or level.
  Online player mode ... really fun - stats, play against other people, voice chat.
  Single player 
 mode - really sucks. What were they thinking when they put it together? No career mode or story 
 mode (Forza, Gran Turismo, PGR3) .
  And still only 8 tracks (this is preposterous, need more tracks and levels guys, these games cost 
 $60) .
  Now, if you have ever played any racing game there is a little ditty window (generally on top right) 
 that shows you whats coming up on track. Personally I missed it. I understand that this is a different 
 racing game, but window indicating general direction would be nice.
  And finally a minor annoyance - in game music loud, you need to adjust that.
  
  As on 4th of 
 July, 2007 this game is still selling at $59.99 (thats a lot of money, specially when I feel I 
 am not getting playtime worth that) .
  
  I recommend buy this game used - yes used. It is not that great to use those 60 gaming dollars 
 on this one. So guys - BUY IT USED.
  My target price is $10-$15 (and by holiday this year) .
  
  Look elsewhere for PGR3/ GT/ Forza 
 (they are somewhat better) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Blackjack141
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 9, 2008 11:23 pm PT
Review:  -------- This is the BEST racing game ever, believe me here that this game is to good to br true ---------------
 
  
  Motorstorm a game you will remember and cherish for many years. Gamespot made a bad choice in rating 
 it.
  the graphics are amazing from each of the deadly tracks to the fierce Veichles. The sound in this 
 game adds to the realism of the game where the engines roar the the magnificent crashes.
  Lastly to the gameplay THE BEST PART OF IT ALL where you will speed at high rates with your boost 
 , Jumps that you can nearly touch the clouds and crashes hwere you can pause time and circle around 
 your player to see what damage taken.
  
  I enjoyed this game alot and is defiently worth what i paid and is a must have for the  
 - D - 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gerryish
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jul 5, 2007 12:52 am PT
Review:  I really was excited when playing the demo, but the game itself is even more in your face. So fast 
 andd the online play is great.
  But I feel let down by the lack of being able to save my profile and my son having his own profile.
 
  There is no profiling at all. Just straight into the game.
  Pity.
  For MotorStorm 2 please bring in split screen multiple play and profiles!
  But a Great game!
 
  But a Great game!
  But a Great game!
  But a Great game!
  But a Great game!
  But a Great game!
  But a Great game!
  But a Great game!
  But a Great game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: argianas
Rating: 8.2
Date: Jul 4, 2007 9:08 pm PT
Review:  Next to Killzone 2, probably the most criticized target prerender for a game was that of MotorStorm. 
 While the game did not quite hit the target, it wasn't very far off either. As one of the early 
 showcase games for the new PS3, the presentation was great, boasting some of the best technical 
 graphics seen on a console to date. However, with almost all of the early PS3 exclusives being 
 delayed, one game had to be released to fill the gap between the launch and the excellent fall 
 lineup. That game of course is MotorStorm, and the overall feeling when playing its few play modes 
 is that it was released a little too early. What actually present, though, is some of the best 
 off road arcade racing you'll find anywhere.
  
  One of the most unique features of MotorStorm is the lineup of vehicles. In addition to the usual 
 off road vehicles like buggies, selections range from nimble bikes up to lumbering big rigs. Each 
 vehicle has its own handling characteristics, acceleration, and top speeds. The type of terrain 
 a vehicle is on also has major effects; mud pluggers and big rigs handle great and go relatively 
 fast in the mud, but rally cars are horrible in the slop. Naturally the bulk of the bigger vehicles 
 can push around or destroy the little guys, but the smaller vehicles handle jumps and narrow side 
 paths much better. The balance of these vehicles are not entirely based in reality, as certain 
 aspects were altered a bit to make for a very good balance. People with certain playstyles will 
 likely gravitate towards certain vehicle types, and all vehicles can be largely competitive in 
 every track. Each vehicle has a boost feature that gives it an extra burst of speed. The engine 
 heat rapidly increases as it is used, and slowly decreases when it is not. Reach a temperature 
 a little bit too high and you'll explode into flames.
  
  The tracks themselves are the highlight of the package. MotorStorm takes place in Monument Valley 
 in a fictional off road event with no rules. Races take place on the top of plateaus, in ravines, 
 over rolling dusty hills, across rounded rocks, and through pools of mud. The best aspect of the 
 tracks is the numerous multiple paths found throughout the race. It is not uncommon to have a hard 
 rock path along the top edge of a canyon or ravine, while the bottom of the ravine is covered in 
 mud. Jumps are common to allow you to leap from one end to the other, and there are often shortcuts 
 through a narrow crevice or multiple paths around a number of rocks. Quite frankly, the track designs 
 are probably the best you'll find in any racing game. The paths usually ensure that a vehicle always 
 has an option to take a ground type more suitable for it, and thins out the competitors a little 
 bit. With many of the areas being relatively narrow, they would quickly bottleneck twelve or more 
 competitors. This way, competitors split up and are given a temporary reprieve from larger vehicles, 
 or allows them to focus their bumpers on someone without having others pile drive them. The only 
 downfall is that there are merely eight tracks to choose from, and the design prevents them from 
 being raced backwards. However, with so many alternate paths it often feels like more than just 
 eight. In fact, the track on top of a mesa that is featured in the demo on both the PSN and in 
 store kiosks is probably the prettiest track, but the worst in terms of design compared to the 
 others - the lack of various paths with different ground types does not do a good job of conveying 
 the MotorStorm experience.
  
  One downfall is the few gameplay modes you can race with. First of all, only one person can play 
 MotorStorm - there is no split-screen support at all. There is also only one single-player mode, 
 a festival with a ticket system. Each ticket lets you race on a specific track with almost always 
 a specific vehicle type, and finishing in the top three will give you an appropriate amount of 
 points. As you reach certain preset point amounts, you'll unlock different vehicles (though they 
 all perform the same as any other vechile in their class) and more tickets with which to access 
 more races. As you get into the later tickets, the AI of the other races becomes almost frustratingly 
 brutal. Late in the game, the other racers become very aggressive, and are not out to win but to 
 ensure that you will lose - a couple of vehicles will intentionally try to slow you down to give 
 the others a clear path, almost as if it is a race of one against a dozen. While annoying at times, 
 those with some skill will be able to overcome everything. However, there is oddly not a single 
 quick race mode were you can race on any track with a vehicle of your choosing. Some track and 
 vehicle combinations are simply not possible in offline racing, which is unfortunate.
  
  What makes the lack of a quick race feature so odd is that it is already there in the form of the 
 online mode. Users can create races and set the track, the classes of vehicles available to players, 
 the time of day, and a host of other options. The fact that they could not simply move what was 
 there to an offline mode is just baffling. As an online mode, though, it works very well, and the 
 online racing is certainly a highlight of the game. With a lot of jostling and plenty of rocks 
 and cliffs along the path, the racing is furious with lots of explosions and lots of shifts in 
 the leaderboard. A recent patch available through PSN also opens up a single player online time 
 trial mode, which lets you go for the best times with each vehicle on each track, and the top players 
 can upload their data for others to download as ghosts.
  
  The graphics in MotorStorm are among the best you can find on any console. The team took a trip 
 to Monument Valley and accurately used the location's unique land characteristics in their track 
 design. Everything has a very accurate feel that certainly adds to the immersion. The framerate 
 is very steady, with rare slowdown happening when every racer is bottlenecked at very specific 
 areas. The mud is absolutely fantastic; as more and more racers travel over soft areas the ground 
 gets ripped up, wet mud appears in the crevices, and cars get covered in mud. The damage modeling 
 is also fantastic, with some crashes that do not quite do enough damage to destroy you causing 
 some significant bumps. The only issues are in the shadows or races at dusk, where certain small 
 boulders can be nearly impossible to see in the darkness due to the texturing. The sound effects 
 are great, especially with the explosions. The use of licensed music is also great, including artists 
 ranging from Queens of the Stone Age to Reverent Horton Heat. Also, any game that features Nirvana's 
 Breed automatically gains a step up from its competitors, despite the fact that Courtney Love is 
 profiting from it.
  
  What's in the package is simply great and a lot of chaotic fun. The problem is the package itself 
 - it just feels incomplete, missing a few racing modes that you would expect in pretty much every 
 racing game. If having all of these modes available is important to you, then MotorStorm should 
 probably be avoided. However, if the wild experience is all that you are after, than MotorStorm 
 is certainly worth a look. The only real complaint about the game in general is that there is not 
 more of it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ricardo_gil
Rating: 8.2
Date: Jul 4, 2007 4:26 pm PT
Review:  Beautiful, big and crazy. These three simple words are enough to describe MotorStorm. Beautiful 
 for its superb graphics, designs and visuals. Big for its huge campaign mode. And crazy for its 
  races. It can be a pretty fun experience, its just a shame there 
 arent many ways to experience what MotorStorm has to offer
  MotorStorm offers the best thing a game needs to have: fun! If you are looking for a crazy, creative 
 and fun game or any of these kinds of games than think no more, this is the game for you!! Right 
 when you start playing you will know and feel that this game will offer you lots of funny and entertaining 
 days!!
  The graphics are quite good. Everything is polished and well coloured. The frame rate is very good 
 and the visuals are outstanding. PS3 can offer much better graphics, but even so, these are outstanding 
 for a release game! The game displays a 720p image resolution and there is absolutely no need for 
 1080p image resolution.
  The gameplay is quite simple. Using the R2 to accelerate and the L2 to brake you wont have any 
 problems breaking and accelerating at the same time. There is also a Turbo that every vehicle has 
 that can be used by pressing the X button, but you wont be able to use it for very long otherwise 
 it will overheat and explode.
  Good sound effects and music but nothing out of the ordinary here. The game offers a wide variety 
 of musics, most of them will be Hard-Rock and Soft-Rock like. If you thing this kind of music 
 does not fit a racing game then you are wrong. MotorStorm is a brutal off-road racing game in witch 
 everything goes to win a race. You can kick any other racer off a bike or a quad or try to ram 
 them against the wall if they are using other types of vehicles. But be aware because you are not 
 the only one who will try to do this. The A. I. will do everything to win a race! It will play dirty 
 if necessary or try to make a run for it depending on what kind of vehicle you have and they have. 
 If you are standing on a bike and one other racer is on a Big Rig then you will want to run away 
 from him because he will try to ram or destroy your bike if he gets close to you. But if its the 
 opposite situation the enemy will be the one running away from you. If you both have the same vehicle 
 or two vehicles with equal or close strength then either they will leave you alone or try to stop 
 you from winning depending on the situation you are. If you are almost falling of a ledge they 
 will push you down but if you are normally running on the middle of the road they wont try anything 
 on you. Its very funny to see the enemy react on the different vehicles and situations. The game 
 A. I. is also outstanding, such as the variety of vehicles you will be able to ride on. They can 
 go from the fragile two-wheel bikes that have a high speed to the monstrous trucks Big Rigs that 
 lack on acceleration. There will be an enjoyable variety of 7 class vehicles to choose from but 
 you wont just be choosing the vehicle you like the most, you will also have to learn how to use 
 these vehicles to your advantage. The Bikes and Quads dont like mud, unlike the Mud Pluggers who 
 love the mud, but Bikes and Quads are good on dirt roads unlike Big Rigs that are quite good on 
 muddy roads too. The Rally Cars love soft roads and the Racing Trucks like rocky roads. Then you 
 have the Buggies that have an average performance on every kind of terrain. You will have to know 
 how to use each vehicle on different terrains on the game races. There arent many race tracks 
 to choose from but each race will have lots of ways to reach the finish line. But since most of 
 all available ways to reach the finish line are made of different road types it wont be of much 
 use since you wont be taking a Rally Car to the mud, you will take it mostly on the soft road 
 for a better performance.
  Then you still have the online mode that can offer you more entertainment. You can play up with 
 12 players at the same time and you wont notice much lag at all unless you play with 12 players. 
 Sometimes you may notice a little lag here and there with 12 players playing but it wont affect 
 the race in any way. The online also contains statistics of your victories and losses you made 
 in online races and you can also see other players statistics. There are also some patches released 
 from time to time to add new game types and fix glitches witch are extremely rare.
  It may seem that MotorStorm is the perfect game but it isnt. And its not close to it. Lets say 
 you want to make a free race, that you want to choose your vehicle and race track and the number 
 of your opponents. It is not possible. There isnt a free game mode so you will only be able to 
 play the races you have beaten on the campaign mode. And most of these races dont even allow you 
 to choose your vehicle. There isnt an offline multiplayer mode too witch could be very useful 
 in a racing game. There has been a patch recently that added a new game type, called Time-Attack. 
 This mode allows you to choose your vehicle and race track but you wont be able to race off against 
 real racers, only ghost racers. It is possible to compare the times of other players via online 
 ranking and to send ghost copies all over the world and upload these to try and beat the players 
 ghost race but its just not that interesting because you dont have anyone real to fight off against. 
 Its an improvement that adds some more value to the game but its still not enough. There is still 
 need for a full free race mode.
  Once you finish the campaign mode, you have the online mode left and the Time-Attack mode, but 
 for those that dont have online connection they dont have anything more to play with.
  The game campaign is long and it will keep you entertained for a long time. It will start off with 
 some easy to win races and then it will end with some very hard to win races, but nothing that 
 one cant beat. The campaign race system is made of ticket races. You start with a small number 
 of tickets and when you beat those tickets races you are given new ticket races to beat. At some 
 point it will be required to have at least a podium position on all previous races so this ticket 
 system might not prove to be that effective after all, but since you dont need to beat the tickets 
 in order it will give you some sort of free-style campaign.
  In conclusion, MotorStorm is a game that every gamer and racing fan must own. If you want to try 
 something different and new then you should definitely try this game out. But if you dont have 
 an online connection and you dont really like off-road racing games you might want to think a 
 little before buying this game. But since MotorStorm is an innovative and immersive game you might 
 still like it after all. It will consume you for a long time. At least until the sun sets in the 
 game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MassacreMonk
Rating: 8.1
Date: Jul 3, 2007 4:42 pm PT
Review:  Don't get me wrong, Motorstorm is a great game but lacks so many basic aspects of a racing game. 
 + No split screen / Only ONE PLAYER?
  
  I mean, I know I have no friends but what if I did? How are we suppose to play in the same house?
 
  
  + Only 8 TRACKS?
  
  What a bunch of slackers, 8 tracks is hardly enough to satisfy my need for speed. No I don't wanna' 
 race on The Grizzly for the tenth time.
  
  + Messed up Physics Since when can my bike land... then hop 40 feet in the air? Then crash / get 
 hit by a car.
  
  + Online
  
  It's not bad, nothing spectacular. I don't like listening to people through my TV speakers. Thats 
 the whole reason why I didn't plug in the mic... so I don't have to listen to stupid kids.
  
  It sucks waiting in the lobby while theres a race underway. WHY CAN'T WE WATCH WHILE WE'RE 
 WAITING? HUH?
  
  + Load times
  
  It takes at least a millennium to load your selected car on the screen. I WANNA BE ABLE TO SCROLL 
 THROUGH THE AUTOMOBILES WITHOUT ANY HASSLE!
  
  --
  
  Other then all these problems listed. Motorstorm is a good buy and could have been better if they 
 just added a few more features. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: darcwake
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jul 1, 2007 9:24 pm PT
Review:  When I first started playing motorstorm, i couldn't help but realise that the game is AMAZING! 
 These are some of the best graphics i have ever seen in my life. The best part of the graphics 
 is the mud. the mud is sooo cool! i also liked how if you are doing a 3-lap race, everytime you 
 do another lap the mud marks from the previous lap are still there.
  
  another thing about the game that is really great is the explosions. the explosions are phenominal. 
 talking about the explosions, i find it cool how you can pause and move around your entire vehicle. 
 It's great!
  
  I also enjoyed the selection of vehicles you got to choose from: Bikes, ATVs, Buggies, Rally Cars, 
 MudPluggers, Racing Trucks and BIG RIGS. It's also cool how you have to choose which level to race 
 on also (e. g. bikes do best on the higher levels, because they don't go well in the mud. and big 
 rigs go best in the mud, not on the upper levels)
  
  the online is great also! the only problem with the game is that there are no other features other 
 than: Offline &amp; Online. Even when you're offline you cannot invite a friend over and have a 
 split screen race because there is none. If you love racing games, you like to have fun, you like 
 to push cars up against a rock and see them explode, and you own a Playstation 3. Motorstorm is 
 a great choice. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jediryan123
Rating: 8.3
Date: Jul 1, 2007 5:26 pm PT
Review:  Motorstorm is a very fun game to play it has an excellent single player campaign it has a great 
 range of vehicles such as atv's, bikes, semi-trailers and much more and Motorstorm is very fun 
 to play online, but it does have some major flaws that would have been easy for the devs to include 
 in the game. the biggest flaw I think is the lack of splitscreen support and also the lack of single 
 player race customization, These problems will have to be adressed if it wants to stand a chance 
 against the new rival game DIRT . Problems aside this is a very good game and one I would recommend. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mas_War_Ex
Rating: 6.5
Date: Jun 17, 2008 12:51 am PT
Review:  TITLE: MOTOR STORM (MotorStorm) . 
  
  Year: 2007.
  
  Developer: EVOLUTION STUDIOS.
  
  Publisher: SONY COMPUTER ENETERTAINMENT.
  
  Multiplayer: Yes, but only Online (PlayStation 
 NetWork) .
  
  Online Services: Yes
  
  =================================================
  
  GENERAL OVERVIEW: Motor Storm is an off-road, 
 dirt-road, racing game, which is an exclusive title for the Sony PlayStation 3. It tends to play 
 like other extreme racers like BurnOut, and FlatOut.
  
  However, the overall control response of Motor Storm prevents it from being as fun as some of its 
 more arcade-like counterparts.
  
  This game actually is a bit on the simulated side of things, in terms of the control response.
 
  
  -------------------------------------------------------------------
  
  GRAPHICS: You will notice the very sharp visual presentation of Motor Storm, no doubt about it. 
 The details on the bodies of the different vehicles, is very evident. The rocky landscape also 
 looks eye-catching, despite the fact that a lot of it looks very much alike, after a while. The 
 colors are thus, limited to shades of brown and orange. You are after all, racing on off-road dirt 
 tracks, so there are no diverse urban, forest, or concrete speedway settings.
  
  You will notice the animations like the driver's on motorcycles & quad racers, moving around as 
 the ride their machines. You will also notice these riders various taunting gestures, as the pass 
 their opposition at high speed. And speaking of speed, you get a decent sense of it, as your vehicle 
 races down the track. The sense of speed does build up, as you race around the Motor Storm dirt 
 tracks.
  
  Crashing into landscapes or other vehicles will cause a very dramatic, slow-motion video clip to 
 trigger. This crash sequence is very similar to those found in the BurnOut and Full Auto Series.
 
  
  Visually, your character's body is dramatically hurled through the air, for some very interesting 
 Body Physics Animations, especially if they crash, or get hit, when they are riding on a motorcycle 
 or quad racer. This body-bending resembles the crazy animations from the FlatOut racing series.
 
  
  Observing the audience and race fans, standing along the side of the road and track, will probably 
 disappoint you. Why? Well, because most, if not all of them, are static, still figures, which never 
 move. They have zero animation, and just serve to fill in some of the background, like statues. 
 With the supposed immense processing power of Sony's PS3, animating the audience members watching 
 the race should really not be a problem, in Motor Storm. It might not be a big deal for some gamers, 
 but it does hurt the overall visual presentation of this title.
  
  -------------------------------------------------------------------
  
  SOUND: The music is 
 mostly upbeat rock-inspired tracks, which do match the overall extreme racing setting of the game. 
 The race is supposed to take place during the Motor Storm Festival, which can be viewed as the 
 extreme racing sport equivalent of the Burning Man Festival. Thus, the music sort of reflects that 
 party-like feeling, or atmosphere.
  
  Unfortunately, the songs do become very monotonous, because of their repetitious nature, and the 
 fact that there aren't very many diverse enough music tracks to begin with. The engine revs of 
 all the vehicles fit in well into the game. In other words, trucks, cars, buggies, and motorcycles, 
 all emit their appropriate sounds, and at the right times.
  
  The crashes all have dramatic sounds that are unmistakable. Sometimes, the repetitious music can 
 tend to over-shadow some of the in-game sound effects. All of the sound settings can be adjusted 
 in the options menu by the player.
  
  -------------------------------------------------------------------
  
  GAME CONTENT: All of 
 the stages are off-road, dirt-tracks. They pass through valleys, and over rocky mountain-like surfaces. 
 Appropriate as they are to the setting of this game, these stages can start to get a bit tedious 
 to look at, over and over again.
  
  There is a nice variety of vehicles. However, because of the limited gameplay response, they have 
 to be played in a particular way, just to stay in the race with them. Realistically, the different 
 machines, all handle a bit diiferently from each other.
  
  Your overall selection of vehicles, range from Buggies, Trucks, Race Cars, to Quads, and Motorcycles. 
 You can participate in races, in which one vehicle type, can race against a completely different 
 vehicle type. For example, you can have a race, in which trucks square off against quad machines, 
 and so on.
  
  Motorcycles fair better on higher grounds and benefit from ramp jumps. Trucks are big and heavy, 
 but fair better on the lower, muddier valley ways. All vehicles have their advantages and disadvantage, 
 based on the race-track you are currently racing on.
  
  Online download services are available, so you can choose to update things like different vehicle 
 colors and designs, up to gaining new night-time versions of the default race stages. Online racing 
 had little or no problems, in terms of lag, or other available human players, to race against. 
 Each versus race can be set-up with specific race rules, like the number of races, turning the 
 catch-up on or off, the number of laps, and which stages to compete on.
  
  Videos showing game credits, concept artwork, the game intro, and other CG Footage, can be unlocked 
 in a separate "Extras" Section. Aside from this, all you do is race through a pre-set series of 
 race events, with not much other content to look forward to.
  
  -------------------------------------------------------------------
  
  GAMEPLAY: First, you 
 use the Left Analog Stick to control the directions & movement of your selected vehicle.
  
  Pressing the Large Right Shoulder Button (R2) equals acceleration. Pressing the Large Left Shoulder 
 Button (L2) activates the brake. Press and hold down L2, to make your vehicle go backwards (reverse) .
 
  
  Press the X Button to activate the Turbo Boost. This will make you go much faster than usual, giving 
 some interesting Speeding Effects to look at. But, be careful: if you keep the Nitro/Turbo Boost 
 activated for too long, your vehicle will over heat, and literally explode. So, use this function 
 wisely.
  
  Pressing the Square Button makes your vehicle blow their horn. If you are riding on a motorcycle 
 or a quad racer, your character will taunt, or hit their opponents, if they are very close to each 
 other. Pressing the Triangle Button, will change the view from closer-in, to further out. Stick 
 with the further-out view point (default setting) , as it is easier to race and control your vehicle 
 from that vantage.
  
  One might think high speed is the name of the game, but more precise vehicle control will win you 
 the race, certainly over just speed. The game controls seem promising at first, but many of the 
 vehicles don't handle very well. They seem almost "floaty" as you try to navigate them as best 
 you can around corners, or around other vehicles. You will have to slow down, take the turn carefully 
 and then proceed once again. This sounds logical, until you attempt to apply it in a real race: 
 it rarely ever works out according to plan, because even if your car is way ahead of the pack, 
 one simple mistake can literally put you in last place. This is partly due to the multi-layered 
 dirt track design, but it is also the fault of the almost runaway control response system. For 
 a game that encourages speed, it does little to give you control over your vehicle at high speed, 
 as far as gameplay is concerned.
  
  The trick is to figure out the layout of the road (turns, corners, shortcuts, dead ends) , and to 
 know when to slow down, before navigating a turn carefully. Don't forget the other vehicles: they 
 can catch-up & over-take your wrecked car, in mere seconds. Then, once you get back on the road, 
 you are left struggling to catch up, which most of the time, can be nearly impossible to pull off.
 
  
  The Slow Motion Crash Sequences are fun in the beginning, but become very frustrating. Imagine 
 crashing, watching the cool crash replay, but then having to wait seconds for it to end, just so 
 you can get back into the race. The problem is, if you actually crash immediately after that, you 
 will be forced to watch yet another Crash Sequence. Then, you'll have to wait for it to finish, 
 yet again. Sure, you can speed up the process somewhat, by quickly pressing the R2 Button (or any 
 other applicable action button) , but you can never completely skip the repetitious crash sequence. 
 Thus, unless you literally run a 100% perfect race, expect mounting frustrations every time you 
 crash.
  
  -------------------------------------------------------------------
  
  SUMMARY & CONCLUSION: Motor Storm is an honest good effort by Evolution Studios, to make this race 
 title, for the first generation of PlayStation 3 titles. Unfortunately, they dropped the ball in 
 many, very simple aspects.
  
  The poor GamePlay Control Response is a really big problem, because, you end up wrestling with 
 both your hard-to-control vehicle, and with you own controller, in an effort just to get back into 
 the game, especially after a crash (or sometimes, just racing in general) .
  
  Also, the now infamous CG Video of Motor Storm, which was shown off at E3 2006, is very misleading, 
 when compared to the final product, after it gets into the hands of gamers. Sure, the PS3 version 
 of MotorStorm has some dirt spray on you vehicle wind-shields, but it pales in comparison to what 
 the world was promised, with the powerful E3 2006 visuals, which never materialized in the final 
 store copy of Motor Storm. This was very misleading to many gamers, who may have set a very high 
 bar for the PS3's technological capabilities, only to be disappointed later on.
  
  One good thing is that Motor Storm shows both developers & gamers, what great racing titles can 
 be created on the powerful PS3 Console, in the future. However, sticking to, and perfecting the 
 basic fundamentals, such as Responsive GamePlay Controls, that translate into less frustrating 
 control over your on-screen vehicle, will insure a much more enjoyable & fun racing experience.
 
  
  In my personal opinion, MotorStorm is decent racer, but great looking graphics alone, just aren't 
 enough this time around.
  
  Game-Quest-Ex. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sidneyisaac
Rating: 8
Date: Jul 1, 2007 9:02 am PT
Review:  This is the first PS3 game i got. For the first 3 hours i was hooked. Than the terrible music combined 
 with the lack of variety got to me. The old school gameplay is great. But the sixaxis control is 
 awful. It's too responsive and completely pointless. Even in singleplayer its almost impossible 
 steering with it. The highlight of this game is the online play. It's extremely easy to get into 
 and is highly addictive. The free add on of time trial is also quite fun and challenging and a 
 must have.
  You must have online access to appreciate this game at all. Otherwise its a game with great graphics 
 and the same gameplay over and over and over again.
  Its ok. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BlooD_Bathory
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jun 28, 2007 3:27 pm PT
Review:  Great game! and is going to be a classic!
  This game have a good single player and a really nice multiplayer option.
  good graphics gameplay 
 and music, what more can you ask in a racing car game?! The maps are really orginal and have a 
 lots of way s to get to the finish line, this is going to depend on what type or car u drive, rally 
 car, 4x4, etc... so u need to know what is the bettter way to the finish line for ur car.
  for sure we are going to see a second motorstorm in the future! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: erikvk
Rating: 8.1
Date: Jun 28, 2007 12:33 pm PT
Review:  MotorStorm is absolutely the graphical showcase for the PS3, as it shows. Even when you drive a 
 race terrible, you can still enjoy the beautiful crashes and physics. This is one of the best looking 
 racing games ever made. But the problems are just a bit too big. There are only two game modes: 
 Play (singleplayer) and Online. And if you have no online features, you're stuck with the offline 
 training mode. No splitscreen mode. And the difference between cars (the heart of MotorStorm) in 
 one group is only the outside. This game hasn't got a lot of game modes, but still has stunning 
 graphics and gameplay. Absolutely one of the games that you should buy if you own a brand new PlayStation 
 3.
  
  GameWatchers 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bow_hammer17
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jun 25, 2007 12:12 am PT
Review:  Motor Storm for the PS3 is a classic racing game. The game dose seam like that it cheats at some 
 points of the game, like when you get to about the 17th ticket the guys start to go berserk and 
 start to push you aout of the way, then youll star the cussing. I did it and so will you. The 
 graphics are stunning, the AI is really good, the game play is good, the online is whip a$$, and 
 the downloadable content includes some sweet new tracks, game modes, and vehicles. Motor Storm 
 is another must get game for the PS3. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: muzikdotcom
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 21, 2007 6:24 pm PT
Review:  motorstorm is an amazing racing game. the graphics are mindblowing, its fast pased action from 
 the take off, and the handeling is inpressive.
  
  graphics seem to be an important factor in next-generation gaming. if you think motorstorm done 
 everything wrong, one thing cant be argued, the graphics. they are amazing, and thats an understatement. 
 the detail of the vehicles are awesome, the envoirments are always changing, to terrain of the 
 track is never the same twice.
  
  one thing i loved about this game is that you pick your own track. their isnt a set course. the 
 game suggests ways certian vehicles should go, but you can choose the quickest route, or the funnest 
 in some situations.
  
  each class of vechicle has different handeling. to most that would be obvious, but when im playing 
 the ATV class actually seems lite as im controlling it, and the big rigs are just the opposite. 
 IMO the handeling differences in this game were well done.
  
  multiplayer is now fixed, so now i can actually reccomend this for all raceing fans because now 
 you cant cheat online now. before you could tap X over and over and it would give you infinite 
 boost, everyone used that online and it was unfair. with the new update the glitch is taken away 
 and a new game mode is added, and its all free. time trial is addicting. it seems simple enough 
 but ive spent 2 or 3 hours doing it over and over just simply trying to beat my best time. it sets 
 bars that you can friends can compete against eachother. time attack helps the game out in a two 
 player view. the game DOESNT have a 2 player split screen at all, but with the addition of time 
 attack you and your friends can compete against eachother, rather than just racing once race and 
 passing the controller and having nothing to beat. i love this game. there isnt much out for the 
 ps3 right now, but this game is a must for ps3 race fans. it will not let you down. you cant go 
 wrong with this game, especially now that the glitch is fixed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: humangarbage
Rating: 7
Date: Jun 21, 2007 10:55 am PT
Review:  I baught this game the first day it came out and I was excited to play. After about 10 minutes 
 I was bored to death and mad about purchasing it. The visuals are surely out of this world but 
 this game lacks a lot of features. No rumble in the controllers makes this game dull. No offline 
 multiplayer makes you think 'What kind of racing game doesn't support multiplayer?'. Also, the 
 load times are just ridiculous but they seem to be a little faster when playing online.
  
  Aside from all that there seems to be no storyline, or at least an interesting one.
  
  A waste 
 of $60! RENT IT FIRST 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Deathbringerjmc
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jun 20, 2007 6:04 pm PT
Review:  This is one of the few games that you must have for your PS3 i got it a launch and loved it, that 
 said this game is good and almost bad at the same time it plays like a demo of what the PS3 is 
 like but lacks alot that could have made this game so good.
  For example as you near the end of the tickets the trucks become the most frustrating thing to 
 race with, to the extent that you wish they have their own race and that's it. Now the trucks are 
 great to use in a race but once you are against them they cause all kinds of damage like pile-ups 
 and they take you out when ever they get a chance even if it means running into a wall them selves.
 
  
  This game also lacked a soundtrack that complimented the game i felt like some hick out bush-bashing 
 when i wanted to feel like a racer or a rally driver , but in the end i turned off the music all 
 together now yes that is just my opinion so some people may love the music but i didn't think a 
 slipknot song which by itself is good fitted into this game with the sound track it had.
  
  I know it is easy to find fault in a game but i loved this game until it pissed me off then i didn't 
 play it for a while but i feel this was a unfinished game it really could have used some kind of 
 story or point for me to do these tickets, more tracks like a totally man made one.
  In the end its a must have but sadly could have been so much more. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AncientDragon4
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jun 21, 2007 7:05 pm PT
Review:  It has Gameplays to race for time limted, And The Festival win
  tickets and respesptMedals Etc. Race for each vehicle to
  earn medals. Online is better which 
 I play more You can
  create your own game pick laps and vehicles you require and
  What time of the day. Rankings are Zero for Noobs, UP and Coming
  Hero Grunt Pro Legend Rookie 
 Veteran God. It tells how many deaths
  you had and races you won also ones you quit. Vehicles mx Bikes
  atvs buggies rally cars racing 
 trucks, mudpluggers big rigs.
  Tracks The Grizzley the Longest. Sidewinder Gutch - Dangerous
  Canyons. Rockhopper- Narrow Ridges 
 and Mushroom Mesa Tops.
  Rain God Mesa- High Altitude Areas of Mountain Valley. And
  Tenderizer , Dust Devil, The Mudpool And Coyote Rage. Good Maps
  it's a fun game when you get 
 use to it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: notoriousmatty
Rating: 8.2
Date: Jun 19, 2007 6:20 pm PT
Review:  While this game certainly isnt a must own for a ps3 owner, its a must rent or borrow. There arent 
 alot of tracks and the career, if you want to call it that, isnt deep in the slightest. The graphics 
 are amazing for a launch title and motorstorm 2 should be an awesome game. The gameplay is sensitive 
 esp with the buggies but I think it makes the game more enjoyable. The six axis though is too sensitive 
 and I think a wasted feauture. Rent this and play through it for a week or two thats what I did 
 and ive had my fill of motorstorm, but it was a great game while it lasted. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mattface
Rating: 7
Date: Jun 14, 2007 6:01 am PT
Review:  This game is such a let down. i recently bought my ps3 from a friend but it came with 3 rubbish 
 games so my first thought was, 'trade them in.... get motorstorm'. this idea comes from pretty much 
 listening to all the hype surrounding it as being pretty much the most fun ps3 game out there, 
 with the best visuals the ps3 has so far. oh what a fool i was.
  Firstly the graphics were a big let down. they're by no means shabby, and the mud looks excellent, 
 but i was decidedly unimpressed. i don't know if its that i've only played xbox360 games for the 
 past 3-4 months, but i just they just didn't look all that special. The other thing about the game 
 that really gets me is the 'fun' aspect this game claims to have. With just the one mode of single 
 player play, this is the exact type of game that would be amazing as multiplayer. instead sony 
 have gone for the whole, 'online is the way forward' way of thinking and have decided to concentrate 
 on that. now as i have a broadband download limit of just 2gb a month, i'm not really in the position 
 to play online, which has left me getting bored with this game very quickly.
  
  i give it a seven they way it is, had it included multiplayer it'd be far better 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SumerianDaemon
Rating: 7.9
Date: Jun 13, 2007 5:48 pm PT
Review:  The first disk to enter my PS3 was motorstorm, i saw the intro and i was stunned!
  
  I started playing full of energy and suddenly after a few hours i realized i was driving the same 
 tracks all the time! I said no it cant be you have to unlock more.
  
  The graphics and the fun made me play longer to unlock tracks and vehicles but only the second 
 was possible!
  
  Well although i was dissapointed by the fact i had seen it all in a 2 days i played online and 
 it was a good experience but only for a while. The limited amount of tracks killed this feature 
 too.
  
  The game needs TRACKS and other racing modes (drag, drift etc) .
  
  BUT, im glad it showed to PS3 doubters what THE CONSOLE can do. Simply unparalleled performance. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: djaisi_dude
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jun 11, 2007 3:53 am PT
Review:  Dont let the mediocre reviews put you off, Motorstorm is great fun and good value. I am not a 
 big fan of driving games in general. I think they generally dull and difficult. I would not have 
 even considered buying Motorstorm, especially after the review that gamespot gave it. However after 
 getting a PS3, and experiencing the much discussed game drought, I downloaded the demo and gave 
 the game whirl. After I couldnt put it down for several days, it was an easy decision to lay down 
 5000yen for the full game (flying wantonly in the face of the Alex N. review) .
  
  My first impression of motorstorm is that it looked amazing. It is truly a beautiful game. The 
 way the mud deforms, dirt flies, and cars disintegrate is mesmerizing. The lighting is beautiful, 
 and the sublime way time of day is captured enhances the general ambience. The art style is great, 
 especially if you appreciate the Post-Apocalypse meets Outdoor rave aesthetic. The cars are awesome. 
 I really love the fact there are cars from multiple continents and time periods represented. To 
 often car games lose me because the focus on modern (bland) car designs. I cant get enough of 
 the Patriot Charger. Seeing it just makes me want to fly home immediately and tear down the highway 
 in a 75 Ford GT. Motorstorm does have some frame-rate issues however. You wont notice them at 
 first when the AI is passive, but the frame-rate occasionally slows when there are multiple cars 
 disintegrating simultaneously. It is not enough to ruin the driving experience, and is fairly rare. 
 It seems to affect some tracks more than others. I am not sure if this is because some tracks are 
 more processor intensive, or more inclined to have pile ups. These kind of frame-rate issues tended 
 to occur in the early PS2 game, so I am sure they will be sorted out.
  
  The music is fine, if you like that sort of thing. There is the option to deselect any songs that 
 are totally giving you the s****.
  
  It seems the most criticized aspect of Motorstorm is the lack of tracks. There are only 8 or so, 
 but the fact that each is so long and complex helps to mitigate this limitation. You will find 
 the driving experience of each varies with the vehicle class you are using. Driving the Grizzly 
 as a Truck is like a totally different track to driving it as the rally car or bike. I have played 
 the single player game for 20+ hours, and have not found it boring. This fact I partly put down 
 to the steadily increasing difficulty of the tickets.
  
  Progressing through the single player portion of Motorstorm involves collecting tickets. This means 
 completing different races with different cars. As you win races and complete tickets you unlock 
 more cars and more tickets. There are 21 tickets (with 1-4 races each) , and they start off easyish 
 and become diabolically. When I say hard, I mean HARD! To win the final 5 or so tickets means finishing 
 races without crashing hardly at all. If you have played the game, you know this is not easy. You 
 have to memorize the tracks and your favorite route, then execute them flawlessly. Add to this 
 an AI that is so aggressive it makes Mr. T look like a pacifist, and you have a hard game. It is 
 not impossible however. I am no gaming savant, and I managed to finish the game. I did have a few 
 moments of pounding the controller against my skull before falling down and weeping in despair. 
 Even though finishing the game receives no in game recognition (an austere move on the part of 
 the developers) , it was a proud and reliving moment for me. All to often finishing a game these 
 days is almost expected. Motorstorm will make you doubt yourself, but if you rise zen like to the 
 challenge, it is very rewarding. Who knows when home comes out maybe there will be a trophy. 
 The multi-player is heaps of fun. People **** about the speed boost trick, but to them I say meh. 
 Its a level playing field. Use it or dont. The most important thing is to not drive into walls 
 or off cliffs. There is also the indescribable pleasure that comes from the first time you mow 
 down your first dirt bike while driving a big rig. I like to imagine that scene in Terminator 2, 
 except this time you get to end it by actually creaming the annoying kid on the bike. A note of 
 caution about the multi-player: if you are a resident of Japan like me, make sure you buy a US 
 copy from an import shop. The Japanese version has no online, and therefore no multiplayer at all.
 
  
  I really enjoy Motorstorm, and think it was under-rated. It looks great, plays great, and is strangely 
 addictive. The driving is simple, fun, and disarmingly entertaining. Get the demo, and if it leaves 
 you wanting more, trust your instincts. I did, and have no regrets. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Big_Boss0715
Rating: 8.4
Date: Jun 6, 2007 8:56 am PT
Review:  MOTORSTORM
  
  You Are: A mud covered, and frankly suicidal, festival freak who likes flying through mud at top 
 speeds.
  
  Your Mission: To churn up the sands of Arizona and flip off other drivers as you boost over the 
 finish line in first place.
  
  Get Into Character by: 1. Watching F1 and imagining the crashes in deathly, high definition slow 
 motion.
  2. Donning a crash helmet finding a field and getting as muddy as you can.
  3. Listen to Primal Scream whilst imagining yourself jumping over rally cars and being annihilated 
 by Big Rigs. From eye-gougingly glorious graphics to exploding into the immense rocks of the Monument 
 Valley, Motorstorm is just what is expected of a great launch game.. well almost at least.
  
  As far as gameplay goes Oohs and Aahs can be naturally expected. What seems to be a fun little 
 racer when youre all lined up at the starting line in your first race, suddenly morphs itself 
 into complete chaos  the good kind of course. And its then when it hits you, this is what Motorstorm 
 really is, a fun little racer with some absolutely kick-ass explosions and crashes. However this 
 is what most of the game is, stunningly beautiful crashes which you cant help but hammer the pause 
 button at and swivel the camera round at, and then after much admiration you simply tap the pause 
 button again, only to find yourself in last place again. After swearing like a nun with turrets 
 and exclaiming, How could that Big Rig get past me, Im in a rally car for @!$* sakes!!!! youll 
 soon find yourself just gaining first place again when all of a sudden that big rock just jumps 
 right out in front of you again.
  
  You can always stare in horror with a marvelous and ear soothing soundtrack playing behind the 
 engines and explosions.
  
  This obviously doesnt apply to everyone, for the first three or so tickets youll find yourself 
 chuckling in enjoyment at the combination of crashes, graphics and first place celebrations. The 
 level four AI though could reduce even the most experienced gamers to tears. Moving on though, 
 if you dont like the gameplay theres always the glorious soundtrack. Featuring artists such as 
 Primal Scream, Kings of Leon, Nirvana and Wolfmother if you dont like seeing your racer turn to 
 dust in the rocks every ten seconds at least you can always stare in horror with a marvelous and 
 ear soothing soundtrack playing behind the engines and explosions. The only thing thats missing, 
 amongst many other things, is a custom tracks option. Even though theres really no need for it 
 Im sure that Evolution Studios surely could have attempted to include a little bit of software 
 to let you play your own tunes. Ok I know Im being a bit harsh possibly and its not really fair, 
 sorry but I think a little bit of your own tunes could have made the gameplay that bit more fun. 
 Bursting through the sand and dirt with the Italian Job theme tune playing could there be anything 
 better, well possibly a wee bit of Status Quo to accompany maybe.
  
  ..... Youll find yourself chuckling in enjoyment at the combination of crashes, graphics and first 
 place celebrations
  
  Im sure we dont all buy Motorstorm for the soundtrack however, oooh no! But the graphics are 
 just a true sight to be seen. Theyre the gaming equivalent of. well actually I dont know. Thats 
 how truly brilliant they are. Even on my crappy little SD T. V (though not after I upgrade to HD 
 tee-hee :P) They still look, well really I cant even find a word in my vocab to describe them. 
 But picture this; pausing the game, rotating the camera and being able to see every last scrap 
 of mud on your vehicle. On top of this is the eye-poppingly beautiful light works on the car. Seeing 
 your chassis bent to hell and seeing every last bit glimmering in the sun with all different shades 
 is a true glorious event that just flaunts everything that the PS3 has got. But a game still isnt 
 made by its graphics. The lack of offline multiplayer and any extra modes or mini-games at least 
 juts sort of rip the depth and feeling out of the game. And even in the single player mode once 
 you find the best route in a track you generally tend to stick to that route. It isnt really helped 
 either by the mere eight tracks that youll be raging around through the course of the game. This 
 is soon pretty much compensated for by the frankly mediocre sized range of vehicles. From Big Rigs 
 to little dirt bikes and ATVs every vehicle takes a different route that best suits its characteristics. 
 The rally cars generally tend to stick to the dry and flat surfaces, whilst the heavier vehicles 
 tend to stick to tearing up the mud. And bikes you ask? Well they just generally tend to stick 
 to anywhere and love jumping all over the place more than prairie-rabbits. The choice of routes 
 is thought provoking though but then again frustrating when you find your rally car being pushed 
 through the mud by a Big Rig.
  
  Final thoughts, well Motorstorm makes the perfect launch title, however with the lack of extra 
 features and game modes, you are left scrabbling around in the mud once youve reached youre difficulty 
 level whilst wondering  well now thats over should I play on Resistance or Ridge Racer 7 now? 
 Otherwise the graphics and soundtrack add to the fun little racer that kept you marveled and amazed 
 for that short while that you played the game. You cant help but think though that Motorstorm 
 is a shell of the game that it could have been. Despite this it does set the standards for all 
 PS3 racers in the future and gives a good insight into what PS3 really has to offer.
  
  The Good: seeing your car smash to pieces in stunning HD and staring in amazement until you re-spawn.
 
  
  The Bad: Scrabbling around in the dirt in boredom hoping for some extra games or modes of some 
 sort. And The Ugly: watching your beautiful high definition rally car
  being annihilated by some rocks and a Big Rig as you comically scream AHH NOOOOO! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: c-r-o-c-o-p
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 2, 2007 11:21 pm PT
Review:  When the demo came out on the PS3 and tried it for the first time, I was just amazed at how sick 
 this game look's. The graphic's on Raingod Mesa were just unbeliavble. I was just curious to know 
 how the other track's would look if this one look's so real. When the game came out in March, I 
 just couldn't wait to pop it into the system. I was thinking about playing the online first or 
 do the single player races? I decided to play online and show some people my skill's on Raingod 
 Mesa cause I've been playing it for awhile on the demo. Alot of people were clueless and amazed 
 as they were talking and racing on their mic's on how sweet this game look's. I just couldn't choose 
 what vehicle to use cause I havn't seen the vehicle's that wheren't on the demo. I decided to use 
 the bike and I was pretty nervous seeing everyone choosing racing truck's and rally car's. I was 
 pretty impressed that I came in 2nd place considering that I was using the crotch rocket. I played 
 online for about a whole month when I kinda got dissapointed with alot of thing's.
  
  1st thing was the glitche's. Damn, I really hate that turbo glitch. I just can't believe that people 
 knew about it, and were actually using it during the race's. I alway's thought to myself that they 
 knew where to use the boost but it wasn't that at all. A truck or a rally car would alway's blow 
 right by me and I wouldn't even be able to catch up no matter how good I made turn's or how much 
 boost I would save. I didn't play no more online when I found out about it cause people who know 
 about it would be using it and sure as hell I'm not going to use. Their are some other glitche's 
 also in the online like just when your about to race your system would just freeze but I guess 
 that's depending on how good your connection is with other people.
  
  2nd thing that I kinda had a problem with was the recording system. They only record your 1st place 
 win's and that's fine, but they should atleast have your 2nd and 3rd place record's aswell. Basically 
 it's if you aint firsy your last . I was just really ticked about that turbo glitch and after that 
 I just never played anymore online and decided to play single player. The single player is more 
 of a practise for you just incase you want to play online. You use all the vehicle's in the game 
 on each track just so you could choose which vehicle your best in on the different track's and 
 also giving you the feel of each vehicle. It's cool how you can unlock different type of vehicle's 
 but their is only 7 catergorie's you can choose from. Their's the Rally Car's, Bike (my favorite) , 
 Racing Truck's, ATV's, Buggie's, Mud Plugger's and the Big Rig. They each have different route's 
 that you can take and each have their advantage's and disadvantage's. I'll let you figure them 
 out. It's not really a long game, depending on how good you know the track's and which vehicle 
 is used best on the different track's. The only hard track for me was the Rain God Mesa track with 
 all the buggie's. All in all its a definite game to own and eventually they will fix all those 
 bug's for the online which I believe is going to be in July. That's when I'll be coming back online 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Creed-Me-39
Rating: 9.1
Date: May 31, 2007 4:51 pm PT
Review:  This game is Great in so many aspects, I didn't think i'd be able to comprise my thoughts into 
 a Review, But i'll try!
  
  The graphics are AMAZING, It really immerses you. Even when you get smashed by a Big Rig from around 
 a turn, It looks Great. And the game really makes you feel like you're driving Super Fast. Even 
 watching the crash is quite fun, Especially if you're on an ATV or Bike.
  
  There are quite a few vehicle Types Such as a Big Rig, Bike, ATV, Rally Car, Et cetera. They all 
 have their own Strengths &amp; Weaknesses, Every vehicle type is good and bad on different terrain (Such 
 as Mud, Sand &amp; Rock) .
  
  The online is very fun, You can race with up to 12 players. I've been playing for quite some time 
 and i have yet to play with any screaming children! It's amazing like that, It's also fun because 
 in single player the AI isn't exactly Aggressive And it's nice change of pace being rammed into 
 a wall or off the road several times, Believe it or not.
  
  The only thing i didn't like was the lack of split screen, I enjoy gaming with my friends, And 
 This would be THE game to play with friends. I mean come on, I understand having two screens takes 
 a huge toll on the graphics, But the PS3 is supposed to be so advanced.
  
  The sound effects are good, But the reason i rated sound rock bottom was because, In my Humble 
 opinion, They picked some of the worst songs out there to put into this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Rennie1
Rating: 8.9
Date: May 31, 2007 1:58 am PT
Review:  First off: this is a must have title for any ps3 owner period  there I said it.  even if you 
 dont like racing games  Gamesp
  
  Why?
  
  Graphics: better than you have ever seen  pretty much on any system period  take Doom 3 engine 
 and add particle effects found only on FEAR  and add solid frame rate  detailed enviros that 
 will simply dazzle the eye. Mud that flies right in your face and affects gameplay (not just eye 
 candy)
  
  This game will make your mom stop and have a second look.
  
  Gameplay: - this game kicks racing in the ass  where it has needed it for so long now. It takes 
 racing off road  literally Tracks? Therere there if you need them but there are so many routes 
 and so on  everything is off-road so, mud, sand, hard surfaces all play a role in the game  not 
 just there  they actually are a gameplay effect.
  
  Depth: number of vehicles, possibilities are endless for races
  
  AI: 15 racers all better 
 than most on-line and as real as a real person.
  
  Physics: The game uses Valves HL2 engine  need I say more?
  
  Production Value: Look, this 
 game was not created overnight, and it shows, everything looks sharp, and detailed and smart 
  there was a lot of manpower that went into a polished product that makes it killer app. So, whats 
 the downside ?
  
  There is not much downside  given the overload of good  A little Crash Happy The game has an 
 incredible crash effect  but it tends to be a bit crash happy  more than a few times, my vehicle 
 hit a dynamite smaller rock  causing my vehicle to explode on impact  despite the fact the 
 rock is not that big  and I wasnt traveling that fast = Thankfully it doesnt happen too often, 
 but often enough to mention.
  
  Number of tracks: - all of the above being true, I would just love more good stuff  Great games 
 will never have enough content right? but the number of tracks here is a little light.
  
  A little funky physics once in while  with a few surfaces, motorcycles are on a crazy carpet ride 
  like it or not  regardless of circumstances Career mode a little light  there is not a lot 
 there  more is needed  you get the idea
  
  Bottom line: get this game  it isnt been there done that boring in two minutes like every other 
 racer out there.
  Gamespot  what is happening to you? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Set_Free
Rating: 8.1
Date: May 29, 2007 2:49 am PT
Review:  The Good:
  (1) One of the first things you will notice about motorstorm is the graphics. Its actually one 
 of the first games to show the true power and potential of the PS3. While racing you'll see the 
 mud splash from under your tires and on to the screen when driving on wet terrain, adding detail 
 and realism to your racing experience. Another visual effect that was nice was the way that you 
 could see dirt and mud that builds up on your vehicle over the course of the race. (2) Another 
 good thing about motorstorm was the gameplay. Though there aren't many tracks in the game the developers 
 somehow made a way for every race to feel new and exciting. The fact that you can race big rigs, 
 ATV's, Dirt bikes, Rally cars, buggies and mud kicking pick-ups gives a differnt feel and new strategy 
 to every race.
  (3) I would consider the online play pretty good despite the lack of tracks. There's not much lag 
 (if any) and its easy to get a game started. If online had its own score i would give it an 8.0
 
  
  The Bad:
  (1) The one thing that hurts motorstorm is the lack of depth. There are only two game modes, singleplayer 
 campaign and online multiplayer. (that's right, no local multiplayer, only online multiplayer) . 
 No free-run modes or trials on tracks to give you practice, just single player campaign. Besides 
 that, there are only eight tracks, there's no car customization or speed meter. The Verdict: For 
 ps3 owners its might not be a must own but its good to have in your collection, i've spent a decent 
 amount of time playing it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MEHGUY93
Rating: 7.7
Date: May 28, 2007 5:45 am PT
Review:  the game was impressing, if you use a HD TV. the graphics can only be experiancd to a full when 
 plugging the console and game into a top end TV.
  
  still, even with a low end Tv the detail is brilliant, even the tire marks in the mud glissen as 
 you pass, making more. the game is rather long, with each ticket holding up to 4 races, and the 
 races taking a long time to complete. the cars are grahicly sound, with no glitches that i know 
 of, but the damage can be a bit over the top. the cars are no all that bad though, with every car 
 made for a different surface it can be a strugle to know which does which. but after experiamenting 
 you get a decent knoledge.
  
  Multiplayer offline is out of the question. when i bought the game i thought that i could play 
 with someone right next to me, bu it seems not. offlin it is only 1 player, but online it is very 
 different, fiting 12 people on one race. this seems to have softened the blow, but i still whould 
 have hoped to see ofline multiplayer.
  
  motion sencers do play a part, but thankfully not unless you want to. you can use the SIXAXIS in 
 the playstation controller to steer, which is a neat trick. sadly it can be over sencitive and 
 you could find your self it the wall quite quickly.
  
  i whould first rent the game if you want to get it, as i only appeals to a certain group. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sytzepunk
Rating: 8.5
Date: May 26, 2007 11:26 am PT
Review:  This is the second game I own for the PS3 besides ResistanceFOM, and it was a big surprise this 
 wasn't one of those NFS games, but more like a fun chaotic game packed in a delicious sauce.
  
  Motorstorm lets you play online against other players, the game is actually pretty deep, some 
 maps will have huge impact on you're vehicle, so can quads not do well on some maps, but be superior 
 in other maps, theres also a system with cooling down you're engine while you're airborn, it works 
 pretty good even though the explosions look very good.
  
  Gameplay:
  You'll be able to choose you're own vehicle, from motors to big rigs, from rallycars to buggy's, 
 you'll be able to choose them in each map, but the maps are randomly generated, and since some 
 surfaces on maps like mud have a huge impacts on motors, working as a con, but for big rigs and 
 a pro, which gives it a decent fair match in most situations.
  
  Theres a strategy called cooling down you're engine, if you use turbo infront of a ramp, you're 
 engine will cool down, which decreases you're turbometer, if you're engine meter-thingy gets red, 
 you'll explode into bits, seeing some slowmotion action of you getting injured badly, or falling 
 off a cliff.
  
  Graphics:
  Its a racing game, so you won't be getting a great view of textures, but the mud effects look fantastic, 
 all vehicles look great, if a person in a big rig makes a boost, the vehicle behind him gets covered 
 in mud, ruining their camera if their in First person view.
  
  Background looks good to, the explosions look great, graphics aren't a issue in this game.
  
 
  Story:
  I don't know if this story is valid, but I heard that the game is about roadies in the middle of 
 the desert, get laid and get drunk and puke constantly ETC, and theres this race everybody participates 
 in, it seems the party is called Motor storm and you are *surprise surprise* participating in it.
 
  
  Sound:
  The game sounds GREAT, no doubt about that, explosions sound GREAT, motors crossing around the 
 map sound great, impact from mud or solid ground sound GREAT, the game just sounds amazingly good, 
 the only thing I miss is a soundtrack, or atleast custom soundtrack.
  
  Is it a good racing game:
  Yes, if you're looking for something else then ResistanceFOM and don't 
 want to wait any longer for GTA4 or The Darkness, play this game, its just chaotic fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: a-tek
Rating: 8.5
Date: May 25, 2007 10:40 pm PT
Review:  As you have seen in the videos, car explosions are a big attraction. There are about 200 parts 
 of the car that fly away after a crash. Also, if you hit a bump, but not crash, your hood and fenders 
 will peel off. This is really sweet. especially when you manage to be driving a chassis with wheels. 
 The dirt looks nice, good dust effect, but the mud is gorgeous - great shine in the sunlight and 
 highly detailed. The cars are highly detailed, before and during the race. The paint has an excellent 
 sunlight effect, until you get dirty. Dust will cover the car, and then you will be caked with 
 dirt in no time. When you run through mud, mud becomes splattered. The mud looks great, but seems 
 a little patchy. Dents and dings are carried out nicely as well. Enough about visuals already, 
 now to the gameplay. It's a short game, and only 8 tracks. They've stretched it very well, though. 
 There are different times of day for each race, and I've even come across a nighttime race. Also, 
 you will unlock more vehicles in the many categories to choose from: motorcycle, ATV, rally car, 
 racing truck, dune buggy, mud plugger, and the infamous big rigs (jerks) . The game starts out fairly 
 easy, but gets difficult at times. But practice makes perfect - restart the race and try again, 
 you'll get first in no time. I have a small hint for you if you get a little stuck. At the beginning 
 of the race, don't take off just yet, wait till everyone gets ahead a little. Everyone will be 
 wrestling with each other and too crowded together and preoccupied to notice you flying by, burning 
 your boost. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ff10andff12
Rating: 9.3
Date: May 25, 2007 2:06 pm PT
Review:  Motorstorm is a beautiful mud fest. The graphics are spectacular and very realistic. The physics 
 is what makes this game outstanding, By blowing up your vehicle into millions of little pieces 
 is all out fun. The races are tricky and brain sqeezing to add a good depth of gameplay. Over all 
 the game is just amazing in the gameplay category.
  
  the one downside to this game is that it doesnt support enough content to make the game even more 
 interesting and fun. It needs another 6 or 7 tracks to make the game perfect. The on line play 
 is very addictive so that makes the game feel valuable. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Xantiriad
Rating: 8
Date: May 25, 2007 8:09 am PT
Review:  Pros: Great graphics; manic gameplay; multiple routes; it feels off road
  Cons: limited online; limited tracks; by the numbers single player game
  
  MotorStorm is 
 an off-road extreme racing simulator with cars, buggies, bikes and trucks. Races feature up to 
 16 competitors and may include vehicles from different classes or all one class. The racing is 
 manic, frantic, exciting and huge fun. All the vehicles feature complex damage effects, and the 
 bullet time crashes are truly spectacular. Pile-ups are common and are complete carnage! All 
 the vehicles can utilise a Nitro Boost, which gives you a temporary speed boost, complete with 
 flames! This is carefully balanced by having limited use before it blows your vehicle up  often 
 with spectacular results. You can control the vehicle with the SixAxis sticks or use the motion 
 sensitive tilt support; but to be honest it is complete cack, so dont bother.
  
  Many tracks feature multiple routes that are optimised for the vehicle being raced: flat and muddy 
 for trucks; high and jumpy for bikes; bumpy and twisty for buggies. The tracks themselves are littered 
 with pot holes, debris, broken vehicles, destructible buildings and the odd cliff! You really get 
 the sense of off road as you struggle to control you vehicle bouncing over these dessert landscapes 
 squeezing between other vehicles and hazards.
  
  The graphics in MotorStorm are excellent, with real time damage, plus mud, water and dust accumulating 
 on your vehicle and obscuring your view. The environments are all dessert locations, but a varied 
 enough between quarry and cliff-top locales to have some distinction. The animations, particular 
 the bullet time crashes, are brilliantly done and really had a sense of fun to the carnage - 
 the biker damage is particular gruesome.
  
  As is the norm with extreme games, it features an over-the-top college rock sound track  it 
 is perfectly fine and suits the aggressive style of racing. The sound effects are also good, particularly 
 the sound effects from the nitro boost and during one of the frequent crashes.
  
  The online game has the usual competitive race modes, whilst the single player is a pretty straightforward 
 series of race events. The game does feel like it lacks a bit of depth in terms of race variety, 
 but future free DLC looks like delivering some additional modes and features.
  
  MotorStorm plays like a dry version of WaveRace (N64 and Gamecube) , which is high praise indeed. 
 The sense of balancing your vehicle on the edge of stability is very similar to the Jet Skis 
 physics in WaveRace and just as satisfying. It can be argued that the single player is a little 
 short and one dimensional, but the sheer fun and excitement of the off road racing more than makes 
 up for it. MotorStorm is the best PS3 launch title and the first must buy for any PS3 owner. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: c0re-55
Rating: 8.2
Date: May 24, 2007 5:42 am PT
Review:  Gameplay : Good fast paced burnout like racing with a wide variety of rides ( bikes, atvs, rally 
 cars, mud pluggers, big rigs and racing trucks) the controls take a little bit of time to get used 
 to but once you do get used to them thats when you get the most out of the game
  
  Graphics : I think I read somewhere that the game is just to show of the capabilities of the ps3 
 and i think its done just that, i havent found any problems with the frame rate and i dont think 
 there is anything to say about the graphics accept that there nothing wrong with it. Sound : The 
 game features a nice sound track, although when you are setting up a race the music during then 
 is sort of.... annoying. I dunno what it is but the music seems to be echoing like as if it was 
 in a long hall and that is very irritating. aprt from that the sounds of the cars and bikes are 
 nice and 'real' and not overdone.
  
  Value : I'd say that it is worth buying as it is a good fun game to play in little bursts, but 
 dont buy this if you want to play split-screen because it doesnt have it but it does have an online 
 mode with up to 12 players which kind of makes up for it.
  
  Overall this game is good but it could have been better if it had more game modes in it because 
 this game only features one mode which is... well racing :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Game13a13y
Rating: 8.2
Date: May 23, 2007 1:27 am PT
Review:  let me start off by telling you so trivia about this game and me.
  
  the reason why i bought my PS 3 is this game. yep this game. so this is the first game i got on 
 my PS 3.
  
  needless to say, i got attracted by the graphics of this game at the first glance. the graphics 
 are pretty great, as well as the physics. when you crashed, you'll see pieces of your car flying 
 off everywhere. its pretty cool. plus if you're driving in a bike, the driver will fly off too. 
 funny.
  
  well, besides graphics, this game doesn't improve anything else. it just plays like any other mud 
 racing game there is. so if you are looking for some novelty, you'll be disappointed.
  
  however, the game features a nice online multiplayer mode, it greatly expands the replay value 
 of this game. or when Home came out, you'll get some trophies or sth later on.
  
  overall, this game is nothing that will blow your mind away. but if you currently have a PS 3 and 
 are looking for a fun title for it, this game is a must-have. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: UTIxxx50
Rating: 8.1
Date: May 23, 2007 12:00 am PT
Review:  there are some things that prevent motorstorm from having a higher score: the lack of split screen 
 multiplayer, limited content, slow vehicles and very hard races. but everything else in motorstorm 
 is great. the environments, vehicles and drivers are very detailed and the vehicles look awesome 
 while they are being destroyed. the sound effects are realistic too and the soundtrack sounds great. the 
 races are very fun and chaotic but the best thing in motorstorm is the online battles. they're more 
 fun than the single player races. if you like great games even if they have limited content, buy 
 motorstorm. but if you don't, look for another game. motorstorm is not the game for you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheHotel
Rating: 7.4
Date: May 22, 2007 5:20 pm PT
Review:  Motorstorm, is a nice, fun, destructive game for the first few hours. It features great graphics, 
 nice gameplay, and lots of action, but these things will only deep you entertained for so long, 
 and then you'll realize that this game is missing a few things. I know you've heard this... The 
 game needs more tracks!! and, well, it's true. 8 tracks doesn't seem like quite enough, but the 
 biggest problem is that if you wanted to race on a certain track with a certain vehicle, you have 
 to search for it for 5 minutes through all the career tickets, because Motorstorm doesn't have 
 any arcade single player mode where you can just set a specific event up in 10 seconds, if you 
 want it, you have to find it.
  
  The single player career mode is fun at first, but then near the end, the AI has to cheat in order 
 to beat you, which is quite frustrating. Once you're all done with career mode, you don't get ANYTHING 
 after you've beaten it. The game just ends, so if you don't have online, then that's it...
  
  If you do though, then the game has some replayability, but online is nothing that special. 
 Motorstorm is a great game though, the only thing REALLY bad about it is that its low on content. 
 This game is NOT worth buying a PS3 over, but it is an OK game to get if you have some money to 
 spare. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: balladofbron
Rating: 9.6
Date: May 20, 2007 11:10 am PT
Review:  For all the frustration that I went through while playing the game, it made it that much better. 
 I couldn't go to long without grabbing that controller and going right back at it to get that damn 
 race complete. The tracks were pretty sweet, especially how they changed so much just from going 
 from day to night adding that edge in there aggravating the hell out of me because I couldn't see 
 crap going into some of those corners. The graphics are really awesome in this, not to mention 
 how it looks when you are flying off your bike in an accident, or when you go into free roam mode 
 while exploding. :) They are pretty sweet if you ask me. Game play was very challenging which makes 
 the game that much more awesome. Who likes those games where you can beat everything first try 
 by a mile. Thats just dull. This game.. Takes a few tries once you start getting up there. Days 
 if you keep walking away. Not to mention the last ticket is insane due to all the night time you 
 have to face. All in all, this game was amazing..
  
  ~B_roN 
::::::

::::::
UserName: T_Legend
Rating: 9.1
Date: May 20, 2007 4:17 am PT
Review:  After playing resistance, oblivion and motor storm i decided to get motor storm i think its the 
 best release ps3 game. The graphics are amazing almost real life!! The game is highly addictive 
 when you get in to it. It does take a while to play it and win the races, however it is great fun 
 when you boost and then go over a ramp and it is great fun when you explode!! The best vehicles 
 to race in are the rally cars as they have really good boost and have good handling. Motorbikes 
 are the worst as they are hard to control and crash easily. Overall it it a really fun and addictive 
 game!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: meharu
Rating: 8.1
Date: May 15, 2007 8:39 am PT
Review:  Motorstorm: Simply one of the best racing games, the graphics are amazing it's cool to play especially 
 the rally cars. This game is really loud and it will keep you at the edge of your seat. There are 
 many things that will make you love this game like the provocative moves and mud effects you will 
 be
  surprised when you see how your car is all covered in dirt in a very detailed level just imagine 
 many cars exploding at once. This game is very aggressive you'll get mad when other cars knock you 
 off the road on purpose, the soundtracks are great, but the bad thing about this game is you won't 
 get any bonus tracks or cars when you finish it. I finished all the tracks at rank 1
  but no bonus was given but still Motorstorm is a must have game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mgray187
Rating: 8.9
Date: May 12, 2007 5:56 pm PT
Review:  This game is an awesome game. Its pretty fun and has great graphics. But what hurts the game is the 
 lack of depth. The races are pretty much the same every time around. Only differences is the vehicle 
 you drive. There should have been some different modes in this game. Like a off road drag race, 
 a destruction derby mode. Something other than just going around the tracks over and over. I mean 
 it is fun but its not quite as fun as it could be. This game had so much more potential. It has some 
 the best graphics so far on the PS3 and a great soundtrack. The racing is quite fun but gets repetative. All 
 in all its a great game with few flaws. But the flaws it has are the ones that matter most. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: homer1492
Rating: 8.7
Date: May 12, 2007 2:59 am PT
Review:  Motorstorm one of the better games of the ps3, but unfortunately ,like excite truck, lacks features. 
 The graphics are amazing and when you pause the game you really push the graphics engine. You are 
 able to look at the scene, turning and twisting the desert .The sun, mud and dirt really come alive 
 in this game. The other viewpoints get dirty and hider your performance. The AI is brilliant and 
 really want to destroy your car/other.
  The vehicles in this game are beautiful and it is a real shame to have to destroy them five times 
 to finish the race. The only downfall to this game is that it is too short. If it had more tracks 
 or unlockable vehicles it would be a lot better of a game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PLAY-B3YOND
Rating: 9.6
Date: May 11, 2007 10:37 pm PT
Review:  People think Motorstorm didn't live up to the hype but it sure did... At first i didnt enjoy it 
 but once u start getting into it, its one of the craziest most fun games ever!!!
  
  So i got Motorstorm with my PS3 and Resistance, and i have to say, Resistance isn't much better 
 than Motorstorm.
  Their two different genres and Resistance's online is ALOT better, but Motorstorms offline is catchy 
 and amazingly ADDICTING!!!
  
  trust me! I started playing the game and i was disappointed, then i played Resistance alot especially 
 online but the offline was just way too hard.
  So i decided to take a long brake from resistance and try Motorstorm again... and Walah!!
  
 
  Motorstorm lacks alot of game modes but it's festival mode (which is the only one besides online) 
 is really fun.
  U start with three tickets and each ticket has about 2 races and u have to get first place in each 
 (which is really hard at first) to complete the ticket.
  
  It's really rewarding and it's gonna be the best feeling when PS HOME comes out and ull get a life 
 sized truck as a trophy lol.
  There are about 21 tickets but it takes a LONG TIME to finish them... trust me it just keeps getting 
 harder and harder but after u get the hang of it then its really fun and not too hard.
  
  Then theres the online mode, which is really good.
  I personnaly dont play it as much as offline 
 but alot of people prefer the online and play it with their friends.
  There's voice chat and its really fun to taunt people when theyre in front of u lol.
  The online 
 is especially hard and u only get a win if u get first place.
  12 people can compete online at most which is quite alot for a racer like this.
  I have to say, 
 the online gives Motorstorm ALOT of replay value.
  
  The thing that i (and im sure alot of people agree) didn't like about Motorstorm is that it's laking 
 offline multiplayer which is really fun to play with friends so u can only play against friends 
 if they hve a PS3.
  
  Overall Motorstorm is an Awsome game, and if u hve a PS3 i recommend u to get this game if u like 
 addicting games, racers, and chaos!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Demonicstriker
Rating: 8.7
Date: May 9, 2007 1:04 pm PT
Review:  It is somewhat hard to explain my feelings towards MS for its flaws almost out weigh its good features. 
 Once you get the game up and running and you get into the race you will have a blast just getting 
 there is the problem. The loading times are god awful, if you don't mind waiting to pick your vehicle 
 or get into an online race you will love this game. The online portion of the game feels like something 
 that would have been on a last generation system. Though the menus and lobby system blows the physics 
 are something to be awed over and over again the course changes in minor ways like prints from 
 the lap before or blockades being broke down. The explosions are very cool but lengthy causing 
 you to lose a few spots and slow you down to the point you almost have to over boost to catch up. 
 I would say at this point if you own a PS3 its worth the buy but not worth buying a PS3. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Old_Gooseberry
Rating: 5.1
Date: May 8, 2007 7:53 am PT
Review:  This controls easier and looks better than PGR, but theres nothing to keep you playing it. Once 
 I've raced over a track a few times I didn't care for doing it again. The music is annoying. This 
 game looks good and since a pretty sloppy game like this can look good, it luckily shows a good 
 future for the PS3. Why they didn't add more options to the gameplay is odd. And the camera is 
 slow to turn with you as you go around corners.
  
  Motorstorm looks like a new game but doesn't play like one, and doesn't have enough in it to make 
 it worth much money. I never play games online so not sure if this is worth it if you like that 
 kind of thing. Poor game and embarrassing to own. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jetsvcf
Rating: 9.6
Date: May 5, 2007 6:04 am PT
Review:  What could possibly be enjoyable about a racing game which sees you gloriously thrash the field 
 for 97 per cent of a race, only to be shoved straight into a tire barrier six agonizing yards from 
 the finishing line? And not even by a malicious human competitor, but through the seemingly entirely 
 random behavior of a computer-controlled one? Life is spectacularly unfair at times.
  
  Well, if it was just about any other game, the answer would be to hell with it. But this isnt 
 just any other game. This is MotorStorm, Sonys hi-def, high-octane posterchild for PS3 gaming, 
 and thankfully its a game of extremes - the excitement is intense, the frustration at times, is 
 unbearable. Yet that nervous tension is merely the by-product of a game which will push you right 
 to the edge. Believe me when I say youll slowly grow to love the rapid onset of pad-smashing fury. 
 Youll take it as a sign of how deeply and completely MotorStorm manages to burrow under your skin.
 
  Big Screen, Main Screen Youve seen those slightly weird late-night shows of alternative festivals 
 set in vast deserts, right? MotorStorms premise is a bit like one of those. Its a huge desert 
 racing festival, complete with arenas in the distance, multicolored flags flapping along the sides 
 of canyons and helicopters hovering trackside - presumably to transport crushed competitors bodies 
 to hospital. Its made up of a series of events which you need racing passes to enter. By completing 
 a set of races you gain the next pass, and so on. Its simple, theres nothing youve not seen 
 already, yet it suits the stripped back racing on hand down to a tee.
  
  So youve got dusty, wide open spaces, ramps, even bigger ramps, a demon boost and a field of big 
 rigs, motorbikes, rally cars and buggies. That sounds like a recipe for balls-out joyriding, Burnout-style, 
 but to approach MotorStorm with drive like a maniac mode engaged is to miss the point. Sure, 
 the levels of carnage are among the finest and most brilliantly sickening ever seen, but the object 
 is to win races. So while the crunches and explosions look great, youll want to stay well clear 
 of them or else your hard-fought-for pole position will disappear in a tailspin. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Eyal8
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jun 30, 2007 8:01 am PT
Review:  MotorStorm is the perfect game for you if you like combat racing games, This game uses the sixaxis 
 functionalities beautifully and makes the racing to look real, and you can really feel like you're 
 driving the vehicle The graphics are awesome I have never seen better graphics than that in other 
 racing games, all the crashes looks amazing and the trucks also.
  The songs in the game suit to the atmosphere but sometimes they are annoying, they did great work 
 with the crashing sound effects.
  Gameplay could've been better there aren't lots of features that will make you busy except of the 
 fun in crashing into walls, there is no offline multiplayer but I think the game is still worth 
 buying If you're thinking of buying an off-road game this is the game for U ! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: acdcrocknroll
Rating: 6.2
Date: May 2, 2007 6:23 pm PT
Review:  every one said taht this game was going to me the best game ever but i got it and was very disapointed.
 
  i got this game and played it for about 3 hours and then brought it back because it wasnt very 
 fun, the only thing fun was punching people of there bikes and the wipe outs.
  i really didnt like the game although i did have great graphics with a hdmi cable. but the game 
 play was very fun at all, it was just riding around a trck with other people lap after lap
  
  i didnt likke this game so rent it or get e recite 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Tommygun19
Rating: 9.6
Date: May 2, 2007 2:14 pm PT
Review:  Motorstorm sounds and looks like a great game but it will get boring eventually.
  But the demo was out of this world, it was great. The game has really good graphics and the sound 
 is perfect and the gameplay is just plain fun and I got addicted to it. The value is real good to. Even 
 though they could have done better. It will probably be one of The Playstation 3's best action-racing 
 video game in 2007. But It was worth the money, time, and play. It actually feels like your there and 
 it is a really great game. The way you crash into other cars and bikes is just amazing. I give Motorstorm 
 a 8.3. Good job. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: VinnoT
Rating: 8.6
Date: May 2, 2007 10:21 am PT
Review:  I will start off by giving the bad parts of this game. The AI is done in a wierd way, which I really 
 dont like. Its scripted so that the AI cars will ALWAYS ALWAYS ALWAYS be right behind you... all 
 the time. There is literally no way to have 2 flawless laps and give yourself a good lead. The 
 Ai will always be there, and I dont like this in a racing game, especially one where you have to 
 win each race to progress to the next. It essentially makes the first 2.5 laps of the race pointless 
 and you just have to stay in touch until the last bit... slam the boost down and win.
  
  The actual gameplay and engine is fantastic, I cant complain. Throughout every race there is a 
 feeling on danger. Youre always seeing AI cars slamming into walls, flipping over, exploding. (The 
 same goes for multiplayer.) The cars handle well, the damage model is fantastic. All I can say 
 is.. its too short! You get bored too easily with just one game mode, which is basically race after 
 race after race. The sound is good for this game, I love the music and the sound effects are top 
 notch, the engines purr and scream angrily when you apply the boost.
  
  To sum up. Great game. Fantastic graphics. Fantastic gameplay. Great sound. Poor replayability. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RabbidDawg
Rating: 6
Date: May 1, 2007 3:20 am PT
Review:  You wanna get down and dirty this may be the game for although a bit short, and lack of options 
 hurt it some.
  
  In MotroStorm you participate in a series of off-road races with tons of vehicles, at a off-road 
 festival, and there is your story, lets get with the game already!
  
  Graphics: This is one of the few PS3 games that showcases what this baby may put out in the future. 
 The lighting is spot on, and the devs did a really nice job with how the sun shines on things and 
 shadows are cast superbly.
  
  For the most part the textures are GREAT! The mud looks thick and slick, the faraway canyons look 
 super realistic, but some of the terrain looks PS2-ish at best. the grass on Oblivion looks better 
 and its actually poorly done, the sand and hard ground also look blurry and very undetailed.
  
  Its odd passing by well done caverns and rocks only to realize that the ground looks horrible 
 in spots. The deformation of the tracks is pretty good though. As you race you can see the many 
 ruts and racing lines your opponents have left, and that is pulled off pretty well, I'm happy to 
 say.
  
  Framerates seem stable. The vehicles look really slick too. particle effects rock when your vehicles 
 explode or when you sling mud on the camera, and its great how dirt and mud get caked on your vehicle. 
 The physics are outstanding to. Some of the best Ive seen.
  
  Visually this game is a benchmark for the PS3. It shows that less than a year in there is a game 
 that almost topples the 360's best. The 360 had nothing like this when it first came out or in 
 the months after until Gears arrived. There are a few hiccups visually but nothing to harsh.
  
  Gameplay: This is were we go down hill a bit. The controls are easy enough, and the AI is decent, 
 provides a slight challenge, but the lack of tracks hurts this title immensely. The game just rehashes 
 the same tracks over and over again only using different times of day. It gets really repetitive 
 and boring quick. Lack of modes is another minus. You race.... off road... thats it. There could 
 have been some kind of variety or incentive for doing different things like a free roam mode would 
 have been cool or just some kind of race to spruce things up but sadly there isn't. Drag racing 
 in the mud would have been good too. Lack of split screen is ludicrous. What racing game doesn't 
 have split screen? Online is fun, in short burst. Nothing real spectacular though, just plain ol 
 dirty racing.
  
  It has a decent amount of vehicles and variety in vehicles but they all seem to handle about the 
 same other than speed. Different speeds but same basic handling. The vehicles look good, just again 
 not a lot of variety in how they handle.
  
  This game just sags in the gameplay department. Gets real old real quick.
  
  Sound: Vehicles 
 sound great, environment sounds great, like sloshing through the mud etc. Sound track loop is unbearable 
 and could actually turn you away from the game. The songs just don't seem to fit, and there is 
 not enough of them to really make you want to listen to what seems like the same 5 songs over and 
 over again.
  
  This is one of the biggest annoyances for this game. The update for the PS3 allowing in game custom 
 soundtracks cant come soon enough. I could turn the music off, but then what? Listen to music through 
 my 360 while I play a PS3 game... NO! The sound track seems like it was just sloppily thrown together, 
 and hurts the game big time. If your gonna play it turn the music off because it gets annoying 
 in my opinion.
  
  Value: Other than Online, this game is average at best in value. Really repetitive single player, 
 with no variety in modes, Great sound effects but disgusting sound track, lack of splt screen multi 
 player and Lack of tracks really hurt this game.
  When you first pop it in your like WOW, for the first couple of races then you realize that it 
 gets old. The rigs look great but the variety in how they handle is a downer to. Rent it first 
 is all I can say. I seem semi-split in how I feel about this game.
  
  It screams FUN! with its Demolition Derby meets off-road rally, but fails in overall lack of variety 
 of tracks, music, racing modes on-line and off, split screen and vehicle handling. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gluonzabo
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 30, 2007 9:14 am PT
Review:  MotorStorm is the perfect game for you if you like combat racing games, This game uses the sixaxis 
 functionalities beautifully and makes the racing to look real, and you can really feel like you're 
 driving the vehicle The graphics are awesome I have never seen better graphics than that in other 
 racing games, all the crashes looks amazing and the trucks also.
  The songs in the game suit to the atmosphere but sometimes they are annoying, they did great work 
 with the crashing sound effects.
  Gameplay could've been better there aren't lots of features that will make you busy except of the 
 fun in crashing into walls, there is no offline multiplayer but I think the game is still worth 
 buying If you're thinking of buying an off-road game this is the game for U ! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Biohunter007
Rating: 7.4
Date: Apr 28, 2007 7:56 pm PT
Review:  Ok, I was really hoping this game would be good. And it was, for 30 minutes or so. Its one of those 
 games where at first your thinking, Wow, this is pretty cool . Then it gets tedious. I know a lot 
 of racers get that way but your very limited in what you can and cant do. The vehicles are all 
 VERY similar, 8 or so tracks just dosent cut these days either. Little to no customizing is a BIG 
 let down for myself and a lot of gamers. But at its core it is a fun simple (even a little difficult) 
 racer. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rcwadsworth
Rating: 8.3
Date: Apr 28, 2007 12:56 pm PT
Review:  Motor storm comes bouncing crashing through, what game wow I love this Ive been waiting for a 
 game like motor storm on the 360 but PS has snatched it.
  
  My first game!!! And this is a very good effort I being playing this solid for 4 hours now. First 
 thing looks at 720p its amazing frames appear a formula rate the crashes are even better as bits 
 from you transport fly apart.. I cant help compare this racing game with those so classic car 
 bits in Mad Max 2. The cars have the same feel and appearance (not a bad idea for a download pack!!!)
 
  
  Anyway back to the game not content just driving round on a normal track so without for mud, rocks, 
 crashed cars, the other drivers and more then root. The catch up system is good too so you have 
 a chance to get that first place after crashing and restarting in 10th place just stick with it.
 
  
  Graphics are top draw sound is cracking and where can I get that music track???
  
  This is good and they could have done so much more so Motor Storm 2 should be a more complete game 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: goosebumpsfreak
Rating: 2.6
Date: Apr 26, 2007 5:33 pm PT
Review:  This game was absolutely horrible. It wasn't multiplayer (with two controllers)
  had horrible gameplay. Was little value and basically a waste of time and $$$.
  $60.00 for a 
 game worth 5 cents. Me and my family were waiting for a long time for this to come out and we played 
 and it was HORRID! Many other people have been rating it 10 and 9 and etc. for nothing! Hope they 
 never release a game like this again. In fact, Evolution Studios can not do any worse than this 
 game. The PS3 is capable of way more than this. However, this why I give it a terrible 2.7. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mastershake341
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 25, 2007 7:22 pm PT
Review:  Motorstorm's rampageous brand of racing is a great deal of fun -- it is that there isn't more things 
 that you can do. The racing levels are fun and exciting. The online play is fun and exciting but 
 I wish there could be more players in a race than there are now. The vehicles are cool but I wish 
 there were more vehicles you can use and I think there should more ways to customize your vehicle 
 in a variety of wierd ways. I think the game should have a way of customizing your driver. By downloading 
 charcters from other games that you have in your collection and then you could drive as the charcters 
 that you downloaded. The game is fun as it is now. It is worth buying the game as soon as possible. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: StOcKoHeArTs
Rating: 9.6
Date: Apr 24, 2007 9:12 am PT
Review:  Throw the rule book in the dirt go on out and claim victory use brawl skill and carefully driving 
 to get 1st!!!
  
  Gameplay 9 : Great crashes, fast driving but a bit hard with SIXAXIS!
  
  Graphic's 10 : The most beautiful driving i have seen on a console wicked car details, eviroments 
 and crashes WICKED!
  
  Sound 10 : Brill Soundtrack goes good with the driving SONY done good this time!
  
  Value 9 
 : Can be easy/Hard in some places but the multiplayer is The best bit 12 people racing at a time 
 wicked!!
  
  Overall : A sick looking game with a long single player and a Brill multiplayer packed into one 
 AMAZING game!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: philsousa
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 24, 2007 8:00 am PT
Review:  The Graphics are just amazing! The rendering shows us a glimpse at the PS3's potential. The soundtrack 
 is great with some rockin tracks!
  Choose from a variety of different vehicles: Dirt Bikes; Buggies; Trucks; RAlly Cars; Big Rigs 
 etc etc. Each type with a range of alternatives which increase as you unlock bonuses (such as vehicles 
 and tracks) .
  Each track also has a variety of routes each with diferent type of terrain (mud, dust, rock etc) 
 which is best suited to a certain type of vehicle.
  Game is imense fun with harsh replays showing you the violence of the impact when you crash. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gschoenb
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 21, 2007 4:53 pm PT
Review:  THE GOOD:
  - Great graphics: the trucks look amazing, with reflective paint and detailed components. The courses 
 also look great, with detailed textures and good lighting effects. The video cut scenes are incredible 
 in HD.
  
  - Vehicle choice: From motorcycles to monster trucks to rally cars, this game pretty much covers 
 every off road vehicle out there.
  
  - Vehicle damage: Vehicles crash in an explosion of parts. Very detailed damage after impact. The 
 trucks get coated in dirt realistically.
  
  - Simple menu structure: Very easy to navigate the menu, pick settings and races.
  
  - Decent 
 online mode, with a full list of courses and vehicles.
  
  THE BAD:
  - Single player game gets really difficult about half way through. If you make one mistake and 
 crash... or somebody bumps you into a rock, you're screwed and probably won't win the race.
  
  - No vehicle upgrades available... you don't really know if one truck in a class is better 
 than the next, so you end up choosing based on styling and color. It'd be nice if you could see 
 some generic ratings (acceleration, handling, top speed, suspension travel, etc.) and could increase 
 these ratings with some add on parts after winning races.
  
  - Online modes is lacking is stats. It tells you how many races you've won, and how many you've 
 lost. Anything other than first, and you're a loser. This may sound like a small thing, but for 
 me stats keep me intersted in the online portion of a game. Without good stats, I don't get hooked 
 to keep playing and improve.
  
  - Sound for some reason is extremely loud compared to other PS3 games. Hard to find a comfortable 
 volume 
::::::

::::::
UserName: djmarky
Rating: 7.9
Date: Apr 21, 2007 2:59 pm PT
Review:  Motorstorm is a brutal off road racer which is Extremly fun to play, but with only 7/8 different 
 maps it can get a little repetitive. Although the graphics are Fantastic in this game and possible 
 the best i have personally seen in a game, the gameplay however is fun and addictive. But the story 
 mode is a little difficult at times. Within the small time i have played this game ( Around 5-6Hours) 
 i have alreay got half - way through the main storyline. Some people may play online but i cant 
 because i am not on PSN, so i cant comment on the online gameplay.
  The sixaxis adds another level of fun the game along with the traditional analog controling. All 
 in all motorstorm is a extremly fun game and you will enjoy playing it if you enjoy this type of 
 game, just needs a little more for this to be a perfect game, hopefully if there is a motorstorm2 
 they will include more in the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: frederikfrey
Rating: 8.6
Date: Apr 21, 2007 6:52 am PT
Review:  The first thing you notice about this game is the stunning graphics, the environment and the riders 
 plus the vehicles are done by the hand of God! The textures are near perfect and your eyes are 
 pleased whatever happens on the screen. Another great thing are the physics, all the vehicles act 
 very differently, which is good, and they all feel realistic, if you can talk about being realistic 
 in this game.
  A thing that's not so great is the number of tracks. There are not many and you normally do 2-3 
 laps on each track, which means you'll be driving them for about 6-8 minutes at a time. This makes 
 for two problems. 1: You get tired of them pretty fast. 2: If you happen to crash and have to race 
 again, it takes a long time, if you make one mistake at the end of the race, the last 6 minutes 
 of racing goes out the window - FRUSTRATING especially if you want all gold medals which I wanted. 
 The next problem is the Difficulty - This game get's really hard after a while if you want to win 
 all races, when you get to level 4 it's practically luck (and not skills) if you manage to complete 
 the race in the top 5. With all this said, it's still a great game also with a lot of Online-fun 
 in store.
  
  Pluses:
  
  -Stunning Graphics
  
  -Massive Sound
  
  -Many Hours Of Gaming
  
  -Nice Online Feature
  
  -Great Physics
  
  Minuses:
  
  
 -It's Hard
  
  -Not Easy To Pick Up
  
  -Few Tracks 
::::::

::::::
UserName: enriquecruz
Rating: 8.7
Date: Apr 20, 2007 7:45 am PT
Review:  The game is great and its totally worth buyying, it has rea; lly goode graphicas alaround and the 
 crash an dirt effects are amzing, sound is good an is no doubt well incorporated in to the races, 
 th econtroll are slik and the rtilt functionallity opotion is simply a great way to shocase the 
 effectivity of the SixAxis. The onliun emultiplayer is also great and youll have a blast playing 
 and racing agaist other people but itis really a sahme that they coulf not have incorporated an 
 split screen multiplayer, really a sahme
  Finally my only regret abouth this gae is the fact that the single player canpain is so undeveloped 
 and it coul have been much more fun and much pmore deep, but hopefully it is somethingt the developers 
 will take in mind for their next game.
  In conclusion if you are a fan of racing games thi sis currently the one to buy 
::::::

::::::
UserName: eryk1
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 19, 2007 3:06 pm PT
Review:  When I get a new game I can't wait to play it. I don't watch the opening scene, nothing; I just 
 want to start the game. This game however, I got stuck watching the opening scene like a little 
 puppy with his first bone. Then I started the game, and to my amazement the in game graphics where 
 as they where billed. Incredible! The game played very well and had a light learning curve. Each 
 vehicle has it's own characteristics and dose better in it's own element. The tracks are long an 
 incredibly detailed. I also enjoyed the track deformation; it is very well done and the cool thing 
 is, its there the next time around too.
  
  There are some blatant problems with the game, one that should not have been over looked. The biggest 
 problem with this $60 game is that it is very shallow. All the things mention earlier is the whole 
 experience. To me that is wrong. A game that costs $60 should be a complete experience. There is 
 now customization, there is now difference between the vehicles, and most of all; there is no story 
 or even a real carrier mode. Its like playing old racing games from ten years ago. Frankly its 
 an expensive incomplete game.
  
  Games today need to be a complete experience. If a game has no real story it need many options 
 to fill the void. A game that has a lot of story and substance can get away with few options. However, 
 for its shortcomings this game is what it has been billed: A beautiful racing game. The bad thing 
 is; that is all there is. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: trigun0006
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 18, 2007 9:25 pm PT
Review:  Id think its a safe assumption that just about every ps3 online user has downloaded the motor storm 
 demo, and thats about the extent of this game. If you liked the demo, chances are youll like the 
 actual game. I mean, you atleast owe it to yourself to rent the game. The game is also a definite 
 show pice. The only unforgivable problem is the lack of offline multyplayer. considering i only 
 have 3 friends who have the ps3 so far, its kind of a pain to play the game with them. Despite 
 its addictive action raceing and awe-impressing graphics, haveing to take turns playing the game 
 is a big letdown for someone who bought this game expecting atleast 2 player offline. Hell, as 
 a raceing game fan, i actually looked at all of my other raceing games and just about every single 
 one had offline multyplayer. Their are also some minor letdowns, like the online presentation. 
 It took me 30 minutes to finally figure out how the online worked. It was also unbelievable fun 
 though, despite a pain in the ass to navigate. In all, the game is great.
  
  From a graphics standpoint, this game rocks. The explosions are amazing, the seenery is breathtakeing, 
 and the models are very detailed. The game does seem to have an alaizing problem with the mud affect 
 and with shadows. These arnt the most noticible problems when the game is in motion, because the 
 motion blur is exceptional, but in the slow motion is in affect, its quite noticible.
  
  On gameplay, the game SHINES. The game is fast paced enough to be fun, but not burnout fast. The 
 cars actually seem to have physics, which is a nice change to the usual racer. Each class is fun 
 to play as, The 4 difficulties start kind of fun, and 4 is quite taxing. The maps require you to 
 memorize every crevis. The only downfall of the gameplay is the occasional collision issue, that 
 sometimes messes up a good race. i can think of many instances where i hit a rock or a slope and 
 just get stuck, which can completly mess up a good race. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RASECUL
Rating: 7.7
Date: Apr 18, 2007 8:06 pm PT
Review:  I was really disapointed by this game. I can't believe there is no spilt screen, that's unacceptable. 
 There's 8 tracks, they're all amazing in their ways with crazy jumps and cool shortcuts. Career 
 mode gets boring pretty quickly, since there's no real progress, you simply win race after race 
 unlocking tracks and gradually drive each type of car/bikes within the game, you know, stuff that 
 won't matter since there is no split screen in this got released too soon gem. Because it is a 
 gem, the experience is quite awesome... online. But I don't purchase games that are good for online 
 only, but I will probably rent it again. There's no doubt that the sequel is going to be more like 
 it, if they recover the fumble and put some 2 players mode in there... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DI3HARDGAM3R
Rating: 9.3
Date: Apr 17, 2007 12:14 pm PT
Review:  It is hard to come by a racing game like this. The SixAxis controller works great with this game 
 although it takes a while to get used to. I really love that you can turn off the motion sensor 
 incase it is extremely hard. The single player is a little shorter than expected, but the replay 
 value is high since if you beat the game with motion sensitive, you may want to beat it without. 
 The online is great. Up to twelve players is a decent amount of players per room since I had played 
 alot of RFOM with a full room. One drawback about the online that I was hoping to see was after 
 choosing your vehicle, you should have an option to use montion sensitive. It would have been a 
 nice touch. This game has great graphics especially when you go through mud. The screen gets covered 
 with plenty of it. Also, when you are driving a motorcycle, you can punch the crap out of people 
 and knock them off their vehicle. A minor unrealistic thing to me is when you crash, your vehicle 
 just blows up which yould not actually happen in real life unless you were really driving extremely 
 recklessly. It does make the game a lot more exciting with it though. This game would be even more 
 fun if Sony or Logitech would come out with a racing wheel peripheral soon. If you would like to 
 play this online, add me to your buddy list. My PS username is:
  xX_GAM3_B0Y_Xx (the o in boy is a zero) Final score- 9.3 
::::::

::::::
UserName: -ResidentEvil-
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 16, 2007 7:17 am PT
Review:  One of the best PS3's launch games is MotorStorm which has looked really good and fun before release. 
 Now it's time to find out is this true or is the game poor.
  
  The player gets a decayed car and with it he have to win a couple of races, very simple. Player 
 is in the middle of desert, named Monument Valley and scenes are fantastic. There is also 8-14 
 other competitors so there will be lots of fun.
  
  Track design is one of the MotorStorm's greatest things. Every track has numerous different routes 
 and every vehicle has it's own route. You can't see everything in one play time and this is very 
 good thing. Player has to use turbo if he wants to win so vehicle explodes really often. However, 
 the player's car doesn't break completely but it's always return on the track after explode.
  
  The game's vehicle range is very large. There is motorbikes, ATV's, trucks, etc... Vehicle 
 choose is really important and every vehicle has it's own strengths and weakness. For example, 
 trucks speed is very low but it can break all objects.
  
  Anyway, MotorStorm is really poor game and the game has only one mode and it's really monotonous. 
 The game causes pretty quick an empty feeling because the races continues similar from hour to 
 another. Fortunately there is an online game which helps a lot.
  
  MotorStorm's graphics are really good! There can find continuously new details from the cars, sheet 
 metal brokes dashingly and blast effects are great. This game is a pretty good and fun game. It's 
 nice to show this to friends. MotorStorm corrodes too fast but it's not hard to imagine to burrow 
 this game from the bottom of the closet.
  
  THE GOOD
  +Very good graphics
  +Good atmosphere
  +Versatile tracks
  
  THE BAD
  -Only one mode (which isn't very good)
 
  -No two-player game
  -Very monotonous 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MoragArkadia
Rating: 8.2
Date: Apr 15, 2007 1:40 pm PT
Review:  Motorstorm is a georgeous looking game that showcases the power of the PS3. Being a 360 owner already 
 , I wanted something that would make me feel happy and not remoresful about my PS3 purxchase. Motorstorm 
 did it. At first I was very pleased with the graphics and game play (online is seamless with up 
 to 12 players) but then I turned on the sensor auto detect (six-axis function) and then Motorstorm 
 became a whole new bad ass experience. I have the system hooked up to a 42 Samsung HDTV outputting 
 1080i - and in first person mode with the sensor on the fun factor increased by +10 - give it a 
 shot - if you own a PS3 then clearly you wilol want to check this out - being as there is a little 
 drought with good games for the PS3 right now. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: warmuff2
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 15, 2007 12:53 pm PT
Review:  It rocks ya ya ya ya ya ya ya ya ya ya ya ya ya ya ya ya ya ya ya ya ya ya ya ya ya ya ya ya ya 
 ya ya ya ya ya ya ya ya ya ya ya ya ya ya ya ya ya ya ya ya ya ya ya ya ya ya ya ya ya ya ya ya 
 ya ya ya ya ya ya ya ya ya ya ya ya ya ya ya ya ya ya ya ya ya ya ya ya ya ya ya ya ya ya ya ya 
 ya ya ya ya ya ya ya ya ya ya ya ya ya ya ya ya 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pherstothelee
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 15, 2007 7:00 am PT
Review:  MotorStorm was one of the many Playstation 3 titles that started as a tech demo, this one was a 
 tech demo shown at E3 2005. From that time, the game has evolved into one of the most intriguing 
 racers of this new generation of consoles. Did Evolution Studios develop the game enough to make 
 it a fun game instead of just a tech demo? Find out in my review of MotorStorm.
  
  The first thing that I saw that led me away from thinking that this was just a tech demo was the 
 gameplay. While this wasn't apparent until somewhere around Level 3, the AI is very smart and will 
 do whatever it takes to win or at least beat you. This is not just the case though, as they also 
 will square off against each other, making the game more realistic. The races end up becoming extremely 
 hard but still maintain the fun factor. There are a couple of bad parts though, such as when you 
 are racing as a big rig and flip over, most of the time the vehicle will not explode, and to be 
 able to race again, you must run your boost up to full to blow the vehicle up.
  
  The graphics in MotorStorm are incredible. This was clearly the part of the game that Sony was 
 pointing out to be next gen. Everything looks nice, from the vehicles to the drivers and even to 
 the mud on the ground. There is a nice bit of attention to detail as bikes and ATVs can punch and 
 taunt one another and drivers of other vehicles will often stick their head out of their car to 
 look behind them. When your vehicle explodes, the action goes into slow motion, and you can really 
 see how good the graphics are.
  
  The sound in MotorStorm is also great. All of the cars have different horns and different engine 
 sounds, and this is all accompanied by in my opinion the greatest soundtrack ever to grace a video 
 game. The incredible soundtrack consists of artists such as Every Time I Die, Nirvana, Primal Scream, 
 Queens of the Stone Age, and Wolfmother. It even made me like songs that I didn't like before, 
 such as Before I Forget by Slipknot.
  
  This is where the game takes a hit. MotorStorm is bare bones. There is no split screen multiplayer, 
 exhibition, time trial, or ghost mode, although a time trial and ghost mode should be coming in 
 a patch soon. The single player isn't exactly a career mode, but it has enough to pass as the single 
 player. Since it takes getting gold on all races to win, there's not really much to do after you 
 beat the single player. The online multiplayer seems incredibly tacked on. Rooms are sloppy in 
 the way that when you enter the room, you have to wait for a race to finish almost all the time. 
 There is no available race filter and the speed of which you get into the race depends on if the 
 host can make up his mind. While in the race, you can see everyone's name above their vehicle, 
 which is nice, but it really doesn't cut it. A multiplayer mode this sloppy is most definitely 
 not next gen.
  
  Looking back on the bright side, the design of MotorStorm is great. While there are only eight 
 tracks, each one is beautifully designed with different routes that makes every race on it different. 
 There are also a ton of different types of vehicles, including a bike, an ATV, a rally car, a buggy, 
 a racing truck, a mud plugger, and a big rig. Each one has their pros and cons, and it makes for 
 a very interesting and strategic race.
  
  MotorStorm is a great game that is held back by it's lack of game types. If it would have had those 
 game types, especially split screen multiplayer, this would have been a much better game than it 
 is. Even without the good game modes, this is another, or shall I say the other, impulse buy for 
 the Playstation 3. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nichol4s
Rating: 9.1
Date: Apr 15, 2007 5:18 am PT
Review:  Not going to say much more than Gamespot's review. Motorstorm is one of PS3's first showcases and 
 the CG trailer has wowed gamers worldwide. It's 2007, 2 years later after they've showed us the 
 trailer. Is the graphics on par with the trailer? Obviously no. Is it still as awesome? Yes.
  
  Gameplay: 10/10
  Motorstorm's gameplay is built solely on its physics engine from havok, 
 and without it, the game is nothing. As simple as it looks, there's actually a lot of depth in 
 controlling the vehicle. Different types of vehicles controls differently. The AI in the game is 
 fantastic as well, they'll block you, hit you and knock you off the cliff if they could. When other 
 vehicles fly over you, your player (on bikes or ATV) will actually try to duck. It's these little 
 details that makes the AI impressive.
  
  Graphics: 10/10
  Motorstorm is currently the best looking game on PS3. One of the most impressive graphics in the 
 game is the environment which looks realistic. The tracks also deform as vehicles run over them. 
 Note that it doesn't just look deformed, the deformation actually affects how the vehicles move 
 and it becomes more and more bumpy and the race progresses. 2nd most impressive are of course the 
 crashes and the deformation of the vehicles. However, I find the awe in crashes gets old quick. 
 If you switch the game from 3rd person cam to 1st person you'll actually find the graphics on par 
 with the CG trailer.
  
  Sound: 7/10
  Although the music OST they chose for the game is suitable, I don't really like it. Not much variations 
 in the sound FX as well.
  
  Value: 8/10
  Some people may argue that 8 tracks are not enough, but look at the racing games in arcades, Daytona 
 has like 3 tracks and I'm sure people has spent over $60 playing it when it was popular. Furthermore, 
 the tracks in Motorstorm features a lot of alternative routes and each lap is quite long and take 
 some time to complete. My only gripes are they should have more types of racing, and of course, 
 no offline multiplayer. Having online for EU and US version makes replayability value high.
  
  Bottom line is Motorstorm is one of the best racers and showcases for the PS3. So is it worth 
 $60? You bet. If the demo awed you, you'll be impressed with the final version. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: meme15220
Rating: 6.8
Date: Apr 15, 2007 1:03 am PT
Review:  After playing the demo version of MotorStorm, I could not have been more exited to play through 
 the full version of this game. Unforunatly, I quickly became dissapointd. I beat the entire first 
 player game and became a god on the online portion of the game in about 10 hours of gameplay. I 
 cannot complain about the online game, thats where most of the fun came from. I should note that 
 some of the later races get pretty difficult, this can be very fustrating, but makes you feel pretty 
 good once you have beaten the game. They couldn't even add a (offline) multiplayer on it ! Definitly 
 a fun game, however, not worth the $60 you will pay for it. Rent it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CamisadoBlue
Rating: 7.9
Date: Apr 14, 2007 7:05 pm PT
Review:  Motor Storm is probably the best looking game I have ever seen, the visuals are stunning and they 
 never let up sadly, the rest of the game doesn't live up to what you would expect.
  
  Lets get down to my major problem with motor storm, at the end of the day there are only 7 tracks, 
 SEVEN! S. E. V. E. N!!!! No matter how they try to repackage each level for you on a new 'ticket' with 
 different vehicles, it's still one of those seven levels. The different classes of vehicles are 
 really fun, especially ATV's and Rally Cars which each react differently to different types of 
 terrain although you can never really relax into the race as the rate of catch up seems to be stupid... 
 For example a few times I have raced the perfect race, done 2 and a half laps of perfection and 
 really built up a lead at the head of the pack, only to make one mistake on the last turn, suddenly, 
 your 10/15 second lead disappears as your passed by countless bikes and cars and end up coming 
 in 8th... great.
  
  Even though Motor Storm is a festival you never really get to feel part of it at all as all you 
 see is a video in the background as you shuffle through tickets of the same lap but on an ATV rather 
 than a bike this time. I've yet to play this game online but the lack of a quick race feature within 
 the one player mode is really annoying. Trying to find a ticket with the lap type and vehicle type 
 you want can be a night mare just because there is no menu for you to choose it yourself. I'm really 
 disappointed with having paid full price for what is technically half a game, and hopefully any 
 future courses and cars that are made available for download of the Sony store are done so for 
 free. Finally the loading of the cars takes a while and it gets really frustrating waiting for 
 a car to load just to see if you like it or if you need to wait another 20 seconds for it to load 
 the next one.
  
  7.9 GOOD 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Xaovagon
Rating: 9.8
Date: Apr 14, 2007 10:23 am PT
Review:  the game is probably the most fun racing game i have played in 3 years, it is a thing of rendered 
 beauty from the, screaming intense races to the starting movie this game just kickes as*, and as 
 a PS3 owner i would highly recommend this. the only blemish in the whole presentation is a minor 
 bit of slowdown when a massive multi-crash occurs and it inly lasts a second and is barely noriceable. 
 despite the average reviews this is not a average racing gane and it deserves the best score for 
 its ability to give the player a whole new fun racing experience. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: J-Man24
Rating: 9.4
Date: Apr 13, 2007 5:29 am PT
Review:  the whole games is just fun to play, from the graphics, the racing tracks, and the vehicles. But 
 the sad part is the fact that there is no off line multi player, which sucks, but oh well its a 
 fun and addictive game. im going to buy it as soon as i get the money. its one of the best games 
 i've played in a while, maybe since San Andreas. and im just gonna keep talking because i dont 
 have 100 words yet. let me check, nop, damn it, umm let me check now to see if i have a hundred 
 words yet./ 
::::::

::::::
UserName: clive2612
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 13, 2007 3:34 am PT
Review:  Motorstorm is the most fun iv'e had with any racing game so far. The main game gets you to play 
 a number of tickets to complete races within the tickets, and by wining each race will get you 
 new vehicles, that being said there is not much content to motorstorm which is its downfall, but 
 it does make up for that in online mode with is just really fun and makes you want to come back 
 and play the game even more. Graphics in this game are just amazing, especially on an HD TV, and 
 now onto sound which is just amazing, the whole festival and the way the music sounds just makes 
 the game fun to play, and with bands like korn, nirvana, kings of leon and slipknot this game is 
 just the best racing game on the ps3 and in my opinion the best racing game to date. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: charley_mcd
Rating: 7.8
Date: Apr 11, 2007 1:38 pm PT
Review:  Motorstorm is a great launch game for PS3, it has stunning graphics and great audio overall. But 
 Motorstorm has a weakness in just about everything apart from graphics and audio. It has only 6 
 tracks and only 8 veichles. But it makes up for that in online play, Extra content &amp; FULL sixaxis 
 capapbilities. To me this is and Resistance: fall of man are just poor tasters of what we can expect 
 from a PS3 and I cant wait to a bite from the deliciousness that is PS3's future! All hough one 
 thing that really baffles me is the fact that you can have no multiplayer on it which would of 
 added so much value to this game but like i said now i'm even more anxious to see what the future 
 brings. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: piemister
Rating: 8.8
Date: Apr 10, 2007 7:51 pm PT
Review:  i have brought my ps3 and motorstorm is one of the games i like on it but gamespot has a good point 
 what is it with the not offline multyplayer that reealy annoys me i think it would be a realy fun 
 multiplayer. i also thinks how it forces you to use vehicles for races can kill it because i personaly 
 find ATV's very hard to drive and i have to use them and try it for 3 days untill i finally get 
 through it. i dont have that much to say but i still think its a good game and definetly a mush 
 have game (at the moment) . also if you havent used the motion sensative its realy hard to get a 
 hold of the game. ok thanks all. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wakko19991
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 9, 2007 9:06 pm PT
Review:  As I said the demo was great fun. It was fast and visceral. Once I got the full version the experiece 
 seemed to die down significantly for ome reason. I suspect my expectatons for the demo were none 
 while expectation on the fill release were high. Dont get em wrong the game is still somewhat fun 
 albeit repetitive. The graphics are the best I've seen and the game appears to flow with a string 
 framerate given all the action going on the ecreen. It is clear that each vehicle has a 'best' 
 path in each race and that gets a littel disappointing because you know you have to get to thos 
 spots in teh race to have chance to win... Overall a nice game. I would recommend but don't expect 
 the experience to surprass that demo 
::::::

::::::
UserName: -Sniper99-
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 9, 2007 5:59 pm PT
Review:  This is a great game that anyone would enjoy. The levels are absolutely HUGE! With tons (and I mean 
 TONS) of diferent paths to try. Depending on which vehicle you chosse, you need to take a certain 
 route. For example, an ATV needs to stick to the higher up terrain with more jumps, while a big 
 rig needs to stay on the bumpy back-roads. The graphics in Motorstorm are MIND-BLOWING! Everything 
 looks photorealistic. The mud flies up into your face, the cars blow apart realisticly, it's hard 
 to describe how amazing these graphics are! The sounds are great, with every car sounding different, 
 and the soundtrack fits it perfectly, with Slipknot, Wolfmother, Every Time I Die, and many other 
 huge names. This game's online is great fun, with 12 player support, and voice chat (be warned, 
 I had mic problems with this game) . There are TWO major things that I don't like about this game. 
 1) no offline multiplayer. Like WTF? Honestly, this seems like a no-brainer to me for a game like 
 this
  
  2) only one campaign-type mode. No quick-play or anything? Again, seemed like a no brainer to me.
 
  
  All-in-all, if you like racing games, buy it. If you don't like them, atleast rent it. I usually 
 hate racing games, but this is just way too much fun. This is an amazing game that everyoneshould 
 at least experience, AWESOME GAME! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mez777
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 9, 2007 6:32 pm PT
Review:  at first i thought this game was terrible i really dont know why but after i played it for a while 
 i started to like. It does not match the qulity of games like rfom or oblivion but it is still 
 a really fun game with amazing graphics and sound the fact that there is no offline multiplayer 
 is what holds this game back from a 9 or higher score. But the online is very fun and sorta makes 
 up for it. there are many choices of cars but u can unlock even more by playing the stroy mode 
 (not much of a story) which is quite dull and repetitive. The one player is boring and the only 
 reason to do it is to get new cars. Online is the most fun u will have with this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RearEntry
Rating: 8.6
Date: Apr 8, 2007 9:23 pm PT
Review:  OK first of all let me start by saying that gamespot feels a bit biased against PS3 games, and 
 I; m no PS3 fan **** but this game almost looks better than any xbox360 game. The crashes and how 
 the vehicles come apart are amazingly detailed with springs flying and all that **** So it gets 
 a 9.5 in the graphics department IMO.
  Now... as for gameplay... well its true that some elements of the game could have been more exciting 
 but its still very fun to play and the difficulty of the game is jus right. So Gameplay gets a 
 8.
  Sounds are almost on par with the graphics so they get a 8.5
  As for online play I would have preferred a different lobbying system and lounge but hey wtf... 
 its still good. Now remember this game is fun to play and doesnt get boring as gamespot reviewers 
 seem to think. I never buy games that rank below 8 on the gamespot review chart, but this one should 
 of ranked 8.5 so go buy it IMO. There's really only 4 games worth buying for PS3 right now and 
 this is one of em. Have fun... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: StanBlocker
Rating: 8.3
Date: Apr 8, 2007 12:09 pm PT
Review:  Set in the rocky Monument Valley, MotorStorm allows you to rip through the mud riddled tracks in 
 a range of vehicles from the nimble Dirt Bike to the burly Big Rig.
  
  The lack of game features here is criminal. If you dont have a broadband connection the you have 
 just one option for playing the game. The aptly named Play mode is divided into tickets which are 
 then divided into level. All except the MotorStorm events themselves have you placed into a pre-determined 
 car. There are only 7 tracks in the game all with there unique feel but visually set in the same 
 desert. Having real time track deformation and multiple routes to race on and around in interesting 
 in the single player aspect of the game but this become a little less important online.
  
  The AI in this game is rather well constructed. Using an elaborate Gag System the AI will attempt 
 to make your experience more dramatic by involving themselves more depending on what you as the 
 player is doing. An example I witnessed was while racing as a Quad Bike. A Big Rig powered alongside 
 then totally failed to attempt to take a hard right handed corner. This left me with nowhere to 
 go other than the sheer rock wall in front of me. At level 1 the AI does make for enough of a competition 
 to test you but by level 5 you really do struggle to win.
  
  Those of you who do have a broadband connection and have hooked up your PlayStation 3 to the internet 
 will find that the experience is just as fun online. Sometimes easier to win as the different type 
 of mud surfaces dont really seem to effect the vehicles as much as the do offline and of course 
 the occasional common decency some human player have that let you pass without incident. You can 
 race any vehicle you want as long as the track and host allow it. Its essentially the same as 
 the single player game but exchanging computer controlled players with human ones. I never noticed 
 and lag or frame rate issues during my experiences at all. Headsets are supported and make for 
 interesting conversations and arguments. There is also a stats sheet that tracks all your details, 
 from most used vehicle to number of consecutive wins.
  
  Being a first party game the visuals are right up there. Real time track deformation and vehicles 
 that explode into hundreds of parts make the game look nice. Each vehicle class has its own sound 
 as you would expect and the sound track really helps immerse you in the MotorStorm festival.
  
  Downloadable content has been announced and will no doubt enhance the game. Its a shame the 
 disc lacks so much. Never the less this is an excellent combat racing game that is a must play 
 for PS3 owners. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Basinboy
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 7, 2007 8:18 pm PT
Review:  At its core, Motorstorm is a great concept for a game and its been executed, to a degree, very 
 well. However, racing games nowadays are about what you can do rather than how you do it. The how 
 it's done in Motorstorm is a great wake-up to a ever-growing stale genre, but it's downfall is 
 in the what to do .
  
  GAMEPLAY
  
  Providing a great blend of intensity, user-skill, and all-around arcade racing action, Motorstorm's 
 gameplay is actually quite solid seeing as there isn't a whole lot of difference in the fundamentals 
 of this racer as compared to others. Sure, you still press a particular button to go, another button 
 to brake, another to shift, and so on and so forth. But the overall blend of style and pace gives 
 Motorstorm a noteworthy feature, something to make it stand-out from the rest of the pack. And 
 in racing games, staying out in front always takes top priority.
  
  
  
  GRAPHICS
  
  A lot of racing fans may not be into Motorstorm 
 a whole lot, aside from the amount of features issue. Obviously, Motorstorm isn't about all the 
 glitz of next-gen games, but the raw horsepower instead. While games like GT, Forza, PGR, and Test 
 Drive are busy working on pushing polygons for each car, Motorstorm is more worried about constantly 
 changing tracks and rubbing the other guy's face in the mud. Yeah, Motorstorm isn't as shiny as 
 other racers, but that doesn't mean you can't enjoy the scenery every once in a while.
  
  OVERALL..................8/10
  
  VALUE
  
  Like your neighborhood mechanic would say, speaking 
 to you like you're a total dimwit when it comes to cars (whether you are or not) , There's your 
 problem right there. When the initial novelty shock wears off, Motorstorm really starts to stumble 
 forward until it comes to a grinding halt. With only 8 tracks, Motorstorm's scenery starts to get 
 old really quickly. It's nice to have a bunch of different cars and vehicles to race with, which 
 is a blast, but the only way you'll keep playing this game is if you take the action online, which 
 is probably this area's saving grace. It has a sweet initial flavor, but the after taste will leave 
 some feeling bitter.
  
  
  
  PRESENTATION
  
  A lot of racing fans will feel betrayed by Motorstorm because of this, but those who prefer a good 
 old time will find it refreshingly hip. The menus are very well designed and have a great style 
 and the soundtrack is an overall good one, though limited. Each track really brings the game to 
 life and the sound effects up the immersion factor, but many racing fans might feel disappointed 
 that they can't put their own records on. In this case, you can't really hate on Motorstorm for 
 that, but if we're just reviewing the game, it has to be taken into account. A good start, but 
 wears down as the race chugs along.
  
  
  
  Rim-wrecking and paint-rubbing action aside, Motorstorm is definitely not for the hardcore racing 
 enthusiasts who are looking more to pimp their rides than grind along desert cliffs, but if you're 
 looking to get back into the racing scene after a lengthy absence or a casual/hardcore fan of extreme 
 racing, this game delivers the adrenaline. More worthy of rental than a purchase, but it's definitely 
 worth checking out at least for a little while. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pepto13
Rating: 8.9
Date: Apr 7, 2007 1:01 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay: The gameplay is great! the only problem i have is that there is only 2 game modes. online 
 and career. But gamespot said that sony would be comming out with some downloadable game modes 
 on the PLAYSTATION network
  
  Graphics: this game has amazing graphics, probably best iv ever seen for the ps3. The cars tear 
 apart just like they would in real life! When you drive on the differnt tracks you leave rivets 
 and the stay there! Its Amazing!!!!
  
  Sound: Great car sounds i guess!!
  
  Value: The value is alittle low on this game because there is not many gamemodes 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lhardwick692
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 6, 2007 10:30 am PT
Review:  these type of games arent usually my cup of tea but i got this with the purchaes of the ps3 ( place 
 ran a special -- buy a ps3 an additonal controller and subscribe to a magazine and get motorstorm 
 free -- so i did it) -- anyhow the controls are sweet on this game-good tweaked and tight -- . the graphics 
 are sweet also-very detailed and to the extreme realistic ..
  .. so far the load times are ok -- and the music/soundtrack is truely-funny how this game being as 
 detailed and fun to play gets such a low rating of a 7.9 but if this game was released on another 
 console (i wont say it but you know the one i am talking about) it would have gotten a higher score -- 
 .
  .. if you like games like this-hope you enjoyed it as much as i did-and if not fond of games like 
 this -- try it -- you may grow to like this game and maybe future games of this type 
::::::

::::::
UserName: usamahussain
Rating: 8.4
Date: Apr 6, 2007 8:09 am PT
Review:  I bought this game when it came out the game is just plain fun. the gameplay is good the sound 
 is good and the graphics are amazing. it has a good selction of cars atv's bikes bugges i was amazed 
 when i saw the graphics on this game. there better then any game ive ever seen its a very ong game 
 ie been playing for 2 weeks and still not finshed it although it may get boaring ull never get 
 tired of unlocking new cars bikes buggies trucks and many more. also u can go online and get r rank 
 up become the best once u start u wont want to stop playing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: trav_have
Rating: 9.4
Date: Apr 5, 2007 4:40 pm PT
Review:  Its funny how it has already been a whole month since the games release, hasnt it? Seems like less. 
 Motorstorm, in my honest opinion, is one of the best racing games out on the consoles out there. 
 It's actually one of my favourites. Since the first time I played the demo, I knew I had to get 
 it. Even the demo had me playing it more than any other of my games ( currently at a 4 game PS3 
 collection ) . This game has 8 tracks, that many people who havent played the game don't think is 
 enough, but it most definately is. The courses are so long and there are many different routes 
 to choose from, I guess, depending on which vehicle type you choose to use for it. With 7 different 
 vehicle types ( Big Rig, Mud Plugger, Racing Truck, Rally Car, Buggy, ATV, and MX Bikes) , you get 
 a lot to choose from. Also there are around 4 designs for each type of vehicle ( I think 4 types, 
 Im not completed the game yet sorry) . Online is by far the best experience you will have with this 
 game, in saying with the HeadSet capabilities, with people yelling at eachother and stuff. 12 different 
 people online on one track at once, beat or be beaten. This game was hyped way too much, and people 
 then thought it wasn't so great, but you guys are wrong, it's awesome. Worth the price, worth the 
 purchase, worth your time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NextGen86
Rating: 8.3
Date: Apr 15, 2007 9:46 pm PT
Review:  While MotorStorm's content is a little thin for the $60 price tag it holds, it still is a blast 
 to play. The graphics, along with Gears of War, are some of the best I've seen yet. There are many 
 types of vehicles to choose from such as MX bikes to buggies to even big rigs... the courses are 
 beautiful and large as well, but there aren't enough of them so they get repetitive over time. 
 MotorStorm offers online racing as well which can create a very entertaining and competitive atmosphere. 
 The downside is that racing over eight or nine tracks is all you can do in the game, meaning that 
 it can get pretty boring pretty fast. However, if you're looking for a fun game that allows you 
 to just pick it up and play, MotorStorm is the game for you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: alex1889
Rating: 9.1
Date: Apr 3, 2007 5:24 am PT
Review:  Motorstorm is one of the games anyone who played will probably remember as being a big game for 
 the ps3. And it is a big game which no doubt sold some ps3s. Now usually big games aren't always 
 the best. This certainly isn't the case with motorstorm.
  From the first race onwards you will constantly be faceing challenges and breathtaking crashes. 
 The tracks are superb and a single race can reach over 7 minutes with every lap feeeling like your 
 first. Of course there are alot of ways to enjoy these tracks suck as driving round on a fire truck 
 or perhaps an ATV, either way all vehicle have elements of fun in them and add replay value to 
 the game.
  The online in this game is superb, great atmosphere and plenty of stuff going on at once puts the 
 online in this game on par with Resistance: Fall of man.
  annoying thing about this game is that when you crash youll be sat there watching your poor vehicle 
 smashing against the rocks, in this time youll probably drop from first to last. Its nice to watch 
 your vehcle be torn apart but makes the game alot harder.
  
  Great game just needed a few more game modes. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bencm21
Rating: 9.7
Date: Apr 2, 2007 4:03 pm PT
Review:  This game is brilliant! i honestly don't know what gamespot were thinking when they gave it 7.9. 
 To start off the gameplay is fantastic and the visuals are stunning, the tracks and vehicles are 
 designed with an attention to detail unseen in any racing game to date. The ragdoll physics react 
 realistically and there is a cool system that balances the game out, the big slow vehicles go in 
 the mud, this track is straight forward but dangerous to pretty much anything other than big rigs 
 and mud pluggers, then you have atvs and bikes etc that take highroads, harder to navigate but 
 way safer than the mud.
  
  Having said this it does have some flaws, the loading times can get rather sluggish at times, and 
 while there is never any noticeable dip in frame rate, the pre-race loads are fairly long. Also 
 there could have been a few more tracks, or longer ones. one more thing, it can be difficult to 
 get straight into the online game, finding a race that hasn't started yet and isn't idle can be 
 quite a task and you normally end up waiting for the current race to finish, having said that once 
 you have joined a race room theres little need to leave as you can keep re-racing.
  Overall this is a brilliant launch title and if this is the quality of games for the ps3 at launch, 
 i can't wait to see the games a year or two down the line, this is definitely worth buying. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mrmman
Rating: 8.9
Date: Apr 2, 2007 5:45 am PT
Review:  I belive this game is fantastic for the PS3. It has the graphics and the game quality of one pf 
 the best games out there. If you have a PS3 this is a 100 percent game you need to get is just 
 supurb. Its a very fun game, have a few mates round and you can be there for houres. Rhe only problem 
 i have with it is that it doesnt have freerome in the game but if it did it would be the best game 
 out. It is an extreme sport where death is fun plus gameplay is just of the scale so this is the 
 must have game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pdizzie
Rating: 7
Date: Apr 7, 2007 4:54 pm PT
Review:  Well, let me start off by saying that I was not prepared for what I was getting when I purchased 
 this game. I come home, put it in and it starts off with a bang, alot of fun, BUT, OMG! I have 
 to use a certain type of vehicle for most of the races? Why? Where's the variety, so I say whatever, 
 ok so I find out that you progress while getting credits and you move up levels. BUT DAMN!!! Talk 
 about the rubberband AI. You won't see this in the early stages but you have to face it one way 
 or another and it PISSED ME THE HELL OFF!!! You can't get through it or around it but the game 
 gets extremely difficult and makes you wanna scream sometimes, no matter how good you do, you always 
 start in the back and the computer always flies through the track with little or no hassle, then 
 when you are boosting, they can move up on you without using their own boost, like I said, you 
 will need angermanagement classes...... BELIEVE ME. But it's still got me playing it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: big_chris_24
Rating: 6.1
Date: Apr 1, 2007 11:16 pm PT
Review:  I normal love racing games but just don't know about motorstorm. It has great graphics and sound 
 and the use of the controller is fun, you can tilt the controller up and if youre on a bike you 
 will do a wheelie (pretty sweet) . But I feel like I have been there done that, the game is also 
 very hard. The game has lots of car motorbikes quads to ride. But they still dont make the game 
 worth buying, the game also doesnt have multiplayer, which would have made it a better game. If 
 I were you I would give this one a miss 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sir_pickle
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 31, 2007 5:12 pm PT
Review:  Simply awesome! Best game of the ps3. Needs less obstacles and bigger tracks!! I like the sound 
 effects of the game. The choices of cars is great. First racing game I like!! This game is worth 
 the $60 I had. Motorstorm is the game everyone should get! I like the music of the game. Great 
 music! I think this game should almost be the top game for ps3 for know till better games come. Best 
 game that came out yet. Better than resistance. At least the game is long in single player. Just 
 how I like it the way it is! A 7.9 is not Motorstorm. More of a 9!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rosssca
Rating: 8.7
Date: Mar 31, 2007 2:53 pm PT
Review:  This game is amazing. The gameplay is fun and online is unbelievable. Yes, the critics say one 
 of the downfalls is the number of tracks, but really, if you play a different vehicle, there are 
 multiple routes per track. It's not as if you are going in circles on one specific track. The online 
 mode needs some work. I think ranks should be based on overall placing. There also should be a 
 finishing average and stats for races completed. For me, it's not one of those games that I could 
 sit and play for hours upon hours (a. k. a RFOM) , but it is fun and a must have for the PS3. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: darkbengamer
Rating: 9.2
Date: Mar 31, 2007 1:05 pm PT
Review:  Motorstorm is set in the scenic Monument Valley. And the view you get from the game is every bit 
 as good as the real thing. You probably see this most in the opening sequence. Its probably the 
 best opener to any game I've ever played. The desert looks amazing, the graphics are almost photo 
 realistic and thats not even on HD. The frame rate is fine despite the crazy action!
  
  The career mode is split up into tickets. The tickets are levelled 1-4. The higher the harder. 
 Each ticket has between 1 and 4 races. Normally 2 or 3 laps. And each event is on one of eleven 
 tracks in the game. The tracks are fantastic. There are several different ideas they're based on. 
 You have deep in the mud fighting for position on tight tracks. Then you have the open tracks with 
 tonnes of different routes through the rocks, then there are the high tracks on top of mesas with 
 (usually) a good set of jumps and a high chance of crashing. My personal favourites, are Rockhopper: 
 up high with tonnes of jumps and cool leaning bends thousands of feet above the desert floor. secondly 
 is dust devil. 2 main routes, generally fairly wide. But it is the jump king. It doesn't have as 
 many as rockhopper but they are enormous jumps. This course is best on an ATV. Thirdly is Rain 
 God Mesa: half of which is hopping along the rocks on the side of the mesa. And there is an elevated 
 corner, the lower you go the faster you go, but if you go too low your going to fall a very long 
 way.
  
  Once you've chosen a ticket and found out what track its on, your then going to see what you are 
 going to be driving. A few events are your choice but on most you have to use a specific vehicle 
 type. The types are: Bikes, ATVs, Buggys, Rally Cars, Racing Trucks, Mudpluggers and Big Rigs. 
 The route you take on each track depends mainly on what your driving. Bikes and ATVs should take 
 the high route, Buggys and Rally cars should try to stay somewhere not really high or really low, 
 and the racing trucks, Mudpluggers and big rigs should stay in the deep thick mud. Each car type 
 has 5 different cars, You unlock them as you go through but you start with 2 of each. There are 
 no stats to tell you how good it is at what, so you just have to go with the 1 that looks best.
 
  
  Now you've sorted out the race and the car your ready to race. Most grids have about 12 cars, some 
 more, some less. Once you get going I can almost guarentee that before you can count to 10. Somebody 
 (perhaps you) will have had a crash. And the crashes are one of the most fantastic visuals ever. 
 Theres usually a massive fireball and your car tends to fly upwards. A key to winning tends to 
 be the boost. it gives you that vital extra boost of speed in those key moments. But hold it too 
 long and your going to explode from excess engine heat, so you have to learn to use when its most 
 important. But that explosion can be used to your advantage. Explode 50m from the line or so and 
 your going to go even faster and hopefully pip your opponents to the line. And it looks and feels 
 great to explode over the line.
  
  There is one major floor in this game that drops it down the list abit. There's no multiplayer 
 or indeed any sort of arcade mode. its just online or career. And as yet i don't have online play 
 so thats a big let down, but besides that its a truly epic game.!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ToxicInferno
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 2, 2007 1:44 pm PT
Review:  Motorstorm: A game that I can only find three minor faults with.
  
  I'll start with the good stuff:
  
  Amazing graphics, stupendous physics and immensely detailed 
 controls.
  
  Firstly graphics: Basically, they're incredible. When you I started the game, I thought the first 
 part was real life film, but when I realised I was in control, I was absolutely amazed. I have 
 never seen such amazing scenary in a computer game, and probably not in real life. With mud that 
 splurts up onto the screen, and levels that change as you play them, this game is probably the 
 most detailed game you will have played to date.
  
  Secondly, the physics: It just feels right, when you are launched into the air by a ramp, and come 
 falling back to earth, you can feel the immense grvitational force ripping your vehicle back down 
 to the dirt. When you crash onto another vehicle, you can feel the body panels of your vehicle 
 buckeling under the strain. Every single part of the car can rip off, and will look incredibly 
 real when they fly towards the camera.
  
  Thirdly, the controls: They just feel right, your vehicle reacts exactly the way you want it to, 
 whether it is a big, heavy truck, or a little fast motorbike, you feel as though you are part of 
 the vehicle. If you shift the analog stick left, the car doesn't just steer left, you can feel 
 all the weight being shifted the other way.
  
  The designers have thought of EVERY detail, except these:
  
  -The difficulty could be adjusted, 
 as the game seems to throw you in at the deep end.
  
  -The explosions seem to be far too frequent.
  
  -There really should be some multiplayer action 
 available.
  
  Apart from these, the game is PERFECT!
  
  ***TIME ATTACK MODE***
  
  With time attack now released, it has hammered the review up a notch. It makes gameplay more fun, 
 more competitive, and gives you an opportunity to practice!
  
  ***REVENGE WEEKEND CUP***
  
  A brilliant download, with a great new track, some excellent vehiles, and races that you'd 
 never imagine in the original game! Makes this game a masterpiece! Well, even more of one! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jigglespot
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 26, 2007 3:24 am PT
Review:  The much hyped super racer that is Motorstorm finally reached my gleeful hands and I set to the 
 challenge of becoming a new breed of warrior or whatever the entertaining turn of phrase the intro 
 is :p
  
  As reported in other reviews, the presentation had a LOT to be desired. Especially vehicle selection, 
 which is sluggish and over the top. The vehicles are rendered on top of a mountain. The load times 
 are long and it would seem that a lot of it could have been done without, I would have been happy 
 with an image of the vehicle ... not sit around waiting to load a 3d model. The menu system for 
 any game should keep the gamer playing, and Evolution have set up a roadblock of ill-conceived 
 game and vehicle selection to keep a racer from sating his mud-lust.
  
  The music gets a bit repetitive aand it would have been nice to have a larger selection of songs 
 or at least the option to play tunes from the HDD.
  
  All this aside, Motorstorm delivers the best racing experience to date. It has that feel of last 
 minute boost-to-victory racing that made SSX Tricky so great. Mechanically, It reminds me of the 
 coin-op arcade version of SEGA rally. I don't know if forcefeedback wheel is supported. If not, 
 then I would suggest that this be included in an update.
  
  The vehicles are good and well matched on each race. The action furious and the tracks are treacherous.
 
  
  My online experience so far hasn't been one of utter amazement. I've been getting bored waiting 
 for a race to start. When I eventually find a race and finish it .... it drops my connection again. 
 I haven't had any other problem with playing other games online and wonder if this is down to the 
 European Network.
  
  Has anybody else had problems??? Motorstorm is the greatest racing game out there, it is undeniable. 
 Its gameplay is everything that a great racing game should be.
  
  One major set of problems exist. Motorstorm is crippled by poor presentation, a lack of split-screen 
 2 player mode and diabolical online interface. It is hampered by long loading times, and probably 
 not the game we were all expecting Despite the gripes Motorstorm is an instant classic racer. The 
 pace is fast and the graphics are great . It's fun, addictive and will go unchallenged for some 
 time as the greatest next-gen racing game. So go on, dip your toe in the mud.
  
  update:
  
  Rumble to be included in 3.0 update. This is gonna be great. The only thing missing is 2 player 
 but nothing's perfect. I have pushed the score for this game to 9.0 as is was just so much fun. 
 I can't wait for Motorstorm 2 which is currently in early development. The artwork looks d-a-r-k! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TOTAL_DEFENSE_0
Rating: 8.6
Date: Mar 30, 2007 5:21 pm PT
Review:  Racing games have always been great and fun. I mean, Burnout 3 is one of my favorite games of all 
 time. The thrill of beating your opponent to the finish line is better than just about any other 
 thrill you can imagine. Racing got even better when it was taken online and all your opponents 
 were humans. However, I can't think of any racing game that is as much fun, or as exciting as Motorstorm.
 
  Motorstorm was first shown off way back in E3 05. The E3 trailer showed incredible action and 
 high speed racing. On top of it all, it showed superb visuals that rivaled that of Killzone 2's 
 E3 05 trailer. While, the actual Motorstorm game may not have captured these visuals excatly, it 
 does a damn good job of it. Its graphics are just incredible and even more incredible when you 
 consider that its a game for a system only 4 months old at the time. The car models are incredible 
 and the damage they take is superb. While the cars look fantastic, the enviorment in which they 
 race looks much better. The mud takes damage as the wheels run over it. At the beginning of the 
 race, the mud is solid but afterwards, is filled with hundreds of tire marks. Also, the cliffs 
 look incredible and the lighting is just amazing. The crashes of the game are so amazing, they 
 almost want to make you cry the first time you see them. Every last piece of the car ( that hasnt 
 already fallen off) flies off as it collides into a wall or another racer.
  The only bad thing that can be said about the graphics is that during races, if you pause the game 
 and zoom in on things like the grass or spectators, you notice that they are made out of just a 
 couple of pixels and almost look 2-D. It makes the game feel a little less special, but with graphics 
 that challenge Gears of War, its a small complaint.
  Furthermore, the sound is fantastic. When i first saw the game, I was a bit dissapointed that the 
 game didn't feature custom soundtracks, I am able to completely over look that since the games 
 soundtrack rocks. It fits in soo well with the game. Also, the games general sound is terrific. 
 Cars exploding, hard landings, scrapping, cars zooming by, the whole thing is great.
  The gameplay of the game is also top notch. It features several types of cars including Racing 
 Trucks, ATVs, Bikes, Big Rigs, Mud Sluggers, and Rally Cars. Each of these has several vehicles 
 that you can choose from. However, for the most part, most of the vehicles of the same class control 
 the same.
  Also, while most of the vehicles are very much fun to drive, the real bore of the game are the 
 Big Rigs, sure they are powerful and can go faster than any other car if they get the momentum, 
 but for the most part they are slow. This makes the game a little bit annoying as sometimes they'll 
 make you choose Big Rigs in the game like in some races and online.
  The biggest problem with the game however, is that all it really is is online play. It does have 
 a single player mode, but for the most part it is very easy and features very little replay. Sure, 
 it does get harder but not much harder. And you unlock new cars as you play which is cool because 
 they look cooler, but they really dont introduce anything new into the game. The game doesn't even 
 feature offline multiplayer which is a real downer.
  However, the saving grace is that it has a terrific online mode. It features 12 person online multiplayer 
 with voice chat. While 12 person online is fun, it can be a bit difficult because the people can 
 push you a lot. However, playing about 6 people online or so is great. Overall, Motorstorm is an 
 incredible game that should not be missed if you have a PS3 or if you like racing games. One of 
 the best games I've played this years thus far. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: softcoregamer_
Rating: 8.2
Date: Mar 29, 2007 5:28 pm PT
Review:  this is a a good game with the best graphics i've seen in my life! just look at the mud it's very 
 realistic and the car models are also incredible and they get dirty during the racing and the explosions 
 are also great, another great aspect of this game is the great soundtrack that is wild it contrasts 
 the vicious gameplay, it's a fun game but not for much time, first the car variety is pretty low 
 you only have like a dozen o cars, bikes and trucks we can say the same about the stages they are 
 all the same and once you get every thing in the game, wich you can get in an hour there wil be 
 no interest in playing it again, so this is good game with lots of potential, but it's lack in content 
 is not worthy the 600 bucks !!!!!! that the ps3 costs! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sdelaney86
Rating: 8.6
Date: Mar 28, 2007 9:07 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay: Motorstorm is a pseudo-realistic racing game. This means that while each vehicle (among 
 7 different classes) handles differently and is based in physics, the game isn't as strict as a 
 game like Gran Turismo. Mud does conform to how vehicles and such run over it as well, and this 
 also affects how later vehicles drive over it. Basically the game was designed around fun, and 
 it pretty much succeeds at that. You won't find many racing games as fun as Motorstorm.
  
  Graphics: As of the release of the game, Motorstorm is the best looking game on the PS3. The tracks 
 are beautiful, and the mud looks... well, as good as mud can look. The only complain I really have 
 would be the grass, it's 2D. I also wish the shrubbery and such would actually react to vehicles 
 by bending and such. However, a lot of the environment is destructible
  
  Sound: The vehicles all sound how they should, and the soundtrack is pretty decent . No really 
 complaints here
  
  Value: Here's the only true issue with the game. Not enough of it. There are currently only two 
 modes. Play and online. Eventually more content will be added, when it does, change this review 
 to a 9. As it stands, there are only 8 tracks. Mind you, these are 8 fantastic tracks with multiple 
 routes. But they are still only 8 tracks. Also, the game doesn't have offline multiplayer. If they 
 add that in, shoot, give this game a 10.
  
  All in all, if you like racing games, especially those like Burnout, you will like this game. However, 
 you have to know what you are getting into first. If you don't have online, I would recommend you 
 look elsewhere until this game is cheaper. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: joe_boy83
Rating: 8.2
Date: Mar 28, 2007 11:28 am PT
Review:  A very impressive looking launch title with high ambitions and over hyped. At times you can almost 
 believe the hype as the graphics are amazing.
  The physics are excellent, the handling is superb and the motion sensor works fantastic being very 
 responsive although the bikes are hard to handle when played like this.
  
  Theres many veichles to choose from including buggys, rally cars, bikes, quads trucks etc.
  Each 
 with their own handling and speed etc but there is no statistics on them.
  
  The layout of the buttons are perfect with R2 being the throtle, L2 as the brake and x as the Boost. 
 You hold this down but if it stays in the red for too long you blow the engine, but this can be 
 used to your advantage if you want to pass the finish line in a hurry.
  
  The graphics are highly detailed with fantastic mud effects, on the track, or when it flicks up 
 onto the screen from racers in front of you. The game is very detailed but weather effects would 
 have been nice but sadly non evident. There are different times of day but do not change in real 
 time and is preset before the race on a particular race.
  
  The gameplay is fast and frantic and whilst there are only 8 or so tracks the variation is good 
 with different veichled being alowed entry. The corses are bug and there are many ways you can 
 complete them with loads of shortcuts and different types of terrain on high or low ground. There 
 are plenty of jumps which add fun to a very addictive and fun game.
  
  The AI is good and competetive and becomes very hard once you have progressed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Skat137321
Rating: 8.9
Date: Mar 28, 2007 6:15 am PT
Review:  Starting from the way the game looks and ending with the sounds in the game, everything creates 
 a perfect match. The graphics are just mind blowing, seeing the mod getting on your tires and on 
 the body of the car, the dust and mud getting on your screen combined with the six axis controller 
 really manages to give you the feeling that you are really driving that car, truck, atv or bike. 
 As you hit the walls, rocks or other players your car is getting wrecked, pieces of your car's 
 body just flying and wheels that are starting to move funny after a while. Another great thing 
 about the game is that you get to see how you car's body acts when you take a corner or landing 
 after a jump. Playing the game with the six axis motion sensor enabled the game can be very fun. 
 The only thing that I don't like about this game is that the cars are pretty dificult to handle. 
 As an overall impression about this game: the most fun and entertaining offroad driving game i've 
 ever played, somehow this game kinda reminds me of Mad Max movies 
::::::

::::::
UserName: glass-jaw
Rating: 8.9
Date: Mar 28, 2007 5:14 am PT
Review:  im not one for racing games but when i got this i was blown away
  by the graphics and the dirt yes thats right i said dirt i love the way when your racing on a bike 
 it will build up on your back and all over and stay there' the way you sink in it is great i find 
 my self just playing in the mud more then anything on a bike trying to see how long i can keep 
 the wheel up '
  the way the mud moves when you sink into it and the trails it leaves has to be seen the way you 
 can drive thru anything is sweet its a battlefield racing
  game from start to finish the detail on all the cars and bikes is sumthing i have not seen befor 
 i have a 360 and pgr3 dont have **** on this yes thts a good game but' with this you can just pick 
 it up and go mad! in the dirt ........ i know ... i like mud ok so overall this game is GREAT .see 
 you online well ill be in the mud 
::::::

::::::
UserName: aal9922
Rating: 8.7
Date: Mar 27, 2007 6:09 pm PT
Review:  i love this game because it is really fun to play and the graphics are intense, but the problem 
 is that it is a hard game to handle. i say if anybody plays this game, they will have a really hard 
 time trying to beat it. but other than that the game rocks. this is the second game that i got for 
 the playstation 3 .i was playing it the other day and i had to use a dirt bike, then rally car, then 
 buggy, then a big rig [i dont like big rigs] . the big rigs were the slowest of the whole championship 
 but i manage to still win the race. you can use anything that rides in dirt in this game. here are 
 the goods and bads.
  
  goods: graphics are intense, the way you drive is alright.
  
  bad: controls could've been better. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: benomaster
Rating: 9.2
Date: Mar 27, 2007 3:32 pm PT
Review:  When i got my PS3 at launch here in the UK one of the games i got along with it was Motorstorm. 
 I play racing games very rarely (except the occasional Mario kart) becuase i prefer games like 
 Ratchet and clank, MGS etc, but Motorstorm changed my mind extremely quickly. First off the graphics, 
 i wasplaying on motorstorm looking all around the track i was racing in and said to myself 'this 
 is really cool and realistic' It was very nice indeed (i dont have a HDTV but it still looks great) 
 it actually looks alot better than the trailers on tv. Second the gameplay, first thing i did was 
 boost so much i'd blow up (yes i think that is awsome) and it is great when u in last place as well 
 (but dont make the same mistake i did on my first go 1st to 11th in 3 seconds) the cars are a bit 
 hard to control to begin with but the bikes are ace to control plus have better actions if u push 
 [ ] (its supposed to be a square) the bikers actually knock off other bikers or swear/flip at drivers 
 in the cars. Third the tracks, nice and big and no invisible walls that most games seem to have, 
 the bad thing is that theyare only eight tracks though (but can be easily sorted with updates) . 
 The soundtrack is pretty cool if ur a fan of metal or rock. In the end to all people reading this 
 who have a PS3 (and a HDTV) Motorstorm i s great addition to your games for your PS3 aswell as 
 its good online mode. It you are considering a PS3 I would recommend Motorstorm to be among the 
 first games you play.
  
  p. s thanks for reading my first ever review. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Stammalamma
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 27, 2007 2:48 pm PT
Review:  Motorstorm, overall, is an excellent game. The music is very entertaining, the environments and 
 tracks are amazing, the graphics are incredible, and it's just plain fun. The downside of this 
 great game, however, is it's life expectancy. Although the vast number of vehicles provides a ton 
 of variety, there are only eight tracks in the game. Just eight. And after racing each one four 
 or five times, it starts to get old. Not only that, but the game is actually very hard. It can 
 sometimes become very frustrating to race for eight minutes to achieve sixth place, which doesn't 
 qualify, so you have to spend another eight minutes, and after that, you're just kinda sick of 
 the game. Despite it's weak points, including lack of tracks, however, this really is a fun game. 
 I will admit, I was slightly disappointed, but the multiplayer as well as the first five or six 
 hours of singly player provide a lot of fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: microwavedapple
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 27, 2007 2:41 pm PT
Review:  MotorStorm was first shown years before the PlayStation 3 launched. It was a short video that showed 
 off the graphical capabilities of the PlayStation 3, and the real MotorStorm is just that; a graphical 
 powerhouse. When it is at its worst; it's absolutely stunning. The the cars are extremely detailed 
 and if you look closely enough, you'll see and recognise all the car parts exactly where they should 
 be. When driving a bike you'll see your character looking at his opposition as they try to drive 
 him off the track, and as he escapes he'll happily give them a one-fingered salute.
  
  As you drive through the mud you'll see the cars sprayed with the glossy mire. You can't avoid 
 it, no matter how clean you want your shiny new rally car to be, it's not going to look so good 
 for long. You'll even get mud sprayed all over the screen, which doesn't exactly help, but it's 
 a fun touch.
  
  When driving across the desert in your brand new truck you'll be surrounded by a variety of vehicles 
 all rallying to the finish line by any means necessary. Even if it means pushing you off the edge 
 of a cliff. The A. I is extremely aggressive, doing everything in their favour to win makes for 
 half the challenge of the races.
  
  You'll also be dodging out of the way from rocky outcrops that are conveniently placed in your 
 way. There will be multiple paths to choose from, in all eight of the tracks. The heavier vehicles 
 will stay at the bottom, away from the jumps and down in the mud, while the quad bikes will be 
 soaring across the canyon and out of harms way. The lighter vehicles don't last very long in a 
 duel against a big rig.
  
  While causing mayhem along the tracks, you'll be head banging to heavy metal and techno music including 
 the tunes of Slipknot, Curve, Primal Scream and Nirvana. This all fits well with the fast paced 
 motion of the game.
  
  What really makes this game special is the frantic mayhem and high speed collisions. As you pummel 
 hood first into a rock, time will slow down as your car explodes in a blazing inferno. You'll see 
 wreckage fly across the desert. If your unfortunate enough to be driving a motorbike when this 
 happens be prepared to watch the driver gracefully soar across the map and land head first right 
 in the way of oncoming traffic.
  
  To start a race you'll need to have a ticket which holds four tracks. Each ticket and track is 
 different. You'll also be limited as to which vehicle you can use in each race, which skyrockets 
 the difficulty.
  
  Online multi-player is a blast. Up to twelve players can race at one time with zero lag and it's 
 alot more enjoyable than the single player mode. Sure, smashing across a desert with someone from 
 a different country is fun, but what if you want to race against the person sitting right next 
 to you? You can't.
  Well what bout an expedition mode where you can create a race with whatever vehicles you want and 
 have alot of fun?
  You can't.
  For a next generation PS3 game, you could at least expect decent offline single and multi-player. 
 This really decreases the replay value and you'll be stuck with limited variation for a offline 
 race just how you want it. On the plus side Evolution Studios are releasing patches and updates 
 with new tracks every once in a while, but that's not enough to fix the offline mode.
  
  All in all MotorStorm is some frantic racing with polished graphics and alot of fun.... while it 
 lasts. Dumbed down by limited offline modes warrants this game a purchase if you wish to play online. 
 If you don't mind the lack of offline multi-player then you should definitely give this a try and 
 you'll be having a blast. But for those more interested in lots of modes than good gameplay, it's 
 probably best to avoid this game until you see it slapped with a reasonable price tag. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: alpriego76
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 27, 2007 1:20 pm PT
Review:  This game is great. It is very exciting to play. It is definitely a must buy for PS3 owners. However, 
 not everything is wonderful. The creators should have considered that a game this fun had to have 
 a fun multiplayer game! It really sucks that we can't share our fun with people that come over 
 and want to play. All they do is stare at you and watch you play! Not everyone is interested in 
 playing online with a bunch of people you don't know (not that it is not fun, its just not the 
 only fun we want to have!) When playing through the levels of the game, the qualifying system is 
 confusing at times. Another big upset is that there are only 8 tracks in the game. There is a lot 
 of levels, but once you are used to all 8 tracks it becomes kind of boring and with less of a challenge 
 when all you do is run the same track on a different vehicle against more aggressive drivers.
 
  Tips for the sequel: include an offline multiplayer option and add more tracks! You guys had a 
 lot of time to develop this game to have so many shortcomings! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: WisconsinBatman
Rating: 6.1
Date: Mar 27, 2007 12:04 pm PT
Review:  When I played the demo for this game at Best Buy, I was amazed at the graphics of the game, the 
 suitable soundtrack, and the variety of vehicles to choose from, on many different tracks.
  
  This however washed away for me, once I purchased the game and realized the true nature of 
 the game.
  
  Graphically, it is still amazing. I'm blown away every time I play or watch it played.
  
  The 
 Soundtrack is about 20 songs too short. I swear there are only 5 songs playing in an endless loop. 
 Not noticeable to the 3 minute demo test.
  
  The vehicle selection is deceptively large. Realistically, there are around 7 vehicle categories, 
 with multiple choices per category. Sad thing is, there are no real differences between the sub-choices. 
 The different choices are just smoke-and-mirrors. Again, not really noticeable from the demo.
 
  
  I have been impressed with the track selection so far. The only downfall is the fact that most 
 of the tracks limit you to one category of vehicle. To be frankly honest, I cannot stand racing 
 the motorcycles or the stock cars, so I cringe when I am told they are my only options.
  
  But most importantly, the LOADING time is the hardest thing to get over. I spend twenty seconds 
 waiting for the first vehicle to load onto my screen, and if I choose that I'm bored of that design, 
 I have to wait another 10 seconds for the new skin to load. If I don't want to race that car what 
 so ever, again 20 more seconds of loading hell, only to realize that that's not the car I wanted.
 
  
  But sadly the loading only gets worse. I've waited for up to 1 minute for a track to load, which 
 is completely unacceptable for OFF-LINE play.
  
  Overall, the weaknesses are to be expected in the 1st generation realm of next-gen games. I'm not 
 horribly disappointed at this, except it's just not giving me that feeling of a complete game. 
 It is worth renting prior to purchasing, since a 5 minute demo does not show nearly enough to make 
 an informed purchase.
  
  This is defiantly a great game, when the price drops, but it's questionable at full price without 
 serious investigation. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Tzlofy
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 27, 2007 4:00 am PT
Review:  MotorStorm is the perfect game for you if you like combat racing games, This game uses the sixaxis 
 functionalities beautifully and makes the racing to look real, and you can really feel like you're 
 driving the vehicle. The graphics are awesome I have never seen better graphics than that in other 
 racing games, all the crashes looks amazing and the trucks also.
  The songs in the game suit to the atmosphere but sometimes they are annoying, they did great work 
 with the crashing sound effects.
  Gameplay could've been better there aren't lots of features that will make you busy except of the 
 fun in crashing into walls, there is no offline multiplayer but I think this game is still worth 
 buying. If you're thinking of buyin an off-road game this is the game for U ! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thehumanpuma22
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 26, 2007 11:06 pm PT
Review:  Motorstorm for the PS3 did not completely live up to it'ts hype, however in the end if still turned 
 out to be an excellent game. Although some levels are simply frustrating due to their difficulty, 
 most are challenging yet still enjoyable. The variety of vechicles to choose from really adds to 
 the game. The graphics are the best I've seen in a racing game to date and the sound is excellent 
 as well. Unforchantly the single player mode is rather short and there is no offline multiplayer. 
 Luckily thought the amazing online multiplayer makes up for this with its intense game play and 
 easy match making service. If you havent play Motorstrom I recommend you download the demo from 
 the PSN and try it out. If you like it, buy it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dalunank
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 26, 2007 5:29 pm PT
Review:  You must buy it.
  It is one of the best racing game ever made.
  If you have a ps3 take it now, you cant miss 
  Do you know....... wonderfull 
 graphics, goegeous sound, incredible online game.
  BUY IT NOW.
  7.9 is not the overall correct score.
   
 
  Avete presente un gioco come test drive............
  questo vale 1500 volte piu o meno.
  Compratelo adesso.
  subito subito subito Avete presente un gioco come test drive............
 
  questo vale 1500 volte piu o meno.
  Compratelo adesso.
  subito subito subito subito subito subiyo subito subito subsubito subito subiyo subito subito subiAvete 
 presente un gioco come test drive............
  questo vale 1500 volte piu o meno.
  Compratelo adesso.
  subito subito subito Avete presente un gioco come test drive............
 
  questo vale 1500 volte piu o meno.
  Compratelo adesso.
  subito subito subito subito subito subiyo subito subito subsubito subito subiyo subito subito subitoto 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Telomar
Rating: 8.4
Date: Mar 26, 2007 6:02 am PT
Review:  There is something deeply fulfilling about watching a car fly off a jump only to bounce over a 
 barricade and go hurtling off a cliff. This is not a pure racing simulator for you to test out 
 your favourite cars on tracks. What it is is an incredible fun fest of competitive driving mayhem 
 to an outstanding soundtrack.
  
  Lets starts with the bad. Firstly this is a great game for other people to actually watch people 
 playing as it is amusing to see the action. Sadly the lack of split screen multiplayer is sorely 
 missed. I can't help missing the opportunity to go head to head with one of my friends.
  
  Second although the tracks present are well designed there simply aren't enough of them. Combine 
 this with a complete lack of game modes and there's the potential for the game to become a bit 
 stale rather quickly. The graphics are also a touch bland at times.
  
  That said what Motorstorm offers is unbridled fun to an awesome soundtrack. There is something 
 deeply satisfying about crushing opponents with a big rig or just watching some terrific crashes 
 as you go flying out of control. This is a game you can pick up and just unwind with very easily 
 as you go hurtling over some massive jumps or watch as you cause a 9 car pile up. The only thing 
 I often found myself wanting is to be able to replay crashes from another perspective or to watch 
 them a few seconds longer. Either way though the spectacular basis of this game makes it a lot 
 of fun and I'd thoroughly recommend it to anybody even remotely interested in racing games.
  
  I can only hope a sequel comes to further improve on what could be a great series. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: danjoe
Rating: 6.5
Date: Mar 26, 2007 2:20 am PT
Review:  I cannot begin to explain the feeling you get when flying along the ridge of a mesa at break neck 
 speeds, trying not to fly off!! Man this game rocks!!! The control is awesome the vehicles are 
 awesome and each has thier own weaknesses and strenghts. The physics are also very very good. Now 
 for why I don't feel this is a truly-next gen game. Sony has made perfectly clear that they think 
 thier system is better than any other and blu-ray is the ultimate format with near limitless possiblities. 
 Now while the game lookes great, it is truly not amazing or breathtaking. You have only 8 tracks, 
 and every one of them is some shade of brown. When every track is made up of the same colors and 
 characteristics, whats taking up so much space? Certaintly not the soundtrack which gets really 
 repetative really quick. And it also isn't the people or items filling the background. Come on, 
 are horribly rendered 2-D static spectators truly next-gen? What about the helicopters in God Valley 
 Mesa? Is that what spinning proppellers look like?
  No I am afraid not. If it is not a vehicle or directly on the track it doesn't look so good. The 
 far backgrounds - bland, the sky - bland. I have seen better skys on PS2. And you know its not 
 the vehicles taking up space, there is a good variety and they do look good, but I have seen more 
 variety and options on older games on DVD9. Oh its the 1080P taking up the room and making it next-gen, 
 right?
  Nope sorry folks its rendered in 720P. So what gives? All along all I heard is this game cannot 
 possibly run on 360 only PS3? The only reason why that is true is because Sony paid for this exclusive, 
 those developers didn't even (and I doubt they still have) , touched an 360 or even know what it 
 is capible of. Over all this is a great racing game with tons of thrills, and it is probaly the 
 best game PS3 has going for it right now. I just don't see it as Sony promised it would be, a hands 
 down showing of what next-gen is all about. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jeffrey17
Rating: 9.2
Date: Mar 25, 2007 7:11 pm PT
Review:  Motorstorm isnt like any racer you have ever played. Its simple, amazing graphics and visuals, 
 the ability to go basically anywhere you want (almost) , and the ability to reach over and give 
 the rider riding next to you a left hook makes this game a first time expierience. Now the graphics 
 in my opinion are the best on the ps3, and the best ive ever seen in any game. The controlls are 
 easy to get used to. And although the game doesnt offer that many modes the inclusion of online 
 multiplayer makes the replay value skyrocket. So if your thinking of getting a racer for ps3 and 
 cant decide go with motorstorm you cant possibly be let down. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: iMacBot
Rating: 9.1
Date: Mar 31, 2007 7:58 pm PT
Review:  MotorStorm is in my opinion the best game of its genre. Gameplay and sound are just the way they 
 should be: perfect. Lots of good music in the game give you that extra boost of adrenaline. Graphics 
 are very good as well: dirt accumulates on your vehicule as you go through dust and mud. Although 
 the game is very addictive, I recommend playing the demo and renting it before actually buying 
 the game. Although the game is original and all, it doesn't bring anything really innovative excluding 
 the motion sensor virtual steering wheel . Multiplayer could have been developed a lot more also. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: maxkurth
Rating: 9.1
Date: Mar 25, 2007 3:40 pm PT
Review:  I dont know if its the ps3 that I like, or Motor storm.
  But i had my first play of the ps3 2 days after its release at a local EB store in Brisbane. The 
 graphics of this game were so good and i got so attatched to it, good game play, excellent simulation 
 and interesting background etc.
  Motorstorm is a game that most people would like especially if you like motorbikes and off road 
 4x4 , most of the game is set in canyons so you may fall off the edge but still be in the race.
 
  I recommed you to try this game, and give it a go.
  Ps3 has come a long way
  good work 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rottenjoe
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 25, 2007 5:05 am PT
Review:  I have to say that I have always loved arcade / rally / kool games and I feel that as of right 
 now Motorstorm is my all time favorite ! I haven't had this much fun in racing game . The game 
 sucks you in from the day ! Each lap feels different , each crash feels different , each vehicles 
 is different . I really don't understand why everyone is saying all these things about the length 
 of the game. Understanding that you can go from first to last in an instant adds excitement and 
 pressure which I feel keeps the game new ! The soundtrack definitely suits the environment that 
 they are creating mood . I am looking forward to the updates they will release for this game and 
 I can guarentee that I will purchase a Motorstorm 2 when it is released . I HOPE
  
  GREAT GAME. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gamer8001
Rating: 9.6
Date: Mar 24, 2007 6:37 pm PT
Review:  where do we start...... GRAPHICS -- THEY R RUNNING AT 720 P
  but look like full hd 1080P.......... REAL TIME TERAIN, -- anything u do stays for every run. when 
 driving some times dirt will occur to SPLAT!! on your wind sheild much like real DRIVING TODAY 
 IN DIRT
  
  NEXT we have GAMEPLAY -- ........ great drivng experince, fantastic MIND 
  BLOWING explosins.... to get u wrecked to someone ONLINE OR OFF
  ........... ragdoll physics dont 
 surprise me but bring flexible characteristics
  to drivers/racers., YOu can also use SIX AXIS (for steering) , OVERALL -- a 10
  
  In addition 
 to tht we have SOUND quality -- GREAT pumed up TRACKS for singing along or tuning the race up a bit 
 .... explosions sound great..
  OVERALL -- 10
  
  Explosions -- 9.8
  BOOST meter -- 9.7
  terrain -- 8.8
  cars -- 9.3
  TALKING -- 10
  
  JUST get it!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gmayronne
Rating: 8.4
Date: Mar 24, 2007 5:02 pm PT
Review:  Motorstorm has been a game ive been looking forward to for a while, a true showcase of whats in 
 store for the ps3 and how does it stack up you might say......... fairly well. I remember seeing 
 the target render video a long time ago and thought, man if they could pull that off and in some 
 cases they do, but not quite. First off, the graphics ARE a stunner. The draw distance is excellent 
 and seeing as many vehicles as they give you on screen up close and in the distance all the while 
 running at a VERY constant framerate is just eye melting. Sure there are a few minor graphical 
 blah moments (mainly just the 2D looking bushes) but other than those very small nit-picks the 
 game looks phenomenal. The crashes look fantastic with pieces flying EVERYWHERE. These vehicles 
 were built from the ground up and then smashed from the roof down, every part of the vehicle is 
 visibly destroyed during a bad crash and it makes for some very jaw dropping moments. The sound 
 and music are decent. The effects of cars smashing and metal grinding sound great and the music 
 soundtrack is nice with a rocking/techno mix of music (wolfmothers woman is on there and for SOME 
 reason goes well with the game) . Controls are nice and tight with some vehicles being WAY more 
 fun to drive than others (the dirt bikes and dune buggies ROCK, the big rigs SUUUUUUUCK BAAAAAD) . 
 In terms of value, there arent ALOT of tracks to mess around with which sucks but who knows, that 
 could be a download update away. Its online which i havent experienced yet but can imagine is REALLY 
 fun. All in all this is in my opinion a MUST HAVE, if not a definate rental for ps3 owners, cause 
 really...... is there anything else to really play for the ps3 right now? GO BUY THIS GAME. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sycosi
Rating: 8.9
Date: Mar 24, 2007 2:40 pm PT
Review:  The only thing that stopped me giving this a 10 was the lack of tracks! Simply a brilliant driving 
 game that ANYONE can get into. Visually the best driving game by a country mile. For a launch title 
 this has to be an essential purchase to show what the PS3 can, and will, do! The lack of tracks 
 is a little frustrating but you can't help but keep coming back and playing them again and again. 
 There's no slow down or lag issues, the graphics just leave you with a permnant sense of 'wow' 
 when you see how fluid it all is! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Trek5200
Rating: 8.9
Date: Mar 24, 2007 1:13 pm PT
Review:  I have to say that I have always loved arcade rally games and I feel that as of right now Motorstorm 
 is the KING! I haven't had this much fun playing an off-road racing game since Rally Cross.
  
  The game sucks you in from the first race! Each lap is different, each crash is different, 
 each vehicles characteristics are different. I really don't understand everyone complaining about 
 the length of the game. I have had more than a few friends over to check this game out and everyone 
 has had a blast with it from hardcore gamers to casuals! Understanding that you can go from first 
 to last in an instant adds excitement and pressure which I feel keeps the game fresh !
  
  The soundtrack definitely suits the environment that they are creating with the festival and is 
 a great mix. I am looking forward to the updates they will release for this game and I can GUARANTEE 
 that I will purchase Motorstorm 2 when it is released.
  
  My wife surprised me with this game as a gift when it came it out and after reading my own review 
 I need to go home and tell her Thank-you one more time.
  
  GREAT GAME 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PointlessFool
Rating: 7.9
Date: Mar 24, 2007 12:25 pm PT
Review:  Not a whole lot to say about this one. Its really, really sparse on content.
  
  Graphics, gameplay, and sound are all above average. Really, there is not much to write home about 
 or to bag on.
  
  Where this game falls apart is lasting appeal. There is so little variety that I can't help but 
 feel this game needs a few months purely devoted to adding tracks and vehicles.
  
  Good game, but nothing special. PGR3 is dead on with it.
  (Yes, I am tilting it way up. It is 
 a solid game, but there should be more too it for how much it costs.) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PoB0782
Rating: 8.6
Date: Mar 24, 2007 12:12 pm PT
Review:  OK, so my wife has not put this game down for the past several hours. I have to fight to either 
 get to play on the PS3 (mine!!!) or watch the cricket.
  
  The soundtrack is wonderful, with decent bass, and this help draw you into the whole game. Make 
 sure you connect the PS3 to a 5.1 surround sound system (or better) in order to get the full effect. 
 With the volume cranked up, the sound is crystal clear.
  
  Rather than using the normal controls, we opted to spend a little time (5-10 minutes max) getting 
 used to the SIXAXIS controller, and using the motion control system. It is well worth doing this, 
 as it improves the game play.
  
  Mae sure that you don't t take this game too seriously, crashing is more than half the fun, and 
 last night (quite late) we were both sat here in hysterics performing greater and wilder crashes 
 instead of trying to complete laps. The wife even managed to split her truck in half at one point 
 :)
  
  The game play itself is brilliant, especially with the motion control system. The graphics are 
 not the best I have seen, but this is made up for in the sheer fun of the game. Watching a guy on 
 a bike overtake you and flip you the finger really makes you want to take him out...
  
  This is all part of the extremely well thought out AI. Other racers really do seem to be doing 
 their very best to beat you at all stages. They will alter routes, get in your way, flip you the 
 finger, and basically do whatever they can to win. I have even found instances where a truck rams 
 you sideways and a biker uses this opportunity to overtake you both!
  
  Motorstorm must be one of the MUST HAVE games for the PS3. If this is what is being released as 
 PS3 1st Gen - I cannot wait to see what happens when the developers really start to tap into the 
 Cell processor and nVidia RFX graphics processor. Don't forget, there is also a Physics Engine 
 in the PS3, so games are going to get really interesting. At the moment, though Motorstorm uses 
 the physics engine, I am sure that the developers have not quite fully got to grips with the ways 
 in which this can be used.
  
  By the way, I am normally someone who cannot stand racing games! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jkoch6599
Rating: 9.4
Date: Mar 24, 2007 7:32 am PT
Review:  Motorstorm is an outstanding game. The graphics sound, and physics are incredible, and make for 
 an immersive experience. I've played a lot of racing games, and I can honestly say that while other 
 games may have more vehicles, tracks, and modes, none of them have that fun factor, that makes 
 Motorstorm so great.
  
  I am enjoying both the single player and online play. If you haven't already read, the single player 
 game is a series of tickets, each of which allow you to compete in one to four races. You unlock 
 more tickets, and also more vehicles, by accumulating points by winning races. The single player 
 experience is a bit shallow, which in my opinion is the only thing that keeps Motorstorm from being 
 a perfect 10. Online play is great. It's as simple as connecting to a server and then joining a 
 race. The race you join may already be in progress, so you may have to wait a few minutes for it 
 to finish. The waiting doesn't bother me too much, but it may boher you if you are impatient or 
 only have a few minutes to play and want to get a quick race in.
  
  The developers have stated that a time trial mode and another track will be coming very soon, as 
 well as more downloadable content in te future. Knowing this, I wouldn't let the lack of modes 
 and relatively small number of tracks keep you from enjoying one of the best games available on 
 the PS3! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TPAsses4102
Rating: 9.1
Date: Mar 24, 2007 7:12 am PT
Review:  I got this game after I returned NBA street homecourt because of the 1080p issue (freaking EA idiots) . 
 Initially I thought this game was going to be boring, repetitive as the GS review implied, but 
 I found this game to be the most fun, addictive game I have for the PS3. The graphics are Amazing, 
 on par with GOW. If these graphics can translate, and be improved on, in future games the PS3 is 
 gonna be worth the money I dished out for it. The frame rate is CONSISTENTLY smooth and much better 
 than ANY ps3 game to date, except RFOM. The sound is great. Engines hum then roar when you get 
 going. Get good speakers to really enjoy this. The music is good too and you can select which tracks 
 you want to listen to. If you aren't into racing games because of the lame racing games so far 
 for the PS3, give this game a chance, it's really worth it. 60 bucks for a game is a lot but I 
 felt the money was well spent. Oh, the SIXAXIS is put to great use, about time, in this racing 
 game. The controls really immerse you in the game and I use it exclusively. It takes a few races 
 to get used to the controls but they work really well once you get it. For example, you hold the 
 sixaxis upright and steer it like a steering wheel in a car for cars, trucks, and buggies. But 
 for ATVs and Motorcycles, you tilt it forward so the controller is parallel with the ground and 
 you tilt it right and left to steer to simulate body leaning on the ATV and motorcycle. It's intuitive 
 and works well. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mitchgray187
Rating: 8.7
Date: Mar 24, 2007 6:10 am PT
Review:  This is a great off road game. Kind of reminds me of Road Rash but with off road vehicles. I find 
 the difficulty a little bit easy but the game is still great. The crashes are awesome but it would 
 be more fun if you could take out the competion by making them crash. The pace of the game is great 
 and if you fall behind in the race it isn't too hard to catch back up. The multiplayer is amazing 
 but it would have been nice to have a two player mode on the game without being online. The game 
 has great graphics in game and for the opening video. This is a great recommendation for any racing 
 fan. Especially off road. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: crazygame2
Rating: 9.7
Date: Mar 24, 2007 3:07 am PT
Review:  Motor Storm for PS3 is deffently one of the most fun games i have played on a playstation, people 
 are saying that the ps3 cost to much, dosn't have as good graphics and cant do the same things 
 as the wii. I have to say this about it: Worth every penny, Their way better and it is a wii beater.
 
  
  The thing with the wii is that if you take the wiimote away from the wii you cant play it, but 
 if you take the six axis away you can still play the ps3.
  
  Motor storm lets you drive along the desert in truck, motorbikes and cars anfd when you start to 
 use the six axis the gameplay becomes even better. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Buddy53189
Rating: 9.1
Date: Mar 23, 2007 3:54 pm PT
Review:  This game is so bada**. I love everything about it. First the grphics are so nice and clear. You 
 can see all the parts in each vehicles. Next is game play. I love the phyics. It is so realistic. 
 Also each vehicle has its strong point and weak points. Also during game play you can see the mud 
 stick to the vehicle and the driver on the bike and atv turn all muddy. Next when you crash you 
 can see each and every part fly off and see the driver plow into the ground. And the boost was 
 kind of extreme because you blow up after a certain point but its okay because it gives the game 
 definition. The diferent type of vehicles are alright.
  
  Next I want to talk about the tracks. The tracks are usually 6-10 minutes depending on how well 
 you conquer the track. Another thing is that Iike is the different routes they have in the game. 
 But I have to say that there are only 8 different tracks that you play over and over again with 
 different vehicles. The online mode is all around good and you can to talk smack while you race. 
 So this is a game you want to get. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: call1
Rating: 8.3
Date: Mar 23, 2007 1:53 pm PT
Review:  Motorstorm is a fast-paced off-road racing game set out in Monument Valley. It has its ups and 
 downs as a game. It has great graphics, crashes, tracks, songs, and cars, the only problem is it 
 doesn't have enough. There are limited modes, tracks, cars, and songs. There are only two modes 
 for Motorstorm a single player where you unlock tickets that comprise of 1-4 races each, and there 
 are a total of 21 tickets, some assign you car classes where others let you choose, but only on 
 some tracks. The Online is fun, but not really easy to find a match as some other games. You can 
 voice chat while knocking someone of a cliff for fun and the online allows 1-12 players. The game 
 says there are about 150 cars while really there are about fifty. There are classes for cars ATV's, 
 motorcycles, rally cars, trucks, mud-plugers, big rigs, and buggies. Each class consists around 
 three cars which each have around three different designs, the game qualifies each different design 
 as a different car that is why there really is about fifty. There are eight racks with mud, sand, 
 jumps, debris, and dust. Each have there own features, and some shortcuts, but after awhile it 
 gets a little boring. There are a good amount of songs that sound great wile playing, but you don't 
 really hear all of them, and some of the bands are Wolfmother and Nirvana. Crashes are cool looking 
 and enjoyable, but there are inconsistencies with the crashing. The tracks have an annoying bumpy 
 surface, that out of nowhere you can explode from a flat landing or jump or be thrown fifty feet 
 in the air, and other times you can hit up the side of the wall and drive on it and land well enough 
 to not have crashed. The AI is alright and makes it challenging while fun and not too hard , but 
 sometimes there are problems, like they will get stuck or do something stupid. Motorstorm also 
 misses one thing to the game, a kick. It is not bland and includes the right amount of dirt , mud, 
 and crashes, but there is nothing super exciting to keep you playing the game and make you addicted. 
 Motorstorm is a great off-road racing game, that includes lots of mud, dirt and crashes. Its only 
 problem is it lacks a multi-player mode and has a shortage of other things like other modes, tracks, 
 and cars. It also misses an exciting feature and the ability to make you play it non-stop. I give 
 it an 8.3/10. I definitely recommend it to any racing fan and PS3 owner. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Hades_30
Rating: 8.4
Date: Mar 23, 2007 6:54 am PT
Review:  That pretty much sums it up. The single player part of Motorstorm is fun, especially at first, 
 but without the variety of tracks, it can get old. I don't mind having vehicles assigned for the 
 races that you must run to advance the game. It's good to learn all the different types of vehicles 
 for when you race online. The single player game starts off easy and get very difficult as you 
 advance through the race tickets.
  
  The online part of the game is much more fun. Racing real people is, of course, more difficult, 
 and a blast when you find just the right field of players that have about the same skill as you. 
 The tracks are well done, and there are different paths to take through them. Depending on which 
 vehicle you are using, you'll want to take advantage of these different routes to the finish line.
 
  
  There are many dangers on the road. Not only will other players and A. I. vehicles try to run you 
 off the road, but hairpins, splippery surfaces, and blind obstacles can wreck you in a hurry. This 
 keeps things exciting, even after running the tracks for the 100th time.
  
  Hopefully, there will be some extra track downloads soon. One other thing I really hope gets fixed 
 is the online ranking system. It seems as if only the winner gets credit, and gets ranking increases. 
 In a field of a dozen racers, there is only one winner, and the 2nd and 3rd place finishers certainly 
 derserve some recognition and a little increase to their rank. Players can take advantage of the 
 sytem by running races with a friend, with only 2 vehicles in the field, they are both going to 
 win their share of races and boost their ranking quickly.
  
  Graphics are excellent, best I've seen on a PS3 game to date. The animations and physics are good. 
 Vehicles damage is pretty good, too, and it's not all realistic, as I've been driving a complete 
 wreck and crossed the finish line when it seemed as if I should have needed a wrecker to come scrap 
 my ride off the ground.
  
  I'm happy with Motorstorm. It's a good buy for anyone who likes competitive racing with a twist 
 (running in Monument Vally, Arizona, atop mesa and in the ruts of canyons) . This game will definitely 
 hold me over until the release of Nascar 08. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SimpsonFan0505
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 30, 2007 2:37 pm PT
Review:  The new game for Sony's shiny brand new Playstation 3 is here. This game is Motorstorm and it delivers. 
 You may call Motorstorm a Burnout rip-off. it's very similar to Burnout but your be surprised how 
 different it is. So, you join a race called no other then Motorstorm and that's when you start 
 racing. The racing Motorstorm is simply amazing, like no other game out there. The sense of speed 
 you get driving really is cool and gets you pumped up.
  
  The races are very challenging at times, but a challenge is always good. There's a technique in 
 this game to driving. It's simply this, If you driving a quad or motorcycle stay high up and if 
 your like a big rig stick to lowland where all the mud is. Speaking of vehicles there's a huge 
 selection of vehicles in this game. Some are Motorcycles, Big rigs, Cars, Quads, and Buggy's. All 
 these vehicles control well and are just excellent. But, there is one downside to this game. There's 
 only 8 tracks which is pretty little for a racing game, especially a next gen racing game. But, 
 the tracks are amazing because each one gives you at least 3 different paths to take. Whichever 
 one you choose is different and you don't even have to keep on that track you can switch the paths 
 up. All the paths have different surprises waiting ahead. There's also alot of jumps during the 
 track which is very cool. You could also make the people riding motorcycles fight while you're 
 driving. You can throw them off their bike and watch them fall on the ground which rocks.
  
  The speed in Motorstorm will catch up to you because your going to crash alot and watch some 
 cool explosions or your racer fall of a cliff which is always cool in a game and with the graphics 
 it's even cooler.
  
  The graphics in Motorstorm are the best graphics on the PS3 so far. The amount of detail put into 
 the racer and the environment is just amazing. When you and the other racers drive through a mud 
 pit your leave tracks and the tracks keep on forming through out the race which is very amazing. 
 The crashes are just beautiful. The fiery parts flying everywhere when you crash look beautiful 
 and amazing and just plain out awesome. The opening movie when they show the mountains and everything 
 is amazing. I never saw mountains like that in a game before. Overall, the graphics in Motorstorm 
 are amazing and are the best graphics on the PS3 so far.
  
  The sound in Motorstorm is pretty excellent. The sound of the crashes sound realistic and just 
 amazing. The sound of the racers sound realistic and just like an actual race. The sound in Motorstorm 
 is really nicely done.
  
  The value is ok. The game kinda gets boring after a little bit but it won't happen to fast and 
 if it does your come right back to playing it as soon as possible. The crashes and tracked get 
 you hooked to racing for hours. Just going the different paths in a race would make you come back 
 for more. This game has pretty good value and will have you hooked for awhile. But, your soon go 
 and play another game.
  
  Therefore, Motorstorm is an amazing game. Probably one of the best racing games out for the next-gen. 
 Motorstorm will waste many hours of your life but you would be having a wonderful time doing that. 
 So, if your a PS3 owner or just a racing game fan or even a gamer you should go and play this game. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Confondu
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 22, 2007 4:33 pm PT
Review:  Fantastic. The game is extremely good. If your thinking about whether to buy it or not, you should 
 definatly buy it. It has no negative sides except for the fact that it has only one player offline. 
 It sucks because otherwise it would of been perfect. The graphics are excellent, the gameplay is 
 very addictive, the online mode shines, the sound is good. It's not a game that you will pass quickly, 
 because it's not that easy, but it's also not that hard. There is no need to rent the game, for 
 if you are a fan of racing games you will definitely be intrigued by this game.
  MotoStorm is definatly one of my favourite games for sure. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: halosniper52
Rating: 8.8
Date: Mar 22, 2007 11:53 am PT
Review:  well motorstorm is a great game for the ps3 some good about it its has great graphics and. Some 
 great gameplay the game controls great but when you turn on the motion on the controller it does 
 not work good at all. Single player is really fun and the game will take you about 8-10 hours maybe. 
 It has online witch is great and makes the game last a bit longer since single player is short. 
 The game may take a bit to get really good at but once you get the hang of it you will have alot 
 of fun. Overall tho if you have a ps3 this is a great game to get for now. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: firestorm91
Rating: 9.2
Date: Mar 21, 2007 7:36 pm PT
Review:  One of the most anticipated video games many players were looking forward to were MotorStorm. Now 
 the time has come and it's just short of dissapointment. This game features a bunch of very cool 
 things and effects. There aren't many games out there that put out an experience like this one 
 to date.
  
  The gameplay in MotorStorm is plays the style of a racer. The controls aren't too hard but they 
 do add a nice tweak to the game. Having crappy controls for a game like this wouldn't go well. 
 The AI racers are intelligent, they will do whatever it takes to win the race you're in. There 
 are a number of levels in which you go up in as you exceed further into the game. As each level 
 increases, the game will get more challenging. The types of vehicles you can get are outstanding. 
 You can choose from seven different types of vehicles, whether it's a bike, ATV, or a big rig. 
 It's your choice. However, there are tickets in which allow you to only play as a certain vehicle 
 for a specific race ---meaning you're options are somewhat limited. This isn't all that bad seeing 
 as the player will get to experience every track with the amount of vehilces there are. These vehicles 
 have strengths and weaknesses that will vary from track-to-track. An example is when the player 
 is riding a motorcycle in a mud pit. You will slip and slide a lot and it only gets worse! That's 
 what the alternate paths are for, they provide a good use for vehicles that have a disadvantage 
 in a race. Another note, the big rigs can basically fly through anything except for the main terrain 
 and that's really neat to do because it's fun wrecking everything beyond recognition. The vehilces 
 move like they're supposed to but there is rag-doll physics for the motorcycle and ATV riders but 
 it only adds to the fun. In the end, the gameplay is truley amazing for MotorStorm.
  
  MotorStorm offers excellent graphics. This includes having extremely highly-detailed vehicles. 
 Another really neat thing is your vehicle will actually get covered in dust, mud, or any other 
 thing the desert has to throw at you. The tracks players verse each other on can be damaged and 
 it's permanent for the rest of the race. An example is when you're driving a buggy or any other 
 vehicle in the mud and it leaves tracks. There are also damageable items that are spread along 
 the track. The tracks designs are very well done and they just look great overall. There are two 
 views for each vehicle, one could possibly be the first person view camera or the close chase camera. 
 The other is just the plain third-person view which many players will stick with. The crashes are 
 so amazing, whether your vehicle is being torn up by the terrain itself or ends up in a huge accident ---it 
 all looks ****ing amazing. The skins for vehicles are very creative and there's bound to be one 
 or two that players will love. Though there are a few exceptions some players might notice. Some 
 of the terrain, such as grass patches, will be quite blurry and they stick through the vehicle 
 when you drive over them. That's about the only exception for the graphics, but overall the rock!
 
  
  The sound in this game is great. MotorStorm gives you an overall not bad soundtrack but it truley 
 would be amazing if the player could customize their own. The vehicle sounds are amazing and go 
 well while flying over the tracks. Whether you're hearing the roar of the car's engine or the loud 
 shattering intense crashes you'll end up in. However, every time you crash, whether it's flying 
 off a cliff or smashing into the solid rocks in the terrain, it all sounds the same. You'll hear 
 the exact same explosion before you crash. There isn't much more to say about the sound except 
 they're very good.
  
  Many players are going to think that MotorStorm dosen't have much too it ---but that's true. The 
 game itself dosen't feature an offline multiplayer mode but happens to have a killer online game. 
 Sadly, there are only eight tracks to play off of, but tickets have different times of day and 
 give the track a different appearance. Sadly, there's basically only the play mode and that's the 
 main appearance for the gameplay despite the online mode. Overall, the value isn't that great but 
 maybe Sony can pull something together for us.
  
  I personally think that this was a killer idea for a video game and Sony exceeded but not far from 
 the expectation's point. MotorStorm features killer gameplay, kick-ass graphics, and great sound. 
 If you own a PS3, I recommend you check this game out, it isn't all that bad but with another push 
 from Sony (downloadable content) this game could exceed its limits and be a lot better than it 
 is. Once again, this game is very fun and amazing and deserves a rent, if not possibly a purchase. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nathan1274
Rating: 7.9
Date: Mar 21, 2007 4:13 pm PT
Review:  Not a bad game at all, at first it was really fun, then when I got online, It was off the hook!
 
  
  Now that I have been playing it, Im bored, I went back to playing need for speed most wanted, (cuz 
 carbon sucks) .
  
  Lets be fair. The graphics are beautiful and most wonderful, the gameplay and driving is great (still 
 hate the motion sensing though so i avoid it) I am still a little upset at Sony for taking away 
 my vibration.... i like vibration...
  Surely this game will keep you stuck for a few 4 hour plus nights of racing but after that then 
 what?
  
  I am not saying that it is a waste just that after a while it is redundant. Dont get me wrong, 
 for those that like driving games it is a keeper, but I just felt though it was missing something, 
 when i find out what that something is I will let you know. My breakdown is this:
  
  Graphics: Like a fine s1 diamond very polished now defects
  
  sound: um well.. its good, not 
 the best but still good
  
  gameplay: downright fun! until you get through 75% of the game then the redundancy kicks in.
 
  
  Value: I probably wont play this again or buy a new sequel
  
  So there you have it. A good game that grows on you and wears you out all at the same point. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mikey_PJ
Rating: 8.4
Date: Mar 21, 2007 12:43 am PT
Review:  It was expected only to show what the Ps3 could offer. However, Motorstorm was the game the changed 
 my mined from Wii to Ps3. But what makes this game truely unattractive is the high price tag.
 
  
  The game controls nicely you will find that you can use both the analog stick and the six axis 
 control to steer. I find that the six axis control allows for sharper turns, however little movements 
 also swerved me off the road. The R2 button is used for gas, and the L2 button brakes. This is 
 a new style and it works very nicely, and adds to the simlation of driving. The X button is used 
 as a boost. The boost works very realisticly, as it will burn your car if you use it too long. 
 This can sometimes be frustrating, but again it does add to the realistic effect and if not like 
 this how else would there be a limit on boost?
  
  So you will use your steering techniques to battle your way through not 30 not 20 not even 10 tracks. 
 Instead only 8 tracks. This was a big mistake on the developers' part, and could be something really 
 to look at when creating a potential Motorstorm 2. Although there is a lack of tracks, the tracks 
 themselves lack nothing. It's absolutely amazing how realistic and detailed to scenery around you 
 appears. You will often find yourself in moments just starring and saying Wow. Not only does the 
 scenery look good, but also what you drive in looks amazing. Whether it's a Bike, ATV, Dune Buggy, 
 Rally car, or Huge Truck, it looks extremely really and the tiniest details add a whole lot of 
 flavour and don't take away at all. Probably the coolest thing is when your car eplodes into a 
 billion pieces, literally, and gets torn apart by flames. It's SAVAGE AND BEAUTIFUL. The explsions 
 also sound extremely real and thats not all.
  
  Before explosions, you'll here the screeches of metal on metal and be amazed by what you here. 
 The music also makes a fine addition.
  
  So really people looking to get a Ps3 should take a look at this game. And people who aren't considering 
 it should consider this game. Because although it is quite a short expirience with only a singleplayer, 
 and online multiplayer mode, it's an expirience you keep wanting more of 
::::::

::::::
UserName: huga215
Rating: 9.8
Date: Mar 20, 2007 6:03 pm PT
Review:  I was second guessing this game at first, but when i sat down and played it i grew on it everytime 
 i played as i got more use to the gameplay. Then i was thinking it was too easy, but when I got 
 to level 3 to started to yeah at the game. it's takimg me forever to get to level 4. there is a 
 nice amount of tracks let alone vehicles... dirt bike, atv, buggy, rally car, plugger, race truck, 
 and mac truck. You also have a lot of model styles and a choice of three paint jobs for each vehicle. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: biggamerhk
Rating: 9.3
Date: Mar 22, 2007 7:38 pm PT
Review:  The Good: Amazing visuals, great physics, great races and courses, many different vehicles to choose 
 from, great frame rate, impressive online multiplayer. The Bad: A little shallow, has only 8 courses 
 (not that shallow, though!) , no offline multiplayer. Motorstorm, without a doubt, will probably 
 be the best off-road racing game you will ever play. The game feels great, and looks great as well 
 (it is probably the best-looking game on the PS3) . The physics of the game are also extremely impressive. 
 Basically, what I'm trying to say is . . .Motorstorm is an extraordinary racing experience, and 
 should really not be missed. Now, many people have been saying that Motorstorm is a shallow game 
 that hardly anything to do. Well, I slightly disagree with this. Yeah, it is a bit light in single 
 player (although it is decent enough for me!) , and it sucks that there is no offline multiplayer 
 (split-screen) , but the spectacular races completely make up for this. Races are intense, and take 
 place in long, well-designed courses. The crashes are amazing (hundreds of little pieces go flying 
 everywhere, kind of like in Burnout 3) , and there are many different vehicles to choose from (Some 
 include Rally Cars, Motorcycles, Buggies, and Big Rigs) , and each vehicle seems to realistically 
 have their own strengths and weaknesses (e. g. Big Rigs go quite slowly , but completely destroy 
 opponents when they ram into them) . Motorstorm, from my point of view, is definitely satisfying 
 enough, and is a absolutely must-get if you own a PS3. (P. S. GameSpot underrated again. They really 
 need to stop!!!) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TransAmSD455
Rating: 8.2
Date: Mar 20, 2007 9:51 am PT
Review:  Motorstorm seems like one of those games soly created to test out early PS3 graphics capabilities. 
 Boy does it deliver. Motorstorm gives you a solid racing package woth tons of diffrent vehicles 
 to choose from which are all really fun to drive and jump off ramps with! This game actually impressed 
 me more with the actual detail to the mud and car damage detail. I must admitt though, the physics 
 do feel a bit floaty but other than that? its a solid little racing game to see what the PS3 can 
 do! Graphics
  Wow kinda blew my mind with how great this game flows! cool little mud graphics on the ground, 
 car gettin dirty! things look like they are really getting tore up out there on the track. Motorstorm 
 really does deliver on the graphics note and the only thing i can complain of? common' man, more 
 racing modes and more tracks but hey im not complaining, im kinda mezmorized by the graphics.
 
  
  Sound. Things slowed down a little here, but the music picks it right back up and its not like 
 its so bad, engine sounds, cars crushing metal, people flying off of motorcycles, explosions, cars 
 crashing into rocks and deep mud riffs, its not all bad when you come down to it.
  
  All an all, Motorstorm kinda finishes up quickly, and leaves you woundering if they should of put 
 more into the game, don't feel bad feela's they really should of, but be happy! you just saw some 
 of the greatest graphics in a game! its a great way to let some aggression out and just open up 
 and have a good time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bondps3
Rating: 9.4
Date: Apr 7, 2007 9:24 pm PT
Review:  This game was very hyped by PS3 fans world wide since the E3 unveiling in 2005. Although it did 
 not fully reach the visuals of that trailer, it got damn close.
  
  MotorStorm is fantastic at doing what it does best, which is making a truly intense game. These 
 races, although sometimes repetitive are fun as heck. While playing you will often experience a 
 holy $#!+ moment. In almost every race you will find yourself fighting for your life to win, often 
 times crashing from going to freaking fast and loosing control. MotorStorm has a bunch of vehicle 
 types and vehicles to choose from. Whether you want a Mud Plugger for the you guessed it muddy 
 terrain or the Rally Car for the flat and fast terrain, their is an array to choose from. Although 
 there are many vehicles to choose from their are not many tracks, only 8 actually. Though they 
 are long tracks, you see them too many times. One downside to MotorStorm is that their is no offline 
 multi-player. But that isn't a big lose since multi-player in racing games often sucks. But to 
 make up for it the online gaming is fantastic and adds hours and hours of replay value. So go out 
 there and BUY IT, PLAY IT AND BEAT IT! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jackle2071
Rating: 7.5
Date: Sep 17, 2007 3:03 pm PT
Review:  In 2005 Sony showed off two trailers one was Killzone 2 and the other was Motorstorm. Both trailers 
 amazed the crowed and after they picked there jaws up off the floor and feelings euphoria have 
 passed the world eminently grabbed there pitch forks and gathered around with talks of burning 
 Sony and there CGI trailer at the stake! Well several years have passed sense that event and whether 
 things have gotten any better or worse for Sony all depends on who you talk to! With that said 
 Motorstorm in any way shape or from doesnt comes even close to the E3 05 trailer, but that doesnt 
 mean its not a lot of fun! Motorstorm is kind of like the western version of Burnout in some respects. 
 Motorstorm puts you in the middle of a huge desert-racing event (think road warrior meets death 
 race 2000) . With a fair verity of vehicles to choose from you should have no problem finding something 
 to suit your needs. Once you have your ride all picked out its time to hit the dirt running! The 
 game is fast and makes no apologies once the metal starts to fly! Motorstorm might come off as 
 a bit of a mindless racing game but there is some strategy to it, in how and when you choose to 
 use boost or taking different routes will put your mind to the test when your going well over 100 
 miles per hour while a giant big rig is behind you breathing down your neck! The game in that sense 
 is fairly strait forward in those regards. You race and you hope you dont die and come in last 
 place in the process. .
  .
  The game has 8 different tracks and are all well broken up with many multiple paths for you to 
 explore. Most of the routs youll take all depend on what youre driving. For example if your driving 
 a Big Rig your best bet is to stay on low and muddy ground as taking the high road will most likely 
 result in your failure. If riding a Dirt bike your best bet is to take the high road because if 
 you take the low road you most likely to be bounced around by the Big Rigs and slide every which 
 way in the mud. At some point in time in the single player you will be forced to drive a certain 
 car. For a particular event but for the most part this all just a ploy to get you too try out everything 
 instead of just sticking with one thing for the whole time. Most of the vehicles in the game are 
 fun and all handle different in some way shape or form. The only really big problem with the car 
 line up is the Big rigs! There not much fun to drive and prove to be frustrating in the SP. Online 
 how ever the Big Rigs can redeem them selfs. .
  .
  . Online mode is well online. Instead of playing against AI opponents youre playing against real 
 people. The game does support voice chat and up to 12 people can play together at one time. Online 
 is solid with leader boards and all those bells and whistles. The ranking system in the game is 
 a bit confusing though, I played for about 5 hours strait and only won 1 race! In that time I some 
 how made it to the rank of Legend which is kind of strange sense I only won 1 race! The game 
 looks pretty but I may not be the best judge on that sense im running the game on a old 1980s 
 TV. For the most part Motorstorm is a solid racing game with some great thrills but the single 
 player can feel a bit dry and bland with only 1 mode to play the game in. for the most part Online 
 makes up for the Single players short comings. that is if you enjoy just a all out battle for the 
 finish line. .
  .
  This is my first and only PS3 game so I really have nothing else to compare it too in the PS3 library. 
 All in all the game is fun looks nice and if you dont mind a stripped down experience with really 
 online being the only real enjoyable game mode I really do recommend this game. I know I kind of 
 trashed it in some spots but really the game is crazy it is intense, and yes in some parts will 
 BLOW your mind!! But really unless Motorstorm becomes a franchise over the next few years I really 
 dont think any one is going to remember it once some of the more heavy hitting PlayStation tittles 
 come out this fall. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ed_brannon
Rating: 9.2
Date: Mar 18, 2007 5:01 pm PT
Review:  Hey again here to review another game for the PS3. Well to start off i had played the demo for 
 motorstrom when it first came out and i liked it right off. Secondly if you haven't played the 
 demo and you don't own the game download it its free and the game is great, but try it your self. 
 Well now to the review. Motorstorm game from evolution studios its great as i said before. It is 
 sorta like a roadrash, ATV and race car game all bleeanded up and spit out. It has all kinds of 
 vehicles to choose from goven most races you do have a specific type of ve hicle you have to choose 
 from\, but yhere are some races you can choose any type. There are there are seven (7) seven types 
 of vehicles to choose fromstarting with two in eachcatagory and then you can unlock more. there 
 are about three choices to choose from on looks of each one . Which sucks i would have likjed to 
 have some more customisable options but oh well. There landscapes of each areas are beautiful and 
 very chalenging there are two to three routes to choose from and each one is best depends on the 
 type of vehicle you are driving. The controlls are some what of an adjustmet to get used to the 
 big rigs dont have greast handling and the bikes have to much .
  Anywhay it does take a couple of races for each type to get the feel for it. i have not played 
 with the motion sensors turned off i alwways use the the controller to steer if they put it in 
 there and i have it i am going to use it. OSorry if yuou don't like it go read someone elses review. 
 The online is quite fun. it supports headsets if you haver them and you can choose what you race 
 as every race but the host sets the track and the typoes allowed. Oh and last but not leaast the 
 sound. i am not much on the sound of the cars but it is GREAT. i love the sound tracks though it 
 has some old school tracks like monstor magnet and wolfmother as well as new groups, so i love 
 it. Anyway i loved the game it is one of my favorite game on the PS3 and definatly my fav racing 
 game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: maksumic
Rating: 9.3
Date: Mar 18, 2007 4:44 pm PT
Review:  Motorstorm is a racing game that takes place in monument valley in utah with many varied environments 
 the game is excellent and the graphics are unbeleleable the best ive seen better then gears of 
 war, the mud the cars, the riders the environments look photorealistic. The online mode is great 
 and really addicting there is even headsets conpadiatable which i s really awsone. There is also 
 downloadble content that u can download such as new tracks, modes, etc. Awsome game very addicting 
 especially online. Love this game. The best racing game ever. Gamestop gave it a 7.9, ign gave 
 it a 9.0, playmagaizne gave it 10/10, yahoo games gave it a 4.5/5 so as u can the game got great 
 scores 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GamingDisgrace
Rating: 8.2
Date: Mar 18, 2007 3:56 pm PT
Review:  Ever since 2005, one of the PS3 most widely recognizable and most hyped titles has been Motorstorm, 
 as many who hung their hopes on the PS3 hung their hopes on Motorstorm's stunning visuals, but 
 we were never given a preview or a true idea of what the actual gameplay would be like until we 
 got a working demo when the PS3 launched last winter. Some were encouraged: Others, disappointed, 
 but there was no denying the amount of discussion around Motorstorm would continue until it released, 
 and here it is. Motorstorm delivered on what it showed, delivering one of the best, if not the 
 best looking game to be released on the PS3 with undoubedetly the best physics models on car models 
 that you've ever seen. But that lingering question remains: What ABOUT that gameplay? That question 
 is really spread into two parts, the gameplay of the single player and the play of the online component. 
 The single player is for all intensive purposes, a practice mode that lets you comb all the tracks 
 for lines with all the different types of vehicles while gradually ramping up the difficulty of 
 the races, and most frustratingly, forcing you to race with a certain type of vehicle, further 
 reinforcing the notion that the single-player is more like a tutorial than anything. The only reason 
 to go through it that it really gives you experience on all of the tracks before trying your hand 
 against real people online, along with the incentive of unlocking other cars as you race through 
 all the different events, a nice, if restricting way to go through it. However, as quickly as you'll 
 run through the easier levels of the single player mode, you'll just as quickly run into level 
 4 events and be astounded that the AI has become a hellbent force whose first job is destroy you 
 before anything else. Your only option is get the holeshot, get ahead, and stay ahead, or you'll 
 sooner be in a swamp of trucks, cars, and bikes trying to smother you than you swear in frustration. 
 If you should fall behind the main pack, which will happen often, once you catch up to this virtually 
 indestructible wall of metal, a once serene racer co-existing with the main pack will all of a 
 sudden become a raging alcoholic who will break behind the pack and sacrifice his position and 
 any chance he had of winning the race just to make sure you go nowhere. Hrm, is it just me, or 
 is this NOT conducive to a racing game, where your primary objective, I imagine, would be to... 
 Uh... Win? All of this put aside, the truth is that however frustrating the single player mode 
 is, this is not the reason you'll be playing Motorstorm. So what would be the real reason that 
 you would be playing Motorstorm? It's in the only other way to play the game, the online component 
 that lets you go to play with 11 other people in real time on any course with any machine at any 
 time of day, all according to the host's rules, allowing for a different experience every race 
 depending on the course chosen and what vehicles you can choose, from the bikes to the big rigs. 
 This the true meat and potatoes of the game, a shootout between you and a whole other group of 
 speed junkies. The game doesn't slow done, keeping up to the smooth pace of the single player component 
 with just as many players, saving the fact that there might be a small bit of lag, especially on 
 the first straightaway of the race, where everyone is still a large pack, and should someone crash, 
 you might be collected along with them while totally unaware, clear track being in front of you 
 one second, a flaming carcass of metal and flames in that same spot the next. If you do survive, 
 it'll be a shootout between you and others, creating some true blood-pumping racing, which is so 
 much better than than the AI in the single player that unless you want a shiny new car, you'll 
 likely never go back, and enjoy yourself in the flaming mass of speed in online. But what about 
 those shiny new cars? The bikes, rally cars, buggys, ATV's, mud pluggers, and big rigs all have 
 completely different feels and racing lines you'll be traveled on the 8 tracks in the game, allowing 
 for an infinitely variable experience as you barrel through each course. The bikes are nimble and 
 the quickest to the get off the line, and they'll have to stay there if they don't want to get 
 shoved around the tracks by... Pretty much anything else but another bike, whereas the big rigs 
 will fall behind and gain a big head of steam to be in contention, but once they start rolling 
 through the mud pits, they'll drive right through anything without so much as an apology as they 
 bully their way to a win. All the routes and different cars feel great, but they dissemble just 
 as nicely. Crashes aren't really your best friend in racing, but whether you're racing by them 
 or you are 10 feet in the air, you can't help but look and be in awe of the crunched metal, flying 
 bodies and flying parts in Motorstorm. Bike riders will fly and be crunched by other vehicles, 
 quarter-panels and tires, along with a few axels, shocks, brakes, and glass will fly, and most 
 impressively, this happens with no lag whatsoever. Their AI department may not have figured out 
 all the intricacies of racing behavior, but thing sure do go boom real nice. In the end, if you've 
 bought a PS3 and don't flat-out hate racing games, chances are Motorstorm was already on your to-buy 
 list, but if you aren't satisfied by pretty explosions and pre-release hype, let me be the first 
 to tell you that Motorstorm for the PS3 was worth the wait. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fortune99999
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 17, 2007 11:02 pm PT
Review:  This game holds up well and quite possible has the best graphics on a console to date, including 
 Gears Of War, so thats saying a lot. The single play can get boring extremely fast due to the repeat 
 of all the tracks and everything over and over again but if you just enjoy the racing, tracks, 
 and vehicles then you won't really mind. But I think online play makes up for all of the boring 
 game play in the single player. The sounds are amazing, all the vehicles and mud sounds, sound 
 so crisp and real thats its almost perfect. I would have this game could have got a much higher 
 rating for me if it had more game types and modes to just race on then just standard start to finish. 
 The value for me also goes down how the single play only lasts a little while but all in all if 
 your looking for a good racing game for PS3 I suggest you buy this for the fun aspect of the game. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: iwishiwasrich
Rating: 9.4
Date: Mar 17, 2007 10:10 am PT
Review:  this game it a fun game that you can play for hour i love racing game and it kinda reminds me of 
 burn out which i love. and mud from the cars is crazy i love to use the bigger cars so i can kill 
 the little guys. the online does lack conecting with friend to make a room ment for just you and 
 your friends because there is no kick or password but i dont care because i like to beat radom 
 people at racing and tell them how i owned them and they want a rematch and i owned them again. 
 lol. the crashes are so really and when your on a mini bike and your fall of your just like wow. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NooBAFIED
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 17, 2007 9:58 am PT
Review:  If you love racing games this has it but in the most intense way ever, one of my favorite racing 
 games ever, soundtracks not bad, length of the game is good and the GRAPHICS WELL THERE AMAMZING! 
 Nice vechiles! umm could use some Co-op or something to have fun with your friend, Online mulitplayer 
 rocks, this is a action packed racing game! Favorite thing is the levels and the Crashing, a really 
 fun game, get it if you dont have it!
  MOTORSTORM! Whats interesting is the types of cars they have and sometimes you have to take them 
 even if you dont want to but still GREAT GAME! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MusashiSensi
Rating: 7.9
Date: Mar 17, 2007 5:56 am PT
Review:  Intro- I was right along with the people who were beasting to get this game. I got it the day before 
 it was actually set to release and well lets get to reviewing.
  
  
  
  Gameplay- The gameplay is fun and keeps you wanting more. You can choose from bikes (motorcycles) , 
 ATV's, Trucks, Buggies.. etc. Each vehicle has it's own strenghts and weakness, so it's up to you 
 to find out what they are and what tracks they're best for. The tracks are pretty cool as well 
 and add some uniqueness to racing games.
  
  
  Graphics- The graphics more motorstorm are very well done. They're not what they showed at E3, 
 but still they're well done.
  
  
  
  Sound- The music is very cool to listen to while cruising your mud tracks or speeding pass the 
 other racers while checking the mountains.
  
  
  Summary- Motorstorm is a fun game, but just isn't something I'd play everyday or even play 4-6hrs 
 non stop. It's your basic racing game with nice graphics and good music.... nothing more nothing 
 less. Don't get me wrong.. it's a g ood game, but it's kind of what you'd expect from a racing game (repetitiveness) 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lorenzojr78
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 16, 2007 7:21 pm PT
Review:  Graphics-This game is gorgeous. When you are racing around in this game, it truly looks photo-realistic. 
 The motion blur is awesome and the size and depth perception is awesome. The cars are highly detailed, 
 and when you crash, hundreds of parts go everywhere. Textures are also great, but if you pause 
 the game, sometimes you can see some bad ones. This game is flawless looking when you are actually 
 playing, but if you pause the game or if it goes into slow motion, you can see some problems. The 
 bushes are 2D and they just turn with the camera. The biggest graphical problem is the shadows. 
 They are extremely low pixel so they are always moving . Besides those two problems though, the 
 game is beautiful. The best part is the mud. It is real-time so after a couple laps, the mudpits 
 will be torn up. The way the light reflects off of the mud is incredible. Plus, there is mike support 
 so you can trash talk people. There is also a rank system that keeps you playing. Lastly, this 
 game is just fun. The crashes and chaos make this a really fun game. Can't wait to see whats next 
 in this series. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheCarl
Rating: 7.9
Date: Mar 16, 2007 7:09 am PT
Review:  After receiving my PS3 as a gift in December, I honestly have not found to many reasons to turn 
 it on. That all changed when I started playing MotorStorm. Motorstorm has long been a high profile 
 title pushed by Sony as a game that will fully utilize the strengths of the PS3. In some respects, 
 it does and then some, other times, not so much. The graphics in Motorstorm are great. The race 
 tracks are very detailed with great lighting effects and the vehicles are very sharp looking. You 
 are given the choice of 6 different modes of transportation, each with strengths and weaknesses. 
 The courses have multiple paths which converge at different points, each playing to the strengths 
 of each vehicle. Good sound and solid game play round out the positive aspects of the game. The 
 downside of the game is it's length and game play options. As you progress through the game, you 
 unlock event tickets which are just a collection of 2-4 races, each on one of the eight tracks 
 and usually limited to one type of vehicle. Each ticket is given a difficulty level 1 to 5, which 
 rates the driving skill of the AI and the vehicle on a given course. No time trial (though that 
 will be coming sooner rather then later) or two player (technical restrictions) keep the single 
 player experience shallow. Multiplayer does not have much meat to it either. You are only able 
 to race against other players, no eliminator or other modes are available with the retail disc. 
 Although, allowing different combinations of vehicles allowed on any given track lends some strategy 
 to the game.
  
  Overall, a solid game even with its shortcomings which are going to be remedied in the near future. 
 I'm excited to see what can be built with this racing engine (WIPEOUT PS3!!!) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: September_Grey
Rating: 8.3
Date: Mar 15, 2007 6:14 pm PT
Review:  If youre looking for a great racing game to stick into your shiny Playstation 3, look no further 
 than Motorstorm, the long-anticipated effort from Evolution Studios. And luckily, much of what 
 had people waiting in baited breath for its release is all well and good here. Expect lots of fast-paced, 
 destruction-filled racing with some truly spectacular physics and visuals, and a perfect soundtrack 
 to underscore the mayhem. However, there isnt many ways to experience this mayhem; the lack of 
 content in Motorstorm is most definitely the biggest blow to its staying power. But dont you dare 
 let that stop you from experiencing it if the notion of straightforward, off-road racing appeals 
 to you.
  
  Motorstorms front end is very simple, offering you either an offline or online race, as well as 
 some extra content. The games single player is essentially a series of tickets, each of which 
 will have one or several races on it. Placing in the top three in any race earns you a sum of points, 
 which will unlock more tickets and extra vehicles. Youll be able to select from seven different 
 vehicle classes  bikes, ATVs, buggies, rally cars, racing trucks, mudpluggers (essentially Jeeps, 
 stripped out with heightened suspension) , as well as big rigs. At first this variety can be almost 
 overwhelming, since courses are always constructed of several routes tailored to specific vehicle 
 types. However, youll soon notice that the vehicles in Motorstorm have no individual statistics. 
 So beyond the knowledge that, say, rally cars are speedy but are worthless in the mud, you wont 
 know which of the handful of those rally cars has over another. So beyond the seven archetypes 
 on display in Motorstorm, the individual vehicle choices are largely cosmetic.
  
  Once youre out on the track, its pretty much just you, your vehicle, and the gas pedal. Youll 
 pretty much be flooring it the entire race, and you can be sure your opponents will be doing the 
 same. Because the entirety of Motorstorm takes place on canyon tracks, youll find your traction 
 to the dirt roads is limited. No matter which vehicle you choose, youll have a boost, which  
 aside from the first ten seconds of the race  you can use whenever you like. However, boosting 
 will fill a temperature gauge that causes your vehicle to explode if topped off, so using it sparingly 
 is key. Regardless of car selection, the general strategy in Motorstorm is to handbrake around 
 a corner until your cars front end is sliding in the right direction, and then boosting to correct 
 the slide, causing a slingshot into the next section.
  
  If that sort of simplicity bothers you, then  sorry to say  youve expressed interest in the 
 wrong game. Motorstorm isnt about statistics or fine-tuning; its about getting out on the track, 
 kicking up dirt, and doing everything you can to knock your opponents off the course, be it through 
 racing prowess or dirty hits. Youre typically racing against a dozen or so others in single-player, 
 and your opponents generally run the entire breadth of available vehicles. However, youll typically 
 be restricted in choosing a ride; in fact, much of the challenge in Motorstorm comes from having 
 to deal with its vehicle restrictions. Luckily, they almost always make the game more fun; have 
 you ever wondered what itd be like to hop on a bike and race against a pack of big rigs? Youll 
 get your chance to find out what can happen with this game.
  
  Although the game purposely restricts vehicles in order to ensure consistent mayhem throughout 
 Motorstorm, the track design is the real star of the show. Each track in the game is multi-layered 
 and multi-tiered; frequent forks in the road force you to choose different routes, and theres 
 frequently other racers above or below you. If that all sounds overly complicated, it isnt; large, 
 easy-to-read signs warn that certain types of vehicles should stay away from some paths (for example, 
 bikes should remain on higher paths to avoid larger vehicles and tracts of mud) . These separate 
 paths also frequently diverge, and when they do, carnage usually ensues. Big rigs smack into buggies, 
 causing gorgeous explosions to blow them apart and send shrapnel bouncing and denting your hood; 
 other racers will draft you and give you constant love taps in attempts to derail you; and in general, 
 everyones sliding around and clinging to the dirt for dear life. Youll almost definitely experience 
 a sense of wonder for the first couple races in Motorstorm, and this chaos effect holds surprisingly 
 strong throughout.
  
  The racing isnt without its faults, of course. For starters, the games camera system allows only 
 two views  a relatively far-out third person view, and an on-the-hood camera (which is more over-the-shoulder 
 for bikes and ATVs) . The problem is that neither of these views is entirely optimal in a race. The 
 former gives you a good survey of the course, but it feels detached. The latter option is a much 
 more cinematic, rough-riding camera that gets in nice and close to the action, but it can be difficult 
 to get a bearing on your surroundings. The rear and side view cameras are also too cinematic; they 
 look fantastic, but their flash eliminates some of their usefulness in a heated race. The tracks 
 in the game are extremely well-designed, but theres only a small handful of them, and youll be 
 racing them over and over again in single player (albeit in a different vehicle) . Finally, the 
 games explosion effects, while extremely attractive, appear more frequently than youd probably 
 like; bumping into what youd probably consider a pebble on Motorstorms bumpy tracks may cause 
 the undue destruction of your vehicle. However, when the core racing action is this good, its 
 hard to get overly hung up on its few  but still noticeable  problems.
  
  Maybe Motorstorms shortcomings are easier to swallow because of its incredible presentation. 
 This is pound-for-pound the best-looking game on the Playstation 3 so far; from the moment you 
 launch it, Motorstorm looks superb. The courses are bathed in pale sepia and fiery orange tones, 
 and theyre speckled with scrapped cars, wooden planks that serve as improvised jumps, cactus life, 
 and lots and lots of mud. All of this cosmetic material can be blown through and smacked around 
 during the course of a race. The cars and drivers also look fantastic; grinding up against cars 
 produces sparks and dents, and it wont be long before your ride is being torn apart under the 
 friction. Riders flop around and get thrown across the ground after a crash, especially with bikes 
 and ATVs. Tons of little details also stick out, chief among them the mud effects. Tires leave 
 mud tracks in the courses dynamically, and these have a real depth and mucky quality that will 
 compromise your control should you drive over them. By the last lap of a race, a course is typically 
 so muddy that everyone is slip-sliding around and can barely keep a handle on their car  and its 
 awesome. Mud is also kicked up onto your car and will spray on the camera throughout a race, a 
 neat effect that adds a not-so-subtle layer of immersion to the visuals.
  
  The audio is just as successful at drawing you into the game. Apart from its stunning good looks, 
 the first thing youll notice about Motorstorm is that it is very, very loud. Between the deep, 
 heavy roars of the engines to the shrill scrape of metal-on-metal, it really feels like youre 
 in the thick of an anything-goes death race in the middle of a canyon. The music is also a great 
 achievement, perfectly capturing the fun, wild spirit of the racing action. The musical acts in 
 the game  from Lunatic Calm, Pendulum, and Elite Force to more well-known bands like Nirvana and 
 Queens of the Stone Age  accent the rowdy motif of the game to a tee, and youll certainly find 
 yourself singing along or tapping your foot in time with the music.
  
  Some extra content can be accessed from the main menu as well, but its the kind of stuff youd 
 just want to gloss over once. What you get are short videos that show Motorstorm at various levels 
 of production, with no narration or running commentary of any kind. This makes them a passing interest, 
 at best.
  
  With just eight courses to experience, and only a basic race format to experience them with, Motorstorm 
 comes up a little light on content. The question is: are you fond enough of its crazy, off-the-wall 
 brand of action to put that fact behind you? Once you spend some time with its audacious, visceral 
 gameplay  either offline in single-player or with twelve others online  your answer will most 
 likely be yes. In short, Motorstorm combines fast-paced fun with a genuinely impressive presentation 
 to make what is inarguably one of the best games yet available on the Playstation 3, and a great 
 game in its own right. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: total_chaos5
Rating: 9.4
Date: Mar 14, 2007 9:24 pm PT
Review:  i liked the graphics on this game were amazing they are so realistic I. I actually thought i was 
 at the canyon. Very addictive will be playing for a straight month before it dies on. I think it 
 would be better if they made it so that you can customize cars. I would also like better online 
 because you can join a game thats still going so its really hard to find a game on idle. I would 
 also like some split screen because im tired of just me and my friends taking turns. This game 
 was great and i highly recommend that you buy this game thats why i gave it a 9.4. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: elmetfano
Rating: 8.3
Date: Mar 14, 2007 1:35 pm PT
Review:  yes you read right. i am not a fan of racing games and i LOVE THIS GAME! Now you say how does that 
 make sence. I don't know that either really. I downloaded the demo one day b/c this game got a 
 lot of hype AND I WAS Hocked. For my birthday recently i got the game and it was SWEEEEEEET. People 
 complain abot the lobby but i dont see a problem with it and you can voice chat in the game. so 
 i give it a 8.3. And you DONT NEED A HDtv NOT NOT NOT. people say stuff like o you need a hd tv 
 to full enjoy next-gen yea that bs. i use SD myself and it still looks fabulos. yea HD make it 
 look even better but if u are not a spolied teen (like myself) its fine on SD (i waiting for the 
 2 yr price drop thing for my hd 
::::::

::::::
UserName: supra2jzgte
Rating: 7.9
Date: Mar 14, 2007 12:33 pm PT
Review:  I was really surprised at how good the graphics are on this game, I mean, the main reason I am 
 so hooked on this racer is because of its so fun to look at and there is no frame rate loss at 
 all. I was shocked! The sound design is just not working out for me though, its loud, all over 
 the place and blearing. I mean, most video games don't sound like a movie mix in the first place, 
 but still, they could have made the game just as loud and still did a better job on sound design. 
 The AI and animations are all top notch and though I don't use the six axxis support on the controller 
 (The game is hard enough to play as is) the vehicles are easy to control with the Analog sticks. 
 If you want to play a good off roading game, then I suggest you pick up this game. Is it worth 
 $60USD? No! But I wanted to play the game and actually beat it! Its a hard game, believe me, you 
 have to get 1st place on every track for every ticket to proceed and earn maximum points and free 
 vehicles. Can't wait to see the next next gen racer. (Forza 2 anyone?) Graphics: 10
  Sound: 7
  Gameplay: 10
  Controls: 8 (Can be hard to control on certain tracks, especially Mesa 
 Horny)
  Is it worth $60USD? No. But If you want to beat the game, it will take time and renting is more 
 expensive then just plain old buying the game and then selling it later on. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TwiztedMetal
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 14, 2007 11:20 am PT
Review:  MotorsStorm is a great game sure it may have only a 8 tracks but there a lot of different possibilities 
 on most of the maps that can change the way you race depending on your vehicle type. There is a 
 way to win every race with every vehicle you just have to figure out the best rout. I think the 
 game is very strong and with the new downloadable content coming out the game fairly soon it should 
 add even more excitement to an already great game. The game is highly addicting and it seems every 
 time you lose a race it makes you want to play it more because you know you could win next time. 
 A lot of people have problems with the online part of the game not in the sense that it does not 
 work it just really is not set up that well. The only way to communicate is with a headset. There 
 is no way to lock a room or kick people out of a room. But other than that you can just jump into 
 online mode and just play your heart out. There is virtually no lag in the races and when you get 
 12 people racing it is the making for a really good time. The key to winning is knowing what you 
 are good with on what track, tight turns, and knowing were to use your turbo! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: aikao
Rating: 8.1
Date: Mar 14, 2007 11:01 am PT
Review:  Motorstorm has just the right amount of content to get things started for the first in what's certain 
 to be a series of Motorstorm games. Motorstorm has one thing lacking, not enough of a great thing, 
 and evolution Studios has created a foundation from which to build the perfect racing game, but 
 that doesn't mean Motorstorm is anything less than a great experience. Multiplayer is the direction 
 to go in Motorstorm. Multiplayer gives the gamer a wider range of options to play around with to 
 make their own Motorstorm challenge, while the single player content is not as deep as you'd expect.
 
  
  Physics could never be this fun to learn, so Motorstorm makes an excellent showcase of the physics 
 engine, which creates more and more of the best crash TV this side of interactive entertainment.
 
  
  Motorstorm offers up some great looking tracks to race through, although there's not enough of 
 them-8 total. Tracks can vary from being short to very long, dry to wet, bumpy terrain to seemingly 
 flat planes, so this causes the drivers to pick their rides accordingly to accept what each track 
 has to offer. It would be nice to see Evolution Studios deliver some downloadable tracks in the 
 near future, which would help keep this game looking fresh longer.
  
  Must buy for the multiplayer. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: foxtrot89
Rating: 9.1
Date: Mar 13, 2007 6:11 pm PT
Review:  This review is based on the Japanese version of Motorstorm released December 2006.
  
  You've played the demo and you've seen the videos but nothing can prepare you for the heart-thumping, 
 edge of your seat racing that is Motorstorm. Simply put, this game is the most fun I've had with 
 a racer since Crash Team Racing on the original Playstation. The newest offering from Evolution 
 Studios (purveyors of fine rally racing) combines stunning visuals with excellent gameplay and 
 aggressive A. I. resulting in a game which will be sure to please millions once it is released outside 
 of Japan.
  
  Motorstorm is one of those games that's just a pure emotional rush. Words can't begin to describe 
 how it feels to play catch-up after falling behind - taking risky detours you bypassed a lap 
 ago, swerving around and through battling vehicles while navigating the harsh terrain, all the 
 while using every ounce of your boost in a desperate attempt to catch the leader. Motorstorm is 
 all about the simple joys and it doesn't look half-bad doing it.
  
  A lot has been made about how good the game looks and Motorstorm delivers on all fronts. Get ready 
 for the same wow factor you experienced looking at GT3 (PS2) , Ninja Gaiden (XBOX) , RE4 (GC) and 
 Gears of War (360) Hands down, Motorstorm is the best looking game on the PS3 by far. Motorstorm's 
 eye-popping visuals rest on the balance between the vehicles and the environment. You may think 
 that since the whole game takes place in a single desert-centric location, lack of variety may 
 be an issue, but let me tell you, that is simply not the case. Each course is expertly crafted 
 not only to convey its own unique look but to feel and play differently (which I will go into detail 
 later on) . The vehicles too are quite detailed and show plenty of variety with unlockable models 
 for each of the 7 classes available as you progress through the game. However, the true beauty 
 of the game comes when both are combined in one twisted spectacle of chaos and destruction. Motorstorm 
 is truly a sight to see in motion with mud slingers, trucks and rally cars jostling for position, 
 ATVs and bikes flying over and around you, buggies doing something in the middle and big rigs just 
 doing whatever the hell they want (dirt and mud flying everywhere) . Crashes are spectacular and 
 happen often whether it involves you or one of your 7-15 opponents. As a final disclaimer, let 
 me state that this game was meant to be played in the first person perspective. I have yet to 
 find a racing game that does a better job of immersing you in the action than Motorstorm does.
 
  
  Motorstorm's engrossing gameplay experience stems from a variety of factors most notably the exceptional 
 A. I., course design and vehicle controls. To begin, each vehicle handles differently and has various 
 strengths and weaknesses. This will inevitably affect the way in which you approach each contest 
 as well as your decision making during races. The bike is fast and small, but also the hardest 
 vehicle to control. Because of this, bikers would be wise to avoid the pack as much as possible 
 opting for higher, narrower routes where bigger vehicles cannot tread (with ease at least) . On 
 the flipside, because the bike is relatively harder to control, players may actually choose to 
 bypass smaller detours such as jumping through two rocks after a turn (to shave a half second off 
 your time) because the risk of crashing into one of those rocks is greater than say with a buggy 
 (which features much tighter control) . However, the option still remains if you were in a hurry 
 and needed to catch up to the first place car. The beauty of Motorstorm is that you are always 
 developing new strategies and everything is situation-dependant. So what if bikes are supposed 
 to avoid the pack? Why not on the 2nd lap, take the more direct path through the car yard (instead 
 of through the cliffs) ? After all, the big rigs and racing trucks did just plow a nice little path 
 for you the lap before. Sure you might run into some angry drivers intent on crushing you, but 
 at least the path is clear.
  
  The courses in Motorstorm play a large part in the success of the game. You will never follow the 
 same path twice as there are just so many ways to complete each level. Each course is basically 
 an open ended level with multiple paths to the finish line (all of which are connected  You could 
 say be racing on a cliff and fall, but land below on a mud path that others are racing on) . On 
 each of these paths (although I use the term loosely) , there are various obstacles you must traverse 
 further broadening your options of how to attack each level (also resulting in thousands of different 
 ways of completing a lap) . Again, everything in Motorstorm is situation-dependant meaning that 
 where you are and what your rivals are doing play a huge role in your decision making (and how 
 reckless your driving becomes) unlike in other racing games where you just want to race your race 
 (basically the way you got your fastest time in time trial) .
  
  Finally we come to the A. I. which in case you haven't guessed by now is very impressive. The real 
 action doesn't kick in until you've finished the level 1 races (which serve as kind of a tutorial/practice 
 setting) . After that, it's mayhem  Among other things cars will jockey for position &amp; aggressively 
 pursue each other, they will use boost, they will slam you into the canyon wallsyou get the idea. 
 The CPU reacts well to almost every situation presented and that's no small feat considering how 
 many vehicles there are and how much is happening on the screen at one time. But the thing I love 
 about Motorstorm is that you're never really out of a race and you can rarely ever hold the lead 
 for too long. Each race is extremely close with opponents finishing as close as tenths of a second 
 behind each other in some instances. In one race, I noticed that 5 other cars had finished within 
 one second of me in a photo finish  great stuff. Oh, and in case you were wondering if random 
 vehicles flying across your screen was a sign of weak A. I., you're wrong. I consider myself pretty 
 good at the game and even I find myself helplessly flying into a rock faces regularly (whether 
 it be from taking a jump at the wrong angle or boosting too much and hitting a turn  it happens 
 especially when you're struggling to make a comeback) .
  
  Motorstorm is a game on the verge of racing perfection, but a few things keep the title from reaching 
 those lofty heights. First off, as many of you might know, the game features little in the way 
 of different modes. All that is available in the Japanese retail version is Festival mode (basically 
 single player campaign) , a couple movies (which are all pretty cool actually  see Monument Valley 
 HD and the Evolution of Motorstorm) and your basic sound/control options. There is no multiplayer 
 to speak of (offline or online) . However, Evolution is working on an online mode for the NA release 
 so let's cross our fingers and hope its of the same high quality as the rest of the game. There 
 are also no quick race or time trial/practice options either, although I don't see it as too 
 big a deal now (because chances are the race setup you're looking for can be found on one of the 
 tickets) . The ability to customize your vehicle would be nice too. With regards to gameplay, occasionally 
 you will find yourself wedged in a place that is very difficult to get out of (and even if you 
 do get out you're so far behind you might as well start over) . In this case there should be an 
 option to press a button that will effectively make you crash (2-3 second lag and no explosion 
 to deter abuse and suicide bombers) and respawn so you can get on with the race. Should these 
 complaints be addressed in some form or the other, I will have no problem giving the NA version 
 of the game a 10/10.
  
  A couple quick notes
  - I'm not sure what the framerate is locked at, but it is very solid and rarely dips (and if so, 
 very briefly) . Rest assured that you will never be bothered by slowdown.
  - I know I didn't spend any time on it, but the physics system is excellent as well.
  - The soundtrack 
 is basically all rock with a couple custom tracks. Sound effects are fitting.
  - The first race on Ticket #11 (Level 3) is called Giant Enemy Crab.
  - The Playstation 3 is 
 region-free for games so you can play import games on an PS3. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ironpej
Rating: 8.6
Date: Mar 13, 2007 5:12 pm PT
Review:  This isn't going to be an in-depth review as there isn't much really to talk about. It's a basic, 
 race to the finish-line at all costs, pick your lane and watch out for everyone else racing game. 
 But oh is it addictive! Whether it's to find the fastest line through the tracks, exploring each 
 track for some hidden-high-flying jumps, or just plain out combatition your going to be pinned 
 to your seat.
  
  Single player is good. You have a ticket system to race through which progresses through various 
 levels. Placing 1st - 3rd qualifies you to the next race, and scoring above a certain level unlocks 
 additional ride (which are also available online) . Multiplayer is awesome. Really elevates the 
 game's fun-factor and is totally combative! I threw away countless hours day one on exploring all 
 facets of the online experience and had a great time - trashing talking your recent victims, screaming 
 as you just lose a race at the last second, and laughing watching the incredible wipeouts. Yes 
 these are all in the single player version as well (except the talking to other's part) but it 
 is just not the same.
  
  Graphics- best looking game so far on the PS3. Gorgeous!
  Sound - The soundtrack is great. Engines rev and explosions are explosions.. but the killer part 
 is the lineup of tunes that really get you psyched for the match. Playability - Nice and simple. 
 Boost, Drag, Accelerate and break. This is also one of the first games too take advantage of the 
 Sixaxis controller for steering. While your waiting for Gran Turismo HD, you should get this! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AssKick-U-Lator
Rating: 8.7
Date: Mar 13, 2007 4:28 pm PT
Review:  Its true, Motorstorm does not have a lot of gameplay options.. well, it only really has two.. Campaign 
 and online.
  
  the music is great, it has many major label bands featured such as Queens of the Stone Age, Slipknot, 
 and Nirvana just to name a few. there are also techno beats but i who cares.
  
  the graphics are stunning, and on more than one occasion i've found myself careening off a clif 
 while being distracted by a very nice rock.
  
  Gameplay is where the mixed reactions come in. the game is very fun to play, however, as said by 
 MANY others, there are not a lot ways to experience it. no split-screen was a dissapointment to 
 me, and the lack of single player options was a dissapointment to many others. however, what you 
 can play is a VERY fun and highly addictive racing game filled with fast-paced music, action, explosions, 
 and nice rocks. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hashim91
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 13, 2007 3:04 am PT
Review:  What can i say about this game Yes it does lack split screen but it has kick ass online so i don't 
 miss it could use more tracks yes... but enough about those 2 small minuses and goto the pluses... 
 I ride outdoor motocross Its a passion of mine and i can tell ya this game F'n rocks Such Detail 
 in graphics intense online Sweet soundtrack all those being the best in any racing Game Period 
 This is why im able to look Past the few minor flaws and grade it as a gamer and a racer and this 
 game is non stop fun and gorgeous to look at
  i give it a 9.0:) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bajabbers
Rating: 8.1
Date: Mar 12, 2007 7:11 pm PT
Review:  While this game is very fun and addicting, there are a lot of things lacking in this game. First, 
 there is no exhibition-type mode where you can just go and race friends, you have to do the career 
 mode. Also, the online game lobby is basically nothing, you join a game and race, and there is 
 no way to race with a friend online. However, that being said, online racing with this game is 
 probably the best part of the game. Offline game is extremely fun too, and the AI in the game actually 
 pose a real challenge unlike many games of this type. Overall, it is a very fun game, however, 
 there are many things the developers could have spent a little more time on to perfect in my opinion. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: whiteshadow55
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 12, 2007 5:25 pm PT
Review:  What can i say about this game Yes it does lack split screen but it has kick ass online so i don't 
 miss it could use more tracks yes... but enough about those 2 small minuses and goto the pluses... 
 I ride outdoor motocross Its a passion of mine and i can tell ya this game F'n rocks Such Detail 
 in graphics intense online Sweet soundtrack all those being the best in any racing Game Period 
 This is why im able to look Past the few minor flaws and grade it as a gamer and a racer and this 
 game is non stop fun and gorgeous to look at
  
  i give it a 9.0:) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hofstetter123
Rating: 7.2
Date: Mar 12, 2007 4:36 pm PT
Review:  this game had me interested from the first time i saw it. the videos, screen shots, interveiws, 
 demos... it was all amazing. after i got it, however, it wasted no time in compleatly shattering 
 my hopes that this might actually be one of the first really good ps3 games. while the gameplay 
 is still everything it was in the demo and the graphics look even better than any of the videos, 
 THERES ONE F#%^ING MODE OF PLAY. the first option you see when getting to the main menu is play 
 . this really reminds me of an arcade game. you can't pick how you play, you just do. when you 
 get in it starts telling you about the routes best for different vehicles. most championship modes 
 tell you where to race, and it's it not rare that it tells you with what to race but this is the 
 first time i ever had a game tell me HOW to race.
  
  Non of this really stoped the game from being exelent but it is a hinderence.
  what kills the 
 game is that you have no options. I can't name a single game in the past ten years that won't let 
 you set up your own races, it's stupid, what were they thinking. hell, how hard could it be to 
 set up an option to choose track, cars, time of day, and difficulty, theres no exuse for it. and 
 only having 28 cars, 8 tracks, and 3 paint jobs apeice, REALLY dosen't help.
  
  what was one of the most interesting things about the game was the whole motorstorm festival, but 
 when they put it into the game it only serves as an intro and background for the menu. it had so 
 much potential to make an interesting story or championship but they forget about it by the time 
 the game has started.
  
  5 things they SHOULD have done to make this better would be...
  
  1. MORE MORE AND MORE, few cars, and few tracks, are big problems here and they should have 
 seen that.
  
  2. An online matchmaker of anykind would drasticaly increase value, searching for a game you can 
 join gets old fast.
  
  3. Make good on the promise of story components.
  
  4. A custom race mode and maybe a time trile would have saved this game on their own.
  
  5. 
 It would really be cool if you could customize your cars or drivers.
  
  If theres ever a plan for a sequel, these improvments would make the game near perfect.
  
  
 overall this was fun and I've never seen more promise but as it stands, it looks like the developers 
 got tired and couldn't be bothered to make a game out of it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Winters1MGSfan
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 11, 2007 11:35 pm PT
Review:  This game is one thing: pretty fun. It has the graphics and the physics department covered. The 
 courses actually are different and different vehicles do make a difference. The same goes with 
 the environments; mud will make you sink and slide while dirt will carry you away. However, the 
 main problem in this game is that it is extremey difficult to get the hang of. The game's AI is 
 EXTREMELY agressive and will not hesitate to hit you, ram you, try a PIT maneuver on you, or just 
 plain out run you over. This can make certain races extremely enjoyable and others just frustruating. 
 Despite this the game holds together and keeps you interested with the one thing the game is so 
 proud of: crashes. With an interesting sound track, great visuals and physics, a good amount of 
 variety, and a decent-at-best online mode, Motorstorm is definitely worth buying if you are looking 
 for something along with Oblivion to pass time until heavy hitters come out later in 2007. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lethal_NFS
Rating: 8.6
Date: Mar 11, 2007 7:16 pm PT
Review:  Features
  Motorstorm offers both single player and offline racing. You can have up to 12 different racers 
 on a track and your stats are all saved online. There isnt much to do online. You have to race 
 to earn tickets. You keep racing until you unlock all tracks and earn all the tickets. This game 
 does allow you to talk to other players with a USB headset or a Blue-tooth headset. You can also 
 use the six-axis motion controls to steer your vehicle but for me its much too difficult to control.
 
  
  Graphics
  The graphics are amazing. As you are racing the track starts showing the wear and tear from the 
 vehicles. At some points you will hit something or someone and parts from your vehicle will fall 
 off. This is easily the best part of the game.
  
  Sound
  The game sports a pretty nice soundtrack and some great vehicle sounds. There is no commentary 
 in the game but you when your online you can hear everybody that has a mic. The surround sound 
 is awesome. You can hear which side the vehicle behind you is on and you can even hear faint crashes 
 in the distance. Some of the best sounds in a racing game.
  
  Lacks
  The game lacks 2 player spit screen and better single player modes.
  
  Overall
  I rate this 
 game an 82/100
  If the game had more single player modes and a 2 player split screen mode then it would have gotten 
 a much higher score. Online is where this game shines. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: adamVH1984
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 11, 2007 5:42 pm PT
Review:  Motorstorm is the latest racing game for the PS3. It's offroad action takes place in Monument Valley, 
 and so you can expect lots of dirt, mud, and filth.
  
  Gameplay-There are 7 different vehicle classes spanning from ATV's to Big Rigs. They all have their 
 ups and downs in handling and speed of course, but the main thing that makes them unique is what 
 terrain they can do well on. There are 4 different types of terrain, which include mud, hard rock, 
 loose dirt, and dried mud. The terrain adds strategy to the game and makes you take several paths. 
 In every level, there are multiple branching routes with different terrain, elevation, and so on. 
 It's a lot of fun to see different vehicles branching off and jumping over eachother. Speaking 
 of levels, there are only 8 of them. This isn't that many. But you need to consider the different 
 paths in every one, the lighting conditions, and the sheer size of these courses. Every single 
 one is fun for me, and you will undoubtedly have favorites (mine are Coyote Rage and Dust Devil.) 
 Surprisingly, the tracks are really varied even though they are all in the desert. You can easily 
 distingush between them. The cars are a ton of fun to drive and give you a good sense of speed 
 and power. The balance is very good between them. The shorter routes are usually muddy and that's 
 what the big vehicles will go on, while the longer routes are for the rally cars. The campaign 
 spans of 21 tickets, which each include a variety of races. They choose the vehicle for you and 
 the couse. The only exception is on The Grizzly. This is the only mode in single-player, but it 
 keeps you hooked and you need to play it to unlock cars. The online is just about flawless. There 
 is very little lag and up to 12 players can duke it out. It is a ton of fun. Plus, there is mike 
 support so you can trash talk people. There is also a rank system that keeps you playing. Lasty, 
 this game is just fun. The crashes and chaos make this a really fun game. The only flaw I can find 
 is that it can be frustrating sometimes, but every game is.
  
  Graphics-This game is gorgeous. When you are racing around in this game, it truly looks photo-realistic. 
 The motion blur is awesome and the size and depth perception is awesome. The cars are highly detailed, 
 and when you crash, hundreds of parts go everywhere. Textures are also great, but if you pause 
 the game, sometimes you can see some bad ones. This game is flawless looking when you are actually 
 playing, but if you pause the game or if it goes into slow motion, you can see some problems. The 
 bushes are 2D and they just turn with the camera. The biggest graphical problem is the shadows. 
 They are extremely low pixel so they are always moving . Besides those two problems though, the 
 game is beautiful. The best part is the mud. It is real-time so after a couple laps, the mudpits 
 will be torn up. The way the light reflects off of the mud is incredible. Also, it sticks to cars, 
 so your car will be really muddy.
  
  Sound-Every class of vehicle has a different sound to it. They all sound great but the rally cars 
 sound the coolest in my opinion. They are really beefy. The sound of your car going through mud 
 is equally impressive and driving over differnt terrain has different sounds. The music is good 
 too, although not everyone will like it. It has about 20 songs, most of them rock. I personally 
 think it is awesome. Few games have sountracks that I like. Out of coincidence, I really liked 
 Test Drive: Offroads sountrack, which is very similar to this game. Value-This is the games biggest 
 weakness. The tracks are very well designed and long, but you can't dodge the fact that there are 
 only 8. Hopefully we will be seeing some downloadable ones soon. Also, there aren't enough modes. 
 There is no splitscreen or quickrace. Only campaign and online. I personally wouldn't use splitscreen 
 much, but quickrace would have been nice. The game is incredibly fun and well made, but there just 
 aren't enough modes. I bought this game and I'm satisfied with my purchase but some people might 
 get tired of the racing. If this game had more modes and tracks, it would be just about perfect. 
 Hopefully Motorstorm 2 will have both of those things. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BlacKJaCK2290
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 11, 2007 3:46 pm PT
Review:  The game is good, but not what i was expecting it to be. It just feels rushed and unfinished ... 
 i would have gladly waited an extra couple months for a superior and finished product but alas 
 this is what we are left with. The game is what you expect it to be, an all out racing game. While 
 the gameplay is good and well rounded the lack of features is what hurts the game. For starters 
 the game only has 8 tracks. The single player campaign is also very linear .. there isn't any real 
 motivation to play through except for unlocking new cars. The visuals are top notch, which kinda 
 makes you feel as if the game was just meant for a tech demo (its possible) . Sound is great too, 
 very nice engine noises use of surrounds in some situations. There is a decent soundtrack, but 
 i can't forgive the lack of a Custom Soundtrack option which this racer really needs. The menu 
 interface is very slick and nice to look at which is always a bonus. The online in terms of gameplay 
 is excellent, but in terms of features it falls short. For starters ... THERE IS NO FRIENDS LIST! 
 this is not acceptable especially in 2007 and on the PS3 horrible decision made there. The lobby 
 system while good is somewhat confusing. Not to mention only 1 person can talk at a time. I would 
 imagine this is to keep from the 12 people in the room at talking all at the same time but a nice 
 button activation would have been a nice inclusion. All in all its a good game, but falls short 
 because it feels incomplete. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xxPantherxx
Rating: 8.8
Date: Mar 11, 2007 1:14 pm PT
Review:  MotorStorm is THE PS3 game you've been waiting for that truly shows what it can really do... if 
 you've got the right tickets...
  
  The thing about Motorstorm is is that the gameplay is truly perfect for this kind of Arcade Racing.
 
  
  Motorstorm's setting is in the desert, at some kind of concert/racing event. The races in these 
 events include all sorts of vehicles. You have the Motorcycle, ATV, Racing car, Mud Plugger, and 
 Big Rig. Each vehicle is extremely detailed in their weight and physics, so a shot from a Motorcycle/ATV/Quad 
 wont even move a Big Rig, but the Big Rig can easily jam you into the wall with just a little tap. 
 This would be extremely unfair, so mostly all courses have multiple routes. The Big Rigs tend to 
 stay away from all the jumps, and usually hold down the mudpits as their turf, while motorcycles/ATV's 
 will jump all over the level, but avoid the pits. This could have turned out very unorganized and 
 unbalanced, but it seems as though the races truly do depend on the better driver.
  
  With all that said, there are only 8 Tracks. Eight. I can count that on 2 hands... anyway, those 
 eight tracks are very detailed and very polished. They are without of doubt, some of the best tracks 
 in any racing game I've ever played, and I'm very willing to defend that. Out of the eight tracks, 
 each one is memorable and somewhat epic. Some 3 lap races will easily take over 12 minutes of your 
 time.
  
  Now even eight might seem like a slim number of tracks, but theres also an even worse number in 
 this game: Two. Two Modes. Those modes are Play , which is a career type mode that allows you to 
 collect tickets to unlock new... tickets. The positive side to this kinda bad idea is that the AI 
 and difficult extremely pops up within each level , making it damn right suffering during some 
 of the challenges. The other mode is Online , which is pretty self explanitory. In online, you 
 can play in a race with 12 peope lag free, and customize the tracks, vehicles, and what time of 
 day you can race. It's pretty weird with the customizing in online, and how none of that is in 
 the single player. The lobbies online are active and there is a ranking system thats ok (even though 
 it rates you on if you win or lose, meaning that being in second will be the same as being in last)
 
  
  The online mode features ABSOLUTELY NO FRIENDS/MATCHMAKING SUPPORT WHATSOEVER! Meaning that if 
 you wanna race with friends, you will have to find him within multiple servers, good luck.
  
  The graphics are just flat out the best graphics on any console. Yes, it's more impressive 
 to me than Gears. The dirt is, well, dirty, the mud is nice and disgustingly shiny, and the Car 
 models are beutiful, and blow up very nicely indeed. Plus, extra points for the mud effects and 
 how it dirty's up the car while driving in it, it's just beutiful.
  
  The Soundtrack perfectly fits the game. The game, since it's some concert thing, fills in with 
 Hard Rock music and Techno blasting threwout the game, and has tracks from Slipknot, Primal Scream, 
 Curve, Elite Force, Nirvana, and Wolfmothah. All of these songs even fit perfectly for the menu 
 screen, where they add some stereo sounding effect to all the songs, and make it sound like it's 
 being played in a concert (even added crowd cheers) . All of the car engines sound very detailed 
 too.
  
  Overall, is this a recommended game? Yes... if you have online and are able to play that mode, 
 and be able to download new stuff that's promised to be on the way soon. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: beardedd123
Rating: 9.9
Date: Mar 11, 2007 10:10 am PT
Review:  This game is just what u expect the playstation 3 to start doing now... but other than that is 
 just a great reacing game with the most stunning graphics that if you have a very nice HD tv WOW!!! 
 will be the only word that can be when you see that amazing graphics and the crazy crashes... that's 
 just for the looks and nice gameplay but this is probably the funnest racing multiplayer since 
 burnout revenge on xbox 360 but this betas it with a whole new addition of racing style.. first 
 there is 12 racers and absoutly no lag (I have yet experince) ...
  
  sure single-player mode could have used a little more extend to it but its just the experince of 
 the multiplayer and awesome gameplay of driving is what makes this game the first must get PS3... 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ilikegodalot
Rating: 8.2
Date: Mar 10, 2007 8:51 pm PT
Review:  Well, lets get started!
  
  Pros: Great soundtrack, good graphics, superb race fair type location, good online.
  
  Cons: 
 No offline multi-player support /cry, can get old, no replay, no actual first person view.
  
  First things first, the actual release to me was very disappointing, demos are supposed to 
 show the Beta of a game and the release is supposed to have more &amp; better features, something 
 I found little of in this game.
  
  Starting off with the end of the race (ironically) in the demo I saw 3 options, Continue, Retry, 
 Exit. I really was sad about not seeing Replay anywhere on this list in the demo, hoping of coarse, 
 like in all racing games, replay would show up in the release; however, it wasn't.
  
  Ok so I can't see the crashes more than once that were really really cool and awesome. I've got 
 to hand it to Evolution, they really hit the nail on the head in off-road racing and damage. I 
 love going into the first person view and getting hit in the face with dirt as I try and pass an 
 ATV with the finish line close! the action in the game is incredible and very enjoyable.
  
  Another thing I could not stand about this game (like many other racing games) there is no ACTUAL 
 first person view, I don't get to see a steering wheel, my dash, my gauges, nothing... just the 
 hood of my car, to bad!
  
  The lack of maps in the game also hurt it, but the fact that they can be so fun sometimes, and 
 very different with the vast numbers of vehicles to chose from.
  
  The last thing I really enjoyed in this game was the soundtrack, not all of the songs are great 
 but most of them really make the race more intense than it already is!
  
  I would have to say overall the game would be something I would rent twice and maybe think about 
 buying, but nothing I would line up for. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: longhorn7
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 10, 2007 2:34 pm PT
Review:  Amazing game, the physics are just down right incredible this is a must have if you own a ps3 you 
 will bee playing it for hours! ONLINE IS INSANE!!!!
  From the moment you put it in the first person view and feel the frantic pace of the game, you 
 will be hooked. At every moment of the race you feel like you could flip, and this just adds to 
 the excitement. The Mud and the dirt being thown up by every car is amazing and looks great on 
 your windshield and hood. Soundtrack is great. Overall just an amazingly fun game. TRY IT FIRST 
 PERSON WITH THE SIXAXIS ITS FUN AS MESS BUT A BIT HARD!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: caseypayne69
Rating: 9.2
Date: Mar 10, 2007 11:57 am PT
Review:  Gameplay is tight in every sense of the word and realistic. Gameplay modes are rather limited though. 
 Just one straight through run through game and online. Single player is more like a practice mode, 
 and a hard one at that. Online you can create rooms or just join one, they are socom style east 
 1 west setup. Open mic is nice while playing as well as being able to race up to 11 other friends 
 plus your self. I really wish there was more then race only mode online. It nees a free roam mode 
 for goofin off and a destructive based mode as well. But racing online is alot of fun, just would 
 have been nice to have more then a race mode. Playing in multiple car romates rock as well. I'm 
 partial to the dirt bike.
  
  Graphics are sick, Maybe not the best of yet but still sick. The game never skips a beat and the 
 fast past motion looks solid. Eight kickin soundtracks come with the game and honestly they are 
 all you need. The engine noise rocks and so do the explosions. Though I think I will turn down 
 the background music, its default setting is loud.
  
  The only replay value this game has is online mode, and it lacks in modes to play with so they 
 shot there self in the foot with this. Its a good thing playing online is fun or this would have 
 hit the bottom in worth buying. Also you can't add buddies that you have played. So better get 
 a pen and paper handy if you make a friend.
  
  Tilt, I gave it a 10 because the concept is great and if a sequal comes, I'll buy it if its even 
 better then this. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vip3r666
Rating: 8.8
Date: Mar 9, 2007 7:13 pm PT
Review:  Well, ive spent a few days toying around with Motorstorm, and i think its extremely fun. Even if 
 you're not a fan of the racing genre, Motorstorm can still be captivating and appealing to you. 
 The single player is extremely basic, and not very engaging. You don't exactly start out with anything. 
 You have a ticket in the beginning, which is used to enter you into a race. Once you win that race, 
 you unlock another ticket, and so on until you beat the game. There are no unlocks, no trophies, 
 no rewards, no nothing basically. It will keep you busy for a few hours, but after a while it gets 
 repetitive. I'm guessing the 8 tracks that come with the game don't help so much either. Single 
 player aside, once you go online its a whole different story. The lobby system just plain sucks. 
 There is no buddy list, no filter for game types, no nothing. There's a lobby, and a list of races, 
 and that's it. But don't let that fool you, once you actually get into a room and start racing, 
 all the shortcomings of Motorstorm seem to disappear. To put it simply, the online racing is crazy 
 fun. You race against 11 other players in the most simplistic, basic, racing game there ever was. 
 There's no map, no speedometer, no nothing. All you have to do is make sure you don't crash. Now, 
 unless you have a serious case of ADD, the online mode will keep you happy for a long time to come.
 
  Gameplay aside, the graphics are absolutely stunning. Forget what you thought about the demo, 
 this game just kicks its ass. The contrast is extremely improved, the textures are sharper, and 
 the whole environment just has a more realistic look to it. The mud on your hood, the dust on your 
 racing goggles, the dents and scratches in the car, absolutely amazing. I doubt there is a game 
 out there that looks better than Motorstorm, not even Gears of War.
  If you have $60 to spend, and you want a game that will keep you busy and entertained, then get 
 motorstorm. If you're a die hard racing fan, get Motorstorm too. Heck, we all need a break from 
 the real world. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: UGAH
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 9, 2007 4:21 pm PT
Review:  This game is amazing in every aspect. Ps3 is a powerful system we didn't see how good it is so 
 far. We are waiting big games like MGS, DMC, GTA, etc..., to buy this system, but this game will 
 be one of the strongest ps3 franchises and a strong motive to buy a ps3. This game let see how 
 strong the ps3 is At first, I was like eeh another racing game and i played the demo and it was 
 fine to me. I went to buy battlefield on the X06 today. A strong game though , but thank god I 
 didn't open it though the buyer won't exchange it. I bought Motor Stom and I'm never regreting 
 the moment I bought this game. Battlefield is a repetitve game and there is upcoming episode is 
 coming out, but man this game is unique.
  
  The experience of this game is new and differeses from other games. You choose whatever kind of 
 cars you want ATV, Buggies, Truck, etc.... The single player is impressive and as long as you get 
 progressed in this mode you optaing new events and lockable cars. However, the single mode ain't 
 perfect. I would like to see more of it like drifting events, time trials, finish the line before 
 the time runs out, etc... (more like project gotham) . Single player is all about racing.
  
  What i like more about this game is the music. they put music like Nrivana ( my fav) , Slipknot, 
 and wolfmother. Songs are rock style so dpn't expect rap and stiff like that. Man this game Rocks
 
  Now, we come to the fun part: online mode. Man this mode is addictivable. I have never been addictive 
 to online mode before. I have X06 and all I play is winning elevn the latest one , but motor storm 
 rocks the house and let you play for hours. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: evan_hotham
Rating: 9.7
Date: Mar 9, 2007 4:19 pm PT
Review:  Positivies: Graphics are amazing, racing can be intense, many different paths in races, getting 
 destroyed or destroying others is intense (it is amazingly fun to overheat your engine when yu're 
 in the air... the vehicle goes flying, sometimes into other cars!) , online and mulitplayer are really 
 fun. JUST REALLY FUN TO PLAY
  
  Negatives: Can get repetitive, but still is awesome, intense, racing action!
  
  Overall: second 
 best game I own for the ps3 (resistance #1) , i give it a 9.7!
  
  GS should've given it way more than a 7.9, what is that! Ridge Racer got an 8.0 and it's a really 
 horrible game. DEFINATELY A MUST BUY FOR THE PS3! Well worth the $69.99 (canadian) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: myloman44
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 9, 2007 4:06 pm PT
Review:  now i'll be honest when i found out there were only 8 tracks i was pretty upset because i thought 
 i would get sick of racing at the same tracks over and over but as it turns out i love racing at 
 all the tracks over and over because each one is different and their all some of the best courses 
 in any racing game i have ever played. Along with some kick azz tracks the wheels in the game are 
 great to the big rigs are my favorite just for the simple fact of my desire to run over people 
 on atv's and cycles. Online for this game is killer to because of the voice chat and how many other 
 games are this perfect for chatting with ur buddies after u knock um into and wall or throw um 
 off a cliff. this is def the best ps3 game out right now so go and pick a copy up. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: electric_90
Rating: 9.4
Date: Mar 9, 2007 4:03 pm PT
Review:  This is truly the first next gen game unlike anything seen before.
  Got this game yesterday afternoon haven't turned it off. there is nothing more satisfying then 
 pulling up along side a rival biker and punching him of his bike for the win
  or better yet hop in a truck and just run em down!! the graphics are the best to date that I've 
 seen in a racing game you cars take damage they get muddy the scenery is amazing you literally 
 race on mountains sum times which make for the craziest first person wrecks I've experienced.
 
  Bottom line before i compared any racing game i played to NFS most wanted but now i will compare 
 them to Motor Storm. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mjf249
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 9, 2007 3:32 pm PT
Review:  Since Motorstorm's appearance at E3 2005 nearly two years ago, many we're left wanting more, and 
 was easily one of the PlayStation 3's most anticipated titles currently in development. It literally 
 showed off the visual flair the PlayStation 3 could pack, and it's chaotic gameplay looked as if 
 it would be a treat to behold. Evolution Studio's gave PS3 owner's a little piece of the cake when 
 it was available for download on the PlayStation Network, and ever since only fueled the expectations 
 further. Now with the final product, it seemed if Evolution Studio's focused more on the graphics, 
 than the actual long-term appeal of MotorStorm. But nonetheless, Motorstorm is a visceral treat 
 that packs quite the wallop.
  
  Motorstorm in a sense created quite a cool concept to say the least -- mix in an abundance of off-road 
 vehicles such as dune buggies, ATVs, motorbikes, trucks, rally cars, big rigs, and others coupled 
 with immensely complex tracks that features several branching paths, while adding a tune of destructive 
 rock music and you literally have Motorstorm. If Evolution Studio's aim was to create a fan base, 
 it's hard not to like MotorStorm, and to sum it all up: have done a fine job of creating a new 
 franchise that will spawn sequels, and will only get bigger and better. While MotorStorm does have 
 several negative attributes to it, Evolution Studio's can at least lengthen the overall length 
 of the game by adding new vehicles, tracks, and online modes down the road.
  
  The game's single-player campaign is fun to say the least, and before you decide to rev up your 
 engines for online play, it would be wise you at least spend some time with the campaign mode. 
 You'll end up participating in races by obtaining tickets and furthering your way to the end of 
 Motorstorm's campaign mode. You'll gather points, unlock new vehicles, and in order to advance 
 you'll need to obtain at least third place to advanced to the next ticket. The concept is rather 
 repetitive but when you have a game that packs so much fun in it's gameplay, and a fantastically 
 designed track you'll probably left wanting more. While the single-player campaign isn't nearly 
 as appealing as the online mode, it would be in your best interest to at least gain some experience 
 before you take it online. The difficulty ends up being bumped up a bit but if you memorize the 
 tracks fairly well, you'll probably won't find it too hard to win the events.
  
  Make no mistake about it: the gameplay featured in Motorstorm is as destructive as they come. You'd 
 be hard-pressed to find such a more chaotic and engaging experience right now than Motorstorm. 
 It does however have a few drawbacks that are a bit of an annoyance such as the ability to break 
 off in races, Motorstorm really never gives a great sense of speed, despite using the boost button 
 although you'll begin to see your racer further ahead when you hit the boost. The game's racing 
 will literally keep you on the edge of your seat from start to end, and does add some excitement 
 to the core package of Motorstorm, but in some cases it turns more into a trial and error affair, 
 but not nearly as bad as you think. You'll still be able to catch up quickly if you play your cards 
 right, and after you crash unlike the demo your boost meter turns all the way down.
  
  The tracks are extremely fitting for such a game as destructive and high-fidelity action such as 
 Motorstorm. The game's tracks feature several hazards like rocks popping out of the ground, and 
 will literally stop you in your tracks if you're driving as a big rig depending on the speed and 
 angle of impact. The game's mud will also make you slip and slide on the tracks and most likely 
 crash into objects like other racers. The game's tracks also feature several paths such as high-jumps 
 for motorcycles, ATVs, while alternative paths that are more stable for rides such as bigs rigs, 
 or trucks. The downside is there's only eight tracks featured in the game, but you'll most likely 
 find them very enjoyable. It's just a shame the shallowness of Motorstorm's track selection is 
 extremely limited.
  
  The vehicles in Motorstorm are all unique in appearance and handling, but it is a big disappointment 
 that the vehicles aren't fully-customizable. The vehicles range from dune buggies, motorcycles, 
 ATVs, big rigs, mud pluggers, trucks, and rally cars. They also handle accordingly, if you decide 
 to use big rigs the controls are as if you've just taken a hold of a huge and bulky tank, ATVs 
 handle very well on the mud but lack the agility of a motorcycle, but the while the motorcycles 
 handle very well once you hit the mud, and the pure speed could cause you slip around. The mud 
 plugger's are interesting vehicles and has great traction on the tracks but risk pure speed. Likewise 
 there's something for everyone whether it be motorcycles, to more destructive vehicles that plow 
 the way like the big rigs, it's done very well.
  
  The game's online mode will probably where you'll invest most of your time, and to say the least 
 it has quite the appeal to it. While the online features are rather shallow at the moment, and 
 it's chaotic to play your online buddies it's still very enjoyable. You'll meet your potential 
 opponents in lobby rooms, and be ranked accordingly. It'll show your win-loss percentage, some 
 of your vehicle preferences and others. The game's online mode is a work in progress, and suffers 
 greatly from a unified online service. But this should be fixed down the road.
  
  Bottom line there isn't a more of a beautiful racer on the PlayStation 3 than Motorstorm. And to 
 be quite honest, it's easily one of the best looking games all around. The game's vehicles are 
 extremely detailed and as you jack up your damage you'll see tires begin to wobble, your car's 
 deform from impacts from the tracks, the particle and mud effects are just as amazing. You'll see 
 mud, and dirt splatter on the screen, it's easily some of the best particle effects on any game. 
 The lightning effects are top-notch as it dims or lightens the game's exotic landscape. The game's 
 eight tracks are also extremely detailed, and are a treat to behold. But there are a few ugly heads 
 that pop out mostly when the immensely chaotic on-screen action is taking place. The frame rate 
 dips hear and there but is usually forgivable. In all honesty, if Evolution Studio's aim was to 
 deliver the best looking PlayStation 3 game it certainly didn't disappoint. From top to bottom, 
 the game looks fantastic and coupled with the over-the-top-action you'll be impressed as it supports 
 720p output.
  
  Motorstorm's soundtrack is also very good, as the several bands ranging from Nirvana, Slipknot, 
 Primal Scream, Wolfmother, Spirtualized, and the ever-so recognizable Motorstorm theme found in 
 the demo. The game's hard rock and indie inspired music is a great fit in nearly every angle of 
 action in Motorstorm. The game's sound of powerful engines are also very well done as it depicts 
 some of the game's vehicles accordingly to class, and you'll hear the typical sounds such as the 
 crashes and booms from crashing.
  
  Evolution Studio's definitely delivered from the gameplay aspect of Motorstorm, and it's literally 
 a joy to play. While it does feature some trial and error it's something you'll probably get over. 
 The bottom line, if you're looking for something new for your PlayStation 3 you'll probably want 
 to pick up Motorstorm because you won't find a more gorgeous over the top racer like Motorstorm 
 on any platform. While it's depth is in question, and overall replay value it's something you should 
 approach with the least amount of caution if you have a broadband or high-speed internet connection. 
 Evolution Studio's has created a fan base, and generated interest in off-road mayhem. Let's just 
 hope it's sequel is chock-full of tracks, customizable options, vehicles, and other game modes 
 to fully put together the perfect racing package. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sxs_alex
Rating: 9.3
Date: Mar 9, 2007 3:06 pm PT
Review:  I just picked this game up yesterday and played it for 4 hours. At first I had a little bad experience 
 because I was on a bad server where the host couldn't make up their mind on changing the maps so 
 the wait was 4 min before the next race!!! I went to another server and the whole experience changed. 
 I am still shocked on how the graphics and physics played so well online. I thought there would 
 be major lag but there was none. The load time for selecting a car is a bit slow but it's not a 
 big deal. 8 maps feels right for this game because they're HUGE and it's 2 maps in 1. I almost 
 forgot that there's only 8 maps after playing them online and even lost track of my bedtime. I'm 
 glad the developer didn't create 16 maps that are small because the race would be over quick! The 
 gameplay is intense and very fun because flying off high ramps and thinking that you can land safely 
 on the other end will prove you wrong. There are many obstacles and a lot of time you have to dodge 
 them but end up slamming into the wall because you lost control. It's funny pushing other players 
 off the cliff, against the wall, and hearing them curse at you... PRICELESS! It's an addictive 
 game once you get really into it. This is the type of game that people will enjoy the trash talking. 
 The reason why I gave this game 9.3 because there's no split-screen multi-player and was expecting 
 more bikes. More maps would be a plus. Overall this game is well worth the wait and money. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: aternativo
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 9, 2007 8:05 am PT
Review:  ok is a nice game dont get me wrong now, the thing is the what about when my cousen next door come 
 to my house to play ........ this game has the best graphics that i have ever seen the dirt is just 
 perfect and i think is the most brutal game out there (off-road racing) but when u have like 30min 
 playing and u see the is going to be the same thing in 8 courses is just not quite. ill say rent 
 it dont do what i did i even when to best buy to get a 40 hdtv but is ok i like the tv and my last 
 thing to say is plzz sony start getting new games fast . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jlabadie88
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 9, 2007 12:55 am PT
Review:  MotorStorm started as a video at E3 2005. The video featured a very sharp looking off-road, bumpin' 
 and grindin' game. It created lots of buzz among the community, widely earning the role of the 
 first main game to get for the PS3 (besides maybe Resistance) . Now that the game is in our hands, 
 it's a lot of fun, but is lacking in a few areas.
  When the game starts up, you choose either 'Play' or 'Online.' 'Play' takes you to the single-player 
 experience, what little there is of it. There are tickets you acquire through the so-called career 
 mode. Each ticket opens up anywhere from one to four races (21 tickets total) . Most races will 
 require you to use a certain class of vehicle, anywhere from dirt bikes to big-rig diesel trucks. 
 As you win more and more races, you will unlock different types of vehicles within these same classes. 
 Each class type is significantly different, and really adds into strategy when playing online. 
 It would in single-player, but 90 percent of the time you're driving what the game tells you to 
 drive, although this in turn creates lots of variety and different types of scenarios. The soundtrack 
 is great for this game as well, as it's just the kind of music that is fun to off-road to. It should 
 be noted that there is no kind of Play Now option, where you could maybe pick any car and track 
 and jump in and play. There is also no splitscreen mode, which doesn't come as a disappinting shock, 
 as that had been announced before the game was released.
  Online mode overshadows here, as this is where almost all of your MotorStorm time will be used. 
 You choose a lobby, and a list of games appear onscreen. You pick and game and then either race 
 or, well... don't. The status of any particular game will be shown after you select the race, but 
 most of the time you will walk into a game that is already underway, forcing you to wait until 
 the race is over. However if you make it in between races, you wait for the host to configure the 
 game settings. For some reason this seems to take at least a minute or two. After this you're taken 
 to the vehicle-select screen. You'll want to choose accordingly to the track you're racing, as 
 different types of vehicles work better on certain tracks. It's one of the main areas of online 
 that stand out, and vehicles will play heavily into strategy as you play more and more online races. 
 The races are basically lag-free, and provide a unique experience online. Real people are also 
 much more aggressive than an A. I. of course, which makes it a different experience in this regard 
 as well. Just make sure not to wreck hardly ever, because catching up to the leader is next to 
 impossible if you're too far behind.
  Graphically this game delivers on all fronts, with terrain looking gorgeous and cars shattering 
 into hundreds of pieces. The physics are also top-notch. Single-player lacks overall so you'll 
 be jumping online almost all the time, which is where the game is at anyway. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Haseokicksass
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 27, 2007 10:25 pm PT
Review:  I was excited to buy this game. I saved up, read alot abotu it. Now ive bought it, and ill list 
 the bad first
  
  BAD
  -No multiplayer/ split screen
  -Horrible online lobby
  -Not enought to do
  -Not enought tracks
  -Not enought Cars
  
  Good
  -Awsome graphics
 
  -Nice car explosions
  -Speed is right
  
  I think this game desperatly needs a update. Its not that great. I loved the demo, thought this 
 game would be better. The online is a mess. Lobby sucks, and it takes a long time to get into a 
 game, this cant be helped tho, still makes me angry. How can a racing game not have multiplayer! 
 Thats very imprortant to me and I bet others like it to! What racing game has 8 tracks!! This game 
 was a total let down for me.
  
  I rate the cover 9/10, lots to look at and its BEAUTIFUL! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ThaGrateOne
Rating: 7.5
Date: Aug 19, 2007 6:49 am PT
Review:  Does anyone not remember what SONY promised at E3 2005? A game that made you want a PS3 due to 
 people, mud and car parts flying in your face.... a great looking windshield that with the wipers 
 wiping the mud off.... just massive mahem? Sony promised that the PS3 would be the true next generation 
 experience? You can watch the videos of that on gamespot... if you didn't know. Anyway...2 years 
 later... we have this. It is not the game visualy that they promoted.... sorry to say... but it is 
 a very pretty game and a lot of fun. There are a few kick-backs you could say that keep this from 
 a higher score. 1. Limited number of tracks.
  2. Single player off-line.
  3. High Next Price tag.
  4. A few songs really suck and take away from the push of speed.
  
 5. Looking at the aerials... PS3 has a few hick-ups while viewing all... like it doesn't have enough 
 power to keep it steady.
  
  Now the positives.
  1. Impressive visuals.. shows off HDTV well.
  2. Great multiplayer.
  3. Voice over muliplayer.
 
  4. Sounds great.
  5. Single player is short but fun.
  
  This is a game that was supposed to show up the 360 in a heartbeat along time ago. Along KILLZONE... this 
 was a game that sold me on the idea of buying a PS3. Do not take this a negative review... Sony 
 could have told the truth saying it wasn't going to be like they showed.... go figure.
  I really like this game... just wanted a little more for the money and replay value. I have owned 
 it 2 days now and have played it alot... hollering at it not being able to come in 1st place right 
 off the jump! Some visuals actually put you there... and sometimes you feel the game is really there. 
 I am happy the game is here... and I see myself playing it months down the road... which is a really 
 good thing...!! It is a solid buy... ONLY if you have replay value in multiplayer online. If you 
 do not have an HDTV and HIGH SPEED internet to go along with this title... you will miss alot spending 
 close to $70 on it.... and the extra $$$ with the PS3. This shows a good potential of where games 
 should be and pass for the Playstation 3. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tourismo
Rating: 8.7
Date: Mar 25, 2007 2:01 am PT
Review:  Motorstorm - great crazy fun. The graphics are pretty high end. i found myself pausing the game 
 to look at the rotating freeze frame of the action paused. It is amazing to look at the technology 
 behind this game. the mud reflects the sun and tears up under yer wheels, leaving real-time mud 
 tracks. and the tracks dont disappear on the next lap, like in games on previous systems. they 
 stay there the whole race, therefor the track conditions get worse on each lap. the mud pits get 
 more slick. and the racing gameplay is fantastic. This game is fast and furious. and i was telling 
 my dad who was in the room, this game reminds me of burnout 3 . granted its not as fast. you get 
 slowmotion wrecks with things flying off yer car in every direction. and u boost through a majority 
 of the race. Now, the content in the game is next to none. there are 8 tracks i believe, which 
 you will race all of them not even 5 hours into the game. it does have a lengthy single player, 
 but all the races repeat. somehow though, they manage to make them feel different, thanks to a 
 number of things. First of which are the tracks themselves. There are many routes to the finish 
 line, none of which stray to far from eachother. And all the routes are different types of terrain. 
 One path may be for semi trucks to plow through the mud. another may b high above the mud, for 
 ATV's and dirt bikes. and each vehicle class has there strengths and weaknesses, wuite obviously, 
 so u shouldnt take the mud paths on the lighter vehicles, or u'll go slower. therefor all the different 
 types of vehicles end up close to eachother in the end thanks to the great track designs. And then 
 it changes the time of day on you as well. anywhere from mid day, to sunset, to night. So this 
 does vary the tracks quite a bit.
  
  But like i said, thats about all there is to Motorstorm. 8 tracks in single player, then theres 
 the multiplayer, nothing else. but the bottom line is that This IS a great game to have for your 
 playstation 3 console. i reccomend u go pick it up 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PopTagsAllDay
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 8, 2007 6:33 pm PT
Review:  Motorstorm definitely lives up to the hype. It's a blast to play, the simplistic single player 
 works great with the genre as the focus is obviously on the amazing gameplay.... you'll be so immersed 
 in the races you won't care about the lack of other game modes and ways to play. Although you can't 
 really compare it to Resistance: Fall Of Man I would say that it is neck and neck with it for the 
 crown of the must buy PS3 game so far. If you like intense racing, off-roading or just like admiring 
 games with unbelievable graphics you need to own this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Russty540
Rating: 9.6
Date: Mar 8, 2007 5:49 pm PT
Review:  This game is a true must have for the ps3. DO NOT GO BY GAMESPOTS REVIEW! go and look at ign's, 
 they rated the game as a racing game, not like retarded gamespot. The game itself is highly detailed 
 and very fun to play. Even though the single player is dull, the fun lies within the online multyplayer. 
 There are no words that can describe you racing 11 other people who are wrecking around you in 
 HD. Racing online is highly addictive and even more fun with a headset. There is nothing like talking 
 trash to your oppenent and then turning his car into a million pieces. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rkipker
Rating: 6.6
Date: Mar 8, 2007 5:45 pm PT
Review:  I bought my PS3 for this game... seriously! Played it at EB and said, wow... I got to get me one 
 of these! Bought the Japanese version so I could play it... while I was at it... got the F-1 Japanese 
 version as well! Well... after the first 2-6 hours or screaming and loving this game.... I worked 
 my way into level 4 and ... redundancy so bad I stopped playing it.
  
  I'll get the US version and hope for D/Ls... but for 60 bucks.... the game is way to weak INHO! 
 So glad I got the F-1 though, it's the best racing game on PS3 for me!
  
  BTW.... I love dirt/mud racing... I raced MX since 1975 - 2002 still ride a YZ250R 2006 model... 
 so this is not why I found Motorstorm to be disappointing. Game developers took the sucker punch 
 to gamers on this one!
  
  Oh yeah the Graphics are great! Sounds are weak too though! Motobike handling is awful, and the 
 forcing you to race a semi, which Ive done and won, is different, not in a good way. Its a tankSlow 
 Tank! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sweet1234
Rating: 9.2
Date: Mar 8, 2007 4:18 pm PT
Review:  This is a great game to anyone who loves to play dirt racing games like ATV Off road Fury. But 
 there are some problems like, the depth that they should have added I mean it's still a great game 
 but 8 tracks come on if there was like 20 tracks then this game would be excellent. Now as for 
 the graphics this is one of the best games I have ever seen since Gears of War the graphics completely 
 shocked me in a good way. But I am the type of person that likes a game so much that I will give 
 a 10 score but this isn't one of those type's of games unfortunately just add some tracks and a 
 lot more vehicles and this game might just blow everything out of the water. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Cliffdroppin
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 8, 2007 2:20 pm PT
Review:  The tracks on this game give you a lot of freedom to choose your own line ... in the mud, air, 
 dirt , off the rocks ect. Amazing Six axis control !! This game is just what I need to keep my 
 mind off the SOOOOO far away release of GT HD !!! Motor Storm is not even close to how technical 
 GT HD will be ... but if this is how good Six Axis is so far, then I cant wait to see what the 
 future holds!! As far as the visuals this game is candy to the eye .. everything is sharp, shadows 
 are excellent and game flow is clean. Only down fall is the music .... could use more !! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: drim_vells
Rating: 8.8
Date: Mar 8, 2007 1:57 pm PT
Review:  I went and bought this game right when I got off of work last night and I love it. I rarely play 
 racing games except for GT and the occasional NFS but this one has me completely mesmerized. The 
 graphics are simply amazing. Sure they're not the CGI graphics that the original video showed but 
 no game is that great looking yet. Crashes are cool to see because there are so many particles 
 around. My favorite part of the graphics though is the scenery. The canyon walls are rendered beautifully 
 and look very realistic. The sound is nice. I can't really judge the realism of the sounds of the 
 vehicles but hey are nice and the soundtrack of the game feels right in every part of a race. It 
 raises the mood and tenseness which is exactly what it should do.
  
  I'm a bit saddened that there is no multiplayer outside of offline. My friends come over to play 
 my PS3 a lot and not having this feature kinds of drops the value for me. Also the lack of a good 
 amount of tracks is disappointing but the developers could always release more via downloads so 
 I'll keep my fingers crossed. All-in-all if you are an extreme racing fan you will love this game. 
 It is a great addition to your PS3 library and despite a few drawbacks lives up to the hype that 
 has been surrounding it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: willskate4free
Rating: 8.7
Date: Mar 8, 2007 11:34 am PT
Review:  ok so this game is amazing. the graphics are smooth and eye opening. the sounds are ear popping. 
 the little things this game is missing hopefully will be made up through downloadable content (1up 
 had a great interview with one of the developers and it sounds like great dlc is coming... even 
 game mode add ons) . This game is great online, the only thing that brings it down are really is 
 the fact that the online is pretty barebones (which hopefully again will be fixed) . playing this 
 with my clan is great and hours passed without even notice. defitnitly a buy for those that love 
 offroad racers or heck even if you love racers period. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: michaelareb0001
Rating: 8.6
Date: Mar 8, 2007 6:24 pm PT
Review:  Motorstorm, if you don't know what it is by now, you prolly haven't heard of a PS3 either. Gameplay: 
 If there was one phrase to describe this game it would be, 'pure chaos.' It's off road racing with 
 no rules, other than survive and win. The physics are some of the best ever in a video game and 
 it needs to be, because with the number of things flying through the air, exploding and rolling 
 end over end, it's prolly the single most important aspect of the game. It is every bit as frantic 
 as the infamous E3 trailer. You'll spend your time racing against a myriad of off road vehicles 
 on courses with branching paths. Bigger vehicles, like trucks and Semi's take to the lower, muddier 
 paths, while smaller vehicles like ATVs and bikes take to the dryer, more dangerous higher paths. 
 As the game progresses you may often find yourself re-racing one of the 8 tracks, but don't worry 
 the games design prevents it from getting stale. In the single player, you race in events to unlock 
 other events, 21 in all. Each event consists of between 1 and 4 races. Placing in the top 3 allows 
 you to move on to the next. You'll unlock new events, tracks and vehicles (which are really just 
 new skins) as you progress. Only in select event do you get to choose your class, most of the time 
 you will be racing a course with a specific vehicle type. In those events, you will still be paired 
 with other vehicle types, so each race provides a unique challenge. Some may call this a shallow 
 experience, but the fact that the core of the game is so fun, you're likely not to care. The AI 
 starts to get vicious around the 4 or 5 event and from there on out things only get more insane. 
 Some may say the AI gets downright mean, or even unfair, using every opertunity to send you flying 
 in a flame ball of wreckage. Of course, you're expected to be just as ruthless, because if your 
 not, they will walk all over you. Bigger vehicles will run you over, without hesitation, other 
 riders will flip you the bird, ram you and even punch you off your bike or ATV. It's instense to 
 start, and only gets more so.
  
  For those that complete the single player and wish for more challenges and custom events, they 
 will likely spend the remained of their time in the online multiplayer. It's exactly like the SP 
 except the host can customize the race, selecting the course, number of laps, vehicles available, 
 etc. It's virtually lag free and the most fun when you have a full grid of 12. Compared to games 
 like Burnout and Ridge Racer, Motorstorm may feel a little skimpy on the content, but there's plenty 
 in here to keep you busy. And if you enjoy the game, you're likely not to care.
  
  Graphics: WOW. just wow. if there's one game graphics whores will be drooling over for months to 
 come it's this one. There are alot of great looking games out there, but Motorstorm is the first 
 game, on either the PS3 or 360, that absolutely looks real. There was alot a controversy over the 
 target render from E3 2005, but this is as close as you could hope to get this early in the generation. 
 The vehicles have more detail than any other racer, exploding into (literally) thousands of pieces 
 upon impact. The tracks are gorgeous and varied, and all of them have moments where you are almost 
 hypnotized by the level of detail. The lighting is also amazing, making sure that every object 
 casts a shadow and washes everything out when riding out of a canyon into the sun. Flags and banners 
 wave in wind and the color palette is suprisingly bright, for a game made of mud and rocks. And 
 speaking of mud... best. mud. ever. You're vehicle and rider will be drenched in it before the 
 end of a race, with every vehicle leaving it's own tracks causing the terrain to deform differently 
 each time. It's flys everywhere, even onto the screen, which can be distracting, but this is off 
 road racing, it's comes with the territory.
  
  But for as good as everything is, some things which got less detail stick out. Some shadows are 
 pretty low res, and some textures look pretty bad, the crowds are static and pretty low in the 
 polygon count, if not 2D at times. You most likely won't ever notice these things during the races, 
 as you'll be too busy trying to keep from flying off a cliff or into a giant rock, but if you ever 
 do stop to admire the finer details, you'll see some things that can really suck you out of the 
 realism.
  
  Sound: Vehicles sound great, crashes have enough ompf to them to make you believe they were recorded 
 from actual collisions, but every once in a while I notice a missing sound. Like my car slamming 
 down on a wooden ramp after a jump or into a rock, and there was no sound to accompany the impact. 
 Maybe they were just muffled underneath other more prominant sounds and the music, but it just 
 seemed alittle odd. As for the soundtrack itself, it's a mixed bag, the developers followed the 
 something for everyone method and for the most part pulled it off. You've got heavier bands like 
 Primal Scream and Slipknot, more electronic and industrial sounds from Pitchshifter and Elite Force, 
 there's some Seattle in there from QotSA and Nirvana and some of that indie rock stuff that's been 
 gaining popularity in recent years. All in all it's a pretty decent sound track, spanning genres 
 and mixing in old and new songs, all of which seem to work for the setting.
  
  So that's Motorstorm in a nutsell, it's an experience to say the least, even if it is a short one 
 with fewer features than most games that are currently available. All of the complaints for the 
 game are likely because expectations were so high, and because there's so much detail that any 
 short commings stick out. Given the drought of games for any console really, between the holidays 
 and now, Motorstorm should be enough of a thrill ride for anyone with a PS3, and maybe even enough 
 to get people without one to start considering making the $600 purchase. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BrideInDream
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 8, 2007 3:08 am PT
Review:  this game is just plain awsomeeee even though i can't really understand my one since it's half 
 japanese and half english T. T so sad... but yeah the graphic is just toooooooooooooo amazingggggggggggggg... 
 i love the dirt especially when a car already passed the place u can see the wet trail of it and 
 also the mud effect to the car and to the screen that makes u can't see really well... the racing 
 are intresting especially when ur car can get destroyed and also when ur car overheat because u 
 use to long of the nitros... the scenery is amazing.. i always laugh when my car flew from the 
 hill track one wwkwkwkwkkw... anyway i just love the race where we can pick any vehicle for the 
 race... the trucks are intresting because they are so big and u can just crash the motorbikes to 
 get infront of them :D... well yeah for u people who haven't buy the game BUY IT NOWWWWWWW!!! :D 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vincent380
Rating: 8.6
Date: Mar 8, 2007 12:31 am PT
Review:  So motorstorm has FINALLY came out so lets see how i feel about game
  
  I wanna start off with the graphics this game looks amazing specially with all chaos and stuff 
 going on the screen to the mud and dirt hitting your screen its just wow
  
  As for gameplay its a fun game to play specially with all the chaos going and and you yourrself 
 are trying to stay on the right roat an dont crash on the messy terrian Many people dont like the 
 fact there is no offline mutiplayer which i can understand but at the same time its not lick you 
 guys cant just take turns doing races but i still feel the online makes up for this and also hearing 
 rumors (not sure if its true) your gonna be able to download more tracks and vehicles later Motorstorm 
 is a fun game and if your a ps3 owner theres no reason why you shouldnt own it you just may not 
 be able to play it for hours ( i know i cant) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: -Sir-Poof-
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 7, 2007 9:18 pm PT
Review:  So my friend bought Motorstorm today and I got to play it for a couple of hours, ill brake it down 
 by negetives and positives.
  
  First ill get the negetives out of the way....
  
  Negetives - WHERE THE F ARE THE OPTIONS?!? My God this game has to be the most shallow next gen 
 game out there, I thought Madden 06 had that one locked not anymore... Also the single player really 
 is boring after getting to the second level of tickets I didnt care to go on anymore. Then theres 
 only 8 tracks (amazing tracks) but I wish there were at least 5 more or so.
  
  Positives - Man does this game look and play amazing... some tracks are extremely huge and diverse 
 making racing a blast. Speaking of blast, online is freakin awesome! The races are so intense online, 
 I could barly stand it (in a good way) , there were races where I would win by a second and others 
 I would lose by tenths of a second ( 6:21:30 to 6:21:61) that will probably stick with me for a 
 bit.... I thought it was awesome how ur attitude changes according to what vehicle u choose, whenever 
 i would pick a bike, I would always get tensed and scared around other vehicles because u can easily 
 be manhandled, where as when I was a truck u feel more like a bad*** and slam into whatever u pleased.
 
  
  Overall - I had a blast playing Motorstorm and I fully understand why GS gave it a 6 in value but 
 other than that its a great game, I would def score this a 8.4. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kruegmeister
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 7, 2007 8:00 pm PT
Review:  The In Car View is Simply awesome.
  It was harder to get used to driving with the In Car View at first, but I got used to it and it 
 makes the game better in my opinion. If you haven't tried it, hit the Triangle Button now and try 
 a few races in that view, you'll never switch back.
  
  Dust on the Windshield, Mud, Ohhhh Lots of Mud, and it piles up on my Ride as the Game Progresses. 
 Mudd... Pretty. OK, I can't believe I am this excited about Mud... It is almost as bad as when 
 I got excited about the Sweat in NBA2K6 on my 360.
  
  It is also neat how the Track Deforms in Realtime.
  Trucks make Bigger grooves in the mud making 
 it rough riding for the Bikes and ATVs. Next Lap, the Tracks remain the way they were, and progress 
 with each Lap.
  
  Debris Everywhere too. Oops... Hit a Car... Cool, I just plowed it out of the way. Knocked down 
 a Fence, Oops Hit a Pile of Cars. Now here is the Big Dilemma. Do I hit X and the Trigger and Get 
 back in the Race as quick as possible? No... I can't... To busy watching my car floppin around, 
 parts flyin everywhere, sometimes my body floppin, oohh... Rag Doll Physics.
  
  Some of the Tracks are absolutely HUGE. Multiple Paths; High, Low, Medium, Left, Right, Down the 
 Middle.
  
  This game is a graphical show piece. Not exactly what they showed in the Original E3 Footage, but 
 darn close.
  
  3 Things I wish the Game had:
  1) Replay at end plays your final Lap. I wish I could get the Whole Race, and I wish I could save 
 it.
  2) Split Screen Multiplayer. Playing this game with friends/family would make this game near perfect.
 
  3) Rumble. I have not noticed the Rumble missing on any game yet till now.
  
  Only Number 2 had an Impact on my Score. If it had Split Screen and More Tracks I would have give 
 this game a 10. Too much Fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sonofares
Rating: 8.8
Date: Mar 7, 2007 6:51 pm PT
Review:  The truly good and fun games exclusive to the Playstation 3 are pretty darn scarce to put it mildly. 
 But Motorstorm hopefully is a sign of great things to come. I just picked it up today popped it 
 in and had a very exciting and fun time for about 2 or 3 straight hours playing the single player. 
 I'm telling you this thing is a blast!!! Not to mention probably the very best soundtrack I've 
 heard in a video game. That's no small feat either. I'm talking some good hard-hitting heavy metal 
 and heavy grunge tunes. Motorcycles, Trucks, Rally Cars, Dune Buggys, ATVs, even Semi-Trucks are 
 available. The graphics are superb. The crashes are intense and they go into slow motion to show 
 every detail of the crash. The action is fast....... the mistakes are deadly....... and theAI competition 
 is pretty fierce. The difficulty of the AI in the races seems pretty much perfect to push you to 
 your limit. Basically all the tracks are in a desert landscape with boulders, mountains, mesas, 
 hills, rocks, cliffs, and other random obstacles. Some of the tracks on these races take you into 
 these very hairy situations with jumps and bumps that will give you some serious air time. But 
 be careful landing or be careful the direction you jump cause when you land you could be going 
 straight off a 300 foot cliff. I can honestly highly recommend this game as a barrel of fun. Along 
 with Resistance Fall of Man it's the funnest game I've played yet on the Playstation 3!!! GEt it. 
 - Hey and that's only the single player.... I haven't even played multiplayer yet but from what 
 I've heard..... that's where the real fun is to be had! Looks like there's a unique ranking system 
 and plenty of options. Later gamers. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gearsfan23
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 7, 2007 6:05 pm PT
Review:  Motorstorm is a game that gamers and non gamers have heard of. It is the show off game of the Playstation 
 3 console, a gaming powerhouse system. Motorstorm is an extremely interesting game. Combining hard 
 core racing with top notch graphics and physics makes the game extremely fun, even for the new 
 player. Online features 12 people, with games, and loaded servers. The experience should be tried 
 no matter what. Single player is left with a little challenge, which is let down for its lack of 
 features. Perhaps the team at SCEE didnt have enough time to fully put together this game, it shows 
 how amazing this game is with limited offline features. Online voice communication makes for great 
 clan battles, as the online is an important part of the overall game. For any true fan off casual 
 gaming, this is a must buy, and an absolute no brain rental. Graphics 9.8 Physics 9.5 Lasting effect 
 8.6 Pick up and play 9.5 Online 8.8 Overall, a 9.0, in between the lack of features at the time, 
 the fun is amazing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: b_wilcox
Rating: 7.4
Date: Mar 14, 2007 9:02 am PT
Review:  MotorStorm falls far short in its bid to become the PS3's showcase game of the first half of 2007. 
 Oh, it's pretty and you'll find yourself amazed by the detail of the skies, the tracks, and the 
 racers... but once that wears off, you feel quite cheated. It's like getting a date with the most 
 gorgeous girl in school, and finding out after about 30 minutes of small talk that she's a complete 
 drip. This analogy is probably misplaced in a gaming review considering that most console jockeys 
 can't relate, but nevertheless.
  
  What MotorStorm has in style -- and it has it in spades, no doubt -- it is doubly lacking in substance. 
 Online play will be the only saving grace for a game that has only a few tracks and a very spotty 
 career mode. And never has Sony's decision to forsake rumble force feedback in the SIXAXIS looked 
 so bad -- you'll be surprised just how much you miss the ol' vibrations when you're bouncing over 
 rocky crags and getting literally nothing tactile from the experience.
  
  This isn't to say that MotorStorm is a poor game. It has its fun moments and this is certainly 
 a better-laid foundation for a franchise than many others before it. For a while, I enjoyed the 
 gimmickry of the game. But there's just not a lot of staying power in this title, and when you 
 consider that Blu-Ray discs can hold so much raw data and that the game costs $60, it's just really 
 disappointing to know that a lack of depth is MotorStorm's greatest failing.
  
  ***CAVEAT: If subsequent downloadable content is free or inexpensive, and increases the value and 
 depth of the game, I'll add a point to the Value and Tilt columns, making it a 7.9.*** 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ElSatanno
Rating: 7.8
Date: Mar 13, 2007 11:15 pm PT
Review:  NOTE: As noted in the opening paragraph. this review was written for the Japanese version of the 
 game. This review was written about one month ago. One of the more exciting demos shown at last 
 year's Tokyo Game Show was Motor Storm, an off-road racing game which promised over-the-top arcade 
 action featuring an array of four- and two-wheeled vehicles. Motor Storm is centered around the 
 fictional desert racing festival of the same name, and you enter the competition of one of many 
 racers hoping to win it all with a combination of speed, skill, and craziness. As of this writing, 
 Motor Storm has been released in Japan only, with the US version still in development. That being 
 said, the US version will hopefully include a lot more, since the version released in Japan now 
 feels more like a fleshed-out demo than a full game. The gameplay is there, but some seriously 
 glaring omissions make this game more worthy of a rental than a purchase.
  The basic game (the only game, actually, but more on that later) takes you on a tour of all the 
 courses using all the types of vehicles, some races where your ride is chosen for you, others with 
 more freedom. The festival is divided into a series of tickets, and each ticket contains up to 
 four races. As you complete races, you'll gain points which unlock more vehicles and more tickets. 
 There are 7 classes of vehicles to use and numerous models in each class, though the differences 
 between them are only cosmetic. There are no statistics to discern from, but the different classes 
 of vehicles all behave differently in-game, and much as you would expect. So motorbikes and ATVs 
 are quick off the line and nimble, while rigs are slow but well-nigh unstoppable. Every vehicle 
 has a booster available to it, which allows you to build up some serious speed. Use the boost too 
 much, though, and you'll be treated to an exploding engine. As you race, and inevitably crash into 
 just about everything, your ride will take damage which is reflected very naturally on the model. 
 No need to worry, as it's only for show. Your buggy or truck can be little more than a chassis 
 careening through the canyons, and handle just as well as the brand-new one racing alongside you. 
 Of course, you'll also crash and burn a lot, and the crashes are spectacular enough to rival the 
 legendary Burnout series in their fragmentation. For better or worse, every time you crash, the 
 game goes into slow-motion (although the clock inexplicably continues in real-time) and you'll 
 get a lovely view of the carnage. Motor Storm supports a field of up to 15 racers, and things can 
 get pretty hairy out there. Many of the courses are quite narrow, so you can expect a lot of contact 
 with your rivals to either side, and the numerous jumps, cliffs, and ramps ensure that death also 
 rains from above often enough. Several courses take place on mesas or plateaus, so you'll also 
 have to watch out lest you find yourself plummeting hundreds of feet to the ground. Whether it 
 be through chicanery or just savvy AI, it usually takes no more than one moderate crash to bring 
 you from first all the way to the back of the pack. This keeps the races pretty tense, although 
 it can easily descend into frustration as a great run evaporates in a single explosion. Furthermore, 
 on the higher race tickets, the computer opponents gain cheap advantages, like spawning at full 
 speed, which can really spoil the fun.
  Racing in mud and dirt has obvious differences with asphalt, and Motor Storm feels about what you'd 
 expect the real deal to feel like. Your vehicle will slide a lot more in mud than on metal or rock, 
 so you'll have to pay attention to the surface as you try to take corners at speed. Terrain deforms 
 in real time as vehicles drive over it, and you can actually watch drivers ahead of you turn sun-baked 
 clay into thick mud right in front of you. The mud and such doesn't get any depth, though, so you 
 don't get any bogs in the middle of the track. There are 8 different tracks that you'll tear up, 
 and despite the fact that the backgrounds all look alike, they have very different personalities. 
 Dust Devil, for example, has dried out straightaways littered with trees, whereas The Mudpool is 
 chock-full of slippery mud holes. Speaking of environments, since Motor Storm takes place in the 
 desert, everything is brown. It can get a little drab, to say the least. Still, the lighting changes 
 subtly based on race time, which looks nice, and when it starts raining things change drastically. 
 The graphics are quite nicely polished and show a lot of detail, as one might expect from a PS3 
 game. The whole shebang glides along without a hitch, barring the largest crashes, which only slow 
 the action down very briefly. There's lots of detail in the vehicles themselves, right down to 
 touches like being able to watch your driver steer and flip off the opposition. Another nice touch 
 is mud and dust gets sprayed into the camera lens as you and your rivals duke it out on the track. 
 Your ride will also gather mud along its sides and top, as will your rider on vehicles without 
 doors. The environment is wonderfully modeled as well, with lots of rocks and assorted debris littering 
 the course, and bridges and ramps with an appropriate hammered-together look to them. That being 
 said, seeing rock after rock after rock can get a little tiresome. The default camera is a standard 
 above-and-behind affair which does the job well enough, although if you're driving a small vehicle 
 and a rig rides right behind you, it can obscure you completely. There's also a first-person camera 
 option available if you prefer. You can glance quickly to the left and right using the right analog 
 stick, or look behind by pressing it in. An interesting little tidbit here is that anytime you 
 pause, you're able to move and zoom the camera about to get any angle on the action you like. Very 
 nice during some of the outrageous crashes you're likely to get into.
  Motor Storm has plenty of licensed music to rock out to while you tear up the dirt. It's a collection 
 of rock and techno which works pretty well with the overall feeling of the game. Very chaotic, 
 high-tension stuff to match the nature of the racing. The vehicles have wonderfully throaty engine 
 sounds, and the boosters sound like jet engines as they spin up and down. As mentioned before, 
 you'll crash into all sorts of things, and crunches and bangs have suitably metallic sounds to 
 them; screeching metal and all that. Your tires ripping through the terrain also sounds authentic, 
 down to the point where the subtle changes in tone from rock to dirt are audible. So amidst all 
 this, what's wrong with Motor Storm? Well, let's start with no multiplayer. None. Whatsoever. You 
 read it right: ZERO. No online, no link, not even split-screen. Motor Storm is a purely solo affair. 
 Whoever thought that any racing game, and especially in this day and age, needs no multiplayer 
 support needs to have their head examined. The solo game is so full of crazy action, it's an extra 
 kick in the face that there's no way to share the insanity with friends. This alone will likely 
 be enough to cripple US sales catastrophically if it isn't rectified.
  But even the solo game isn't free of a half-baked feeling to it. You would think that there would 
 be a fairly deep create-a-player mode to compensate. Since many of the vehicles have open cockpits, 
 or none at all, it would be pretty cool to be able to deck out your rider with helmets and jackets 
 and such. Well, too bad. The driver model comes fixed with the skin for whatever vehicle, which 
 also means that you may end up with the opposite sex for your preferred ride. On top of that, your 
 rivals have names that pop up on the leader board at the end of the race, but you're forever stuck 
 as Player. 
  The list continues! Want to ride a quick race off the festival? Too bad. Want to try to beat your 
 best time? Not gonna happen. There isn't even a list of best times recorded anywhere! How about 
 just a practice run to get a better feel for the course? Nope. You've got the festival races and 
 that's it. No arcade, no time trial, no practice, nothing. The main menu of the game is incredibly 
 spartan. You get Festival, Movies, and Setup. Even Setup is spare; just the audio track listing 
 (which you surprisingly have control over) and a couple of control options. It bears mentioning 
 here that Motor Storm supports motion-sensitive steering, but this option doesn't feel very natural. 
 One final point to mention is that while many, if not all, other PS3 games have multiple language 
 support, Motor Storm comes exclusively in Japanese. Seeing as how there isn't very much to read 
 in the game, would it be so hard to include English text? By comparison, the Japanese version of 
 Ridge Racer 7 has lots more textual information going on, all of which is fully available in both 
 English and Japanese.
  Motor Storm really has a lot going for it. It looks fantastic, controls smoothly, and has lots 
 of attitude. It's apparent that a lot of care went into the racing itself, so why the developers 
 chose to release it without much more is curious. As it stands, if this is the Motor Storm that 
 America and Europe are going to get, it's likely going to sit on shelves. With all the emphasis 
 on online play these days, a game (and a racing game, no less) with no multiplayer of any kind 
 is in serious trouble. Motor Storm is certainly good fun, but ultimately not worth the purchase 
 price. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: escalade1
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 7, 2007 4:58 am PT
Review:  I was looking forward to this game since last may, it makes me sad how it got a 7.9 i dont blame 
 GS. If evolution and SCEE worked on it for at least another month this game would have got a 9.1. 
 2 Player should have been added , the slow -mo should be like burnout where you could control the 
 car, hold R1 if you want to slow-mo or see the wreck in real motion. There should have been more 
 tracks. The demo was good, but i noticed the handling is hard i always flew off the cliff easily, 
 but it was funny at times. They environment is still very well done, the mud looks real, and the 
 physics are very realistic too. but still this game could have been better on PS3, even on the 
 X360 if they would have came out with it :' ( 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sdkingsht
Rating: 7.2
Date: Mar 14, 2007 10:39 am PT
Review:  Short and simple... this game is beautiful and the racing is addictively fun. It captures the essence 
 of out of control off-road racing to a tee. The game looks absolutely amazing to be honest. But 
 who came up with the bright idea of having a 1 player racing game? Sure online play is great but 
 what if i want to embarass my friends in a head to head race or send them flying off a cliff into 
 oblivion? What about the people who ACTUALLY have friends? i mean online gameplay is nice and is 
 almost a must these days but to NOT HAVE 2 PLAYER MODES AT ALL? in what world does this make sense? 
 those of us who have friends are not relegated to taking turns racing the computer? one of the 
 greatest aspects of gaming is competing against friends and this game completely left that part 
 out. aside from that it's shallow. Motorstorm is a little more than a demo but not quite a full 
 game. if you can get past the fact that there are only 8 tracks, not a lot to achieve and the fact 
 that you can't race your friends unless you're all at home online then i guess it's a good buy. 
 Overall... a great looking and fun to play game but a huge dissapointment. They've been hyping this 
 thing for two years and even pushed it back twice... they could of at least made 10 tracks and a 
 2 player mode with all that extra time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chamber303
Rating: 9.1
Date: Mar 6, 2007 5:28 pm PT
Review:  A few months ago when I downloaded the demo of motorstorm, I said to myself that this will indeed 
 kill any title to date when it comes to graphics, gameplay, funfactor, audio and all other aspects.
 
  
  Now that I got my hands on the retail version, I see nothing less and lots more.
  
  The graphics are killer, the gameplay is intense.
  True that the lack of tracks is the games 
 downfall but not at the point were gamespot gives a 7.9 out of 10.
  
  the least that the game deserves is an 8.5 and I would even give it a 8.8 out of 10.
  It is possible 
 that later on, we may even get extra tracks to play online or even on single palyer.
  
  the fact that you can't do a split screen multiplayer is not a big problem with me.
  This is 
 next gen gaming, split screen is a thing of the past.
  We all know that split screen is not that fun.
  
  I don; t mind SONY removing that option but 
 once again, you never know, they may add that option as well in the future.
  
  Bottom line is that this game has scrached the surfice of what the system can offer. Let's see 
 what's next. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DominicanAG
Rating: 9.6
Date: Mar 6, 2007 6:47 pm PT
Review:  until Motorstorm came along. This is up there with the small list of great looking games that are 
 out on the PS3. One of the things that I like about this game is the different types of routes 
 you can take to finish a race. You have a variety of different vehicles to choose from and there 
 are some races that you can choose any type of vehicle that you desire but there are some races 
 where a type of vehicle is a requirement in order for you to advance to the next open ticket event. 
 There are 8 different types and 4 different levels available for you to unlock as you go. The Graphics 
 in this game are amazing the hills and mountains look unbelieveable realistic that is jaw dropping. 
 As you start the race you notice your car being nice and clean but half way through the race you 
 notice the dirt and dents you create on your car/bike as you keep racing. I'm a little let down 
 by the available modes on the game. Hopefully the 2nd installment of Motorstorm will have more 
 tracks. I'm betting since the single player mode is slacking online is where to make up for it. 
 You have the vehicles and tracks available and up to 12 players can play lag free which is pretty 
 good. If you're a fan of Burnout than this game will fit right in with the Burnout series. There's 
 nothing but fun to be had here and if you're a PS3 owner this is a definite buy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Tremblay343
Rating: 7.7
Date: Mar 6, 2007 2:46 pm PT
Review:  Amazing game just looking at it. Ive only played it for a bit, like a couple of hours, but i mean 
 its really fun. Bu ti mean ic an't do anything like different in it, its either single player or 
 online, i think Alex's reiew was spot on. Its just fun to look at, kinda like gears of war was. 
 If you owna PS3, play it. Its just fun to watch stuff happen, like smashing stuff, explosions, 
 peole going flying, just amazing. Kinda loses is novelty like 3-4 hours in, but still a fun game 
 none-the-less. Oh, and awesome soundtrack. now go get it, rgiht now 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gamer434
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 6, 2007 12:55 pm PT
Review:  This game is a great start to the ps3. What it lacks in depth it makes up for in graphics but graphics 
 arn't everything the game has to be fun too but im sorry to say this game isn't the funnest game 
 out there. To start with this game starts fun because of all the fun crashes but gets repetitive 
 after awhile all the same crashes and levels Im telling you this game has a lot of potential its 
 a great rental though so id recommend to rent this game before you buy it not just becasue it lacks 
 depth but because it has alot of potential fans who love a good racer once in awhile rent this 
 game its probably one of the best rentals out there for ps3 owners. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BloodyDagger
Rating: 8.3
Date: Mar 6, 2007 7:24 am PT
Review:  Motorstorm is one of those games thats fun in the beginning and you soon realise that there's not 
 much there. For the vehicles, you can either pick motorcycles or trucks, there isn't really much 
 of a choice between the two types of vehicles. There are about 8 kinds of motorcycles and about 
 15 different kinds of trucks there should be more. There aren't too many different courses and 
 they mostly feel like every other one. The graphics in this game are amazing, from the environments, 
 to the vehicle damage modeling, to the character models. Motorstorm has a great music soundtrack 
 and the sound affects are amazing aswell, but where is the voice overs? There aren't any, wich 
 isn't a good thing for this game. The online multiplayer in this game is what makes the gameplay 
 all worthwhile. Overall Motorstorm is a game with great graphics and audio but not too much in 
 the gameplay department. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Eclipse83Lives
Rating: 8.7
Date: Mar 6, 2007 7:14 am PT
Review:  You almost have to take this as a glimpse of the future. So you wanted to see what we can do in 
 future Rally and Motocross games. Well heres a little taste. And it is a little taste. But what 
 it does show is pretty sweet. Gamespot was busy slobbering over the look of this game. Which it 
 was nice, for a first try for this machine. But I looked for a few other things. How did the dirt 
 react. And the track changed were not huge, but they did change. And more so by where the preferred 
 line is. This will be HUGE!!! In dirt racing games of the future. imagine a supercross game where 
 you have to change lines in the main like real. Well ,, will see that if this is any indication. 
 The graphics and dmeolition wildness are just amazing eye candy. The shocks of each individual 
 machine swaying and bouncing the cars around. Look better than I have ever seen in any racer yet. 
 And thats the key word we need to hear now. Can the PS3 pull some sick graphics?? Yes!! And a key 
 word in the Gamespot review. A few things were better than we have ever seen them. Yet this game 
 is not the best out their. It has all the tools to be a great game. Just not the time and presentation. 
 But At the same time Its one heck of a nice look at whats to come. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cpuwizshot
Rating: 7.9
Date: Mar 6, 2007 4:53 am PT
Review:  Very Good - Wish there was more to it. Great crash scenes. Off Road Burnout . Not worth buying 
 a PS3 for, though. Not enough gameplay modes. Haven't tried multiplayer yet, but if that's the 
 only way this game is supposed to be fun, that would not be good. Rent it first. It's one of those 
 games you'll love and enjoy for the first 10 times and then never touch again. It's definitely 
 no where near Gran Turismo. Better than Full Auto. Almost as great as Demolition Derby for the 
 PS1. Motor Storm overall is a pretty decent game and just plain fun. Enjoy it! 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
