-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: MotoGP 08
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/ps3/driving/motogp08/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Three different series of bikes provide some nice variety.
 Excellent handling physics.
 Great track list.
 Fine sense of speed.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Game physics are sometimes haphazard.
 Career mode only lasts five seasons.
 Limited online options.
 Very little bike/rider customization.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Nov  6, 2008
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 7
Critic Score: 6.6, 15 Review (s)
User Score: 7.3, 71 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Capcom
Genre: Motorcycle Racing
Date: Oct 28, 2008
ESRB: Everyone

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
MotoGP 08 is meat-and-potatoes racing with enough challenge to keep two-wheeled gearheads busy for 
 a long time. 

  After snagging the official MotoGP license from THQ in 2007, Capcom released MotoGP 07 on the PlayStation 
 2; a promising, if far too difficult, rebirth of a game license that had previously thrived in 
 the hands of developer Climax and publisher THQ. With this year's MotoGP 08, Capcom and developer 
 Milestone have brought the series to the Xbox 360 and PlayStation 3. While the game likely won't 
 create a new generation of virtual racing fans, those who have some two-wheeled gaming experience 
 will find a demanding driving model and plenty of stiff competition to keep them busy.  

           Hard-charging AI, three different handling settings, and multiple weather options are 
 combined for true test of skill in MotoGP 08.       

  There aren't any surprises in MotoGP 08's list of game modes -- you've got the standard list of single-player 
 modes you'd expect from a racing game: Single Race, Time Trial, Championship, Challenge mode, and 
 so on. The highlight on the single-player menu is the Career mode, which gives you a chance to 
 create a rider from scratch and work your way up through three bike racing series (125cc, 250cc, 
 and, the pinnacle, MotoGP) . As you enter races, any points you score by placing high enough in 
 the final results will earn you attribute upgrade points you can apply to one of four aspects of 
 your particular bike: top speed, acceleration, braking, and traction. You can then take your souped-up 
 bike online and enter the competition in online racing events against up to 11 other online riders. 

  While Career mode is certainly the best single-player mode in the game, it has its quirks. First 
 of all, your career ends after five years regardless of how many series championships you've won. 
 Second, once you've selected from the game's various AI and handling difficulty levels, you can't 
 change them for the entirety of your career. This is especially frustrating once you've maxed out 
 your bike and can basically smoke the easy or medium-level AI opponents. It would have been more 
 user-friendly to give players the chance to tweak options in between seasons to keep up the challenge. 

  This lack of career option flexibility is a shame because MotoGP 08 is all about the challenge. 
 While the learning curve is a bit gentler this time around, even an experienced MotoGP vet will 
 find some challenge at the default difficulty level. If you bump that up to hard or champion level, 
 you'll face cunning, hard-charging AI opponents that won't give you an inch; you'll be fighting 
 for every position and loving every minute of it (except when you're cursing out loud at your own 
 lack of skill) .  

  Fans of motorcycle racing games will relish the game's bike physics, which are excellent. There 
 are three handling settings to choose from: easy, advanced, and simulation. With a little track 
 time, MotoGP vets will likely be able to settle in at the advanced handling level with little trouble, 
 but throughout every race you run in the game, the emphasis on the racing line and careful acceleration 
 out of corners is a hallmark of the game. The advanced handling setting is touchy enough; when 
 riding in the simulation setting, even the slightest error on the throttle while deep in a turn 
 will result in a spill. When running against the upper-tier AI opponents, any mistake you make 
 is magnified by their unyielding aggression, and you'll find yourself in yo-yo battles for position 
 at nearly every corner on the track.  

  While the feel of the bikes in MotoGP 08 is just right, the riding model is not without its problems. 
 The developers have chosen to downplay the consequences of contact between riders. While it is 
 possible to be knocked off your bike by an opponent (and only slightly more difficult to dismount 
 him with some dirty driving) , more often than not, you can run into a rider ahead of you with little 
 consequence. In fact, once you've gotten used it, you can actually use this to your advantage by 
 using a rider ahead of you as some extra braking when approaching a corner too fast. The tracks, 
 too, have their quirks. For example, in some corners, the game will penalize you for cutting corners 
 by instantly slowing your bike down to a crawl. It's a fine idea in theory, but its implementation 
 is inconsistent; with enough experience, you'll know exactly which corners you can take advantage 
 of and which you'll need to play straight.  

  Up to 12 players can hop online to race in both the 360 and PS3 versions of MotoGP 08. While online 
 performance in both games is good, the lack of features may leave you wanting. You can only run 
 races one at a time -- there's no option for a virtual championships where players can run multiple 
 races for points -- and can only bring your Career mode bike into a race if the host allows it. Even 
 when using custom bikes, however, there's not much in the way of customization; you're stuck with 
 the actual team leathers and bike paint schemes, as well as a series of unique helmets from which 
 you can choose. In an era of customization in such games as Forza 2 and Midnight Club: Los Angeles, 
 next year's MotoGP game simply must have more options for making your rider appear unique.  

           Best helmet ever.      

  MotoGP 08's graphics are solid, with the high point being 
 a thrilling sense of speed (especially on such long, straights tracks as Shanghai and Mugello) . 
 That fine pace is offset a bit by some occasionally spotty frame rate issue on the PlayStation 
 3 version of the game, as well as certain tracks that are simply a bore -- it's not much to look 
 at the plain backgrounds and sometimes grainy asphalt textures. That said, MotoGP series fans will 
 be happy with the new details, such as the night race at Losail, and the brand new Indianapolis 
 GP track set at the historic Indianapolis Motor Speedway. The hardcore fans will also find a lot 
 to like with the game's audio presentation; not only is there a big difference among the 125cc, 
 250cc, and MotoGP bike engines, but individual constructor bikes have an engine sound all their 
 own -- one that series fans will likely instantly recognize.  

  A slightly more approachable learning curve coupled with a great deal of challenge means that MotoGP 
 08 provides enough to keep motorcycle fans busy for months to come while not being as punishing 
 on new players as the previous game in the series. Now that the series has moved to the Xbox 360 
 and PS3, the real work begins. Next year's game must primarily make sure that it has the same suite 
 of offline and online features that players have come to expect from modern racing games. There's 
 a lot to like in MotoGP 08's meat-and-potatoes approach to two-wheeled racing; here's hoping that 
 next year's game offers a more extended menu.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (6 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: HarriersArmy
Rating: 7.5
Date: Feb 7, 2009 4:56 am PT
Review:  I bought this game after I got fed up with waiting so long for the release of SBK-08, and I'm glad 
 I took this decision. Moto GP is not a racer everyone will enjoy, but I believe all those two-wheeled 
 fans out there would truly enjoy this.
  
  The career within the game is very well structured, and the 'Challenges' feature offers a wide 
 variety of different scenarios to test the skill of the player. Although the game misses out on 
 offline multiplayer, it does contain an online version which allows you to race against other Moto 
 GP fans from around the globe, but it isn't the most stable connection wise. I, personally, think 
 Capcom could have improved this section of the game to at least take the likes of Codemasters Grid 
 multiplayer a run for it's money.
  
  Graphics wise it has to be the best looking motorcycle game out, again there are some issues where 
 if you fall off, the bike magically stands up by itself, and I have been knocked off my bike from 
 another rider doing a close overtake without touching me. Although these occur rarely, it would 
 be nice to see a flowing game.
  
  If you're a fan of the two wheel racing games, then at least rent this game it will offer weeks 
 of enjoyment and will challenge your racing skills to the max!
  
  Happy gaming. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: marcopolo4212
Rating: 4.5
Date: Jan 3, 2009 6:54 pm PT
Review:  Yes, I have played this game and i guess to a first time gamer who hasn't played a motorcycle game 
 before, this may seem like a very realistic, fun game. Don't get me wrong it can be fun but for 
 $30 or so you can buy Tourist Trophy which i had for my ps2. After playing that for so long when 
 i played Moto GP 08... I started laughing. I actually was laughing because of how horrible this 
 game is. First of all the graphics suck crap. Tourist Trophy is on PS2 and completely wipes out 
 this game in that section. this game is so fake.... not even close to even need for speed which also 
 sucks. it's like you can take corners going 200 mph, shift down a gear and you back tire doesn't 
 lock up or even flinch. This game is horrible, plain and simple. 
  
  Overall: Horrible Graphics (PS2 is better) , Crappy and arcade style gameplay (even when on simulation 
 setting) and crappy bike adjustments and modifications. BUY TOURIST TROPHY ON PS2.... IT WILL BLOW 
 YOU AWAY!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Vandal13
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 30, 2008 7:16 am PT
Review:  The answer to this question is quite simply NO! However the MotoGp series of videogames may be 
 doomed, (at least in the USA) , if sales do not bode well for this installment. Just look at SBK 
 08! I am an avid race simulation fan and was very much looking forward to picking up a copy of 
 SBK for both my PS3 and PSP, unfortunately I wasn't able to get either one because their release 
 dates in the Americas were cancelled. This genre of racing just doesn't have the fanbase that is 
 necessary for success in my country at this time. I am hopeful that with the inclusion of the Indianapolis 
 Red Bull MotoGp race over the next 3 years, that the excitement for this sport will take off and 
 with it the anticipation for games of this type. Please, if you want to continue to play future 
 installments of this Excellent game pick up a copy and reccommend it to your friends. There is 
 no more exhilirating racing than that which is done on 2 wheels!
  
  Ok, now for my review! I have logged in about 5 hrs into the career mode and have to say that it 
 isn't exactly what I'd expected. Things have changed with CAPCOM backing the brand. The number 
 one thing that I've noticed is that you no longer feel as if the only thing you have to control 
 is the motorcycle itself. This time around you also have to be aware of the rider's position on 
 the bike in conjunction to what maneuvers you are attempting on the machine! For some this will 
 be an instant turn-off because it makes the game more difficult to master. I myself, was frustrated 
 with my lack of ability to complete a lap around familiar tracks in a compettitive manor. I decided 
 to stick with Simulation mode, (the hardest difficulty) , and adjust my riding techniques accordingly 
 to keep the bike off the tarmac and up front with the leaders of the pack. After an hour or so, 
 I finally realized that the limits that I could push my machine just weren't as extreme as that 
 of previous installments of the series. Once you get accustomed to this and know your limits, you 
 get a newfound respect for the game. Although it is Harder to get used to, it is undoubtably a 
 more Realistic experience for the player. When you're riding well you can feel it and when you're 
 not, you can see it in the riders movements and in your laptimes. I was never a fan of the Extreme 
 mode offered in the past few installments and felt that it took away from the real experience to 
 be had in the games. Yes, it's easier to ride bikes that don't wreck around a track but this isn't 
 the way to get the most out of a game that offers a challenging and rewarding MotoGp season. I 
 personally was glad to see the inclusion of this mode omitted from the series so that focus could 
 remain on real world racing in a very compettitive sport. 
  
  Ok, enough rambling, my final scores are as follows: Graphics 7.5 (Not ugly, but not pushing the 
 limits of current gen hardware by any means) .
  Gameplay 9.0 (Once you get the feel used to the control of the bikes, there's no better racing 
 experience to be had.)
  Multiplayer 8.5 (Online racing is lag-free and compettitive, only gripe is NO voice chat!)
  Single 
 Player 8.5 (Career mode is both rewarding and fulfilling with unlockables and performance upgrades 
 from the 125cc entry up to the Gp season finale.) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SadPSPAddict
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 27, 2008 10:25 am PT
Review:  Having enjoyed the previous Motogp title on the PSP and having been disappointed by the SBK title 
 for the PS3 (see my review for that) I had high hope for this and it didn't disappoint!
  
  All 18 tracks have been faithfully reproduced in excellent detail, plenty of bikes to choose from 
 and plenty of upgrades to unlock.
  
  Standard game modes you would hope to see include Quick Race, Time Trial, Championship all of which 
 should be self explanetary. Then there is a challenges section with 50 or more challenges to unlock 
 including things like completing a lap within a given time or within a given time without using 
 too much brake and these are a welcome distraction from the main race mode.
  
  Main career mode - lets you start off with a small selection of teams so pick a bike and get going. 
 Practice, qualify and then race each of the 18 race weekends in a season. Points are awarded for 
 finishing postion etc etc but the extra is position points earn upgrade points to work on 4 aspects 
 of the bikes performance. The career mode spans 5 seasons and the better you do the more teams 
 will open up to you and also the higher CC classes (did I mention you start off in the 125cc class?)
 
  
  All of the modes allow a 3 way choice on how the bikes handle from Arcade (most forgiving) to simulation 
 allowing veterans to jump in on a harder level while even on Arcade with the A1 set to easy I was 
 only coming 5th after the first 6 races! Got the hang of it after that and improved things!
  
  All in all a must have title for a dedicated race genre fan and a nice title to dabble with 
 for the less committed! And at 30 here in the UK it's well worth the spend! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mhillman159
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 27, 2008 8:22 am PT
Review:  Having read some reviews of this game online it seems like the game to get, although its a hard 
 choice choosing between MotoGP and SBK 08 as they both look fairly similar on the covers. 
  
  If you love motorbike racing games then this one is a very good place to start, having played 
 the original MotoGP back in the days of the original Xbox I was very impressed with the improvements 
 in this version. The controls are very easy to pick up and the handling of the bikes is very easy 
 to master, even for someone like me who predominantly plays car racing games. The graphics in game 
 are very impressive although there are some areas that could of been better. Sometimes you will 
 notice some small jagged edges on the rider and the bike. I feel there could of been a bit more 
 detail in the track areas, but most of this is being picky as half the time you wont see any of 
 this speeding down the track at 200 mph on a Moto GP bike.
  
  The game first starts off with a tutorial circuit which includes some helpful tips as your going 
 along and trying to get to grips with the controls, most of the time the tips will give you encouragement 
 on how well your doing, if your not doing so well the tips will give you ways to help improve your 
 riding. I would suggest doing the tutorial especially if you haven't had a motorbike racing game 
 before.
  
  There are 3 main classes in career mode, 125cc, 250cc and MotoGP. Only 125cc will be unlocked when 
 you first start, as you win races you earn points which unlocks different teams and bikes within 
 the 3 main classes, earn enough points and you can unlock them all. During the game you get the 
 chance to unlock different upgrades for your bike to help improve top speed, acceleration, brakes 
 and traction. If you earn enough points per race you can also unlock new helmets for the riders. 
 Before you set off for each race you also have the choice to set your bike settings manually for 
 each race, you can adjust the tyre compound, suspension and a few other things to try and get the 
 edge over other bikes, 90% of the time I'll leave mine to the computer but there is the choice 
 should you need it.
  
  In race, as I have mentioned before there are a few small detail errors but nothing that would 
 spoil the fun of the game. The main glitch that I seem to see on my tv is that the horizon seems 
 to have blotches, sometimes looking as if there are riders going around corners in the distance, 
 although I'm sure that they can fix this in a game update. 
  
  There were however a couple of let downs for me. For one there is no in race music at all even 
 though in the menu system it has music set on as default the music for the game only seems to be 
 in the menus and not in the race, so your racing around for 5 laps at a time some for 2 mins per 
 lap with just the sound of the bike, which ok to some would be fine but after a few hours of riding 
 around the circuits can be a little annoying and having you reaching for the Hi-Fi remote. The 
 other thing for me is that even though this is a MotoGP racing game there is no commentary at all, 
 I would of expected some sort of commentary for this type of game, but then again that maybe just 
 me. Finally the one thing that I was hoping for was customization of the bikes and riders, even 
 very simple graphic games such as Guitar Hero has the options to customize your characters, so 
 I feel that MotoGP is missing a trick with this one.
  
  If your new to these types of games then I would start the game on easy for the first season and 
 then slowly increase the difficulty as you become more confident, I personally found easy to be 
 far to easy. I you have played quite a lot of racing games in the past be it car or bike racing 
 I would start of putting it on Medium setting to give yourselves more of a challenge.
  
  If they update the game to have in game music and sort out a few detail issues and add in customization 
 options for riders and bikes (leather styles/colours, bike styles/colours, even adding in gaining 
 sponsors like in Racedriver: GRID) then this would of been closer to a 9.5 for me but because of 
 these it only got a very respectable 8.5/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lee256
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 25, 2008 7:55 am PT
Review:  The short answer is yes! If you like motorbikes and you like motorbike racing then Moto GP08 might 
 be the game for you! It features state of the art real world bikes, riders and tracks all taken 
 from the 2008 season including the full line up or 125cc, 250cc and 800cc bikes. 
  
  When playing for the first time it's advisable to take part in the short tutorial race as its only 
 available once and will give you guidance on what your doing wrong during the race by pausing the 
 action. Depending on the settings you choose this game can range from an easy arcade game into 
 a simulation game that will slap you in the face for making mistakes so this is a game where concentration 
 is a must, and without the relevant biking experience only the dedicated need apply. 
  
  You get a range of game modes to choose from including Quick Race, Tine Attack and challenge mode 
 while championship mode and career mode are where you go for the full Moto GP experience. I started 
 off in career mode with the only class available which is the 125cc class to start with. I then 
 began by setting the AI to champion difficulty level and setting the style to simulation to give 
 me the best possible racing and challenge.
  
  After each race you then get the chance to see some of the highlights of the race but this isn't 
 as impressive as it could have been partly down the frame rate dropping despite the level of detail 
 being turned down. During the races I experienced a little bit of frame-rate slow down but for 
 the most part the game held together extremely well on the PS3 given the amount of riders on track 
 and the amount of detail being transferred. These small issues could possibly be fixed with future 
 updates, only time will tell.
  
  The PS3 version of Moto GP08 does not support the trophy system and doesn't even pre-install data 
 to the hard disk which might have helped with the frame-rate issue I was having during the replays. 
 Weather you get this game for the PS3 or Xbox360 you will find an enjoyable racing game that improves 
 a lot on the previous Moto GP games on the Xbox360 and the old PS2. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
