-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: MX vs. ATV Untamed
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/ps3/driving/mxvsatvuntamed/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Fun variety of vehicles.
 Outdoor courses are by and large very fun.
 Lots to keep you busy in the game.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Not a great-looking game, especially on the PS3.
 Landing jumps can be unforgiving.
 Several events are more plodding than fun.
 Freestyle events don't feel like they fit.
 Lack of rumble in an off-road game is a big bummer.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Jan 18, 2008
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 6.5
Critic Score: 6.6, 33 Review (s)
User Score: 7.2, 200 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: THQ
Developer: Rainbow Studios
Genre: Rally / Offroad Racing
Date: Dec 17, 2007
ESRB: Everyone

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Yes, MX vs. ATV Untamed is more of the same. But at least it's a  lot  more. 

  With high-profile games such as MotorStorm and Dirt already released on the PlayStation 3 and Xbox 
 360, the bar has been raised for recent off-road racing games. Rainbow Studios' MX vs. ATV Untamed 
 feels a lot like previous entries in the MX vs. ATV series and, as a result, doesn't meet that 
 same standard of quality. Nevertheless, despite its problems, Untamed manages to be a worthwhile 
 and jam-packed off-road racing experience.  

           With a huge assortment of vehicles, you're bound to find a ride you like in Untamed.  
     

  As with previous versions of the MX vs. ATV series, Untamed tosses in a mess of rip-snorting off-road 
 vehicles your way: everything from your standard MX bikes and ATV quad racers, to dune buggies, 
 monster trucks, and even pocket bikes. The different vehicles have their handling quirks -- for example, 
 MX bikes are more nimble but less stable than ATVs --but all of the vehicles are governed by Untamed's 
 fast-and-loose take on physics. The result are vehicles that are able to make epic jumps, turn 
 and twist in midair, and, if you're careful, land with four wheels on the ground and minimal damage 
 to vehicle or rider.  

  However, landing those jumps can be a dicey prospect. When tackling the largest jumps in the game, 
 you never really know for sure when or if your rider is going to be eating a mouthful of dirt after 
 a nasty-looking crash. Of course, part of this is a result of the game's rhythm-racing concept, 
 in which the player is required to preload jumps by pulling back on the left analog stick and pushing 
 forward at the lip of the jump to add extra height and distance to the jump. Learning when and 
 where you need to preload is one of the skills required for making your way through the game. Unfortunately, 
 Untamed is inconsistent in its approach here. Often what seems to be a perfect approach for a landing 
 will result in a painful-looking and time-wasting spill.  

  As a result, gameplay in Untamed is an odd mix; the game encourages players to pull off massive 
 jumps and chain together continuous trick combos but, because of the touchy physics, it often seems 
 as if the game is fighting itself, preventing the player from landing those tricks. This is most 
 pointedly felt in the freestyle events in the game's huge X-Cross Tournament single-player mode. 
 The X-Cross Tournament will have you driving every type of vehicle in the game and playing in practically 
 every single mode available as you make your way through a linear tournament.  

  Unlike the race modes that make up the majority of the X-Cross Tournament, the freestyle events 
 are solely trick-based. Here, racking up trick points is the goal and, unlike the rest of the mode, 
 the game's arcade physics seem bent on preventing you from succeeding at, or indeed enjoying, these 
 freestyle events at all. One peculiar quirk of the X-Cross Tournament is that you can't restart 
 an event once you've begun it, so if you fall behind quickly, you'll still need to finish the event 
 completely before going back and trying again.  

  If frustration sets in during the X-Cross Tournament, the good news is that you can always move 
 on to something else. Untamed is packed with things to do. In addition to the aforementioned X-Cross, 
 the game has a number of event series (nationals, supercross, supermoto, and so on) to take part 
 in, as well the ability to customize single events of your choosing. Then there are the multiplayer 
 options, including split-screen, LAN play and online play for up to 12 players on the Xbox 360 
 and eight on the PlayStation 3 version. Though the online racing is straightforward enough, you 
 can also check out some online minigames, such as Snake (think of a dirt-themed version of Tron's 
 light-cycle game) or Tag, which challenges you to grab and keep a ball for a full minute. Each 
 time you're "tagged" by an opponent, the ball changes possession.  

  Perhaps the starkest difference between the Xbox 360 and PlayStation 3 versions of Untamed -- apart 
 from the lack of rumble in the Sixaxis controller (which is especially noticeable in an off-road 
 racing game full of bumps and jumps) -- are the graphics. The Xbox 360 version looks superior in 
 practically every way, with a superior frame rate, less aliasing, slightly sharper textures, and 
 less graphical pop-in. Playing Untamed on the PS3 will result in some noticeable frame-rate chop 
 in the corners, especially when multiple vehicles are making their way through the turns. Regardless, 
 neither version of Untamed is a graphical showcase, with frequently indistinct textures that are 
 especially noticeable in the lineups before a race begins.  

           Although some events are plodding, it's Untamed's outdoor courses that really shine.  
     

  The vehicle roster in Untamed is defined by its variety, and the same can be said for the game's 
 racing environments. The open-door events are the best in the game; they're typically faster and 
 more wide-open, with just enough narrow passages and tricky sections to keep you on your toes. 
 On the other hand, the indoor events, namely the supercross events, are more technical by nature. 
 As a result, supercross events are far more demanding (read: frustrating) because even the smallest 
 mistake can put you off your rhythm or, worse yet, off your bike completely. A couple of new modes 
 can be found in Untamed. One is endurocross, which you can think of it as an indoor supercross 
 course with rocks, ponds, and logs as your obstacles, but it's a bit too plodding to be fun. Nevertheless, 
 Untamed's best, most imaginative tracks are full of drastic elevation changes and challenging, 
 high-speed series of jumps, and these are sure to give race fans the thrill they're looking for. 
 In keeping with the game's "kitchen sink" approach, Untamed has a huge variety of difficulty settings. 
 For example, in the early X-Cross Tournament events, there are  nine  artificial-intelligence difficulty 
 levels to choose from, though that number shrinks as you progress through the tournament.  

  With Untamed, the formula for the MX vs. ATV series hasn't changed much, and the game is at its 
 best when focused on freewheeling, pedal-to-the-metal speed. There are moments of abject frustration -- think 
 of the most tedious of the supercross events and practically any freestyle contest -- but that frustration 
 is mitigated somewhat by the fact that there's always something else to do in the game. Sure, it's 
 more of the same with MX vs. ATV Untamed, but at least it's a  lot  more.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (3 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: saka55
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 27, 2009 9:46 pm PT
Review:  A little bit about MX vs. ATV Untamed:
  You can race as all different types of vehicles, some are: Dirt Bikes, ATV's, Monster Trucks and 
 others.
  There are eight unique racing series, including the new EnduroCross and OpenCross Events. 
  You 
 can amp up your vehicles with more power, handling and acceleration. 
  When playing online you can play in a containing 8 people.
  
  What I Thought:
  MX vs. ATV 
 Untamed is a great game. The races are fun and you can adjust the difficulty. Playing with two 
 people is also fantastic and is a lot of fun. For me though, the menu is a little hard to follow, 
 i'm not even sure how you unlock new vehicles and make your for eg: ATV get more speed or acceleration. 
 Online multiplayer is fun but there is hardly anyone on. Anyone who likes racing games would love 
 this game or people looking for a great 2 player game then MX vs. ATV Untamed is for you.
  With all of that I give MX vs. ATV Untamed a 8.5/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bognman420
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jan 22, 2008 9:43 am PT
Review:  overall its the ame as every other mx game preload with hard to land jumps its fun but nothing 
 new the game looks like **** the graphics should have been much better. The tricks are fun but 
 freestyle is horrible the tracks they have set up for it are retarded a blind monkey could have 
 drew up better freestye tracks. The online racing is the only reaso i own the game me and my friends 
 race online and its great besides that the game is worthless. Crashing is way to frequent with 
 other players landing on ur head or just bumpig u 25 feet off track and than their is when you 
 cae a jump wich seems like every big jump if not executed perfectly you will be sent flying off 
 your bike. I think with all the time they had to make the next generation mx racing game they should 
 have made it alot better all it really is , is a dressed up versio of last years game with some 
 decent new outdoor tracks. the indoor tracks arw a joke they were very dissapointing. well ill 
 end this with this the game play is great allways has been the rest of the game hould have been 
 thrown away. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ger14
Rating: 3.5
Date: Jan 19, 2008 10:36 am PT
Review:  i didnt even bother to buy this game, it looks just like the unleashed version. What kinda company 
 comes out with a game on a next gen console that is about off roading and doesnt put a terrain 
 that can get deformed and destroyed. the whole point of off roading is so you can get stuck in 
 the mud, or go around a corner and carve up a rut. boooooooooooo! also when driving on the tracks 
 they dont have dense trees.... i wanna feel like im on a trail, not driving on a friggen dirt desert 
 with a total of 10 pine trees across the whole map, the F is that all about, dont tell me its cause 
 the ps3 and 360 cant handle the dense forest, screw you, get a real game designer man! i was looking 
 so forward to this game. i got the ps2 version for free..... played it and wont play it any more. 
 id rather play unleashed or atv fury 4. A note to the game developer.. TAKE A LOOK AT MOTOR STORM!!! 
 maybe you will learn something from it! and also take a look at the Russian game UAZ 4X4 for the 
 pc.... first game ever where you can get stuck in the mud and winch yourself out, those are the 
 games people want! 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
