-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Naruto: Ultimate Ninja Storm
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/ps3/action/narutoultimateninjastorm/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Combat is fast-paced and fun.
 Large and varied character roster.
 Great anime-style visuals and animation.
 Accessible control scheme.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Village sequences are boring.
 No online play.
 Mandatory 4GB install.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Nov 10, 2008
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 7.5
Critic Score: 7.5, 27 Review (s)
User Score: 8.8, 1,097 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Namco Bandai Games
Developer: CyberConnect2
Genre: 3D Fighting
Date: Nov 4, 2008
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
This enjoyable anime-inspired fighter nails the look and feel of the source material but places 
 too much importance on mediocre minigames. 

  Naruto Uzumaki is a colorful ninja who excels in combat but can be kind of annoying. It's therefore 
 fitting (if unfortunate) that while Naruto: Ultimate Ninja Storm is a great fighting game, it's 
 also one in which you have to endure a lengthy, story-driven Ultimate Mission mode in order to 
 unlock most of the playable combatants. Ultimate Ninja Storm does a lot of things very well, but 
 exploration, item collection, and storytelling are not among them.  

  The first thing you'll want to do in Ultimate Ninja Storm is pick a favorite character and dive 
 right into combat. You can't play the game before its mandatory installation is finished, though, 
 and because there's almost 4GB of information that needs to copy to your hard drive, you'll wait 
 at least 10 minutes. Once that's out of the way, the Free Battle mode lets you choose who you want 
 to fight as and against and where you want the fight to take place, and it gets the action under 
 way with a minimum of fuss.  

           The camera rarely stops moving, but you're always afforded a great view of the action. 

  Although there's no tutorial option in Ultimate Ninja Storm, the controls are simple enough that 
 they don't take long to figure out. The face buttons are used for jumps, projectiles, melee attacks, 
 and chakra charging. The shoulder buttons are used to block and call in support characters. The 
 D pad has four different items mapped to it, and the left analog stick is used for movement. You're 
 free to run anywhere you like in the large arenas, and even when combatants are far apart the camera 
 does a superb job of framing the action. Occasionally you might end up viewing the battle from 
 a camera that's more or less looking over the shoulder of your opponent, but the shifts in perspective 
 are so smooth and so intelligent that the action very rarely gets confusing. It's a testament to 
 how great the camera is and how accessible the controls are that this holds true even when you 
 end up defying gravity in fights that move from the ground to the vertical surfaces of walls in 
 some arenas.  

  Since there's only one button used for melee attacks, that's your go-to anytime you're close enough 
 to an opponent to land a punch. There are plenty of lengthy and satisfying combos that can be performed 
 using very little else, but getting a combo started doesn't necessarily mean that you'll get to 
 finish it. That's because blocking is relatively easy -- though not to the point that you can simply 
 hold down a shoulder button and never worry about getting hit. Once your guard is up you can hold 
 it in place for a good amount of time, but this doesn't do you a lot of good. Your opponent will 
 be charging up his storm gauge and become more powerful every time a blow lands, and ultimately 
 your guard will fail and, because you were hiding behind it for so long, you'll be dazed for a 
 few seconds when it breaks. There's an excellent risk-versus-reward mechanic that comes into play 
 when you're having to play defensively; rather than keeping your guard up, you have the option 
 to tap the block button repeatedly in an attempt to parry an attack the instant before it lands. 
 If you succeed, you'll perform a substitution jutsu, evading the attack completely and appearing 
 directly behind your opponent, ready to launch into a combo of your own.  

  One of Ultimate Ninja Storm's most interesting features is the use of chakra. You have a finite 
 amount of this energy that can be used any time to make your existing moves more powerful, and 
 the longer you charge up the chakra, the greater its effect is. You can dash across the screen 
 in an instant by using it in conjunction with the jump button, for example, or turn three projectiles 
 into 30 with a ranged attack. Using chakra with your melee attack will perform a character-specific 
 jutsu attack, some of which look impressively like anime scenes as they play out. Managing your 
 chakra can be every bit as important as guarding against an opponent's attacks -- you can restore 
 chakra at any time by standing still and holding down the chakra button, but doing so leaves you 
 completely vulnerable.  

           The only thing you use chakra for in Hidden Leaf Village is opening locked doors.     

  Using your character's items well can also turn the tide of a battle on occasion, though it's unfortunate 
 that reaching the D pad they're mapped to is almost impossible without briefly giving up either 
 the left analog stick or the face buttons. Items that you can use at any time during a fight include 
 consumables that boost stats and various thrown weapons that either lower the stats of enemies 
 or simply do damage on impact. There's a lot of variety, and because some of the items are exclusive 
 to certain characters, they're worth considering when it comes to choosing who to fight as. The 
 basic controls might be the same for everyone, but the different fighting styles and battle items 
 ensure that no two characters feel the same.  

  The problem is that only 12 of the 25 characters on the roster are available from the outset, and 
 the only way to unlock the rest of them -- along with extra moves, support characters, outfits, and 
 awakening modes -- is to play through the Ultimate Mission mode. Many of the missions you undertake 
 are battles that you have to win while meeting certain conditions, and they make for some interesting 
 challenges. Other missions, though, involve minigames that aren't nearly as much fun: You'll play 
 hide-and-seek with the children of Hidden Leaf Village, you'll race through forests and vertically 
 up the trunks of huge trees, and you'll wonder why you can't unlock the rest of the roster any 
 other way. Worse still, wandering around Hidden Leaf Village between missions to find new missions 
 and to collect the items and currency necessary to unlock new battle features stops being fun after 
 30 minutes, once you've seen everything.  

  Hidden Leaf Village  looks  great, but nothing interesting ever happens there. There are shops 
 to visit, and there are characters with one or two lines of dialogue each to interact with; but 
 until you near the end of the story missions (each is a flashback to a key event from one of the 
 first 100-plus episodes of the anime) , there's very little to test your skills there. Even the 
 secret scrolls that you collect and subsequently spend on unlocking support characters are clearly 
 marked on the map and impossible to miss, so picking them up feels more like a chore than a challenge. 
 The controls you use while in Hidden Leaf are similar to those in combat, but here you use them 
 in much more mundane ways. The only time you'll need to use your chakra, for example, is to open 
 locked doors, and the only targets you'll be punching or throwing shuriken at are inanimate objects 
 that  all  contain money or scrolls.  

           Boss battles are undoubtedly the highlight of Ultimate Mission mode.      

  Regardless 
 of the fact that Hidden Leaf is so beautifully realized in Ultimate Ninja Storm, and despite villagers' 
 attempts to tell you that there are "a lot of people in it," the place feels deserted. More recognizable 
 characters and generic villagers show up as you progress through the missions, but the village 
 never really feels alive, and it would still feel quiet even if you multiplied the apparent population 
 by 10. It's laughable, then, when one of your missions is to break up a fight between the characters 
 Shino and Kiba, who, in an empty space that could comfortably accommodate a few hundred people, 
 are arguing about getting in each other's way. More laughable still is the notion that their fight 
 (read: quiet disagreement) is supposedly bothering people. Still, when other missions on offer 
 include challenges like "play for 20 hours" and "walk 20,000 paces," that one almost qualifies 
 as a highlight.  

  The real high points of the Ultimate Mission Mode -- and, sadly, there are very few of them -- are 
 the boss battles that pit you against "giant" characters like Gamabunta and Gaara. Beating these 
 missions requires a combination of the skills you've learned in regular combat and some rapid button-pressing 
 reflexes for cinematic events during which command prompts appear onscreen. These encounters are 
 not only the most spectacular-looking features of the game, but they're also a lot of fun and, 
 since they're generally bookended by cutscenes, are some of the only times that the story is delivered 
 via something other than a scroll of text.  

  Ultimate Ninja Storm does a great job of looking, sounding, and  feeling  like its source material. 
 The combat is a lot of fun with a friend or against any of the AI's four difficulty settings. Unfortunately, 
 though, to get the most from it you have to spend a minimum of 10 to 15 hours playing and replaying 
 missions in a mode that's artificially long. The lack of online play is also disappointing given 
 that it's practically a requisite for the genre at this point. Ultimate Ninja Storm's biggest problem 
 as a fighting game is simply that it isn't  just  a fighting game.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (66 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: TristanH12
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 18, 2009 2:41 pm PT
Review:  Naruto Ultimate Ninja Storm is the first Naruto game for the PS3. Personally, it has been because 
 of this game that I have become hooked to Naruto and the Naruto Universe. The game features some 
 of the most graphically impressive fights Ive seen for the fighting genre and has renewed my interest 
 in that genre. 
  
  Plotwise, Ultimate Ninja Storm goes through about the first 135 episodes of the Naruto universe. 
 It would have been better if it could have gone through the entire Part 1 of Naruto (about 220 
 episodes) but being that the English dub version of it is finally reaching its end, it would have 
 been impossible.
  
  The single player mode has modes ranging from fetch quests, treasure hunts, specialized fights 
 with requirements (such as win the fight, while not going into awakening mode, and wining with 
 one health bar or more remaining and perform 3 substitution jutsus) . There are also other modes 
 such as race up the tree (an aspect of the show which is for chakra control) , in this case it is 
 a mode in which you just race up the tree exceptionally fast, you can use powerups that cause fireballs 
 to come down the mountain on your opponents. There is also another mode in which you face a giant 
 boss fight (against a huge toad, Chief Toad from the show) , and finally the other mode is that 
 you get to jump from tree to tree in a forest. There are powerups here that allow you to get through 
 the forest faster.
  
  That is all that is to the single player experience. It is a requirement to go through about 60% 
 of this mode. There are many more missions beyond that, but only the hardcore Naruto fan would 
 go through it to get all the unlockables (character costumes, more jutsus, dioramas, music etc) .
 
  
  The fighting is the main aspect of this game. Unfortunately there is not any online multiplayer 
 but there is offline multiplayer. Fights consist of the traditional normal type set ups, except 
 here most of the moves are just mapped to the X or square button for simplicity. A guide of all 
 of the moves is provided on the pause menu for all players, and with practice, virtually every 
 move can be carried out. There is a chakra bar in fights, which is just your meter for performing 
 advanced level moves (such as Naruto's special skill, the Rasengan, a huge burst of chakra at an 
 opponent) . It is also needed to be full, in order to do the special skills. The special skills 
 all take you to a different vantage point and screen in which you have to mash the sequence that 
 appears on your side of the screen. The opponent also receives a chance to mash buttons too and 
 whoever can overtake more control of this bar will gain the advantage; if it is the opponent then 
 they will sleazily dodge it with a log ala substitution jutsu style, or if it is the player, they 
 will launch their killer attack, like the 3rd Hokage's forbidden jutsu, Reapers Death Seal. These 
 are perhaps the best and graphically impressive moves and makes it worth it to play as every character. 
 One final aspect of battle, you can also use support players who you can employ to launch an attack 
 and catch you when you are blasted away. Finally fighting can take place on a 3d field, in which 
 you can fight on the normal ground as well as on the walls.
  
  Pretty much the main cast of our favorite genin are available to play with as well as their sensei's, 
 the the legendary sannin are also available to play as. Support characters are also available to 
 play as and are released as DLC.
  
  The entire voice cast of the show has seemed to reprise their roles here with voiced scenes moves. 
 There is limited voice acting in the story mode, but then there are maybe about five FMVs, and 
 these are all fully voiced. Graphically, this game is shocking in how beautiful it is. It is hard 
 to describe the style pseudo 3D, 2.5D cel shading but it works.
  
  There isn't much more to crave for from this game except for a sequel. I implore you, if you are 
 or aren't a Naruto fan, then you must still get this game!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: symbian3g
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 12, 2009 4:30 am PT
Review:  I have been playing almost every games of Naruto in every consoles, 360, Wii, DS. I have not tried 
 it any on PS2 because I think PS3 should be better. I must say None of that is good enough for 
 me except Naruto: The broken bond on 360. Anyway, after finish "The broken bond", the game is quite 
 boring and the mission is not interested to play as it has to be repeated again and again. 
  
  At first, I play Naruto: PS3 by demo. The fighting environment is much better than 360 and 
 the ultimate jutsu is awesome. However, I got the full game later, It seems a bit flat on story 
 line at start. I think if they use the sound track from original cartoon (like 360) , the game would 
 be more fun and feel like play those animation from real cartoon. Another downside is you got only 
 one button for hit. Um.. on any others game, they would have a button for punch and a button for 
 kick but this game has mixed it to one button. It seems strange to me but it would be easier for 
 someone who is good on fighting but want to play Naruto. Another thing I would like to mention 
 is this game has (I think) more than 20 characters to choose but exclude the 4 ninjas that took 
 Sasuke to Orochimaru. It is not a big deal but they already built these ninja as a support character. 
 Why they dont make it as main character. So, I can play it.
  
  After I played it about half way through, I think I started to excited and entertained. You have 
 to fight, Gamabunta, Shakaku, Manda as in Giant fight as well. It is unbelievable. The graphic 
 is awesome. All ultimate justu is the best I have seen in Naruto games. No more silly mission as 
 360. There are still some but it doesnt make the game boring. More importantly, the difficult is 
 just right. You can complete the game without completing all the missions. I would say I'm trying 
 to finish all the mission because it still fun to play.
  
  I highly recommend for Naruto fan. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Herabec
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 27, 2009 11:04 am PT
Review:  This is one of my favorite fighting games, and my favorite Naruto game in general.
  
  Graphics 9/10 - Absolutely stunning. This could pass off as an anime if it were a little bit jerkier. 
 *winks* In truth however, this game is breathtaking. The attention to details are incredible, the 
 arenas are wonderful.
  
  Characters move and fight just as you would expect in the anime, and each with their very own unique 
 style. Rock Lee's fast and furious fighting style, Itachi's intense speed and finesse, Kimmimaro's 
 dance-like style.
  
  Even out of combat graphics are impressive, and Konoha is rendered beautifully with rich detail.
 
  
  Gameplay 7/10 - Fights are incredibly fast and furious. While controls are simplistic (There's 
 but a single physical attack button) , but with enough depth to make you think and plan ahead. (It's 
 not easy to land a combo, prepare for an ultimate, substitute behind your enemy, and land your 
 strongest attack on them without pausing the action at all, after all.)
  
  If fighting were all this game did, it'd be better. Instead it's also chock full of mini-games. 
 Grabbing scrolls by catapolting yourself, rocketing through a forest to chase down an enemy who's 
 throwing things at you. Trying to navigate through Konoha to find all the secrets.
  
  While these things look good in theory, in reality it's not that fun. Sometimes things are more 
 difficult or unresponsive then they need to be.
  
  Controls 8/10 - The controls are great. They feel pretty natural and are easy to just pick up and 
 play, even for beginners to the genre.
  
  Sound 8/10 - The soundtrack is just like you'd expect from a Naruto game. Upbeat, excellent but 
 it also has it's more dramatic moments. (The cut scene between Sasuke and Naruto comes to mind) . 
 
  
  The voice acting is also excellent, in both English and Japanese, and is as high quality as it 
 is in the show, which is certainly a plus. Also, bite me you people who dislike the english voices! 
 They're just as good as the japanese ones! 
  
  Story 7/10 - The basic storyline is that of the t. v. show. It takes place before the Land of Water 
 story arc, (but notably skips the entire arc) and finshes with the climactic battle between Naruto 
 and Sasuke. Sadly, to get further in the story, you must do side-missions to earn points. These 
 are both tedious and often boring.
  
  Fun Factor 9/10 - It's a very fun game whether you play alone or with a friend. The AI on it's 
 highest level is quite capable of beating the hell out of even a seasoned player. They are quick 
 to capitalize on momentary weakness, and always seem to be a step ahead of your combos when it 
 comes to substituting, though never frustratingly so.
  
  Overall, this is an excellent game, one that I play even months after beating it for the first 
 time. Whether alone or with another person, it's great fun (though more so with someone else, like 
 all other fighters) . If you're a Naruto fan, it's a must have. Even if you're not, it's a good 
 fighter in it's own right. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: windmaster42
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 16, 2009 8:46 am PT
Review:  As I said this is one of the best fighters I've ever played it's got a large variety of characters 
 a good amount of stages and the fighting itself is unbelievable. The story mode is great too it 
 will keep you going for at least 60 hrs. of play time, with tons of missions and bonus missions 
 it is a blast. As I said above its fighting is great every character has tons of combos and the 
 many ninjustu's you can do with each character that's either cinematic of not it's still awesome 
 to piss off your friends with them, plus when you've got them where you want them you can use an 
 epic move call the ultimate jutsu that is cinematic and really excellent. The best part about Naruto 
 ultimate ninja storm is that you don't even have to be into Naruto I wasn't and I found the game 
 fun, exciting and totally awesome so if you're into Naruto or just epic 3-D fighters than say yes 
 to Naruto Ultimate Ninja Storm. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ninjja807
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 8, 2009 1:09 pm PT
Review:  Naruto Ultimate Ninja storm is a great game! It is full of giant fighting areas, an in depth story 
 mode, and offers exiting action during battles. The thing that is most enjoyable about this game 
 is the boss fights. They are very exiting and include frequent button mashing to pull off finishing 
 combos against huge enemys. Also the game includes many characters from the series that will please 
 many naruto fans. Although the game is fun it does have a tendency to get old fast. While playing 
 the story mode the player must complete a variety of different missions to get points to excel 
 in the main story. This concept is extremely boring and you might find yourself playing hide and 
 seek with konohamaru one to many times. Also it lacks online and offers no online fun for players, 
 which i found disappointing. Although this game has its flaws, it will not disappoint a naruto 
 lover, and will set a good example for naruto games in the future. 
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: bleedingwill
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 5, 2009 12:32 am PT
Review:  this game stands out of the rest of the fighting games that i have played. the graphics of this 
 game is amazing to a point of understanding, it looks like its 2D Anime yet its 3D. the fighting 
 stages are vast and interactive to the surroundings. the adventure mode of the game is good but 
 it get repetitive and boring. the story mode is connected to the adventure mode and for the first 
 time i played i got lost and was angered for about an hour trying to find the story mode (ultimate 
 mission mode) . the features of this games is the same as the other naruto series on the ps2, yet 
 there are only 25 characters that can be used. the last naruto game "Ultimate ninja 3" has 45 characters. 
 the characters that are not playable are Sakon/Ukon, Jirobo, Kidoumaru, Tayuya, etc, . the costume 
 that are not in here is green naruto, Hinata unleashed, super chouji, drunken lee, and anbu Kakashi. 
 if they only add these characters and costumes into the game, it would of been a bit better and 
 lot more fun with more players that can play. in conclusion the game is a buy able yet would caution 
 to buy it after you know what "Naruto" is exactly. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rebroxt
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 18, 2009 3:38 am PT
Review:  The game is based on both the Naruto manga and anime. We can can play from the beginning until 
 the end of manga - except the Zabuza & Haku Arc. 
  
  There are three options: 
  1. Ultimate Mission Mode, wich is the Story Mode. We can travel in the Hidden Leaf Village, find 
 treasures, new jutsus and buy extra weapons or skills. Also we can sell things or make ramens/weapons 
 by the items found on the mission list.
  Also we can play side missions, wich could be filler missions too.
  We can play the game's story 
 here and obtain the new characters.
  
  2. Free Battle Mission Mode, where we can play with a friend on a friendly match in a 3d absolute 
 free battle.
  
  3. Options Mode, where we can change the language, volume and so on. If you are real fans, change 
 the language to the original japanese sound. Much better.
  
  The graphic is beautifull, complet 3D world, with anime feeling.
  The sounds and music also perfect.
 
  
  The missions are simple: Fight, Tree Climb, Chasing, Hide & Seek or Boss Fight. The boss fights 
 are super, and have similiar time combo system like the God Of War.
  
  There are 25 character in the game, and some support character.
  We have to buy these characters 
 from the Playstation Network.
  
  The only negative point of the game is the lack of cinematic movies, we have only 10 movies in 
 the game.
  
  So, if you a fan of Naruto, you must buy this game, because it's a perfect fan game, or if you 
 juts like fightning games & adventure games with minigames, also buy this game!
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: NARUTO_CRAZY
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 16, 2009 4:22 pm PT
Review:  This game was pretty much worth the wait for you PS3 and Naruto fans. Some people say that this 
 game suck cause it has no oline and/or the story dosen't make sense. But, I think their wrong and 
 here's my reason. The enviroment of this game is very beautiful and very well-colored for the enviroment 
 and the characters themselves. It is a button-masher but it makes up for it with cool combos and 
 awesome ultimate jutsus. It is 3-D and the camera catches where you are pretty good. The story 
 probably won't make sense to anyone who isn't a naruto fan. Since this game doen't have online 
 you could just play it with somebody near you. You could also buy costumes and support characters 
 from the playstation store. So pretty much if you are a naruto fan you should definitely buy this 
 game and even non-naruto fans will find this game very exciting. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gaara-sama98
Rating: 7
Date: Feb 16, 2009 8:44 am PT
Review:  Out of all things one of the new features I enjoyed was that unlike previous games, where you had 
 to fight on a two-dimensional background, Ultimate Ninja Storm lets you fight in a completely three-dimensional 
 setting. Pretty darn cool. The gameplay itself was nothing spectacular it was a bit short. The 
 fighting was good although I like some of the characters and the flow of their fighting style some 
 of them seem to generic? maybe? I dont know if thats the word I am looking for but whatever. I 
 liked the mini-games even though they were inaccessible on a quick screen. I like the village and 
 the places you could go the amount of space gives a lot of room for running around and finding 
 cool stuff. The method to progress in the story was a bit aggravating but I still got through it 
 without getting too upset. This game leaves a lot out but they have yeet to invent the perfect 
 game so I am not too upset. There are many Naruto games out there and this one has to be one of 
 the top 5 or at the most 10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sleepinglion987
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 10, 2009 12:56 pm PT
Review:  This game is best to be described as a mixture of ultimate ninja and clash of the ninja. It is 
 related to clash of the ninja because it is in 3D and the arena is large. This game is also related 
 to ultimate ninja because of its gameplay. The game also brings a great story mode. It is from 
 the very beginning to the fight between Naruto and Sasuke. The roaming around the leaf village 
 is still in this game. The village is MUCH larger this time. You can also play a few minigames, 
 or go around and collect scrolls and thrown kunais.
  This game has really good graphics and its fun. One of the things i dont like is that they took 
 alot of the characeters out. In this game, they found a new way to use your chakra. You can get 
 a boost in speed if you want. The weapons, however, are limited. But they have all kinds of weapond 
 for every character, like kunai bombs, kunai traps, bomb traps, and more. There is something called 
 awakening mode in this game. Its when youre liffe is low and you charge your chakra to the max. 
 It gives an extreme boost in power and speed. For some chaaracters, like Neji, it includes a special 
 effect. If you have a PS3, you should definetly buy this game. It will blow your mind. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nickyiscool
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 10, 2009 10:44 am PT
Review:  First off this is a sequel i think for ultimate ninja 3 on the ps2 and the visuals on this is SEXY!!!
 
  
  Controls-
  Easy, Smooth and perfect! I love the control scheme it never messed me up it never made me mad it 
 felt so perfect for a fighting game.
  
  Graphics-
  Just plain JUICY it looks like your playing the freaking anime the fights are so awesome you'll 
 see shurikens flinging thru the air support characters popping out of nowhere its just so cool!!
 
  
  AI/Gameplay/and all that juicy stuff-
  Okay at first when playing I was like hmm reminds me of all anime games but i was just so amazed. 
 Before each fight it lets you change your Jutsu's instead of having weak stuff. Okay just like I 
 said Before FIGHTS WILL MAKE YOU SHT YOURSELF!!! You can hit them to the wall and the fight will 
 continue ON THE FCKING WALL!!! the ultimate jutsus just look great i am just amazed by this game.
 
  
  If your a anime fan TRY/BUY THIS GAME!!! If your a Naruto fan BUY THIS ON FCKING SPOT... if u have 
 ps3. If you just want a great fighting game at least try this. I dont hate you Ubisoft but you should've 
 let Namco Bandai make the 360 but i love your game to. 
  Well that is my Review/Opinion. Good Luck Becoming Hokage!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MKing6191
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 5, 2009 5:39 pm PT
Review:  Naruto Ultimate Ninja Storm is an amazing game. There is a nice selection of fighters to choose 
 from, and it looks and feels right. However, the game only has two modes, its story and a one on 
 one fighting. It would have been very easy to put an arcade mode in, maybe an online mode (is not 
 too fussy about that) , a survival, possibly a team battle mode (something that teken does right 
 every time is its variety of modes) . Other than that, a fantastic game.
  Even the music was fairly good; I am a huge fan of Naruto music, but the music on this made me 
 forget about the quarrels i had with the idea of original music.
  If you read other reviews, they may talk about the main story mode being a drag. It isn't. Its 
 only a drag if you want it to be. You don't have to get all the collectables once you complete 
 a single mission. Instead, do it all in rows of 3 or 4 missions, and even then you don't have to 
 get all of them.
  With a little more depth, it could be a very, VERY good game.
  Real score 90 
::::::

::::::
UserName: willcast21
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 31, 2009 6:06 pm PT
Review:  I would have given this game a higher rating but the no online multiplayer feature was a dissapointment. 
 The graphics look great; like watching the animation movie itself. Freedom of movement with its 
 3D interacted envirnment adds more than your usual 2D moving fighting games. Over 25 selectable 
 characters that can also be used as support characters each have their own fighting style and powers. 
 You can play the mission mode that lets you roam free around the map and choose your missions and 
 battles. Or you can just cut strait to the fighting with battle mode. I downloaded the demo because 
 I was bored, thinking that it will just be another limited fighting game. Then it surprised me 
 and I had to buy it the same week. I did not know about Naruto before I got into this game. But 
 I am glad I did because it is a fighting game like no other. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AbyssD
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 30, 2009 5:20 pm PT
Review:  Ok Let me tell u what i think about Naruto Ultimate Ninja Storm first of all i go for the graphics 
 cuz the are sick really next gen :D 10/10 for graphics ok gameplay its awesome fighting its really 
 sick so many combos u can make and combine whit Jutsu plus Ultimate Jutsu its sick whit next gen 
 graphics its look insance and theres alot of characters well all characters form naruto series 
 not for shippuuden cuz this game gos only til the end of naruto :) ok well not about story if u 
 ppl never watch all Narutos episodes i recomand u watch before u play this game if u don' t wana 
 be confused cuz story here are kind of going to fast they don't explain details here but the sick 
 part of the Story mode its when u arive to fight Giant Bosses thats just insane O. O so well made 
 i hove no words to say :D ok now its the most interesting part The Hidden Leaf Village u can contrlo 
 Naruto and walk jump around the village but its not only thing u can do u can also u use naruto 
 canon that really fun an rasengan to break dors plus u can tallk whit ppl around the village and 
 buy items potions and ect... for your battle :D and afcore u hove alot of side missions to do witch 
 give u even more gold to buy stuff plus u hove minigames to do like climbing the tree, collecting 
 items whit time limit and capture the target by jumping from tree to tree with time limit relly 
 really fun :D well i really find the game fund and awesome for ppl who like Naruto u shur try the 
 game its not somthing to miss u can allways rent it to see hove it is :D so here i will give u 
 my final score 
  Story: 7.5 Can be better but still good :) 
  Gameplay: 9.5 Awesome fighting best in all Naruto games :D
  Musics: 9.0 Naruto musics are allways 
 good :D
  Graphis: 10.10 Ow nothing to say just perfect :D
  total score: 9.0
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: superlobo
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 15, 2009 9:51 pm PT
Review:  I'll try to make this short and sweet.
  
  The good News
  
  First, the graphics are top notch , the best looking Naruto game ever. I've put 23 hours into it 
 and only have about 5 missions left (side XP missions, I already beat the story mode) . The fights 
 are awesome crazy, with easy controls to pull off your Jutsu or your Ultimate jutsu (super move) 
 which also look so freakin cool it's amazing. The village is nicely detailed and has shops to buy 
 new items to add to your arsenal to use in fights and you can buy the Ultimate jutsu cut scenes. 
 The music is relaxing while in the village and fighting has real cool music too. Everybody has 
 different grab moves, jutsu's and Ultimate jutsu's of course. Some of the Xp optional missions 
 are actually fun to play.
  
  The Bad news
  
  The character selection. it's missing some of the most bad ass villains in the series, it's missing 
 the Four Sound Ninja's Jirobo, Tayuya, Sakon and Kidomaru. It's also missing the first bad real 
 bad guys that Naurto and the gang face in the Show. Zabuza with his tight water style jutsu and 
 his little side kick Haku and his Cystal Ice mirrors. I really like these characters and they were 
 in Naruto Ultimate Ninja 3 for the PS2. Next is the fact that each character ONLY has ONe Ultimate 
 jutsu, when in Nun 3 each had at least 2 or even 3. The story line has a lot of holes in it (especially 
 the last Arc, chasing Sasuke in that coffin) . Even a pro who follows the series will sayWhat 
 the hell they cut out a bunch of that story and fights with it!" Last one and I know you heard 
 it too, is the fact that there is NO online playwith next gens there should Always be online, 
 no exceptions. I'd say you could get a good 25 to 30 hours of play out of the game, more if you 
 have friends to fight with.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: cant_shoot_this
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 15, 2009 4:44 pm PT
Review:  In Naruto: ultimate ninja storm, which i will call NUNS ( lol NUNS, who wants to fight as a nun? 
 but if you kick someones butt with a nun tht would be awesome xD ) you play as the character... wait 
 you guessed it Naruto Uzumaki! As naruto you fight enemys, make ramen, and try to save the village. 
 
  
  Main Story Line: the story line of NUNS goes almost exactly as the story line in the TV show but 
 with some mix ups in characters fighting and it starts past the Zabuza episodes. All you do in 
 the story is you: fight enemys, climb trees, climb through forests, and collect things. Thts basicly 
 it. But dont worry the enemys get harder and some of the chalanges get hard too. There are two 
 main misson selection lists to choose from: the main story, and shown in different ranked sections: 
 side missions tht involve helping people do things. 
  
  Gameplay: the gameplay and graphics are AWESOME! it looks as if you are in the real hidden leaf 
 village. The gameplay is really fun! for single player: instead of just having a mission select 
 screen you get to rome around the village and talk to people. I really liked this because you get 
 more freedom and it is more realalistic. in the single player story mode you also get to use the 
 new feature called: the naruto cannon. the naruto cannon lets you launch yourself using a shadow 
 clone to move further and faster. this was cool because it was very usefull and fun to use. ( feel 
 free to launch naruto at a wall or something ) Although the game is another, but better version 
 of the classic, button mashing naruto games. Another cool feature is tht you get to make some ramen! 
 you collect ramen by finding ingredient bags and by defeating enemys. What does the ramen do? well 
 the ramen boosters your chakara ( energy in english ) bar so your naruto cannon can go farther 
 and you can dash longer. 
  
  Multiplayer: the multiplay game mode was simply GREAT! you get to kick people onto walls, call 
 in teammates, use special moves to destroy the enemys ( your friend's ) health bar, and go into 
 the character's "2nd mode". in second mode your character gets a special power boost according 
 to wut they can acctully do in the TV show. this i found was really awesome, because you can attemp 
 to beat the enemy with low health and take that last stand. And a bonus to it is that some characters 
 ( according to the TV show ) get a speical "2nd mode" and turn into a special "monster" or have 
 a big power up ( basicly they change apearance ) AND their special attack gets changed ( which 
 was cool ) . please note all of this can be used in single player story mode. 
  
  OVERAL : overal i think NUNS is a great game. But the sometimes the repetition in the games story 
 mode brings it down a bit. And the button mashing can obviously get boring. but kicking someones 
 butt is always fun. On the up side, NUNS is great for playing with a friend over, the graphics 
 are awesome, gameplay is fun and you get to use new characters never used in the other games! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sess1on
Rating: 7
Date: Jan 14, 2009 3:25 pm PT
Review:  The first Naruto game I played was Rise of a Ninja on 360. One of the strong points about the game 
 was that it incorporated clips from the anime into the game's story. Which in turn actually got 
 me hooked on the Naruto series. With the exception of the fighting, which was so simplistic, everything 
 about the game was solid. Rise accurately captured the essence of the anime.
  
  Now we have Storm for PS3. Storm is the complete opposite of Rise in terms of good and bad elements. 
 The only real strong points to Storm are the fighting and graphics. Everything else desperately 
 needs reworking.
  
  Story mode is horribly repetitive and completely butchers the Naruto story arcs. At least the side 
 quests and missions of Rise were fun to play even though they were repetitive. Here they are just 
 boring and tedious.
  
  The on screen dialogue is a joke. I don't know how characters talk in the American version, but 
 the things characters "say" in Storm would never come out of the mouths of those from the Japanese 
 anime. I really feel bad for those fans watching in English dubs if that's how they talk in the 
 American version.
  
  The music they use in game isn't from the anime. Rise had this and was another strong point. Instead, 
 we get this score that is familiar, and almost sounds fitting, but just isn't the same for fans 
 of the anime. Atmosphere wise, it is hard to describe. It almost feels like the Naruto universe 
 but not quite. Something just isn't right, but you don't know what.
  
  Graphically, the game is stunning. Not much else to say about it. Boss battles are fun and innovative. 
 I hope in the sequel they take more advantage of it. The interface is good and the voice acting 
 (I play in Japanese) is top notch. Then there's the fighting. It is what makes the game worth buying. 
 For a fan of Naruto and the Marvel vs Capcom series, this game is a must buy. Fighting is so fun 
 and the fact there is no online play is so depressing.
  
  If both developers for both Naruto games, Rise and Storm, look at the good and bad of each game 
 and take into account what the fans want, future Naruto games could be ages beyond those we have 
 now. For Storm 2, CyberConnect2 needs to focus on building upon the well designed fighting system, 
 introduce online play, and completely reworking the Story Mode so it is actually engaging and worth 
 playing.
  
  For fans of Naruto and fighting games, this is a must buy. The few strong points here way out weigh 
 all the negative. For everyone else, this is worth at least a rental for the fighting alone. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: darkspirit138
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 10, 2009 1:09 pm PT
Review:  Naruto Ultimate Ninja Storm is an amazing game. There is a nice selection of fighters to choose 
 from, and it looks and feels right. However, the game only has two modes, its story and a one on 
 one fighting. It would have been very easy to put an arcade mode in, maybe an online mode (im not 
 too fussy about that) , a survival, possibly a team battle mode (something that tekken does right 
 every time is its variety of modes) . Other than that, a fantastic game. 
  Even the music was fairly good; I am a huge fan of Naruto music, but the music on this made me 
 forget about the quarrels i had with the idea of original music. 
  If you read other reviews, they may talk about the main story mode being a drag. It isn't. Its 
 only a drag if you want it to be. You don't have to get all the collectables once you complete 
 a single mission. Instead, do it all in rows of 3 or 4 missions, and even then you don't have to 
 get all of them.
  With a little more depth, it could be a very, VERY good game.
  Real score 8.8 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AtomicDoom
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 7, 2009 9:49 am PT
Review:  Before this game, I'd only played 2 other Naruto games. Neither of them really stuck out to me. 
 So going into this game, I had a negative outlook. But after playing with a friend of mine, I found 
 myself quickly addicted to this game.
  
  The graphics are what caught my attention first. It's beautiful. The characters, textures, and 
 every other visual aspect of the game are better looking than ever. I doubt this'll be topped anytime 
 soon. With the exception of the new Prince of Persia.
  
  Still, the game really proved itself. The fighting is very fluent. The cutscenes for the ultimate 
 attacks aren't ridiculously long like previous titles. They're interesting to watch even if you 
 aren't the one playing.
  
  On the downside, the game focuses on too many mini-games. These tend to take away from the main 
 focus of the game, but are compensated for with the game's other features.
  
  I would have to say. I enjoy that Sasuke transforms. It is truly stunning.
  
  4 out of 5. Definitely 
 pick this game up. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rafita619
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 29, 2008 9:52 am PT
Review:  Cada vez que hay un salto de generacin, las caractersticas de los juegos que llegan se pueden 
 dividir en dos amplios grupos: aquellas cosas que antes no eran razonablemente posibles, y aquellas 
 que suponen un salto cualitativo importante sobre lo que ya haba anteriormente. Ya hay buenos 
 ejemplos de ambos grupos en estos aos de presente generacin, pero est claro que todava hay 
 margen de mejora tcnico, tal y como demuestra sin ir ms lejos la nueva iteracin de Naruto: Ultimate 
 Ninja, que se estrena en PS3 con su nuevo apellido "Storm" despus de una larga y fructfera serie 
 en PS2.
  
  Realizar un juego basado en una serie japonesa de xito es algo ms complicado de lo que parece, 
 su popularidad obliga a adoptar ciertos compromisos y limitaciones con lo que se puede y no se 
 puede hacer. Muchos juegos similares son un desastre debido precisamente a este factor, pero CyberConnect2 
 est tan familiarizada con esta licencia y ha conseguido ya tan buenos resultados anteriormente 
 que de partida ya se puede esperar un producto de gran calidad dentro de los objetivos marcados. 
 De un Ultimate Ninja se puede esperar un espectacular uso de los personajes y tcnicas de combate 
 de la obra de Masashi Kishimoto, combates divertidos y una mecnica y desarrollo de juego simples, 
 apta para todos los pblicos independientemente de su experiencia.
  
  Algunos de los mejores ttulos japoneses basados en anime y manga son juegos que celebran y homenajean 
 la saga de la que toman el nombre sin grandes aspiraciones creativas. No son complejos juegos de 
 rol, o profundas aventuras, son juegos dedicados a fans, para que disfruten de poder controlar 
 a sus personajes favoritos y con el suficiente contenido como para resultar entretenidos hasta 
 la llegada de una nueva versin -ya que los juegos basados en sagas muy populares funcionan de 
 manera similar a los juegos deportivos en occidente, a una nueva secuela por ao, o casi-. El estreno 
 del experimentado estudio en PS3 parte de una estrategia bien conocida: "resetear" desde el comienzo 
 de la serie para volver a construir nuevos episodios desde el principio y aadir nuevos personajes.
 
  
  Da un poco de pena ver este movimiento, bien conocido entre los que siguen esta clase de juegos, 
 como Dragonball, especialmente porque el ltimo juego del estudio en PS2, Narutimate Accel 2, ya 
 abarcaba una parte generosa de Shippuden y gracias a eso ofreca tena una gran plantilla de luchadores 
 que le daba una gran variedad al juego, mientras que aqu vuelven a estar ms limitados. La buena 
 noticia sin embargo es que Namco Bandai ha sido magnnima y no ha partido la primera temporada 
 en dos o ms partes, apostando por un juego que abarca toda la primera temporada incluyendo la 
 clebre batalla final que cierra la priemra etapa del manga. Una vez que Shippuden se estrene en 
 USA, seguramente la productora dar luz verde para que el siguiente juego ya entre directamente 
 en la segunda temporada. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: therockerninja
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 28, 2008 3:12 pm PT
Review:  this game could be a whole lot better with some online play added to it and i guess if you like 
 naruto like me you will really want to buy this game even though i dont have it yet im still going 
 to get it i want to play the whole game already played broken bonds that games pretty tight and 
 hard core. but other than all that this game expresses the true story of how naruto came to be the 
 naruto he is now and if you dont know what i mean by that i mean the ultimate ninja he is now naruto 
 ultimate ninja storm and broken bonds are like a brother to each other excpet on broken bonds the 
 camara is kinda better on it and some of the levels are actully based on the show and it makes 
 the game better to place instaed like they did on naruto ultimate ninja which they well i guess 
 i have nothing else really to say to you guys but just buy the game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ZenesisX
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 24, 2008 4:35 pm PT
Review:  Naruto: Ultimate Ninja Storm is the next gen installment of the ultimate Ninja series for the PS3. 
 It does some pretty innovative things with this title that is much different from the other Naruto 
 games that are out currently. 
  
  Story: This game follows, or suppose to follow along the popular anime of Naruto, a young leaf 
 ninja. My problem with this area of the game is how the story is told. I'm a huge Naruto fan myself 
 but I cannot help but feel disappointed in the games story telling ability. Fans were promised 
 that the game would cover the first 135 episodes of the show but we were left hanging. Famous people 
 such as Haku and Zabuza were not featured in the game. Other important people such as the Sound 
 4 were not part of the storyline either. This leaves a huge hole in lots of major points in the 
 story. Another problem with the game is the way the game is presented through each arc. For the 
 most part, the story is told in text, not scenes, just text. This does nothing for fans or newcomers. 
 The only cutscenes in the game is at the beginning, end, and of course boss fights. Other then 
 that, you will be reading text. It also bugs me that I feel the developers of the Ninja Storm wanted 
 to tell the story in their on way, not really following along the episodes of the manga or anime 
 like they are suppose to.
  
  Gameplay: Despite the horrid storyline translation of the game, the actual fighting gameplay is 
 where the game really lives up to expectations. The game pretty much plays just like ultimate ninja 
 series did for the PS2 but on a 3-D plain. The controls are still simplistic and easy to learn 
 but it's still very addictive. The camera is very unique in this fighting game, its just one camera 
 for both fighters yet it rotates around each depending on where the players are standing. These 
 are some of the many things that the developers have done right. Besides having jutsu unique to 
 the character, you also get an Ultimate jutsu which looks great in battle. You can only select 
 one jutsu per battle though; the Ultimate one cannot be changed. Players of the game will love 
 the clashes they have with friends; each fight is very frantic in pace at its core. Sadly though 
 if you don't have any friends around you then you're at a lost, because there is no online play. 
 The computer can be a challenge at first but once you learn there fighting patterns it becomes 
 old and uneventful. Its better to play with a human player because they can be very random at times 
 and more tactical then a computer. The battle mode is where most of the credit goes to in Ninja 
 Storm. 
  
  I cannot however condone the Ultimate Ninja Mode for its sins. In the story mode you are placed 
 in the Konoha leaf village were you will complete story arcs, side missions and also collect various 
 objects. It sounds cool in theory like most things do, but when it's put to action, it isn't very 
 good. After being in the village for a few minutes or so, you soon find out that there isn't really 
 much to do. If you wish to unlock all the other jutsus then you have to go around the village and 
 collect these things called secret scroll, which aren't so secret because they are displayed on 
 your map. If feels more like a chore then a fun thing to do when collecting these bothersome scrolls. 
 You will also collect other even more useless items such as ingredients for ramen which holds no 
 point except slightly increasing your chakra. It's a waste of time though because you can't really 
 use your chakra for anything in the story mode except running faster and breaking some doors. You 
 will also be forced to play horrible mini games in the side quest if you wish to continue with 
 the main story. You may find them to be pretty unique at first been then as you progress through 
 the story you will see lots of repeats of these mini games. Despite all the bad stuff about the 
 story mode credit should be placed on the three giant boss fights in the game though considering 
 everything else. Each one has visually pleasing sequences the player gets to view making some of 
 the battle scenes truly extraordinary. 
  
  Graphics: The visuals in no other words leave you breathless. Never have I seen an anime to game 
 translation look so good. Ninja Storm has ground breaking graphics that will impress people who 
 aren't even a fan of the show. Most of this game's charm alone comes from the shear beauty of the 
 visuals. I have no complaints at all in this section, well done to all who worked on the graphics 
 portion of the game.
  
  Sound: The soundtracks are pretty good in this game; all of it is original music. The sound effects 
 are as good as well. I do not have any complaint in this area what so ever. Kudos to the sound 
 designers for doing a good job too.
  
  Value: The actual replay of Ultimate Ninja Storm is varied; it all depends on the player. The story 
 mode is about 10 hours long including side quest and collecting items. The free battle mode is 
 the source of most of the replay ability. Of course how much value comes from this mode is based 
 solely on if you have any friends that live near you and are fans of the show or at least just 
 enjoy that type of gameplay. If not, then you will be pretty bored after beating the questionable 
 story mode.
  
  Overall, as a fan of the show, I have rather enjoyed this game even with its short comings, but 
 that's just it, this game feels like nothing more then a fan service, if you aren't a fan then 
 it would be hard to recommend this game. The storyline is far too obstructing to understand through 
 text though the gameplay is really addictive. So in conclusion, if you are a fan, I say pick this 
 game up or at least rent it and see what you think. If you aren't a fan then you can always rent 
 it too but I can't guarantee your level of satisfaction. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sagax03
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 23, 2008 12:02 am PT
Review:  NUNS is a brand new ps3 naruto EXCLUSIVE GAME that is amazing lets see why.
  
  Story-same awsome story.
  S-"Solid snake owns".10/10
  
  Gameplay-great and possibly best 
 ps3 fighter? I THINK SO! The 3d fighting style works great for naruto games with every special 
 move looking cinematic theres no denying this game is bad also ultimate jutsu become alot harder 
 to use in this game which bring a level of difficulty blocking atacks is pretty easy but the computer 
 can easily be hit even in the hardest diffiucluty plus stage interacton like throwing a opponet 
 onto a rock will allow your charecter to jump and meet it on it but only on certain stages is this 
 possible. amazing tight controls make this game an AMAZING MUST GET!
  S-"HIS NAME IS SONIC"! 10/10
  
  Design/Grpahics-looks even better than anime.
  S-"RASENGAN"!
 
  
  Voice acting- same good voice acters.
  S- "Solid snake owns".
  
  Overall-10/10. perfect just perfect overl perfect TO PERFECT!
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Hezval
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 19, 2008 8:11 pm PT
Review:  Before this game, I'd only played 2 other Naruto games. Neither of them really stuck out to me. 
 So going into this game, I had a negative outlook. But after playing with a friend of mine, I found 
 myself quickly addicted to this game.
  
  The graphics are what caught my attention first. It's beautiful. The characters, textures, and 
 every other visual aspect of the game are better looking than ever. I doubt this'll be topped anytime 
 soon. With the exception of the new Prince of Persia. 
  
  Still, the game really proved itself. The fighting is very fluent. The cutscenes for the ultimate 
 attacks aren't ridiculously long like previous titles. They're interesting to watch even if you 
 aren't the one playing. 
  
  On the downside, the game focuses on too many mini-games. These tend to take away from the main 
 focus of the game, but are compensated for with the game's other features.
  
  I would have to say. I enjoy that Sasuke transforms. It is truly stunning.
  
  4 out of 5. Definitely 
 pick this game up. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dogi224
Rating: 6.5
Date: Dec 17, 2008 7:51 am PT
Review:  Personally, I bought this game the day it came out and thought it would be on another level. But 
 sadly, I was greatly unimpressed. Although I loved the characters and the battles, alot of this 
 game lacked material.
  
  The story mode, if there even was one, was inexplicably poor. They vaguely followed the manga but 
 caused alot of confusion. In the chuunin exams, you fight as Hinata against Neji and your objective 
 is to kick his ass, which I duely obliged. But then poof! A small paragraph tells me that Neji 
 somehow came back from an ass kicking to defeat Hinata. Now, I know Hinata loses in the manga, 
 but it would have been nice to at least have some sort of, I don't know, clip from the anime showing 
 how Neji won! Even if it was only two mins long, an explination rather than oh btw Neji won would 
 have better.
  
  There was not a single cut scene from the anime? How can they have the Naruto licence but not add 
 a single portion of the anime?
  
  If I was to make this game, I would have filled in the gaps with parts of the anime, when you fight 
 Orochimaru in the Forest of Death, your running along a tree mini-game (for the millionth time) 
 and all of a sudden Orochimaru appears, as Orochimaru and not the Female Grass Ninja he was supposed 
 to be! Then after a Mission Complete HUD, i'm somehow back in Konoha! What happened to Orochimaru?
 
  
  Then bang, i'm back fighting with Oro! It was totaly flawed, the music was poor, repetitive and 
 should have been taken from the Anime, i'm sure Toshiro Masuda would not have minded! Considering 
 this game was clearly built with the Naruto Fans in mind and not the general public, there should 
 have been more connections to the anime and manga, there was too big a gap. They rushed the story 
 and ruined it.
  
  I believe they should have added more anime content and if need be, shortened the game up to the 
 end of the Chuunin Exams, ending with Sasuke leaving to fight Gaara. Then bring out a second one 
 that finished Part 1.
  
  A Shippuden version of this game is possible, but I think doubtable for a long time. They will 
 wait until the series is fully developed, otherwise, people like myself would expect to see some 
 Pain's, Diadara's, Itachi (Sasuke fight techniques) etc, and clearly that wont happen as it is 
 too new to the manga and hasnt been anime'd.
  
  Ninja Storm was a dissapointing game, it was good from a Naruto Obsessive's point of view as I 
 loved the techniques and the fights are fun. But alot of the game lacks substance. This game could 
 have been so much more if they had developed it more, it seems some what rushed and withdrawn from 
 the anime and manga. Why keep this game at arms length from the anime and manga? Amalgamate the 
 two!!!!
  
  Its a good job I was a fan of this series, if i'd have bought this game off a whim as a 'non-fan', 
 chances are i'd never watch Naruto ever, believing it to be like that crud they showed in this 
 game!
  
  Overall
  
  Graphics: 10/10 (very beautiful, cell shaded graphics, Konoha was accurately depicted)
  
  Gameplay 
 8/10 (still a fun and enjoyable - yet repetitive game)
  
  Story: 0/10 (was there even one? should have included clips from anime and been much much shorter 
 up to around episode 75-80 not 135)
  
  Difficulty: 8/10 (Not too hard but does become more challenging)
  
  Game Content: 4/10 (Used 
 the same mini games over and over and over and over and over... you get the point, there could 
 have been more anime specific action, some fights didnt follow what happened in the manga, you 
 fought them out in your own way, then a small paragraph told you what actually happened)
  
  Music: 1/10 (awful, awful, awful, music was repetitive and boring in battles, I can barely remember 
 a song worth listening to, should have included official soundtracks - i'm sure Toshiro Masuda 
 wouldnt have minded!)
  
  Replayability: 3/10 (once you've played it, you've played it and it becomes a dusty box in your 
 collection)
  
  Target Market: 5/10 (hits the spot for a Naruto-maniac, but is almost purposely at an arms length 
 from drawing in any non-fans to increase the popularity of the series... why?) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Shaquilllej45
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 15, 2008 2:36 pm PT
Review:  JUST THE BEST NARUTO GAME EVER MADE. IT PUTS XBOX 360'S NARUTO GAME (THE BROKEN BOND) TO SAME AND 
 I AM AN XOBX360 FAN
  
  BEST 
  
  
  JUST THE BEST 
 NARUTO GAME EVER MADE. IT PUTS XBOX 360'S NARUTO GAME (THE BROKEN BOND) TO SAME AND I AM AN XOBX360 
 FAN
  
  JUST THE BEST NARUTO GAME EVER MADE. IT PUTS XBOX 360'S NARUTO GAME (THE BROKEN BOND) TO SAME AND 
 I AM AN XOBX360 FAN
  
  JUST THE BEST NARUTO GAME EVER MADE. IT PUTS XBOX 360'S NARUTO GAME (THE BROKEN BOND) TO SAME AND 
 I AM AN XOBX360 FAN
  JUST THE BEST NARUTO GAME EVER MADE. IT PUTS XBOX 360'S NARUTO GAME (THE BROKEN BOND) TO SAME AND 
 I AM AN XOBX360 FAN
  JUST THE BEST NARUTO GAME EVER MADE. IT PUTS XBOX 360'S NARUTO GAME (THE BROKEN BOND) TO SAME AND 
 I AM AN XOBX360 FAN
  
  JUST THE BEST NARUTO GAME EVER MADE. IT PUTS XBOX 360'S NARUTO GAME (THE BROKEN BOND) TO SAME AND 
 I AM AN XOBX360 FAN
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: boniceman
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 15, 2008 2:47 am PT
Review:  naruto ultimate ninja storm is a great game . i saw the first trailer and get pretty exited. i 
 waited and waited. ordered it in amazon. com and ordered the limited edition. when it arrived . 
 i play and completed the game 100% , the graphics of the game are amazing its so similar to the 
 anime that in every attack or movement you say wow ..... man! the soun effex are pretty good and 
 the soundtrack is original amazing and beautifull. the gameplay is amazing in combat mode. its 
 simple , fast , fun , and amazing. the gameplay of the story mode is kinda sad..... konoha city 
 its pretty good elaborated, its beautifull. the missions of the story mode are not that amazing 
 they are repetitive and boring when you are about to win the game. the game is pretty short and 
 lacks a lot of other characters you would like to use in fight but what else... the game is good 
 pretty good i enjoy it a lot!!! if you are a naruto fan this is a MUST HAVE GAME!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rainpett
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 8, 2008 7:17 am PT
Review:  In my opinion the Naruto Ultimate Ninja Storm for the PS3 is Amazing. The game yust looks great, 
 gameplay is fun and easy and has various mission types. The most memorable thing about this game 
 are the ultimate jutsu scene`s and you gan also view them from the save points where are also the 
 most important anime cenes and character models with movements. The mission types you gan to are 
 regular fight 3 vs 3 or 2 vs 2 or 3 vs 2, there are also two types of races a) Up the tree while 
 avoiding the branches and using jutsu b) Trough the forest also avoiding branches and using the 
 abilety to trow yourself ower them when capturing some blue icons, Then there are hide and seek 
 missions with Konohamaru and his two friends and the final mission type is based on jumping "Naruto 
 Style" and capturing scrolls in time. The game goes from the begenning when Naruto Gets his Headband 
 and ends with the scene where he goes with Pervi Sage to train for 3 years. I would reguest this 
 game mostly to Naruto fans or at least who knows the storyline because the game itself doesent 
 tell much about that like the anime or manga does. Even though the game is missing online its still 
 great and wery adictive. There are 25 playable characters with new ones still coming afther every 
 two weeks to the playstation store. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: K1NGDOMHEART
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 4, 2008 4:48 pm PT
Review:  Just by looking at the name, naruto, it will remind you of the past series made on this game, the 
 fighting style is now the past, the system of this game is quiet unique. the game makers tried 
 their best to make the whole game look like a comic, and it's an RPG of naruto since the beginning 
 of the actually manga story. this game brings a lot of fun, it contains the old school fight system; 
 wall climbing, and everything else a ninja in the anime is capable of doing. very satisfying game 
 play because it offers a lot of style of playing the game.
  the free battle system is another offer this game brings, since its only a 1player rpg in the ultimate 
 fighting story line, dont be bored, the free battle system lets you enjoy the old style of only 
 fighting with opponents you chose or with friends.
  the loading and limited angle in the game could be frustrating but once you're used to it, this 
 game is GOLD. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cortazar78
Rating: 6
Date: Dec 3, 2008 5:13 pm PT
Review:  I gotta say that I'm a huge Naruto fan, and I was waiting for this game, but, when I finally got 
 it, I almost returned it to the store... this is why : 
  
  1. Missions : It was outrageous that a mission could be to play the game for more than 6 - 10 hours, 
 or having 700 steps... just couldnt believe it... I'm really sick of braking the same pots or stuff 
 around the f****** konaha... 
  2. Lousy Story mode : If you are a naruto fan, you know who is gonna win or loose in every battle, 
 its just not accurate to let that character win the battle and even celebrate and found out in 
 the next mission that you are heavily injured for that battle you just... lost?... and the worst 
 part, they tell you that BY TEXT... not even a cinematic...
  3. Its really annoying that you have to return to konaha every single time you win a mission to 
 colect the same boring scrolls... even when you face orochimaru for the first time (by the way 
 you can beat the crap out of him and find out that sasuke has been coursed by him BY TEXT AGAIN) 
 
  4. something I had hard time getting used to was the attack buttons... I mean that every single 
 combination was "super combo #1 = circle x 6 times" 
  , "super combo # 2= circle x 7 times"... just boring...
  5. Its also boring to have the same 
 boring training or missions to jump trees or to climb them... even if its to catch akamaru...
 
  
  well, now that I got it out of my system... the good part : 
  
  - The graphics are amazing
  - The special movements or jutsus are great (chidori!!!!)
  - The 
 gamabunta battle... just awesome (kinda easy though)
  - The option to change the voices to japanesse 
  
  ... the game kinda grows on you, but it could 
 be better ... really
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: terror_ninja
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 29, 2008 8:34 pm PT
Review:  This installment of Naruto games looks the part. The graphics in the game are very similar to the 
 anime series so when your playing you feel like your playing the anime. The story line is a let 
 down though because when you play through you dont see every single moment thats essential to understanding 
 the story, although the cut scenes are very nice to watch. not extremely high definition but nearly 
 exactly like the anime.
  
  Playing around the village is very boring and you have to do it in order to progress further down 
 the line. Stupid little things like finding ingredients for ramen and collecting jutsu scrolls 
 its all a really annoying waste of time.
  
  The only real upside to the negatives of the game are that playing multiplayer is really fun. There 
 really arnt a whole lot of playable characters. It would have been nice to see a lot more but the 
 ones that are there are enjoyable to use. 
  
  Its not really a hard game to finish i finished it in about 19 hours. From the looks of things 
 the naruto games are just the first story line and not shippunden .. if thats right havnt investigated 
 that to much. 
  
  Id advise you to only buy it if its really so appealing to your other wise you might regret buying 
 it, Its just one of those games u can finish in a few days and get bored of reasonbly fast. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dragonflyer123
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 28, 2008 9:51 pm PT
Review:  ...... naruto then this is the game that could be fun for days. Maybe about 1 week or probably 2 
 weeks.
  
  THE GOOD: Highly addictive, Hidden Leaf Village Rebuilt, game play is really tight, and Walking 
 and walking around the village talking to other people..
  
  THE BAD: Not to many people in the village but there's still lots of them but you can't talk to 
 them. Story is not fully ready, Tayuya, Kidomaru, Sakon and Ukon, and Jirobo are only support characters. But 
 I'm wondering why they didn't put Zabuza or Haku..
  Some characters are not playable which are Support Characters also and the Hidden Leaf Village 
 is not fully built like that its like 3x bigger than that.
  
  I think renting it would be good because i just rented it a few days ago. Buying it would be a 
 waste since you just beat it in a few hours or days. I rented mine in Hollywood which was 50% off. 
 I got all the characters, jutsus, and the ingredient bags. The S-Rank missions are pretty fun compared 
 to the others. But its so repetitive when your doing the hide-and-seek one. I hate doing hide-and-seek 
 missions. They don't give you a lot of time to find them. ITS LIKE A BIG @$$ village!! (NOT REALLY 
 BIG BUT BIG)
  If your going to buy this game then PLAY it FOREVER. NEVER GET BORED OF IT. 
  
  O. k, so the story the story is not fully done. They didn't add the sound 4 in. Skipped some 
 of the Chunnin exam matches. They should of put the one Sasuke was fighting, Doku, and the guy 
 shino was fighting. It would make the story understandable. Because its like Sasuke comes back 
 with a black suit on the 2nd part of the chunnin exams. Its like WTF, how did SASUKE PASS!? Oh, 
 I forgot they should of put the girl Shikamaru was fighting. The story pretty sucked. THERE should 
 of been more movies. But the story is pretty fun anyway. BUT STILL, they didn't add the talking 
 and stuff to the other stages in story mode. Every arc was long due to getting MISSION XP. So you 
 gotta do missions and stuff while your at it. The only thing good about the village is swinging 
 on the ropes, collecting treasures, ingredient bags, and collecting scrolls. 
  
  
  Game play : 9/10 - Really addictive combat.
  Value: 10/10 - The value is o. k that's how PS3 games 
 are.
  Tilt : 6/10 - Nicee movies, but still sucked.
  Story : 6/10 - Not fully done, village not done either.
  Mission : 7/10 - Repetitive.
  Character: 
 7/10 - above 25 characters to choose from.
  Jutsu : 6/10 - Not that much jutsus, worse than Ultimate Ninja 1-3.
  
  OVERALL: 8/10 - THE 
 game will be fun for days or weeks.
  This game will be better when the 2nd Ultimate Ninja Storm comes out.
  
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: killakomando
Rating: 7.5
Date: Mar 29, 2009 12:05 pm PT
Review:  First off, this game is good, as an overall game. Well the thing is, theres really NO story substance 
 at all. There are about 5-6 Cutscenes in the whole game witch give you pieces of the story but 
 no enought to fill in a new player about the story. The Cutscenes are animated and rendered superb, 
 And the in-game graphics as well. i. e clothing moves and flutters as you move, Facial expressions 
 are right on for the situation you are in, and so on. 
  
  The fighting is easy, but since they put a timing mechanism in, it can also appeal to hardcore 
 gamers in which skill in a game are recognized as their strong point. The character selection Is 
 Just above satisfying, while the stage selection is lacking. all of the fighters have their own 
 Ninjutsus (Powers) And ultimate Ninjutsus which are Uniques and fun and fair to pull off. Inititiating 
 a Ultimate makes it so that if you fail, Its your own fault, and have nobody to blame. (unless 
 someone smacks the Sixaxis out of your hand) .
  
  The Leaf village looks pretty good, but its a ghost town, there are about 48 people on the whole 
 map. and the shading is wonderful but the enviorments could have used a bit of a realistic touch 
 to make the game look at least a little serious. The sound is good aside from the occasional sound 
 glitch when using an Ultimate to win (It sounds like bomb going off in the matrix and glitched) .
 
  
  And while there is DLC (downloadable content) For the game. They are only support characters most 
 of which should have been normal ones, and A couple missions. And the downloads are spaced pretty 
 far apart in regaurd to date. there have been rumors of stages being downloadable for lack thereof. 
 There are unlockables in the game like music and Character models but theres really nothing to 
 make you want to beat the game in the long run, other than getting all the Jutsus and the last 
 cutscene. Its a good game, i think even if you hate naruto you wont find it unbearable.
  
  If you want something to hold you over for a couple months pick it up. You might or might not like 
 this title. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: skunkynz
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 23, 2008 4:56 pm PT
Review:  sup all i just finished clocking 'nuns' 
  
  it was a very good game a little tiny bit repeditive but hay you cant have everything your own 
 way, i have been an avid and very loyal watcher of the anime and collector of the naruto games 
 
  
  i have played a few of the naruto franchise game's for ps 2/3 x-box and 360 but by far this one 
 is the best one by a mile if not for the fact that you can free roam around leaf village and talk 
 to a HOST of bots and shops, you can jump really high and be chucked by a shadow clone a hell of 
 a long way but the coolist thing is running up wall's and the side missions are so phat, i especially 
 had fun collecting all the dieorams and watching bits of the cartoon that wasn't on the game 
 
  
  anyway i really enjoyed the game, love the anime and will for the rest of my life, i will enjoy 
 this game for that long to , so if you like 'naruto' go and get a ps3 if you haven't already and 
 get this game the two player part in free fight is of the hook buttons are a bit repeditive but 
 the moves you can pull of are absolutely crazy, and if you get somebody who likes street fighter 
 and mortal combat to fight with it can be very fun and addictive
  
  i have gotten a couple of 100 and 100+ combo hits on the bots 'PERFECT' thay didn't even get a 
 hit in lol, you can do the same thing to players the only shortful thing about the game was that 
 it wasn't an online game so you can compete in online matches 
  
  well that was about it i think 
  
  get this game str8 up 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: comeon123987
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 23, 2008 8:25 am PT
Review:  Lets start with the pre-release hype, that was one on the single mistakes namco/bandai made with 
 this game, there were barely any commercials, the best way to sell a game is to a have an awesome 
 commercials. other then that the game itself was amazing. I loved the roam part of the game, they 
 should have increased places to roam, but this was still pretty good. Second the graphics were 
 awesome, it was pretty much HD. Lastly and my favorite part was the fighting all the characters 
 had cool and original moves. The combat (taijutsu) was pretty good. The biggest success in my words 
 would be the support characters. When I first heard there would be support characters I was dispirited 
 because in ultimate ninja 1 & 2, the support characters sucked they were only there to give an 
 item which your opponents always went to get so that ruined your game play, but in storm the characters 
 were called out of now where. That is my review of naruto ultimate ninja storm. Namco/bandai did 
 a great job
  -Ivan 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rofolini
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 23, 2008 3:32 am PT
Review:  I've grown up playing fighting games like mortal kombat, street fighter, and even killer instict; 
 gradually each of these series tried to become 3d fighting games. as 3d fighters they all sucked; 
 why? they were representing a 2d game in 3d space. What i mean is even when they added the "3d" 
 aspect, the characters were always facing each other and could not move around easily, and very 
 few moves were truly dependent on position and therefore failed to take advantage of the "3d" aspect. 
 Many other fighting games went back to 2d, but were pumped up for action; for example, capcom vs. 
 street fighter, marvel superheroes, etc.
  
  what i am getting at is that, historically, 3d fighting games all lacked the element of position 
 (and thus failed to take advantage of a three-dimensional aspect that we would expect in a 3d fighter) . 
 games like tekken, virtua fighter, soul calibur and others that have a reputation for being "good" 
 to "great" games lack the same 3d element. their characters mostly face each other or awkwardly 
 move around in the direction perpendicular to the action. some of their moves take advantage of 
 character positions, however, and note that these games tend to be the "great" ones (like soul 
 calibur) .
  
  naruto ultimate ninja storm takes full advantage of the position of characters. i believe this 
 truly makes this game the first "real" 3d fighting game out there. position, movement, timing, 
 and strategy make this game incredibly fun and accurately represent the key aspects of a 3d fighter 
 that have been missing for many years. 
  
  if you are thinking of getting this game, you won't have to think too hard -- you should just get 
 it. although this game does brilliantly introduce the 3d aspect to fighting a fighting game; it 
 does lack a few things. Here they are: online play, moves during battle.
  
  the fighting really focuses on the position, movement, timing, and strategy really well; however, 
 it seems they forgot that a large part of the fun for fighting games is exercising a character's 
 moves (i. e. pressing the right combination of buttons to perform some action) and taking advantage 
 of that character's properties. for example, ken, from street fighter, can use his dragon punch 
 to dodge haddukens while getting closer to his opponent -- these kind of properties made street 
 fighter ii one of the best and "most well balanced" games ever. Unfortunately, naruto ninja storm 
 doesn't do that. hopefully the next version will. i find it hard to understand why they didn't 
 support this since naruto characters each have unique moves and according to the show they use 
 their hands (to perform seals) to use ninjitsu. hopefully the next version will let you cast the 
 spells that individual characters can exercise. perhaps during a fight a button can be pressed 
 to start or stop a set of seals to perform with the user's hands. i believe that would satisfy 
 my little complaint.
  
  nevertheless, this game was never meant to compete with some of the best fighting games out there, 
 it was meant to compete with the other naruto titles out there. so far, it has completely beaten 
 the other naruto titles with the biggest ease. hopefully the next iteration of the game will compete 
 with the best titles (because the framework has been built and it totally can beat some of the 
 best fighting games) they just need to introduce the "well balancing" and "move exercising", and 
 "attribute manipulation" i was talking about. if the next iteration does that, then that game will 
 easily compete with the best fighting games on the market and redefine what a 3d fighting game 
 really is.
  
  congratulations to the designers and engineers who worked on this game, it truly is amazing and 
 deserves all the praise everyone has been giving it. But after a simple analysis, what they have 
 done is set the groundwork for the next game which will hopefully be one of the best fighting games 
 in existence that will redefine what fighting games should be. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sony-tha-champ0
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 22, 2008 9:16 am PT
Review:  NG=naruto game)
  
  Graphs: they're truly awesome, Konoha looks good, and all the characters look nice (apart from naruto 
 in Ultimate Mission mode, his neck looks awkward) characters and backgrounds look nice (Especially 
 Training field.... but the rest are all MEH backgrounds) but not all
  9/10
  
  Story:
  Using Dialog to progress the story is BAD, its boring aswell, there are only 5 cutscenes in the game, plus 
 characters dont TALK LAME!!!!!
  6.710
  
  Gameplay:
  Konoha is a boring place, but when ot comes down to fighting ,its awesome, the fighting is fast paced 
 and fun, i wish you could turn down those damn support characters. its still fun (needs combos tho) 
 and try playing it on insane with no Handicap, it would be amazing (Mash OOOOOOOOOOOO and 6 combos 
 arent good tho, but overal its a fun battle mode)
  9.0/10
  
  Sound: 
  Chars dont speak (even worse why did they put the cast of who's acting as, they dont even talk for 
 god sake  _ ) but when they DO speak, its better .the Konoha music is atrocious (made it boring) 
 the over music is still good (training field)
  8.4/10
  
  Modes:
  Disappointing, less characters, less jutsus, only 3 modes, konoha is limited, less ougi is bad, but battle 
 mode is the best and saved it
  7.6/10
  
  Presentation:
  its not what i expected ,i thought it would be THE BEST NARUTO GAME, its not. but its still a fun 
 Naruto game and its fighting ownz, but... Nam ban really dropped the ball. i still like, recommended 
 it for any Naruto fans
  9/10
  
  OVERALL: 8.5
  This is the Best Naruto game i played, CONR was crap, UN boring, un2 meh, UN3 nearly killed the series 
 for me, roan was ok tho
  
  and UNS... its fun, just like i want it, all the naruto games i played sucked (UN3 especially) but 
 this.. tis is fun 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sokol4ever
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 17, 2008 7:06 pm PT
Review:  Being a followed of Naruto Anime and Manga ever since Kishimoto first premiered Naruto in Shueisha's 
 Weekly Shnen Jump magazine in 1999 and later on the Naruto anime adaptation which was premiered 
 in Japan on TV Tokyo in 2002.
  
  The whole idea of trust and friendship was very appealing to me as a new comer to Japanese culture 
 and since that time I have played pretty much almost every literation of game versions.
  
  The most current ones that I still enjoy is Naruto Accel 2. I'm a strong followed of subtitles 
 and do not prefer English voice overs however I do respect and appreciate the work the dubs are 
 doing for the fans.
  
  Now then, personal history aside - Naruto: Ninja Storm is a the latest installation and a new beginning 
 for PlayStation 3 exclusive.
  
  The game itself is a excellent, with few small flaws.
  
  Once again, Namco Bandai is on the scene and they did fantastic job. The first thing you will 
 notice, especially if you had seen the Anime or a loyal follower, is the incredible sense of realism. 
 This has to be the most beautiful and realistic Naruto game up to date.
  
  The fighters movements and animations = straight from the top Level Anime Episode, it's that good. 
 When you see how smooth the characters move, it's easy to get lost and believe: "This looks like 
 Anime, not a game".
  
  When the action kicks in, especially on higher difficulty level, the fights become fast, hectic 
 and very, very skilled based.
  
  Make no mistake, Ninja Storm is a fighting game first and foremost and it does a phenomenal job 
 at doing so. This is the most visually impressive Naruto game to date, it almost completely blurs 
 the line between Anime and Game. You have to play it to experience it, the screen-shots can't show 
 you just how amazing it is.
  
  The actual combat while simply on first though is very, very challenging on Extreme difficulty. 
 Personally, for the veterans of Naruto I have no doubts that after first half an hour, they will 
 pump the game difficulty up and then the real battle starts.
  
  If anyone can take on Itachi on hardest mode, please let me know.
  
  The pace of the game goes 
 up to the roof and once you get familiar with the controls - I suggest anyone to play the game 
 on hard difficulty. It really becomes Naruto Anime at that point.
  
  Unlike previous games, where players fight on a two-dimensional background, Ultimate Ninja Storm 
 allows players to fight on a completely three dimensional setting, you're free to move in any possible 
 directions. This captures the Anime feels remarkable and there are some good strategies to use 
 here.
  
  Orochimaru's side moving is especially stunning.
  
  This brings me to another point. Few other review websites didn't like how the game is being played 
 mostly with a circle button. While this way the game is accessible to pretty much anyone, it does 
 take skill to perform some very clever tactics and as I mention earlier, try playing the game on 
 higher difficulty, that's where the real game begins.
  
  While I do have to agree in some views, I'd like to see Naruto take a little more deeper combat 
 system. Maybe in future installations.
  
  Ninja Storm also offers another part of the game, "Konoha Mode" as I call it. In this mode you 
 will spent a lot of time doing tons, tons of missions. This is the only way to unlock all the characters 
 in Battle Mode and it feels a little forced at a time. This is another little complain I; m having 
 with the game.
  
  The game scenario are sometimes tedious, if the missions were only for side quests I wouldn't mind, 
 however to get all the roster - you have to play them like or not.
  
  This is a more of a personal opinion, but I can see some folks feel a little burdened.
  
  The 
 game features 25 playable characters and 10 support characters.
  
  The great news is that downloadable content is available including support characters, alternate 
 costumes, and new missions and completely free.
  
  Even though there is no online play, the content is fantastic, in fact, as I'm writing this, **** 
 is already available for support character download as well a new Mission. New content will be 
 available every month - very appreciated.
  
  Overall, Naruto: Ninja Storm is excellent, few flaws here and there but if you're Naruto fan, like 
 myself, you will have a great time, for everyone else. Try the demo on PSN, give it a rental and 
 decide for yourself.
  
  This game is for fans and maybe you will become interested as well. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: naruto_fans
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 16, 2008 7:04 am PT
Review:  Dude you gotta buy this game, it's just sooooo coooool "THE BEST NARUTO GAME EVER" nothin can beat 
 this game (that is if you're a naruto BIG fan) .
  
  in this game you can't go to the sand village or somethin you can only travel around the hidden 
 leaf village. but the hidden leaf village is so big and that's make it harder for us if we're on 
 a mission especially the hide-n-seek mission. there are a lot of missions including the naruto 
 original story. naruto original story is just until sasuke retrieval/chase sasuke arc.
  
  in naruto ultimate ninja storm there aren't much character (naruto ultimate ninja 3 have more character) 
 but don't worry you WILL enjoy it.
  
  if i'm not mistaken it, these are the list of all character in naruto ultimate ninja storm (playable 
 and support) :
  -naruto (of course)
  -sasuke
  -sakura
  -lee
  -neji
  -tenten
  -kiba
  -shino
  -hinata
  -shikamaru
  -choji
  -ino
  -gaara
  -kankuro
  -temari
  
 -kakashi
  -guy
  -third hokage/sarutobi
  -jiraiya
  -fifth hokage/tsunade
  -orochimaru
  -itachi
  -kisame
  -kabuto
  -kimimaro
  
  downloadable support character:
 
  -tsunade's assistant
  -asuma
  -kurenai
  -anko
  -jirobo
  -kidomaru
  -tayuya
  -sakon
  -first hokage
  -second hokage
  
  (i'm really sorry about my english, cos english 
 is my second language) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DavidsoMatic
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 15, 2008 5:08 am PT
Review:  Well i'm going to devide this in various aspects.
  
  Gameplay: Its awsome althout limited. It's always 0000 and it's good and bad, if you like simple 
 things you just got it if you don't its not the best for you.
  
  Story: Was kind of a deception that it didin't have Zabuza and Haku, the 1 and the 2 but its 
 just alright because it's really entertaining, huge amount of missions, at least I am NEVER borred 
 when playing this game.
  
  Sound: Not bad althout I would prefer original sounds from the anime.
  
  Difficulty: There are 
 some easy missions and HARD. really hard, missions. Its really great, it gives you adreneline.
 
  
  Graphics: One of the best from the game, its ridiculously beautifull. Its like your watching the 
 anime series.
  
  My over all is a total of 8.5, the fact that there aren't many charecters was really disapointing 
 but the game itself was just awsome. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dj_c4
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 15, 2008 2:08 am PT
Review:  The first thing i can say about Naruto Ultimate Ninja Storm for PS3 is that the reviewer from Gamespot 
 is not a Naruto fan and is probably a classic fighter fan boy (SNK, SF, MK etc...) . I'm a pretty 
 big Naruto fan, and this game was made exactly for someone like me. Here's who will like this game:
 
  
  -You like beautiful epic cinematic combat the likes of which has never been seen in a game. Seriously 
 it looks better then the TV show or the movies sometimes.
  
  -You cry when you accidentally flip past Naruto on North American TV and want to punch the English 
 voice actors in the throat and would love a game with the original Japanese voice cast with English 
 subs.
  
  -You don't like games where you have to memorize a bunch of button combos for every character you 
 want to use in order to stand a chance.
  
  -You really really really really like the hidden leaf village. Because you are going to see a lot 
 of it.
  
  -You like unlocking things. The game starts very bare. You have to unlock a lot of things.
  
 
  With all of that being said, if you are not a Naruto fan, there is a good chance you would rate 
 this game 7-8 max. Maybe even lower if you are a die hard classic fighter fan or HATE repetitive 
 "collecting" tasks.
  
  Personally, I own every Mortal Kombat game. I enjoy Marvel VS Street Fighter too, but I wouldn't 
 consider myself a hardcore arcade fighting fan. I really like the fact that Naruto is simple to 
 play. It allows anyone who picks up the game to stop worrying about playing technical and start 
 playing strategic. Which I really like.
  
  The fighting is epic beyond words. It's so seamless, beautiful and cinematic. The graphics and 
 smooth game play are defiantly the shining gem in this game. The fighting is so true to the anime 
 and will be the key factor that brings everyone back to this game. It's just a crazy, fast, simple, 
 sexy looking and fun fighting game with a TON of content / Characters / Specials.
  
  The Bad News:
  
  Story mode, which is required to unlock content in the game is very weak in 
 some areas. The best part of this game is the fighting. Period.
  
  The problem is that the fighting is buried among you playing a ton of repetitive mini games and 
 menial "missions." It gets to the point where you sometimes forget that you're playing a really 
 fun fighting game and start to think you're playing a really sh! tty Mario Party... by yourself... with 
 a Naruto theme.
  
  You spend a lot of time running around the hidden leaf village (which looks awesome and amazingly 
 accurate) collecting scrolls. Thousands of scrolls.
  
  Yes i just said THOUSANDS.
  
  I'm not even 10% done story mode and I have probably collected close to 3000 scrolls. It gets old 
 really fast and it's mandatory. This is not like hidden packages in GTA. You need to do this to 
 unlock important things.
  
  Now the Mini-Games i talked about are pretty cool mini games. They look great and play well. One 
 is running up a massive tree in a time attack or sometimes a race. Along the way you get boosts 
 and power ups in a very simplified Mario Kart kind of way. The other mini game involves jumping 
 and flinging yourself through the Forrest just like they do in the anime when they travel long 
 distances. I think this scene looks visually awesome.
  
  Here's the problem with the Mini-Games. There's too much of it. Sometimes you have to do 2 or 3 
 mini games and go find crap in the village missions before you get to fight someone. You have no 
 choice. You must complete things like this in a specific order to advance the story and be able 
 to fight.
  
  This makes the Mini-Games a pain. They are made worse by the fact that every time you change from 
 the village, to a fight, to a mini game etc. you have to load the game. Mini Games just increases 
 the number of times I have to LOAD. They should have just been fun OPTIONAL bonus games that perhaps 
 allow you to unlock EXTRA content. Instead of being forced on you ALL THE TIME.
  
  It starts to feel like your a kid who has to eat all your vegetables before you can have your favourite 
 desert. And the whole time you're cramming that bitterness down your throat you are muttering to 
 yourself 
  
  "when I grow up I'm going to have cookies for dessert every night."
  
  JUST GET TO THE FIGHTING ALREADY!
  
  I would have actually rated this game a 9.5 or 9.8 if 
 the game played like a classic arcade fighter. Where you fight a battle. Get to watch a cool cut 
 scene / story snip-it. and then go right back to fighting.
  
  The hidden village looks AMAZING but it's such a novelty. I thought it would be a great part of 
 the game when I saw the footage.
  
  I personally can not wait to be done story mode, have all my characters, and just play quick fights 
 till my thumbs bleed. The fighting is awesome. STOP MAKING ME PLAY MINI GAMES AND COLLECT SCROLLS 
 TO GET TO IT.
  
  So there you have it. I hope you found this review fair and in-depth. I hope it gives you a good 
 idea of what to expect. It really comes down to your personal preferences and what you were looking 
 for in a Naruto / fighting game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: twotailednaruto
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 13, 2008 5:31 pm PT
Review:  The best Naruto game I've played to date. It looks to be one of the best Naruto games ever. You 
 don't have to be a Naruto fan to like it ether. The attacks are much bigger than in any other Naruto 
 game ever. When you are watching videos it looks greet and lots of fun to begin with, but when 
 you are playing It's even better. It has both a great battle mode and the story mode has improved 
 to. The village in the story mode was made huge this time and you can ether go through with the 
 story line or you can stop with the story and do a mission. There is a great range of characters 
 as well. The areas are huge and fun to play on. When you knock someone against the wall you go 
 up there to and you fight on the wall. The support characters are a nice help in battle. If you 
 can't get out of the other persons combo attack, just use a support character to help you out. 
 They do the attack that you give them before the fight, so there won't be any mix ups. This game 
 is great and I love it i gave it a 10. Hope you injoy it to. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tyzee
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 13, 2008 5:21 pm PT
Review:  This game truly captures the essence of the Naruto series. Right off the bat you feel engaged and 
 truly satisfied with the feel and magnificent look that Naruto: Ultimate Ninja Storm offers. I 
 could not get off this game for the first three days running... I even called in sick just to get 
 some more gameplay in. The graphics are superb, the mini-games are fun, the sounds and voices are 
 spot on, but the constant loading screens annoy and slow the momentum of this almost perfect PS3 
 version of a Naruto game.
  
  All in all I would have to say that it has done a tremendous job on the fighting genre as well 
 as created a truly remarkable way of incorporating extreme visual Ultimate Jutso moves that flow 
 beautifully with the current of the fights in the game.
  
  With a wide selection of all of your favorite characters to choose from, as well as a variety of 
 ones that you want to beat the hell out of, you will be mixing up teams and combos for ages. With 
 game-play which is fairly easy to learn, but as with any true great fighting game, it will take 
 much practice to effectively master. Having you Rasengan-ing and Chidori-ing for hours!
  
  If you liked the series, you will make this game your religion.
  Naruto: Ultimate Ninja Storm 
 packs quite a punch. Believe it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MaximumD
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 13, 2008 4:00 pm PT
Review:  This is one of the most anticipated Naruto games out there. If you have seen trailers at E3, you'll 
 know what I am talking about. I noticed that many people compare this game to Naruto: Rise of a 
 Ninja for the 360. You really can't because they both are different type of game. NROAN is an Action/Adventure 
 game and NUNS is a fighting game. If Fans want a great fighter, they should get NUNS instead of 
 NROAN.
  
  Anyways, let me start my review. The Graphics in this game is TOP-NOTCH. Everything is smooth and 
 detailed. The characters and background looks amazing on the PS3. You won't see this kind of Anime-Based 
 game graphics anywhere else. Everything from the simple attack moves to the Ultimate Jitsu looks 
 like they are straight from the Anime series. Funny is that it actually looks better.
  
  There are about 20 characters in this game. I did notice they were missing 1 or 2 from the series, 
 but the rest of the characters are good enough and they are everyone's favorites, such as, Sasuke, 
 Tsunade, Kakashi, Rock Lee, Mighty Guy, the 3rd Hakage, and more. They all are strong characters 
 to play. The fighting system in this game is simple and fun to do. All environment is done in 3D, 
 so you'll be running around like in the real world. You use the circle button to attack and do 
 combo's. Each direction you push your analog stick will give you a different combo. The X button 
 is the jump button. You will get a different combo if you jump and attack. Square is the projectiles 
 for long range attacks, such as, throwing ninja stars and etc. The Triangle button is where you 
 charge up your power and by pressing it once and then circle, you will release your jitsu, such 
 as Naruto's Resengan. By pressing the Triangle twice and then circle, you will release the character's 
 ULITIMATE JITSU. You will then need to punch in commands to successfully finish the summoning of 
 your ULTIMATE JITSU. Btw, you can set in the option if you want to punch in commands, button mashing, 
 or the other option, whatever that favors you. When you release your Ulitimate Jitsu, you will 
 see a very beautiful Jitsu scene that can only be seen in this game. You will be very satisfy after 
 seeing it.
  
  There are also supporting characters in this game. When you choose your main character, you will 
 need to choose 2 supporting characters. There will be an option to set what kind of moves you want 
 them to use during fights. To summon them into the battle, you will need to press L1 or R1. They 
 will come out and do their thing and go back when they are done. This gives the battle system more 
 strategic approaches when fighting with an opponent. There are certain times when you knock your 
 opponent away, you can quickly press L1 to call out your supporting character and do an extra hit 
 on them. It's very cool to see that they have thought of this.
  
  The Directional buttons are basically used for items, such as bombs, healing potions, poison, traps, 
 and etc. The cool part about this game is when you use attacking items, you can quickly jump in 
 and do your combo's. This will add up to your Combo hit count.
  
  This is game is not without flaws. The Ultimate Mission Mode (Story Mode) is very repetitive. You 
 are to do missions by pressing Start and then Missions. You will see the story missions, which 
 progresses the story, and the side missions. The Side missions basically are mini games, like chasing 
 a character through the forest, climbing trees, jumping hoops, fighting other characters, and etc. 
 They are fun but gets repetitive rather quickly. When progress in the story mode, you can by items, 
 exchange scrolls for Jitsu's for your characters, and unlock characters. One thing I really like 
 about the Ultimate Mission Mode is the boss fights. They are extremely EPIC. Fighting the giant 
 frog and etc. Many really don't get this, but the story mode is just a place for you to unlock 
 your characters and items. It also helps on your fighting skills. I take as more of a training 
 course than a real story mode. You got to remember, this is a fighting game, not an Adventure or 
 RPG. Fans should already know the story.
  
  The Sound in this game is pretty good. You can choose original japanese language or English dubbed. 
 I did notice one thing though, there's a glitch in the sound. Sometimes when you finish a match, 
 there's a repeated sound that goes on and on until you press start. I hope they can fix that in 
 a patch or so.
  
  Bottom line is, this is one of the best Naruto game I've played so far. Good: Top-Notch Graphics, 
 fast-paste fighting, Dual Language support, plenty of characters, and Ultimate Jitsu are satisfying.
 
  
  Bad: Story Mode and side missions are very repetitive and short, missing a few characters, sound 
 glitch. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheNetworkZ
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 12, 2008 5:40 pm PT
Review:  As soon as I popped in the disc I got a mandatory install. No big deal, it's like I'm the only 
 one who doesn't care.
  
  I go to Free Battle mode before anything else and play a couple of rounds, very good animation 
 and graphics. Gameplay could be more complex, though (I guess I'm just saying that since I usually 
 don't play casual fighters) . The gameplay is mostly just circle, square, triangle, and the back 
 bumpers. Very fun, especially playing with friends. Support characters could get annoying after 
 a while.
  
  I started to play the Story mode. It was fun at the beginning, but at the Tsnuade arc, it started 
 to feel more like a hassle than a something fun. Some mini-games were overdone and got boring after 
 a while. but beside that, Konoha looks amazing as ever and is fun to run around in (except when 
 you're looking for Konohamaru) .
  
  After you're done unlocking everyone, there really isn't much to do except having random match 
 ups. Yeah, you could play with your friends, but come on. How many of your friends really want 
 to play Naruto? Exactly. Like everyone else, I really wish they added online play. It would be 
 fun fighting people all around the world and learn new combos and even fight with your friends 
 on the internet. I guess that CC2 and NamcoBandai thought that DLC would keep us playing the game. 
 They are really wrong. I'm already bored of the game.
  
  Something I should have mentioned earlier is the character roster. Not to big, and not small. Perfect 
 for me. Although, Sasuke is always God Tier in Naruto games, and in this game he really IS God 
 Tier.
  
  The Good - 
  Looks amazing
  Fun and simple controls
  Good roster
  Fun to run around Konoha
  Good difficulty.
  
  The bad - 
  Story mode feels like a hassle
 
  No online play
  Bad mini-games
  Gameplay is a little TOO easy.
  Sasuke is STILL God Tier.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Rockuto
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 12, 2008 9:15 am PT
Review:  I am a pretty hardcore Naruto fan from day one, but this game just does not really do it for me. 
 Graphics are really cool, really clean. The fighting is super fun. Really huge upgrade from the 
 other Narutimate series, which is pretty sweet in itself. My main problem is the single player 
 campaign. It is all mission based to unlock characters. And most of the time, you are running around 
 the village, which is kind of stale, getting items.
  
  Overall, it is an "ok" game. i had super high expectations for this game, a little disappointed, 
 not going to lie.
  
  (killing review space... stupid minimum amount of characters)
  
  *CHEAP PLUG*
  Go snag a Persona  
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NIS_agent
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 11, 2008 10:50 pm PT
Review:  I thought It was the best Naruto Game ever...
  3D..... good graphics.... and the right difiiculty too which you can change....
  Great and fun 
 game! But though they could have put more characters in the game and spent some more time on the 
 main story rather than the side missions.... it was still awesome! Great setting and environment 
 to play at and it had really clean and neat graphics too. Amazing missions and battle modes especially 
 when battling the giants. Also I loved all the jutsus of all the characters and they were so specific 
 and exact. I saw some people giving this hard- earned game a 5...... a 7.5? give me a break....
 
  YA YA YA YA YA YA YA YA YA YA YA YA YA YA YA YA YA YA YA YA YA YA YA YA YA YA YA YA YA YA YA YA 
 YA YA YA YA YA YA YA YA YA YA YA YA YA YA YA YA YA YA YA YA YA YA YA YA YA YA YA YA 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kelgeta
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 11, 2008 10:49 pm PT
Review:  I've been tracking this game for months and when i got it i couldn't stop playing it. The graphics 
 blew me away and the fighting engine is simple enough for beginners but complex enough for strategy. 
 Advanced gamers might get annoyed with the simplistic controls and combos but in all it was what 
 i expected it to be....... except the story mode. Granted there are some entertaining moments but 
 the bulk of the story consists of naruto roaming the village breaking boxes, and doing little side 
 missions that are mandatory for you to progress in the main story line. Besides that the replay 
 value isn't really that great since the only two modes in the game are free battle and story mode. 
 I would recommend this game to all naruto fans and maybe a few who just like a good fighting game; 
 everyone else should rent it first. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bigdrew1478
Rating: 5.5
Date: Nov 11, 2008 8:34 pm PT
Review:  sad ofr me is that i bought this game, i beated before the week is out. what is even more depresing 
 is that i bought the limited edtition. nothing too special about it, i got a cd with music the 
 develpoers made for the game, whish is nice to listen to but has hardely any nartuo feel to it 
 (if u get my drift) . when i first started play i was soo stoked! i watched the first cut scene 
 and my body was pumping! then once i started my first mission i had to read what was going on which 
 wasnt too bad for me. then after my first mission there was no cut scene..... first dissapointment...... then 
 i finished the first arc, no cut scene.... second dissapointment. as being a naruto fan i kept playing 
 the game, and once i finished the second arc (the chunin exam) there was finally a cut scene! but 
 it was way too short!! i did not play for a couple hours of complete silence to see a quick min 
 & 1/2 vid, of Gambunta (summoning Frog) hat isnt as important then the first time orochimaru was 
 revealed! there was just too many things i disliked with this game that i cannot ever recomend 
 it. sorry for my rant about how i did not like it. if you like to know about the pros and cons 
 of my opionon u can email me.
  
  rent it!!! dont buy it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: STANONYEKWELU
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 10, 2008 6:33 am PT
Review:  perfect game excellent gaming wide open areas to play about in the adventure mode is so cool all 
 you guy that don't have this game you guys need to get it=3 when i first saw it i was speechless 
 not because of only the wide areas of gameplay but because i was proud of the gameplay and graphics 
 and the rotation of the cam
  this is the best naruto game in the generation of naruto games forget about naruto ultimate ninja 
 1,2 and 3 and also forget about rise of of the ninja and naruto the broken bond because naruto 
 ultimate ninja storm is better than all of these naruto games including the new one coming out 
 in November the 18 2008 could n't think of anything else to write down because typing up 800 charaters 
 is kinda long and i can't be bothered so sorry gamespot and gamespot user but be sure to read my 
 review of naruto ultimate ninja  
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kongousou_ha
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 11, 2008 2:26 pm PT
Review:  Naruto: Ultimate Ninja Storm has to be one of the best Naruto games I've played in a very long 
 time. I've been longing for a game that could capture the style and flow of the series and this 
 game has done just that. Oh and let me say this right now before I continue; the inclusion of the 
 Japanese voice acting was a HUGE PLUS. CyberConnect2 please, if you read this PLEASE CONTINUE TO 
 DO SO. I think a lot of hardcore fans would have avoided this game if it wasn't for the Japanese 
 voice acting that you so cleverly decided to include.
  
  Ultimate Ninja Storm (we'll call it UNS for the sake of my wrists) is honestly one of the most 
 beautiful games I've seen in a long time for its genre. I've generally been disappointed when anime 
 shows became game titles however this one hit the nail right on the head. The flow of the battles 
 is intense and visually stunning and the characters look fantastic doing their own special techniques 
 and even moving around the stage. A great example for me was my first fight with Itachi; seeing 
 how fast he could move, you really got the sense that you were fighting some ridiculously strong 
 ninja. 
  
  However, while the visuals are stunning this is also where one of my complaints comes in. I wish 
 that the game utilized their graphics more and included more cut scenes. I was disappointed to 
 see that they had no cut scenes for some of the major fights, particularly rock lee vs. gaara (as 
 that is still one of my most favorite fights to date) , and that cut scenes were only available 
 for the final missions in each arc. However, when they make use of cut scenes the TRULY make use 
 of cut scenes. You really do feel like you're sitting down to watch the anime. 
  
  The fighting system is fantastic. You can pull off some really great combos with ease. Some people 
 may complain about the button mashing aspect but I don't really see how the controls could have 
 been done to provide you with anymore control over the combos. The controls are simple enough where 
 anyone who wants to play can pick up the game, but also varied enough to provide complexity and 
 necessitate the use of strategy no matter who you're fighting. And again, the battles look just 
 plain amazing. 
  
  Finally we come to Ultimate Mission mode. I must say that I was very pleased with ultimate mission 
 mode. Apparently game spot was not, but I don't know that they'll EVER be pleased with a PS3 game. 
 The village of Konoha looked stunning. I was so impressed with how CyberConnect2 managed to capture 
 every single detail right down to the roofing on the houses. Another big draw for me was that the 
 background was actually a background; there were trees and clouds as for as the eye could see; 
 no fading into a color or awkward disappearing elements. The Naruto cannon was a novel idea. It's 
 so much fun to blast from one rooftop to another and when dashing, you really get the sense of 
 quick and skillful movement jumping from roof to roof. The flashback missions were great, although, 
 I would once again like to have seen more cut scenes. Also, being the Naruto purist that I am, 
 I would like to have seen them not chop up the story where they needed to, thus excluding various 
 characters and key fights. These include the haku and zabuza fight, as well as the key fights against 
 the sound four. I know that DLC will still play a factor but I feel it would have been better to 
 keep the story the way it is. But again that's just because I'm a purist and I've been watching 
 the show since 2003. The minigames were fantastic. The tree climbing events were beautifully done 
 as well as the races through the forests. Again being a purist, I wish that they had more minigames 
 that went along with the story. For example, the rasengan training could have been a minigame where 
 you use the joysticks to rotate chakra flow in a balloon or something to that effect, rather than 
 altering the story for another tree climbing mission. Finding the treasure boxes containing new 
 support and battle techniques and increasing your chakra through finding ramen ingredients were 
 also quite fun but (and this is one of the ONLY times I'll agree with gamespot) collecting the 
 treasure scrolls did become quite tedious; however once you can trade them in for VERY large sums 
 of money, trust me; it will become less tedious very quickly. 
  
  All in all Naruto: UNS is one of, if not the greatest Naruto games in the current market. Tremendously 
 stunning visuals, a fantastic fighting system, an involved and enjoyable mission mode, and add 
 in the joy of FREE downloadable content and you get one game that you cannot pass up Naruto fan 
 or not. I hope that CyberConnect2 takes on the challenge of producing a game of this caliber or 
 better if (hopefully when) they take on the Naruto: Shippuuden series. 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: MusashiSensi
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 11, 2008 4:47 am PT
Review:  I bought Naruto: Ultimate Ninja Storm two days after it released & was excited to play this game 
 because I am a big fan of th series (Waaaay before it came to the US) . Anyways, the game has ups 
 & downs that I shall get to now.
  
  
  Story- For those who do not know about naruto here's a short summary. The story starts you out 
 as Naruto who is a ninja from Konoha who's goals are to become hokage. He sets out on journey's 
 with his team leader kakashi & his teamates Sakura & Sasuke Uchiha. The game picks up from the 
 start of the series up unto the chase sasuke arc. The game did skip the zabuza haku arc & fights 
 against the sound ninja but this could be skimmed over. 
  
  
  Gameplay- The gameplay is a tad bit cool but could've been more interesting. You have only two 
 modes of gameplay which are Free Mode & Ultimate Mission Mode. I remember in the past naruto games 
 I played, I was able to play fun mini games with my girlfriend. Ultimate mission mode was a bit 
 lame since we're trapped inside konoha doing lame missions & we're doing running around a not so 
 interactive village. Besides a lame village, we have only one ultimate jutsu which sucks because 
 in past games we had more! I can say some moves in the game are pretty cool to watch. Three major 
 features that were missing & brought the game down are: No online multiplayer, few characters & 
 few jutsu's. These three would have to be implemented in the next game in order for me to buy it.
 
  
  
  Graphics- The graphics are very well done. I love watching some of the jutsu's & ninjutsu's just 
 because they're visually cool. 
  
  Music- The music was pretty nice. It was nothing to get hyped over, so I took it as a small issue.
 
  
  
  Replay- I would only replay this game for free mode. In my opinion I hardly see the story as replayable 
 unless you're bored in a few months.
  
  
  
  Overall- The game was a good first installment for its debut on the ps3. I just hope the next game 
 has online multiplayer, more characters & much more ultimate jutsu's.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: mechsiao
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 10, 2008 11:47 pm PT
Review:  I waited the game for quite long and expected to delve immediately into action with superpower 
 characters once i grabbed it off the shelves. However, most of the characters are locked and could 
 only be unlocked through the mission mode. The mission mode is not all fight, although creative, 
 but some missions like tree leaping and animal chasing is pure dumb for a fighting game. It's boring 
 and a pity to waste such good graphics and music into such missions that appear more often than 
 not at the beginning. Most of such missions then repeat with different animals, akamaru then pakkun 
 etc or reducing the time limit to accomplish the entire mission. But it is the same map again, 
 the trees, the way you manoeuvre, it's like so cheapskate recycling the same thing again. And it's 
 part of the mandatory storyline mission. The fights are also too easy unless playing against a 
 real player. There are ways to go about defeating the AI too easy. 
  
  Loading is also a little long, if not to the extent of irritating. After every simple, recycled 
 mission, comes loading. 
  
  Otherwise, the fighting aspect is good. Graphics and sound are awesome and up to expectations, 
 if not better. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bahgahyahduh
Rating: 6.5
Date: Nov 10, 2008 5:15 pm PT
Review:  Number one, the fighting gameplay is absolutely perfect. I wouldnt change a thing about it. Only 
 to add more jutsu's for the characters to do. But the fighting is just breathtakingly amazing. 
 But for those who dont know the story. I would not recommend this game. Theres no story in this 
 game. And half the pleasure of Naruto is the story. Cyber Connect got the other half perfectly, 
 cuz I just cant say enough how amazing the fighting is. But you just dont know whats going on and 
 there isnt much variety in level design either. When your fighting key enemies, the backgrounds 
 they use are totally wrong. They need to make more levels. The game does have an amazingly huge 
 Konoha to play in, but you really cant do anything fun in the village. The game gets very repetitive. 
 And everytime they have you do some kind of training, they always have run up a stupid tree. (Spoiler) 
 Like when training for the Rasengan, they have you run up a damn tree. What the hell does that 
 have to do with Rasengan. I really thought this game was going to be a new standard in all games 
 when this came out. But it just missed alot of points. I just wished that I didnt waste money on 
 buying the limited edition. This game just doesnt have any substance. You dont feel anything when 
 your playing the game, but frustration. Because as you take on the story, which is split up into 
 missions. Those missions last about less than 2 minutes. After your done with a mission. You have 
 to wait for a long load time for the game to load up the huge village of Konoha again and again. 
 I really hope people stop encouraging the developers. And have them make a new Naruto game with 
 the same excellent fighting system. This game needs substance. They need to rework the whole story 
 and then some. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: James_ps3mad
Rating: 6.5
Date: Nov 10, 2008 9:46 am PT
Review:  Naruto Ultimate Ninja Storm, is first off a casual fighting game, the fights are simple and easy 
 to do and have some truly amazing effects, mostly the ultimate jutsus scale are simply insane.
 
  
  CC2 have redone the hidden leaf village for free roam in the single player mode, while the village 
 looks great, the single player missions and story are not. for the entire story you press start 
 choose a mission that you have enough experience for, the missions are a standard match, mini games 
 running up a tree or dashing through the Forrest over and over again. The non story rank missions 
 (D-S) are basically the same, with stupid objectives such as walk 20000 steps, why? The cut scenes 
 are good but there's no where near enough to tell an the whole plot to someone who doesn't watch 
 Naruto, there's about one at the end of each arc and voice acting is out of time.
  
  Overall this could be an amazing game it has the great graphics, but everything as needs to be 
 improved for Naruto Ultimate Ninja Storm 2 (Shippuden) such as the controls why do we need two 
 block buttons, they should have changed l2 to the square button to throw your weapons and have 
 square as a second attack, one jutsu per match could be changed by using the right analog to select 
 different jutsu. Story mode needs real missions like, leave the village, get to your destination 
 and do what the objective needs you to do, not some crap mini game. Also fix the long constant 
 loading times. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kna3000
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 11, 2008 10:24 am PT
Review:  By far this one is the best ever in the series of the Naruto games. The town is cooling down the 
 heat of the fight with the music. We can have different opinions & sit down all day long trying 
 to make it better. & we will. But if there is one thing that i don't think that it can be done 
 much better, then its the fighting style. Its gorgeous. Yes I'm a little disappointed about the 
 jujitsu & the final blows being from the first part of Naruto. The story is the same as the series 
 (before Shippuden) so no surprises there . BOTTOM LINE : You won't regret spending time on this 
 game. Personally, I think the player should be a Naruto fan before playing this game .
  Another good thing is that you can switch the voice act between English & Japanese. My only take 
 about this game os that i think its little bit easy. I mean you can start from the INSANE level 
 immediately before even trying the game. Then its ought be fun for every one . 
  The graphics are nice, the same as the anime, more or less. But it was expected, since its running 
 in the PS3 platform, right? 
  The main reason for me that made me give it only 7.5 (apparently alot disagree with me) is .... 
 it is expected to be like this . 
  But its worth it . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: stigzy
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 9, 2008 11:32 pm PT
Review:  It is a very good game, but miss som things. For example using chakra to walk on the walls should've 
 been accessable on the whole map. The 25 characters that is in the game was e very good choice!:) 
 The ultimate mission mode is a good solution, but there is always a but, the tree climbing 'minigame' 
 should've been done in another way, not just run on the tree. Should at least press som buttons 
 to use chakra to stand on the tree. That's a big miss. I have played the game for 17 hours now 
 in 2 days, and just can't wait to play more:) It would been nice if there where a multiplayer game 
 on the network, so we could play against some friends. The big thing with the game that was a big 
 plus was the japanese spoken language. If the game did not have the japanese language, i think 
 that i would not buy the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: domine
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 9, 2008 6:29 am PT
Review:  The only problem this game has is that loading times could be boring sometimes cause they break 
 the action. Under the other aspects I think that this game hits the goal: fights are spectacular, 
 funny, fast and learing the commands is simple and requires 10-15 mins: forget the combo like Tekken, 
 where you must remember hundred of button's combinations for playing your character proprerly, 
 or street fighter, where you had to injury your fingers in order to execute the moves: here there 
 are few buttons to hit, what's needed is the tactic, the reflexes and the quickness. Each character 
 can be customized: it's possible to choose his clothes, his chackra moves and the two supporting 
 characters who will take part in the fight. Also minigames and other stuff in story mode is awesome 
 and add a great longevity and some GDR issue at the fighting game. The story mode allows you to 
 revive all the main events of the anime, including good videos, lot of minigames and fights with 
 summoned character, like Gamabunta: those fights are a true joy for the eyes. Is a must for everyone 
 likes Naruto and fighting games in general. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lance159753
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 8, 2008 8:52 pm PT
Review:  NUNS is easy to pick up and great to have some multiplayer fun. Its JUST like the other Naruto 
 Ultiamte Ninja games except this one is bigger, badder, and more awesome-ER. IF your new to naruto 
 and have a PS3 i suggest you start with this game. Its really easy to pick up and have fun. No 
 button mashing here, you have a variety of attacks, like dash, kunies, chakra dash, awakening mode 
 and so on. Although the really annoying part about this game is it has Horrible story telling. 
 But this is of the fighting genre, its a solid fighter not an RPG. You want story telling? Then 
 you should buy Naruto The Broken Bond instead. ANother messed up thing about this game is for somone 
 reason you need Mission EXP to do STORY MODE missions. Its annoying playing these random break 
 200 boxes for 50 EXP missions. It would be better to have jsut palyed the entire stody seperetly 
 and have a seperate mission mode too. Overall this is a solid action fighting game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mester07
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 8, 2008 6:30 am PT
Review:  the best naruto game ever. no the best game ever
  the best naruto game ever. no the best game ever
  the best naruto game ever. no the best game 
 ever
  the best naruto game ever. no the best game ever
  the best naruto game ever. no the best game ever
  the best naruto game ever. no the best game 
 ever
  the best naruto game ever. no the best game ever
  the best naruto game ever. no the best game ever
  the best naruto game ever. no the best game 
 ever
  the best naruto game ever. no the best game ever
  the best naruto game ever. no the best game ever
  the best naruto game ever. no the best game 
 ever
  the best naruto game ever. no the best game ever
  the best naruto game ever. no the best game ever
  the best naruto game ever. no the best game 
 ever
  the best naruto game ever. no the best game ever
  the best naruto game ever. no the best game ever 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Superman_legend
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 6, 2008 11:49 pm PT
Review:  I bought this because I played in gamestop it was amazing. Just bought a ps3 downloaded the demo 
 only naruto and kakashi on it but i kept coming back and playing. Friend came over who is very 
 picky played demo for over an hour. Ive played the other narutos yeah rise of ninja etc. But this 
 is on hold different level. the fact that u have a full area to fight in 3d is amazing. Its really 
 fast paced and has a lot of strategy I mean the game looks great when u fighting how the character 
 are so fluent it can even make the show look bad at times all character play perfect like there 
 counter part to the show. I havent bought a fighting game in a long time especially not for 60 
 bucks but this game was without a doubt worth it.
  
  Gameplay Fighting is the best part you have a character and up to 2 support characters who u can 
 pick from any that u have unlocked. Each support character has atleast 2 ninjustsu u can pick from 
 the start but unlock even more by playing the story mode which also pretty fun. Combine this with 
 the fact that everyone has 4 different items that can be used a fight most can be use atleast 2 
 times per item. Each character also has one unique item like kiba has food pills that boost his 
 attack. The battle are so customizable u have to use all type of strategies. You can summon both 
 support characters at the same time, use an item, and be coming in for the attack yourself. Think 
 about your opponent can be same thing. SO it can be 6 character on screen doing attacks and two 
 or more items it can look very hectic. Lucky these thing what make the game so cool its never overwhelming 
 just very fun strategy fighting. It be 3d area u can dodge or block everything if ur good that 
 why it good to time attacks. Catch your opponent off guard. 
  
  If your thinking about this game get it u will be satisfied without a doubt. Best fighting system 
 ever. It never get old. Ton unlockable character and support character plus support ninjitsu, even 
 costumes in some cases. Every has a ultimate jutsu which everyone looks amazing plus every character 
 has an overlimit mode too. Naruto ninetail fox form Sasuke beast form even your moves change and 
 ultimate jutsu. Some charactr just become stronger. . Playing with a friend is the best though. 
 Also has downloadable content like more support character which already a lot, customes, and secret 
 missions. Everything stays true to Naruto. Finally a naruto worth 60 bucks. Best Narut game ever. 
 PS3 owners rejoice. And im not fanboy for either i have all the systems and a pc. Each has ups 
 and downs.
  
  Updated I give it a 9.0 still everything applies best narto game period. Its a 9.0 without friend 
 9.3 with a friend. And would been amazing to have online play. That would just blown this awesome 
 game out the water to always have someone to play with.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Remie
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 6, 2008 1:15 pm PT
Review:  Never bought a anime game before, and this was a pleasant surprise. If you like Naruto, this game 
 is for you. great blend of adventure and fighting, although, it could have used some more movie 
 animations. you have to bear through a loading screen everytime you see your collectibles and inbetween 
 missions. Its not horridly long, but its gets annoying. The non fighting missions are essentially 
 the same, they vary a little bit here and there but they are still fun. The point of money is purely 
 superficial, I wish you could use money to actually buy stuff to use in combat. Also, maybe im 
 just an idiot, but I cant figure out to change items in combat to what you purchase in the store... 
 shrug ill figure it out eventually. Also, keep in mind ive played the game for like 6 hours, and 
 im only on the 3rd arc so my opinion may change after another 6 hours. Atleast the game isnt short 
 like most other games of this genre. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DiEND
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 5, 2008 8:52 pm PT
Review:  I can confidently say that even if you have never seen the show or heard of it, you will definitely 
 enjoy this just because of the cool interface it has... It's like controlling an anime show... 
 the characters are so well done and the environment is so huge... with online capabilty (no multiplayer 
 though) in the form downloadable contents this can be considered to be a growing game... oh and 
 i forgot to mention that you cant even differentiate between watching the show and playing it... 
 well maybe when you feel your thumb getting sore you'll probably get a hint... lets just say that 
 Naruto Ultimate Ninja Storm just set the bar high when it comes to anime based games... it just 
 goes to show that the developers are starting to uncover the power of the BIG BLACK BOX!! resistance 
 2 hahaha and many many many more awesome exclusives to come
  
  Anyways... O-B-A-M-A!!!! "do you know what's up?? CHANGE, that's what's up..." :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CursemarkChris
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 18, 2008 2:50 pm PT
Review:  This is completely by far the best naruto gmae that has yet to come out, and will still probably 
 be better then broken bond, which comes out later this month. Animations are great, annd best of 
 all their faces dont look so pasted on like they do in rise of a ninja and the broken bond. Everything 
 runs so smoothy and organic and naturly as to the stiff moving in other next-gen naruto games where 
 they side step everywhere, instead of running like they do in the anime.
  Only a few things make this game not as good as it could have, things like th character roaster, 
 only 25. And using up a massive 4GB is really anoinying and is just comepletely too much. 
  Also the mission mode is excellant too. It introduces the new naruto cannon which alows you to 
 make a shadow clone and have it throw you over barriers and high places that you want to go to. The 
 towns animation has also been sharpend making it look 98% like the show. The only thing this game 
 lacks the the 360 game has is online but everything else makes up for it. Ultimiately I give the 
 game 9 Editers Choice!!!!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: pooka216
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 4, 2008 12:18 pm PT
Review:  I don't think i have ever played a better fighting game. It has amazing graphics that look incredibly 
 similar to the anime. The ultimate mission mode is great, but best of all is the free battle mode. 
 You can recreate your favorite battles from the tv show. The amount of characters may have made 
 some people turned off, but all of them have much detail and originality, that it doesnt play a 
 huge impact on the games presentation. In the previous u. n. series, you could make characters use 
 jutsus that they dont actually know. This game does not have that, but the support characters take 
 that problem away. The stages have a very wide open space to fight, and the use of support characters 
 was a very great addition. The demo is nothing compared to the full game, so don't go on first 
 impressions, and pass it off. Over all i think this is a great game, with many customizable opportunities 
 that can keep you playing for months on end. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: naruto3336
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 4, 2008 4:18 am PT
Review:  With the Ultimate Ninja Series out and selling millions, Storm is not behind in its race. Storm 
 sets the expectations from Naruto games to such such height that it would be impossible to break 
 unless it was on a next-gen system or maybe even only on PS3. 
  
  Storm comes with a lot of different gameplay modes that will give you a different experience from 
 playing. Even in the story mode there are boss fights and races and tree climbing and etc. In the 
 boss fights you will want to press buttons observed fromt the screen and press it fast to do a 
 certain combo or attack to the monsters.
  
  The gameplay is kind of shallow because they focus less on the taijutsu (hand to hand combat) and 
 more on long range fighting. Though this is what actual ninjas should do, we are more used to the 
 short-ranged fighting. Also pressing the O button will allow you to do most of the moves which 
 is kind of simple. This is good and bad.
  
  The cutscenes are so amazing you would want to look at them over and over again. This also goes 
 to the specials. Namco Bandai has done a tremendous job in the cutscenes and specials. The graphics 
 are the main outstanding feature of this game. Graphics would get 10/10 because they were flawless. 
 
  
  There was also an Ultimate Mission Mode. In this mode we get to roam around konoha the village 
 hidden in the leaves. This was intriguing because it gave a GTA IV kind of a feel. You can do missions, 
 run errands, earn money, and a lot more. This was a plus for the game.
  
  The only thing they should improve on is that the loading times were tremendous. This is a problem 
 for the ultimate ninja series. If they had implemented Online then the fans would be really disappointed 
 at the loading times. 
  
  All in all a sharp engine and awesome gameplay makes storm the best Naruto game around ! If you 
 are a fan this is a MUST BUY ! Even if you have no idea who or what Naruto is you should take a 
 look at this game by checking it out by renting it ! 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
