-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: NASCAR 08
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/ps3/driving/nascar08/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 The chase is a nice way of introducing players to the sport.
 Plenty of tracks and drivers.
 Races are intense.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 No career mode.
 Default controls are incredibly finicky.
 Driver AI is poor.
 Very limited visual customization options for cars.
 Online play doesn't seem to work for many.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Aug  1, 2007
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 6
Critic Score: 5.9, 24 Review (s)
User Score: 5.9, 252 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: EA Sports
Developer: EA Tiburon
Genre: Stock Car Racing
Date: Jul 23, 2007
ESRB: Everyone

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
NASCAR 08 is a decent racer, but it feels like a classic example of a game where the developer put 
 in limited effort because of the lack of competition. 

  NASCAR 08's box touts the fact that EA's NASCAR series is the number one selling NASCAR franchise. 
 Nowhere on the packaging does it tell you that it's the top-selling franchise because it's the 
  only  NASCAR franchise. However, the fact that there's no competition is made apparent as soon 
 as you play. It's extremely light on features, online play is lacking, and its visuals do little 
 to take advantage of the power of the Xbox 360 or PlayStation 3. NASCAR 08 is a competent racing 
 game, but you can't shake the feeling that it would have been a whole lot better if there had been 
 a competing NASCAR game out there.  

  NASCAR 08 features a solid number of tracks and almost every driver you'd want. The only major 
 driver who's missing is Carl Edwards, but there are some notable track omissions, including Mexico 
 City and Montreal. You can race a full, half, short, or custom season in the Nextel, National (Busch) , 
 or Craftsman truck series. You can race a season in the Car Of Tomorrow -- but it's just one and 
 done -- there's no career mode.  

           The cars show a lot of damage.      

  Instead, there's a new mode called the chase. You start the chase as an unknown driver and your 
 goal is to earn a contract by completing license tests. Each license is separated by track type. 
 There's a license for super speedway, speedway, Car Of Tomorrow short track, Car Of Tomorrow speedway, 
 Car Of Tomorrow road course, and Car Of Tomorrow super speedway. To earn a license you must complete 
 10 tasks, which teach you the basics of NASCAR racing. You'll learn how to draft, slingshot, and 
 avoid wrecks, follow racing lines, as well as how to maintain your speed through difficult turns. 
 The game uses some handy visual aids that show a car's draft and the optimal line around the track, 
 so it feels very friendly to beginners. Once you've completed a license, you'll be offered a two-race 
 contract with a racing team, and if you fulfill that contract, you can then race a season with 
 that team's car. The chase is certainly a good way to introduce the sport to newcomers, and it's 
 nice not to have to race through all of the lower-tier circuits as in previous years, but it's 
 still no substitute for a proper career mode.  

  It's a good thing the chase is such a good teaching tool because actual races can be quite challenging -- for 
 both good and bad reasons. One area where NASCAR video games differ from most racing games is that 
 one small mistake can mean the difference between finishing first and finishing last, even if you 
 have damage turned off. This makes every lap important and maintains the intensity of the races. 
 Never has the ability to be perfect been more important than in NASCAR 08. The game is best played 
 with a steering wheel because the default controls are  extremely  touchy, making it nearly impossible 
 to race in a pack. If you don't have a steering wheel, you can adjust the linearity and responsiveness 
 of the controls to make them more forgiving. This makes the game much more playable. You can also 
 use the Sixaxis' motion controls to steer. This works OK, but isn't a substitute for a wheel.  
 

  Unfortunately, there's nothing you can do about the game's artificial intelligence, which is quite 
 poor. Drivers don't seem to have personality as they did in previous games, but they do all seem 
 hell bent on wrecking you. Depending on which course you're on, opposing drivers will just as soon 
 run into the back of your car as they will pass you. This isn't bump drafting either. They'll do 
 it when they're clearly the faster car, they'll do it in turns, and they'll do it when you're racing 
 three wide. They say "rubbing is racing," but when it routinely costs you the race, it gets pretty 
 frustrating, especially when the CPU doesn't seem to wreck very often.  

  Once you've come to grips with the controls and have gotten used to the CPU's "love taps," there's 
 a solid racing game to be found. Races are generally close and though some may dismiss NASCAR as 
 "just turning left," you can really feel the difference from one track to the next, so it pays 
 to practice. If you do make it into victory lane, you can choose to celebrate by tearing up the 
 infield and doing doughnuts on the track. That never gets old. There's also a fair amount of tweaking 
 you can do to squeeze the most performance out of your ride. You can even share setups online, 
 but these adjustments are mostly optional, though they are beneficial against tough competition. 
 It's too bad that the ability to customize your car's looks isn't as deep as your ability to customize 
 its performance. You can choose from a handful of different paint schemes and colors, but once 
 again, you can't pick a number under 100 or create custom designs.  

  One area that really should have benefited from the move of one generation of consoles to the next 
 is online play, but that didn't happen. There are leaderboards, but there are no leagues. You can 
 race against up to 11 other players on the Xbox 360, but we were unable to connect with another 
 player on the PlayStation 3. Should you connect with another player on either system, you'll find 
 that it's rare to find a full field and that it seems to take a very long time to start a race. 
 Eventually you'll get to actually race, which is a good thing, because the racing is solid and 
 lag isn't a huge problem. One small issue from the offline mode, which is exacerbated during multiplayer 
 because of the tendency to wreck more often, occurs when the game waves the yellow flag before 
 wrecks are actually finished. This means that unless a wreck occurs right in front of you, you 
 won't have to deal with trying to weave in and out of it, which is kind of fun. More importantly, 
 it means that you never get to pass the wreck, and as a result, you'll be behind the people who 
 just wrecked during the following restart.  

           GPS isn't needed; you probably want to turn left.      

  The other area where you'd 
 expect NASCAR 08 to really take advantage of the Xbox 360 and PS3 hardware is its visuals. But 
 that didn't really happen either. The frame rate is nice and smooth, with day turning to night 
 during some races. The smoke and dirt effects are also pretty good, but mostly everything else 
 is underwhelming. The tracks look decent but come off as rather bland, and they don't look much 
 better than they did on the last generation. There's quite a bit of aliasing on both the tracks 
 and cars. Cars look OK, especially when you can check out all 43 of them in line during a restart, 
 but you rarely get to enjoy them much. Car damage looks nice during replays where you can really 
 watch the cars fall to pieces, but because every little bump causes your car to suddenly show damage, 
 it doesn't look very realistic when you're racing. The audio isn't much different from before. 
 The cars sound great, while your crew chief does an adequate job, even if he sounds bored and routinely 
 falls behind the action.  

  NASCAR 08 isn't a bad game; in fact, it's fun once you get the hang of it. Its biggest problem 
 is that it's not noticeably better than last year's game and there aren't any compelling new features. 
 If really want a NASCAR game and it has to be on the PlayStation 3 or Xbox 360, then NASCAR 08 
 is worth a look because, quite frankly, it's your only choice. But if you own any NASCAR game from 
 the past few years, you might as well stick with that one.  

      
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (30 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: mtlnascarfan
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 25, 2008 7:37 pm PT
Review:  
  
  Nice to see that EA is FINALLY "getting in gear" as far as the NASCAR brand is concerned. However... all 
 is not perfect in "left-turn land".
  
  The graphics and playability are smack on... almost to the point of PC sim perfect. The camera positions 
 are there... the animated pit crew is there (BEAUTIFULLY rendered, I might add. The car setup is 
 there... albeit a bit TOO technical for some people (is EA trying to appeal to the SIM racers with 
 this aspect?) but one thing that is NOT there... and this is a big disappointment... is 2-or-more 
 player OFFline ability.
  
  Wh did EA abolish this part of the game? 
  
  Personally, I love to play head-to-head with my 12 year-old stepson (he's also a Stewart fan) so 
 I bought the PS3 40Gb model, 2 Logitech G5 wheels and I bought NASCAR '08 hoping for some great 
 family-oriented racing with my little guy. Needless to say... when we found out is was only 1 player 
 offline, we were both disappointed and bewildered. 
  
  Evidently, EA Sports has completely ignored (that is... if they EVER knew in the first place) the 
 fact that NASCAR is a FAMILY-ORIENTED sport. Parents pack up the family every Sunday and head off 
 to one of the 26 tracks during the season in for an experience that unfortunately is one of the 
 VERY few things that a family can do together nowadays. If the real thing is for the entire family, 
 and apparently EA is striving for the experience of "real" racing... then WHY... oh, why... have they 
 turned the NASCAR gaming experience from multi-player fun into that of a solitary, one-player, 
 "you-can-drive-when-I'm-done, son" disappointment?
  
  You were THIS close, EA... THIS close.
  
  We'll see in June whether or not '09 rectifies this 
 VERY large mistake. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 76diesel
Rating: 1
Date: Apr 19, 2008 4:31 pm PT
Review:  Don't waste your money on NASCAR 08 EA Sports really dropped the ball on this one! Nothing about 
 this game is fun, its very difficult to play if not impossible. Before you can race in the cup 
 series you must pass a series of tests and some of these test can be down right impossible. The 
 car handles terrible, on some tracks no matter what adjustments you make to the car it simply will 
 not turn. You'll spend more time crashing into walls than racing. I don't know what EA Sports was 
 thinking when they developed this game but its a total waste of money. Plus they did away with 
 the two player option so you can, t race with your buddies, only online racing is available. I've 
 taken my NASCAR 08 and sold it on ebay thats how bad it is and I've played all the NASCAR games 
 since 2001, I've actually gone back to playing Nascar 2003 which is a great game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jrfanfreak88
Rating: 7
Date: Feb 20, 2008 10:18 pm PT
Review:  One of the most important things you have to know about me is that I am a huge NASCAR fan, and 
 I have owned NASCAR games since the days of the original Nintendo. Ever since EA purchased the 
 rights to be the only game developer to make NASCAR games, I have been very critical of their efforts. 
 NASCAR Thunder 2002 was a huge step forward in NASCAR gaming, with the introduction of the 43 car 
 field. However, NASCAR Dirt to Daytona came out about a year later and not only offered a 43 car 
 field but also offered realistic car set up options that gave the game much more substance. NASCAR 
 Dirt to Daytona is arguably the best NASCAR game anyone can buy for a console.
  
  So, for years I have complained and complained on the EA forum for a realistic NASCAR game from 
 EA. They needed to give us more set up options, make restrictor plate racing realistic, fix the 
 framerate issues, and make the A. I. a little bit harder to beat. NASCAR 08 actually includes a 
 lot of fixes for the problems that have riddled EA games. For example, they re-designed Talladega 
 to make it more realistic and now the racing is usually 2 wide for the majority of the race. Also, 
 there are tons of car set up options and the driving is much more realistic, so much so that even 
 the temperature of your tires will affect how the car handles. Plus, it seems the A. I. is a bit 
 more aggressive but not too aggressive.
  
  Unfortunately, where the game excels there are also big failures. For example, EA gave us a TON 
 of new set up options but didn't tell us what settings do what. So, instead of them telling us 
 to lower the wedge to make the car loose, they tell you to just change one thing and then test 
 it out to see if that helps. The problem here is that this will force you to practice for HOURS 
 before you might even begin to feel remotely comfortable driving the car. Even worse is the fact 
 that usually once you find a good set up it ends up not being competitive against the A. I. Of course 
 you could put the game on easier difficulties but the game shouldn't be harder than Gran Turismo. 
 Ultimately, finding the right set up and getting the car to handle properly is so difficult there's 
 an extremely good chance you'll be sick and tired of dealing with it and want to stop playing the 
 game or trade it in for something else.
  
  Another big downfall of the game is the fact that the create a car is horrible. There are less 
 paint schemes available, you can't have metallic, flat, pearlescent, color change, or chrome paint. 
 You are very limited on number styles, and the placement of decals is limited to what the game 
 chooses for you. EA needs to make create a car much more unique and give users more freedom to 
 make create a car more of an experience instead of just an option. Plus, I think EA needs to let 
 users upload their own created cars to share with other gamers.
  
  Online mode is also incredibly painful to play. Usually connecting to a game is next to impossible, 
 and there are frequent hang ups during gameplay. Plus, it is very common for cars to switch positions 
 on the track when a caution comes out, and sometimes you will run 95% of the race under caution 
 because of other players spinning each other out due to incredible lag on the EA servers. EA should 
 look at F1 Championship Edition on the PS3 to see how online racing should be done. 
  
  Also, one thing that is slightly annoying is when caution flags come out. If an A. I. car spins 
 in front of you, and the caution comes out, usually the game takes control of your car just seconds 
 after the yellow flag flies. This means you will not have any chance of driving through the big 
 on at Talladega or a pile up at Bristol. Unfortunately EA needs to give gamers the freedom of controlling 
 the cars under the caution or at least until we get back to the start finish line. They could then 
 give us the option to skip the caution laps or just drive the car ourselves. I don't believe we 
 need to be able to drive down pit road since I can only see how the game could be messed up by 
 one tiny accident.
  
  Last but not least, career mode was much better in previous games. To start off in a lower series 
 and then work your way up to the trucks and nationwide series was a lot of fun. This time, you 
 are actually stuck doings tons of tests to unlock particular cars for certain tracks. It just doesn't 
 work out the way it should. Personally, I think EA needs to think about doing something on an even 
 lower level than the modified cars. They should consider dirt late models or sprint cars. Not only 
 is this how drivers like Jeff Gordon and Tony Stewart started out, but having a solid dirt game 
 in a NASCAR game would make it incredibly addictive. It would give players the option of doing 
 something different than just driving in circles on concrete.
  
  To sum things up, I applaud EA for listening to NASCAR gamers. They tried a ton of new things and 
 there are a lot of things in NASCAR 08 that are huge improvements of previous games. You can now 
 watch replays of an entire race, the restrictor plate racing is a lot better (except for the fact 
 that A. I. cars will pull down on the apron to let you by so usually it's a pain to try and bump 
 draft) , there are a ton of set up options present (you just won't know how to use them) , and the 
 graphics are actually very good. The lighting is a million times better than previous games, it 
 is very true to how it happens in real life (past games usually had the sun in the wrong spot) 
 and before you say the graphics look bad don't forget that there are 42 other cars on the track, 
 whereas most racing games only offer 6-20 other cars. So, for being the first NASCAR outing on 
 the PS3 I think the graphics are actually pretty good. They could be better, but they are much 
 better than the first PS2 game EA did (NASCAR 2001) .
  
  EA could of made this game much better than it is. Because they made the game so hard when it came 
 down to driving and setting up the cars, the game is for the most part more of a chore instead 
 of fun to play. It's hard to find that balance between realistic and fun to play, but since EA 
 does not tell gamers how to set up the car properly you will be wasting hours trying to play a 
 game that has so much potential. Remember, people play games to have fun and relieve some stress 
 from daily life, which is something I don't believe NASCAR 08 does.
  
  This was the first time in a long time that I felt EA tried very hard to please angry fans, unfortunately 
 they have fixed many problems yet created plenty of new ones. They really need to get some NASCAR 
 gamers in, play early builds of the game, and go from there.
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: butterlou
Rating: 3
Date: Jan 10, 2008 7:30 am PT
Review:  I really don't have much to say here. I mean this is NASCAR! It's about speed, crazy speed. I didn't 
 even bother with '07 because I wanted to wait for 08 knowing it'd be on the PS3. Well, it got here 
 and I wish it'd go back! What happened to the awesome chemistry that was used in 06 on the PS2? 
 That game was the best in the series. Right up there with NAS Thunder 04. This 08 game is shabbles, 
 demeaning, a waste. The car of tomorrow looked pretty good and so did the regular car and I would 
 have known if the tracked looked nice if I didn't have this HUGE GREEN/BLUE whatever color draft 
 it was ramming in my eyes as I tried to swallow this piece of crap title. Where is my car design? 
 Where's the trucks, open wheels, where is the developer so we can whup his @$$ for having us spend 
 our saved up pennies for this mess. They better come correct because I don't do the DiRT or MX 
 vs. ATV ordeals but if this is what its come to; I may have to lose NASCAR from my library. Sad, 
 sad occasion ladies and gentlemen. WOW. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: theidcguy
Rating: 7
Date: Jan 9, 2008 2:19 am PT
Review:  NASCAR 08 was a good start to next-gen but control of the car takes a lot of practice, the whole 
 "feels like ur in a real NASCAR" thing is a little off cus one when u crash into another car the 
 other car most of the time doesnt even move any where u may see like dents and big hit written 
 all over it but thats not how it usually is! two theres not really any where to gain speed on superspeed 
 ways i mean in the turns... its hard to stay on the bottom line with out going down below the yellow 
 and the top line u lose some speed (bottom line the same but not as much) and three when a car 
 gets behind u and u get into a turn u wiggle a lot of the time.. but thats just me.. not sure about 
 everyone elses.... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Aaron1224
Rating: 6
Date: Jan 6, 2008 8:13 pm PT
Review:  NASCAR 08 to me was a major letdown. Although the game has great graphics it does not have very 
 smooth gameplay. I myself being a NASCAR fan (Jeff Gordon all the way) have enjoyed all the previous 
 NASCAR games and own just about all of them. To me the game was difficult and the CPU wrecked you 
 a lot which is bs. The cars are difficult to control which causes you to spin out a lot too. If 
 you ask me I say the game is a waste of money and a total letdown. The game also does not have 
 many single player game modes which is what i always enjoyed about the NASCAR series. So.... my 
 opinion of this years NASCAR game leads me not to want to buy next years game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: darkwolf1982
Rating: 4
Date: Oct 30, 2007 11:44 pm PT
Review:  As good as it all sounds...
  
  Nexgen Technology!
  6-Axial Support for PS3 gamers!
  ONLINE GAMEPLAY!
  All the Latest Up-2-Date NASCAR action presented in HD!
  
  Bell 'N' Whistles 
 mate... That's all it's got!
  
  The Good...
  * Cool / Useful Technical HUD
  * You get to see what the drivers look like behind the helmet
  * Awesome soundtrack (EA TRAX)
 
  
  The Bad...
  * Fiddly vehicle control
  * TOO ARCADEY!!!!
  
  The Ugly...
  * NASCAR Racing is Ten Times better!
  
  If any of you have ever played a Papyrus NASCAR Racing 
 game (1,2,3,4, 2002 &amp; 2003 Seasons) , NASCAR 08 clearly (IMO) fails to compare.
  
  Electronic Arts is bloody lucky Papyrus hasn't made the latest of NASCAR Racing, because EA would 
 seriously be stood-up (BIGTIME!) .
  
  I'm kinda cheesed off I wasted $100 bucks on something crappier than NASCAR Racing &gt;:- ( 
::::::

::::::
UserName: warrior_50
Rating: 7
Date: Sep 17, 2007 8:46 am PT
Review:  I just picked up my copy of the game this weekend and I have to say it is some what of a let down. 
 I have every NASCAR game from the original from papy and this one is just a little bit off. The 
 graphics are great no doubt and the sound tracs. are good. But the controls kinda suck. The good 
 things of this game are the graphics, no more square tires. The sound is good. Getting to race 
 the COT is cool. But i like the sit down and start a season games but this you have to go and get 
 the licenses and then get the contracts to get the cars. its just alot for a racing game. All in 
 all its a decent racing game. But if your not in to NASCAR hardcore then this is a rental. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GordonFan92
Rating: 7.5
Date: Sep 15, 2007 2:39 pm PT
Review:  NASCAR 08 plays good but doesn't give you anything to play. As for game mode all you get is Race 
 Now (1 player only) which allows you to pick a series (Truck/Busch National/Nextel/Nextel CoT) , 
 pick a driver (no Carl Edwards/Jeremy Mayfield in Cup and only about 5 real truck drivers) , then 
 a track (Nextel Tracks Only) , and Chase For The Cup (1 player only) which is a career mode. You 
 use the Richard Petty exp. car to complete MANY challenges at every type of track so that you get 
 offers from real-life teams to drive one of their cars. If you complete the goal then you earn 
 a car to drive that type of track with. You have to get a different car for every track. While 
 in the season you can change the color or your car but you never have any sponsors. This mode does 
 not include usage of truck or Busch National. I don't know wat happens after 1 season because i 
 got bored by the time i finally made it through the challenges. Driving is very touchy but its 
 easier with the CoT because they are harder to turn in real life so they don't spin as easily. 
 There is also a Toyota Testing mode which is when you do challenges using a Toyota (completley 
 pointless) . I think in an attempt to replace the Lightning Challenges. Online is fun but very difficult 
 due to touchy steering controls and high speeds (which do not look that fast at all) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kionox
Rating: 6.5
Date: Sep 11, 2007 2:20 am PT
Review:  Okay, first I have to say, I got what I asked for. After playing through the series, the game has 
 gotten progressively harder. I always thought Nascar '07 was too easy, so they gave me an answer. 
 I am always up for a challenge, but I HATE games I can't beat. Nascar '08 makes me feel somewhat 
 indifferent. I love the series, but I didn't know what I was in for when I first played the game. 
 I assumed it would be like the ones before it, in that it would be way too easy. How wrong was 
 I? The game offers a totally new graphics engine, which is surprisingly awesome. However, the game 
 has many flaws. I'm glad they brought forth the other flags, but I didn't want to be black-flagged 
 for doing the same thing all the CPU cars are doing. I mean, honestly, if I can't tap a car out 
 of my way at Bristol without getting black-flagged, then whats the point? Hopefully, EA will be 
 smart and somehow get a patch out for the game. For those of you who like the series, good luck! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: djfast
Rating: 5
Date: Sep 1, 2007 6:15 am PT
Review:  this game in my opinion is a very hard game to play, The slightest little touch of the controller 
 will send you into a spin. even just getting off of pit road is hard to much gas and it spins. 
 the graphics are good the tracks look real good. I found it very difficult to make to laps on any 
 lap without wrecking. In my opinion they would have a much better game if you had more control 
 over the car. I have also tried to control the car using the siaxis control and that is going to 
 take alot of time to master. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ILOVETHEENOT
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 27, 2007 7:17 pm PT
Review:  well this is honestly the second best nascar game that I have ever played because the cars physics 
 are actually right on par with what they should be for the actual cars. The graphics are the best 
 they have ever been for a Nascar game. The driver list is very well done, only a few people missing, 
 Carl Edwards most notabley. But over all it's a great game however the few things that it needs 
 to be perfect are: offline 2 player, better music, or a fully customizable sound track from our 
 own music collections. Better online servers and finally non-generic cars of tommorow and trucks. 
 I would also change the contracts back to the fight to the top style as that was a good way. But 
 over all this game is fun, the setups are challenging and your basically fighting your car the 
 whole time which is how it should be! Over all I honestly think that this game is underappreciated! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PS3videos
Rating: 6.7
Date: Aug 4, 2007 1:37 pm PT
Review:  I'm not a NASCAR fan so I don't care about all the technical features of the game. But I do love 
 good video games, especially a quality racing game. NASCAR 08 comes close. No cigar.
  Offline, it's very fun. All the licenses get annoying but you come out a better driver because 
 of it. The graphics are great and the racing is fluid. I only wish the accidents played themselves 
 out a little more. The yellow flag comes out way too early.
  Online, though, is where this game will disappoint. It's difficult to join rooms, the lag is awesome 
 and the in game chatting is spotty at best. There is no real way to join rooms your friends might 
 be in and the rooms disband after every race.
  And all that is before you actually start racing. That is a complete headache. Too many crashes 
 equal too many yellow flags. But that is due to the people racing, not the horrible EA servers. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cdondanville
Rating: 7
Date: Aug 2, 2007 8:32 am PT
Review:  This game falls short of other entries in the series. The visuals look good, but I have encountered 
 glitches with the graphics. The controls are difficult and twitchy with the controller, but have 
 a very realistic feel when using the MS wheel.
  
  The online play seems to be inherently flawed. I have only been able to get into one race with 
 a couple of hours trying over the course of a week or so. This needs fixing.
  
  I have been using the chase more primarily and it does a great job of bring the player up to speed 
 and forcing practice, for what can be very challenging races. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jonathoncb
Rating: 4.9
Date: Aug 2, 2007 8:18 am PT
Review:  This game has pretty good graphics but there are just way to many glitches to enjoy it fully. Often 
 when the car starts rolling (If you are a bad driver like me n get it sideways on Daytona :P) it 
 will go through a wall then jump back to its original spot or it will go through the ground and 
 pop out at random. The instant replay was nice to have but after you already watch a crash and 
 rewind it the cars keep the damage even though its before the crash. Overall this game is a nice 
 rental but I wouldn't go out and buy it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gen_Warbuff
Rating: 2.9
Date: Aug 2, 2007 7:01 am PT
Review:  Every launch of a new next-gen game comes with a lot of anticipation, sometimes the game hits the 
 mark, and other times it misses so badly you just have to wonder what the heck the game designers 
 were thinking. Unfortunately, the case with NASCAR 08 is the latter. The graphics are ok, maybe 
 just average. It seems they maybe gave up some eye candy for decent FPS, I noticed very little 
 slow down. No real career mode? If they considered The Chase a career mode then they must have 
 been drinking behind the wheel. The sound, tragic! I am pretty sure in real life you cannot hear 
 a car coming up behind you when it is 200 ft back and you are doing 190mph, but in this game you 
 can.
  
  The controls, WOW sometimes they are there and others they are not. Some times the car sticks 
 to the track like glue, and other times like ice.
  
  Online if I could actually get into a race that had no lag, or for that matter get into a race 
 at all I might be able to review it. Two thumbs down EA try again next year. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xXLongRiderXx
Rating: 3
Date: Nov 13, 2007 10:54 am PT
Review:  Where do i begin... I think all the negatives speak for themselves, which this years title holds 
 true. I will actually say this game sucks. Ive only played it a total of 5 days. Well first off 
 the positive:
  
  Big improvement on graphics and damage models. Cockpit view is sweet. Performance tweaks to your 
 ride.
  
  Now my negative:
  
  AI is still poor
  
  Controls are stil touchy, trust me, a wheel does justice, but dont buy one just for this game.
 
  
  Create a car has been almost if not entirely downgraded. A handful of paint schemes, no more two 
 numbered cars and once again, fake and generic sponsors overwhelm the real sponsors which arent 
 really even a handful.
  
  No career mode
  
  You have to pass at least 55 challenges to race your teams car, say if you unlock Dale Jrs car 
 or Tony Stewart, you will be able to race a car that doesnt even resemble their cars, and they 
 dont even have sponsors on them wth........
  
  EA has hit bricks with this game, but its already been a downward spiral for them with NASCAR. 
 EA, give up and hand over your exclusive, because your weak when it comes to NASCAR. Im being more 
 than generous with my score EA, It barely deserves a 0.5 IMO, but seeing as your the only one pfffft, 
 here ya go. Should have been valued at $19.99 or less, not worth the money I worked hard for. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ddc1069
Rating: 7.2
Date: Aug 1, 2007 5:39 am PT
Review:  Originally I was highly disappointed with the game basically due to the analog steering control. 
 Now that I bought the Logitech DFP (Driving Force Pro) racing wheel it has changed the game 180&deg; 
 for me. I am able to control my car and drive it as a real driver would. At Daytona I was able 
 to split two cars and not touch either one; at Richmond I drove the high groove most of the race 
 (without slamming into the wall) , something I was not able to do on any of the other EA Nascar 
 games.
  
  If you can afford a racing wheel (preferably one with force feedback) I would highly recommend 
 this game. Yeah, there are some game play drawbacks, such as the Chase Mode being so complicated. 
 The online is not up to par whats-so-ever, but Im assuming that will be fixed. And the lack of 
 really having to use the Truck and National (Busch) Series for your career advancement. But all-in-all 
 its not half bad (with the wheel of course) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LinkinPark1992
Rating: 7.5
Date: Aug 23, 2007 9:01 pm PT
Review:  NASCAR 08 is not much better than the other previous NASCAR games. The graphics are much better 
 than ever before and they added a few new features that makes the game more fun. The on line is 
 alright with few lag problems. The cars are also much harder to control and the caution flag is 
 waved a lot more often. One of the things I miss the most about the game is the offline split screen 
 which went from four player to two player and now it is only one player. Overall, this game is 
 better than the older versions of it but it isn't a whole lot better. I would recommend to rent 
 it before you buy it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SonicTonic22
Rating: 2.4
Date: Jul 30, 2007 1:26 pm PT
Review:  the older nascar games beffore 08 were boring, tedious, and strung out. but that's a good thing 
 when you are talking about NASCAR. but in 08, they try to turn it into an advanced racing simulation 
 where most of NASCAR's fans have no idea what they are doing. it is alway obliterates any fun you 
 could have going in circles. racing in real life is done with a steering wheel. why the hell do 
 the steering wheels have no force feedback response in NASCAR 08?? it basically forces you to use 
 the controller. and using a controller on this game is like trying to fly an F-22 Raptor with a 
 Ms. Pac Man joystick. the game is horribly broken for anyone less than a hardcore racer that would 
 rather spend 2 hours setting up his car just so it is drivable, rather than competitive, all because 
 of the pathetic controls. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: billulsund
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jul 30, 2007 9:32 am PT
Review:  I would like to first preface this review by stating that I use the Logitech GT Force Pro steering 
 wheel and have not played this game with a controller. I am a huge fan of all racing games, and 
 I think this NASCAR game is the best yet. The steering is very responsive, it took me a while to 
 dial in the settings to get it to feel right for me, but once I got it it was amazing. The steering 
 is very realistic, so I can see how it would be difficult with a controller, but with the wheel 
 I can carefully maneuver through a pack of traffic, or push it 3 wide into a corner and still be 
 able to hold my line. I also like the new Chase mode where you have to earn licenses to be able 
 to drive a specific type of car (ie; super speedway, speedway, short track) and then have to earn 
 that car to compete in that type of race. Earning your right to race on a track helps you to gain 
 the experience nessary to compete in that type of race, which really helps considering the increased 
 difficulty from past versions. The graphics are an improvement from the past, but are not as pretty 
 as Gran Torismo or Forza, but the driving mechanics are excellent. There are a lot of tuning options, 
 but unfortunately no tutorial on what those options do. My only gripe is that there is a vey limited 
 soundtrack, and you cannot listen to the music on your PS3 instead. If you want a challenging driving 
 game, I would definitely reccomend this one. I know there are a lot of bad reviews out there for 
 this game, but they must have not tried using the steering wheel, because in my opinion this is 
 one of the best driving games out there. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: golfdude36
Rating: 3.7
Date: Jul 28, 2007 11:17 am PT
Review:  the graphics are amazing but the gameplay is extremely difficult . me and my dad usally play nascar 
 games together and when i saw 2008 i didnt even look to see if it was two players or not i cant 
 believe EA sports didnt even make a two player game every one since the begeining of EA Nascar 
 they have always been two player. why change it? i played every version of nascar since 2003 and 
 2008 was the first ones to actually let me down. i known games are getting more real but when you 
 have it set on easy you should be able to make it around the track with out. EXTREMELY DISSAPOINTED 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SicBMX84
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jul 27, 2007 3:01 am PT
Review:  I'm a big Nascar and Formula 1 fan. But All I got to say is this game just isn't what I thinking 
 it was going to be. Formula 1 for the PS3 was much, much better for a Motorracing. The thing is 
 EA dosen't know what there doing when is come to Motoracing. I really hoping EA dosen't get F1 
 rights because they make that game just like this one. Ok now on to Nascar 08. Let see, first thing 
 I like was the graphics and lighting in the game. I can't believe the sun goes down in a race. 
 Like if the race star at 12 and end at 4:00 with the sun going down. The same in the game. The set-up's 
 in the game are great. I love the 40 things you can do to a Nascar race car to set it up for a 
 race. The sound of the cars is real. But the gameplay just sucks and I mean sucks. I just wish 
 EA lose the rights and let some one else pick it up. Online racing is fun but every time you get 
 to race, you lose the host or just get kick out. I'm a Nascar fan and this game just not good for 
 any racing fan even Nascar. But then it a nex-gen Nascar game. But it dosen't feel nex-gen. It 
 looks nex-gen, just dosen't feel it. Will I say rent it first and if your really a Hardcore Nascar 
 fan, buy it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: deiong15
Rating: 4.9
Date: Jul 26, 2007 10:11 pm PT
Review:  i've purchased this game for the past few years, however if next years is anything like this years.. 
 i probably will never buy again. this is not meant for casual gamers. i picked the setting as such 
 and would expect to at least get a casual gamers experience, however they completely took out the 
 fun of nascar games. they also took the fun beginner motor cars that career mode starts with. i 
 hear it was a licensing issues but come one, how many months does it take to get that taken care 
 of? the chase is a very butchered up carrer mode, which seems they wanted to turn it into need 
 for speed instead of nascar. and what is so annoying is in about 80 percent of the chase stuff 
 i did your forced to follow a annoying blinking green/blue strobe lights, that only existence in 
 life is to see how many people it can hypnotise in hopes for your bank card info? i mean come on 
 how could it not bother testers ? or was it even tested??/. they took a fun game and turned it 
 into a boring, hardcore gamer game. next time i'll rent before buying. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Argon24
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jul 26, 2007 6:24 pm PT
Review:  The thing that separates all the other games form this one is the simulations style. On all of 
 the older games u just barrel it down into the corner and hold the stick to the left. In this game 
 you actually have to me smooth and fluid with your motions on the thumb stick. I am glad they brought 
 back all of the flags including the black flag. I am also very satisfieds with the damage model 
 and the roll physics i think they developed them very well. Another thing i think will be good 
 is the way the Chase is layed out they let it teach you the ropes and get used to the game before 
 you get too into the thick of things. Lastly I think the Car of Tomorrow is also a good adition 
 because it give you the variation while still being able to race your favorite nascar nextel cup 
 drivers. I am a little disapointed that they didn't get the COT makes onto the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TransAmSD455
Rating: 7.1
Date: Jul 26, 2007 9:38 am PT
Review:  After NASCAR 04, with all the expanding EA attempted to do on the series, i felt the series was 
 dead. graphics, game play name it, was becoming more and more shallow. In fact i was so close to 
 not even touching NASCAR 08 but... well i needed a PS3 game so i gave in...
  
  NA$CAR 08 is a much welcomed refreshment in the series. The graphics are NOT next gen but are considerably 
 better than any of the PS2 versions which where getting worse and worse from NASCAR 04. Cars look 
 good, frame rate holds decently (could be better) and the crash damage looks better than ever. 
 There are obviously plenty of flaws with the tracks, the fans in the stand but its something I've 
 come to expect from EA. So this being the major improvement on the game made me happy =)
  
  Now for the sad part. The controls are so flimsy its crazy, i don't know weather EA was trying 
 to add lethal realism or just screwed up ( my moneys on the second one) You so much as blow wind 
 on the controller and your cars doing flips. I spend so much time trying to keep the car going 
 straight and getting it through the corners decently that i don't have time to worry about passing 
 other cars. Even when you lower the sensitivity low as heck, the controls still have your car swerving 
 side to side. Once you put all the steering assists on and such, its a matter of basically figuring 
 out what line will best hold your car around the track... But don't get comfortable, your car will 
 still swerve big time. So far it sounds as if I've never played a NASCAR game before, heck i have 
 played too many! and I guess thats why I want perfection...
  
  Along to the drivers! EA actually got most if not close to all of the Nextel Cup drivers, notables 
 missing are CARL EDWARDS (who cares) and Jeremy Mayfeild but thats alright... The part that really 
 gets me steamed is the Busch and truck series. Man, EA if you cant figure out how to get licenses 
 for the smaller drivers at least be more creative with making the cars. Every car in the Busch 
 series has some incredibly goofy sponsor and driver name! and the same goes for the NCTS! i mean 
 its pretty bad when you see a totally pink car with a driver called Bob Bobson driving the Bob's 
 car sponsored Ford... common man....
  
  The Chase mode (which is new career mode) starts you off earning your track License and earning 
 contracts for one on and one off races for big teams. Which is kinda fun and at least lets you 
 try and learn the controls before sending you off on your real career.
  
  Well lemme end this now and cut it short. The new NASCAR 08 is much diffrent from any other NASCAR 
 game you've ever played. Some parts good, controls bad &gt;.&lt; is it worth a shot? if you REALLY 
 REALLY want to play a NASCAR game and are willing to struggle and learn the controls? this is the 
 game! if you want a less difficult and funner racers... wait till ... uhhh i dont know some other 
 game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: friskitt
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jul 26, 2007 7:56 am PT
Review:  I'll admit... I go out and buy EA's NASCAR franchise each and every year. I'm a NASCAR fan, and 
 a gaming fan, so it only seems natural for me to do so. I'll be the first to admit, though, that 
 the last several years I've been wondering why I even bothered. The changes from year to year seemed 
 gimmicky, adding little to the value of the new iteration, and the graphics barely changed. Well, 
 EA has issued it's first NASCAR title for the next generation of gaming, and I for one am finally 
 pleased in my decision to purchase it. I've only put a couple of hours into the game, but I am 
 already impressed with the changes thus far. The graphical upgrade is welcome, as PS2 quality graphics 
 on my HDTV just didn't cut it any longer. However, it's the changes to the displays, menus, and 
 gameplay that really hooked me. The new VTV display is snazzy, the enhanced choices in car setup 
 options are welcome, and the cars feel, well, more like how you'd expect them to handle in real 
 life. The load times, while still a bit long, still seem to be an improvement over previous years. 
 All in all, I can see myself putting hours and hours into this game, and enjoying it every step 
 of the way. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 69sean
Rating: 5
Date: Jul 25, 2007 2:57 pm PT
Review:  Steering is very awkward and the graphics are disappointing. I'm a PC gamer usually and have found 
 the PS3 controller works great on other driving games. I use the PS3 controller for GT2 and DiRT 
 and the steering is linear and neutral. With NASCAR 08 on the PS3 I'm constantly sawing left to 
 right because the steering isn't neutral and keeps snapping back to the center. It's nearly impossible 
 to hold a smooth line thu the turns and promises to be an absolute disaster when on-line racers 
 go 3-wide.
  
  The lack of anti-aliasing is a real let-down. The rear spoiler on the cars look so jagged I feel 
 like I'm lookig at an 80's arcade game. Let's face it, you spend most of your time looking at rear 
 spoilers and with the track banking it looks very jagged.
  
  Framerates are suffering and no doubt related to the missing sense of speed. I'm guessing the game 
 is running somewhere around 24 fps and it just doesn't give the impression of speed. Certainly 
 not 190+ mph...
  
  Sound wasn't anything spectacular. If you have a decent stereo and fiber-optic connections you 
 can listen to uncompressed country music if that's your kinda thing. Engine noise, tires noise 
 were so-so, I don't recall any ambient crowd or announcer noise.
  
  I'm disappointed as a PS3 owner, NASCAR fan and on-line racing enthusiast. Not looking to start 
 another console vs PC debate but this game has much better potential on a high-end PC. Too bad 
 it won't be made. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rogerblaze
Rating: 5
Date: Jul 31, 2007 6:27 pm PT
Review:  IT SUCKS IT SUCKS IT SUCKS IT SUCKS IT SUCKS IT SUCKS IT SUCKS Online sucks, you dont have a friends 
 list... WTF!!!!! how can this be???? but again, EA has always been really bad at online options 
 and connectivity, same with my FIFA game, same with my NBA LIVE game, same with FIGHT NIGHT game... 
 EA YOU NEED TO STOP THIS TREND.... HAND IT OVER TO SEGAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAA..
  we need a chance please GAMESPOT LET THEM KNOWWWWWWW.....
  THIS IS MY LAST EA SPORTS GAME THAT 
 I WILL BUY......
  
  Another thing i noticed is the sense of speed, you don't feel the sense of speed like you do with 
 nascar 07 for the ps2.
  
  i REGRET BUYING THIS GAME.... DO NOT BUY TIHS GAME 
::::::

::::::
UserName: joemerchant2006
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jul 24, 2007 7:24 pm PT
Review:  Ok, going from NASCAR 07 to NASCAR 08 is a big change, since: one, next gen and two, the realism 
 is sorta cracked up... it's much much harder than what one is used to, if you played the old NASCAR 
 games. Trust me when I say this, start out with all the assists ON!!! EVEN IF YOU ARE A SEASONED 
 PLAYER LIKE ME!!!
  
  It's pretty cool with the COT and everything, they have all the drivers, all the tracks. The only 
 bad part is, there are only, ONLY Nextel Cup tracks. If you switch to the Truck series, or Grand 
 National series, you won't have tracks like IRP or Gateway or stuff like that... kinda ticked me 
 off, but its all good.
  
  Career mode is now called Chase mode... why I don't know, it just is. But it's pretty cool. You 
 have to get liecenses to get cars, and there are several different licenses; Superspeedway, Speedway, Short 
 Track COT, Speedway COT, Supperspeedway COT and Road Course COT. Each earn you ONE car for your 
 career mode. Well... not exactly. You get the licence, then you have to go into a contract for a 
 team, Joe Gibbs, Hendrick, ect. You use one of their cars on each type of track and you have to 
 finish above a certain position each time. Then, once you do all the races the team requires you 
 to do, you get one of their cars for your career. AND THEN you pursue your career... I like it... more 
 challenging than the days of old.
  
  A new thing they have added is driver badges... I haven't gotten very far with it, so I haven't 
 found their purpose, but I will soon find out. Each driver badge has requirements you must fulfill. 
 From winning race (s) , to saving yourself a spin, top 5 (s) top 10 (s) total number of wins... ect. 
 ect...
  
  Overall, this game has given me a run for my money, but is harder, and more frustrating than the 
 previous games. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
