-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: NASCAR 09
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/ps3/driving/nascar09/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Addition of Jeff Gordon onscreen improves the presentation and overall experience.
 Paint booth allows you to customize every aspect of your ride's appearance.
 Paint schemes can be shared online.
 Excellent audio.
 Career mode features a number of new options.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Racing gets repetitive quickly.
 Gameplay doesn't feel much different from Nascar 08.
 Crashes are lacking excitement.
 Online races take a long time to get started.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Jul  3, 2008
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 7
Critic Score: 6.5, 16 Review (s)
User Score: 7.3, 263 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: EA Sports
Developer: EA Games
Genre: Stock Car Racing
Date: Jun 10, 2008
ESRB: Everyone

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
NASCAR 09 isn't a tremendous step forward for the series, but it's a solid effort. 

  There's no question that with all of the new features, NASCAR 09 is an improvement over previous 
 installments in the series. The gameplay hasn't received much attention, but better presentation, 
 the ability to completely customize your ride, and other minor enhancements make this a game that 
 should please most fans of the sport.  

  Jeff Gordon's involvement can be seen consistently throughout the game -- he's not just the guy on 
 the cover. What makes his involvement unique is that Gordon essentially acts as a pit-crew chief 
 to help users navigate through all of the different stages that a driver must take to reach the 
 winner's podium. The onscreen addition of the four-time Cup champ improves the presentation and 
 results in a better overall experience. However, he's not the only driver to have an impact on 
 the game. EA has finally worked out a deal to add Carl Edwards and his #99 car to the roster. The 
 rest of the field remains the same as a year ago.  

           Jeff Gordon's influence is present both on and off the track.      

  Although some 
 may prefer to get right down to racing with the Race Now mode, many will be intrigued by the improved 
 Career mode. After you set up your new driver information, it's off to the garage to explore the 
 robust new customization options. You start by selecting and designing your own number, and then 
 lay down a base color for the body of your car. Racing stripes, waves, flames, and sponsorship 
 decals are just some of the graphics that you can use to pimp your ride, though many of the sponsors 
 won't be available until you earn them. As if that weren't enough, you can design your own graphics 
 in an image-editing program (such as Adobe Photoshop) and upload them to an online locker to make 
 them available in-game. This impressive depth of customization makes NASCAR 09 a much more engaging 
 experience.  

  Upon completing the design of your car, you'll be asked to sign with a sponsor. Each sponsor has 
 a set of expectations that must be met to improve your reputation and, ultimately, move up to bigger 
 sponsorship opportunities. Unfortunately, though it may be cool to raise your reputation and gain 
 bigger sponsors, it actually does very little for you other than boost your ego. The real key to 
 improving your skills in NASCAR 09 is to complete as many of the 77 different Sprint Driver Challenges 
 as possible. The first challenge asks you to complete a lap without going under 150 mph and to 
 avoid going off the track or hitting the wall. Another interesting challenge is to finish ahead 
 of a specific driver within a certain time frame. These challenges are actually more fun than the 
 races themselves because they are shorter and more intense. By completing the different challenges, 
 you'll earn performance points that can be used to improve your car's performance. The challenge 
 mode's variety is one of NASCAR 09's strengths.  

  Before each race, you can tinker with every aspect of your car's suspension, aerodynamics, tires, 
 drivetrain, and even weight distribution if desired. For those of you who aren't full-time mechanics, 
 you have the option of choosing between a basic rookie setup and a veteran setup, which immensely 
 simplifies the process of setting up your car. Nevertheless, you probably won't have to mess with 
 your car's setup if you're playing on rookie or veteran levels. Qualifying for a race is uninteresting 
 and too easy on either setting. It's possible to drive through the grass or even scrape the walls 
 and yet still grab the pole. Obviously, the first position is desirable to any driver, but starting 
 first often feels like you're racing the track alone because you rarely ever see any other cars. 
 In fact, the hardest part of winning a race may be staying awake for the remaining laps after you've 
 taken the lead.  

  Fortunately, if competition is lacking on the rookie and veteran settings, you can step it up another 
 notch to legend difficulty. This makes qualifying and finishing first much more challenging and 
 rewarding. If you start the race toward the back, it may take you 50 laps just to get up front. 
 You can also turn damage and collisions off as well as set the flag rules to full to further increase 
 the difficulty. Computer-controlled drivers aren't noticeably more aggressive on this setting, 
 but they are much faster and more precise when making turns. You may have to work a bit to find 
 the settings that fit for you, but NASCAR 09 provides a level of competition for all users.  

 
           The in-car view provides the most excitement.      

  There are five different camera options when driving. The in-car perspective delivers the most 
 exciting driving experience; every turn seems to be magnified and demands your utmost attention. 
 NASCAR 09 offers two different driving styles in the game to go along with the different viewing 
 options: normal and pro. Normal is the easier of the two styles in that it lets you be a little 
 less precise when taking turns. Conversely, the pro driving style requires a more experienced driver 
 with steadier hands to be successful. To master the driving controls, it certainly takes some precision 
 behind the wheel at first. The slightest wrong move and you'll slam into the wall if you're not 
 quick enough to correct. Despite the sensitivity of the controls, they're accurate. When racing 
 at almost 200mph, the stakes are high and your every turn must be precise, and the controls reflect 
 this. However, it's really not that difficult to remain on the road and become the pack leader 
 once you've adjusted to the game. Overall, the computer AI is definitely not as aggressive this 
 time around. Drivers will still attempt to fight for position, but it's nothing like the road rage 
 exhibited in the past.  

  NASCAR 09's graphics are adequate but the crashes could use some work. The problem is that you 
 rarely get huge collisions that result in cars flipping end over end. Most crashes result in one 
 driver bumping another and spinning out of control until the yellow flag comes out. It's more realistic 
 that huge crashes don't happen that often, but it would no doubt add to the excitement of the game. 
 The graphics aren't stellar, but they still look pretty good considering the number of cars onscreen 
 at any given time. All of the tracks are the same from a year ago and look nice, but it's difficult 
 to notice any major graphical flaws when you're consistently driving more than 170 mph.  

  Online play was difficult last year, and it hasn't gotten much better this season. EA has changed 
 the number of allowed drivers in each race from 11 to 14. The change to 14 is nice, but that just 
 means that there are now three more drivers who can bring out the yellow flag by being reckless. 
 Fortunately, users can turn off yellow flags and collisions when racing in both ranked and unranked 
 matches. Keep in mind that you may have to wait a while for a race to start, though. Sometimes 
 the process of getting a race started will actually take longer than the race itself. However, 
 once you actually do get online, you may find that there are some advantages. For starters, when 
 the yellow flags aren't coming out, there's a lot more action during the race because so many drivers 
 are fighting for position. Furthermore, the lag doesn't seem to be a problem, despite so many drivers 
 playing at once. NASCAR 09's online play also includes the ability to share paint schemes with 
 other users. This cool and unique feature is another attempt to pull the NASCAR community a little 
 bit closer together. The Xbox 360 and PlayStation 3 versions of the game played the same both online 
 and offline.  

           There are plenty of crashes, but they all feel a bit subdued.      

  The sounds within 
 NASCAR 09 are a great complement to the game. The noise from all the crowds and the engines sounds 
 lifelike throughout the game. Additionally, the spotter does a solid job of helping you navigate 
 through the field by consistently letting you know if there's an opposing driver running down low 
 or up high. The music on the soundtrack has a nice mix of hard-rock tunes featuring such bands 
 as POD and AFI to help set the mood on race day.  

  The bottom line is that NASCAR 09 is a good racer but doesn't provide the same level of excitement 
 as the real thing. Regardless, it's at least a small improvement over last year's game in nearly 
 every way. If you're willing to spend the time adjusting some of the settings, you'll find NASCAR 
 09 to be a fun and challenging game.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (16 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: starwarsfan6768
Rating: 1
Date: Apr 15, 2009 1:42 am PT
Review:  i hate how you cant play online with out geting wreked becaues players are gay and try to be cool 
 by destroying your car the way to avoid geting wreked is get a crappy car and stay in the back 
 or get a good car and stay in first and the career mode why would you get a fully stoked car and 
 bad sponsers wtf? makes no sence and thats what i have to say for nascar my grade for it 1.0 out 
 of 10.0 and i am not saying this becaues i hate nascar i LOVE nascar i hate nascar 09 for ps3 total 
 let down.... but if they had made nascar o9 like nascar 07 for ps2 it would have been more fun like 
 the old fight for the top i loved that but geting a fully stocked car at the beginning was not 
 fun i won every race in career mode becaues of that problem so that game is easy i would not recamend 
 it to NOBODY i dont care who you are 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jcopp72
Rating: 5.5
Date: Feb 4, 2009 3:34 pm PT
Review:  Although Nascar 09 could have been better their are some good thing about this game. While in a 
 race your care will turn through the corner and actually stick to one line, their also is a performance 
 points system the you can put the points (earned from races or completing contracts) toward getting 
 your car better a certain track types such as super speedway, speedway, short track, or road coarse. 
 Some of the bad, their are team and sponsor contracts you can sign (sounds good right?) they are 
 only for three to five races then you have to sign again, wich gets boring after the first season 
 in career mode. The ability to adjust your car before each race is still their and you can go further 
 in depth while adjusting your car if you would like. Jeff Gordon serves as a mentor for career 
 mode and is help full when first starting the game but really gets on your nerves as you progress 
 through contracts and further seasons. Online gameplay hasn't changed that much performance is 
 the same but you can race against 14 other drivers in stead or 11 slight improvement. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BradleyBeast
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 26, 2008 4:38 pm PT
Review:  Ok, get it over with; rip on me for being a back-woods hillbilly for liking NASCAR. How original. 
 Anyway, long story short:
  
  The game PLAYS well, complete with great scenery and visuals, but that's about it.
  
  The only 
 difference between this one and last season's is that it's on PS3, and now they've removed the 
 Whelen Cup Series.
  
  Yeah, you can run through the "challenges" and earn points, trick-out your paint job, BLAH BLAH 
 BLAH....
  
  Again the racing itself is done well, but the rest of the game lacks anything (even for us rednecks) 
 for anyone to really WANT to come back to.
  
  My humble advice to any NASCAR game developer would be to focus more on the race itself, including 
 the pits for a change, and make it really seem like you're behind that wheel on raceday at Bristol 
 (or where ever) , rather than see if I can beat Jeff Gordon at a 3-lap challenge somewhere so I 
 can paint my car or get "better engine capabilities". Rent it 1st kids. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: snake2215449
Rating: 7.5
Date: Oct 3, 2008 12:06 am PT
Review:  The Good: Better graphics, updated cars, new modes, detailed car customization, the game cover 
 looks amazing.
  
  The Bad: Pit stops are not as fun as they used to be, gameplay is the same since Nascar 07, no 
 tweaks in team control.
  
  Nascar 09 has improved over Nascar 08 which was a complete disaster, although the graphics are 
 updated, the gameplay is not sadly, you'll find the same gameplay from Nascar 07. Team controls 
 are not the best but work well. The new modes are fun and different. The new songlist is just as 
 superb as 07 and 08. 
  
  The Pit-stop I was expecting to be changed a bit because in Nascar 08, it was just so stupid that 
 you couldn't change your camera view and its the same over here. The team radio is just as cheeky 
 as last year also, although the bot A. I is smarter, they will still just ram into you if you just 
 bump then once. 
  
  The damage is as realistic as ever before. Ever since Nascar 07, the damage has been looking so 
 superb.
  
  The Nascar series has some how become a little boring after 07, its just not the same anymore, 
 its like Need For Speed after Carbon everything just went the wrong way, although I am expecting 
 good things about the new Need For Speed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SadPSPAddict
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 16, 2008 6:57 am PT
Review:  Firstly I am British and have never seen a Nascar race in my life, nor have I ever played a Nascar 
 game before, BUT I love racing games. So I rented this title first... I love it and it's now top 
 of my "must buy" list.
  Why is it so good then? Well one of the very nice features is how much you can adjust the difficulty 
 level to suit your ability - thus making it playable by all. 
  Next is the tutorial by the guy on the cover (sorry.. Jeff Gordon or something) and the fact that 
 he talks you through the different stages of career progression. Nicely done EA!!
  The career mode is lengthy with many customisation options and for those wishing a shorter burst 
 the challanges make a nice change. Not often something like that is seen in a console driving game 
 (more common on the handhelds) , so a big thumbs up to EA.
  Graphics are good without being amazing and the sound is probably in the same category.
  All 
 in all well worth a look and I look forward to many more hours playing it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ffmotorsports51
Rating: 7
Date: Aug 7, 2008 6:11 pm PT
Review:  I got this game in the weirdest way. My Dad answered a trivia question that he got right. They 
 were giving away free copies of this game. He won a copy. Ok for the summary. This is a pretty 
 good Nascar game, but has several flaws. The first flaw is that you cannot steer with the control 
 pad. The control stick does not work that good, and the SIXAXIS is terrible. A racing wheel is 
 probably the best to use. The second flaw is that you cannot use single, or double digit numbers. 
 You can only use triple digit numbers which I really don't like at all. The third flaw is that 
 you cannot choose the make of the car, or truck. All of the cars, and trucks look the same : (. 
 Then the fourth flaw that I will mention is that there are many great drivers missing in Nationwide, and 
 Craftsman Truck. No Brad Kesolowski, or Ron Hornaday? I hate that. I have only played this game 
 for about 3 hours at best, then pretty much have not played it since. Overall, good game, but flawed, 
 awesome graphics, fun gameplay, all of your favorite drivers (sort of) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dirtkart
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 25, 2008 7:49 pm PT
Review:  NASCAR is better than NASCAR 08 and i think EA games are going in the right way about it i think 
 next one will be anther good step forward.
  
  Graphics: 10/10
  Gameplay: 10/10
  sound: 10/10
  soundtrack:10/10
  presentation:10/10
  Crashes:5/10
  customize:9/10
  Career 
 mode:10/10
  Difficulty:10/10 (The Difficulty is very customize which make great for everyone)
  physics:9.5/10
 
  drivers:10/10
  
  ONE i hate about the game are no dodges, fords, toyato just same car for the every class which 
 is disapointing for real NASCAR fans.
  There are 43 cars on track which is great and the Graphics can handle it well. The tracks look 
 good and the differnt car view are awsome with in-car which is the best.
  
  I love it how Jeff gordon giudes you throught it's a great way to make you feel that you are a 
 real NASCAR driver. For Nascar fans who dream about being a NASCAR driver someday than go and buy 
 NASCAR 09.
  And get ready to:
  
  GENTLMAN START YOU ENGINE!!!!!!!!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sony_vaio
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 2, 2008 8:40 am PT
Review:  Let me say first I am not a Nascar fanboy. I don't even watch the sport unless its the Daytona 
 500 or something big. Now with that being said I do love racing games like Gran Turismo and Dirt. 
 This game is really fun and well put together. The way you start the "Race for the Cup" and move 
 up by getting better sponsers and racing teams is great. The racing game play is tight and is very 
 enjoyable. I like using the first person bumper view and it feels like you are in the car racing 
 at a very high rate of speed. Some have complained that the graphics are not that good and I do 
 agrre that in your garage area the graphics are not that impressive. When you are out on the track 
 and in a race the graphics shine. They are very crisp and look absolutly stunning. Overall the 
 game is fun and when it comes to a good racing game that is what I look for ...... FUN. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Skittle621
Rating: 8
Date: Jun 19, 2008 6:04 am PT
Review:  As a fan of the Nascar EA sports series, i was eager to pick this title up, but i soon realized 
 that once again, EA has made several mistakes and has left lots of things out of the game.
  
  First off, you know have 2 choices with the driving model, an arcade model, and the Pro Model 
 from 08. The 1st model is too easy for my taste, but I dont know what im doing with the setup, 
 so its very difficult for me to use the pro model.
  
  Graphically, Nascar 09 is beautiful at some points, like the cars, and lighting. But the tracks 
 look a little bland to me, and technical glitches take away some of the beauty of the game. How 
 can I damage my car, cause a caution, and after the caution, my car doesnt have a scratch on it? 
 Don't get me wrong, this game still looks beautiful.
  
  Offline career is fun, making you work to earn sponsors, and the sprint driver challenges add to 
 the mix. Multiplayer has improved from 08, but it still kinda sucks. Lag and "car dancing" have 
 practically been eliminated, but at times the game doesnt function right. At the start of the race, 
 4 cars were on the backstretch, and others were in the pits and in the grass when the green flag 
 waved. Wtf, EA?
  
  All in all, if your a fan of the games, Its worth picking up, But If tweaking with car setups and 
 running laps to get things right isnt your cup of tea, dont bother with this title. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: earlaps
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 18, 2008 10:02 pm PT
Review:  I really love this game. I love the many ways I can customize the difficulty and the experience, 
 and the best part is the feel of actually driving in a NASCAR race. EA did get it right this year. 
 Yes, a few fantasy tracks would have helped, and maybe a new camera angle or some new bells and 
 whistles, but the basics are near perfect. I am not a NASCAR expert, so I do not claim to know 
 more than an average fan about car physics, etc, but I know it feels right. The look of the tracks 
 feels right even tho I have never been to one. The car view inside is good, outside, let's say, 
 average.
  This is the first year I am playing on a high def TV and I am enjoying every minute of it. For 
 those people who are purists or hate NASCAR, please proceed with caution. For people who like to 
 fantasize about being a NASCAR driver run out and buy it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FrankieD1962
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 19, 2008 8:58 am PT
Review:  I first began playing the NASCAR series with NASCAR Thunder (Sweet Home Alabama!) which untill 
 now was the best of the series by a Mile and a Half. I now have a new favorite: NASCAR 09 on the 
 PS3!
  
  It helps that my favorite driver is Jeff Gordon and he is instrumental in NASCAR 09. If you have 
 not played the game yet Gordon is your mentor and helps you along in the game explaining the different 
 options, settings, racing styles and so on. Basically Gordon is like an in game tutorial. You can 
 always skip ahead through him if you want to but in certain aspects of the game it is helpful having 
 him around.
  
  I liked when the series went to the Chase to the Cup format in Total Control 06, but hated the 
 Total Team control crap. I want to race not swap cars. I want to concentrate more on my set ups 
 than what commands I need to use to fly to another car. This should be a NASCAR Racing Sim plain 
 and simple. NASCAR 09 does not dissapoint.
  
  I love the custamization there is in NASCAR 09. You have many options as to what level of customization, 
 set ups, styles and such. You can play it safe or go for it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DaleEarnhardt3
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 15, 2008 9:55 pm PT
Review:  Nascar 09 has a big vibe that lives up to what its vibe produces. I would recommend this game highly 
 based on the side by side racing the game produces on the easy scale. Some other aspects that make 
 this game highly rated is the deep career mode, in which everything is very well planned out. Although, 
 everything isn't perfect, so this game as well with everything known in the world has its flaws. 
 One of the few flaws is being tight, but that can easily be fixed by moving to the high side on 
 most of the tracks.
  
  All in all though, this is a highly good playable game in which I would highly say you get. It 
 gets you and takes you through a very well planned out game, with a mentor like Jeff Gordon.
  
  
  A crucial feature which I think was taken out is the track bumps, which is very important 
 to actual racing in NASCAR. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cjwalker28
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jun 13, 2008 6:45 am PT
Review:  I got NASCAR 09 on June 11th 2008 and surprisingly there was alot of people waiting for it! Before 
 it came out I watched all the videos of it and to me it looked like the same as NASCAR 08. When 
 the demo came out I loved it. I got the game a few days after and first thing I did was look at 
 all the drivers. Sprint have a alot, more than I thought they would have. Nationwide could of had 
 more. Craftsman had 4 real drivers!! Craftsman was a big dissapointment to me not just because 
 they only had 4 real drivers but they didn't have any of the good drivers!! They also don't have 
 Chevy, Ford, Dodge or Toyota in all of the series. The racing is good solid racing and it's very 
 fun. Jeff Gordon get's really annoying sometimes. The custom paint booth is great but is sometimes 
 really hard to make your car on the computer. From what I've heard NASCAR 09 for PS2 is once again 
 the same as last year and the year before that and so on. I think if you were smart you would throw 
 away your PS2 and get an XBOX360 or a PS3. This year NASCAR 09 also got 2 new tracks, Milwaukee 
 and O'Reilly Raceway Park. NASCAR 09 has great graphics, a bit better than 08. I think there is 
 plenty of things to do. Overall NASCAR 09 is a great fun game and you should only buy it for PS3 
 or XBOX360. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GordonFan92
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jun 12, 2008 8:09 pm PT
Review:  A totally new game from 08. 
  
  Positives
  + Custom download paint schemes / Deep in game Paint Booth
  + All new Career format makes you 
 work your way up and earn better contracts
  + Better Handling with 2 driving modes
  + Sprint Driver Challenges are fun and help teach you the basics
  + Driver video introductions 
 for challenges
  + Reputation is earned various ways for better contracts
  + Alternate Sponsor Paint Schemes
  + Smooth online racing
  + Improved Graphics
  + Improved 
 Sound
  + Test and Tune mode to search for that perfect set-up
  + Jeff Gordon Walks you through
  + Deep Set-up cutomization
  
  Negatives
  - No Split Screen
 
  - Custom Paint Schemes online show up as plain gray to others
  - No Manufactures
  - No pre-race introductions
  
  As you can see the + out weigh the -. This game is a huge improvement 
 over 08, which isn't hard because 08 sucked, but it's good to see that EA realized that having 
 an exclusive license doesn't mean you can slack off and they remade the NASCAR game. Looks like 
 they are doing the same with NCAA and MADDEN too and lets hope NASCAR 09 is a look at things to 
 come! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TJMD
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 12, 2008 6:09 am PT
Review:  Graphics: Excellent
  Gameplay: Excellent
  Car Handling: Excellent
  Controllers: The SIXAXX make it very easy to steer just as if you have a steering wheel.
  Realism: 
 Car setups, drafting, slingshot etc.
  Sound: Awesome in 5.1
  
  This is a great game I think. Lot of haters out there that don't like EA so they bash on something 
 they know nothing about. Don't let that fool you.
  
  I am however biased to Nascar because I am a Nascar fan. I have to agree that EA in the passed 
 has had bad support and some of their games were loosely.
  
  The different modes are awesome, the paint shop and being able to share and upload your own skins 
 is nice.
  
  People say they have had foggy graphics and it don't look good, welp the PS3 was designed to work 
 with HD, and not SD. Time to throw away your SD TV sets and play it on a nice 40" LCD on a 5.1 
 system.
  
  If it's one thing I would like to see is split screen, but to be honest split screen to me just 
 clutters up the screen.
  
  I found the game is very easy to handle while racing. But of course I was using easy mode and havent 
 had a chance to try pro.
  
  People are complaining about the sound, well to be honest time to throw out your mono stereo system 
 and buy a nice 5.1 and then you will hear the sound.
  
  Overall the customization is excellent from building your player and the car.
  
  The career 
 mode is great, you start from the bottom and work you way too the top just like a real career.
 
  
  Haven't tried multiplayer as not alot of people have it yet but will update the review as when 
 I do find out.
  
  This game rocks and is solid for Nascar fans. I enjoy it.
  
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: fatarsejim
Rating: 8
Date: Jun 11, 2008 7:06 pm PT
Review:  this game is by far better than nascar 08, they fixed some of the bugs that were in 08, i have 
 not been able to play too much yet due to work. but what i did play i really enjoyed, cant wait 
 to start my career. i just up and bought the game because im a huge nascar fan. but i usually rent 
 them first.
  the bugs i can see that were fixed were 
  1. you can finish replays
  2. when you get into another car he will get loose and depending how hard you hit him he will spin 
 sometimes, not like in 08 where the AI drivers were like tanks and the only way to wreck them was 
 to t-bone them at 160 mph taking you and him out.
  i also like how the engine in 09 sounds its more deep like it should be 08 sounded like a weed 
 whacker / honda civic. 
  the thing that sucks is the AI isnt as agressive as i would like. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
