-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: NBA 09 The Inside
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/ps3/sports/nba09/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Debut of The Life on the PS3 gives the game identity.
 Rebounding aid and skill-based shooting improve gameplay.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Lacks effective defensive tools.
 Unrealistic game physics.
 Franchise mode is shallow.
 The Life storylines are too short and lack spontaneous feel.
 Fast pace doesnt promote sim-style play.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Oct 17, 2008
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 5
Critic Score: 6.4, 17 Review (s)
User Score: 6.5, 103 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: SCEA
Developer: SCEA San Diego
Genre: Basketball Sim
Date: Oct 7, 2008
ESRB: Everyone

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Despite the inclusion of The Life story mode, NBA 09's lack of depth and numerous gameplay flaws 
 cause it to fall short. 

  NBA gaming enthusiasts are fortunate to have three simulation titles to choose from every year. 
 The least prominent of the three basketball simulations on the market, Sony's NBA 09: The Inside 
 is a progressive step from past installments in the series, though only slightly. The inclusion 
 of The Life story mode and improved player models and presentation are welcome additions, but they're 
 overshadowed by recurring clipping issues, a bare-bones franchise experience, and a lack of effective 
 defensive controls.  

           We talkin bout practice?!      

  While this game is classified as a simulation, the term only loosely applies to NBA 09 in comparison 
 to competing NBA games. Too often the game will trap your player in an animation, removing him 
 from your control. While this can be frustrating on offense, the defense has it far worse, because 
 dribble moves and perimeter shooting are far too effective. Any player (we used Vladimir Radmanovic) 
 can weave his way underneath the rim by using crossovers continuously, and players' field-goal 
 percentages are excessively high. If that weren't enough, inaccurate physics continue to plague 
 Sony's franchise. For instance, players seem to glide across the court, and ball magnetization 
 is a common occurrence.  

  While some of the gameplay flaws can be attributed to bad physics, NBA 09's controls are to blame 
 as well. The lack of a defensive lock-down mechanic makes staying in front of the ball handler 
 an impossible task. This, coupled with the ineffectiveness of help defense, makes defense almost 
 nonexistent. The result is that the game tempo is abnormally fast; even on the hardest difficulty 
 passing is entirely optional, and it's commonplace to see dunks on nearly every possession. Although 
 you'll never need to use it, play calling is severely limited, with only four options from which 
 to choose, none of which are remarkably effective. For all the gameplay flaws, there are a few 
 redeeming factors. The rebounding aid works very well in offsetting depth miscalculations resulting 
 from the broadcast angle, and the skill-based shooting mechanic prevents you from feeling cheated 
 on a missed shot.  

  The Life, the series' signature first-person storyline feature, makes its debut on the PlayStation 
 3. Now, in the fourth year since conception, The Life offers three separate storylines based on 
 the position you choose to play (PG, SG/SF, and PF/C) . Each story narrates your created player's 
 progression from an NBA D-League unknown to a Finals MVP. Depicting experiences both on and off 
 the court, the story's cutscenes feature voice-overs that capture the emotion of your character's 
 ascension into the NBA, and the individual chapters serve as a teaching tool for how the position 
 is played.  

  While the stories in The Life are compelling, the mode has major flaws that prevent it from reaching 
 its potential. First, they are simply too short (each can be completed in just over an hour) . Our 
 career as a power forward included only nine chapters involving user interaction (the rest were 
 cutscenes) and involved playing in only two basketball games: the D-league championship, where 
 you play only the last 13 seconds, and Game 7 of the NBA Finals, where you play the last three 
 minutes. The rest of your time is spent playing minigames. Overly rigid chapter objectives remove 
 any element of spontaneity and essentially reward you for letting your opponent score so you can 
 get the ball back faster. The lack of a player-lock feature (something that would fit well with 
 a first-person storyline) is puzzling and leaves you feeling disconnected from your character. 
 Improving attributes will help your created character in franchise mode, but it doesn't take long 
 to max out many of the critical attributes, essentially making you a premier talent on your team 
 at a bargain-basement price. It's possible to complete the power-forward storyline of The Life 
 without improving a single attribute or buying any gear.  

           One of the only effective defensive tactics in the game (and yes, this was a clean block) . 

  Franchise mode in NBA 09 is bare-bones by today's standards and lacks the basic presentation elements 
 needed to make the mode viable. Trades can involve a maximum of two teams with up to four players 
 and/or picks each. Although the trades are accurately governed by each franchise's current cap 
 figure, these values are not displayed anywhere on the trade screen. Player evaluation during trades 
 is equally cryptic since the game shows only the current season's stats and not the player's attributes. 
 The game also doesn't include a trading block to field meaningful offers from the AI, and there 
 isn't any way to monitor player moves made by other teams. Free-agent signing is skewed to your 
 favor, because you will have first rights to sign any available player before the CPU-controlled 
 teams. The list goes on and on. Suffice it to say that franchise enthusiasts would be better served 
 by either of the competing NBA games.  

  In addition to Quick Play, The Life, and Franchise modes, NBA 09 includes a variety of minigames, 
 ranging from NBA All-Star break skills and three-point competitions to more creative variations 
 such as Blacktop Golf. Unfortunately, none of the minigames are particularly entertaining, and 
 you probably won't play them more than once or twice. NBA Replay also returns this year, providing 
 weekly challenges based on real games. Like in The Life, however, the objectives are too rigid 
 and remove the spontaneity of the sport. NBA 09 also supports online play, but there are so few 
 people playing that it's difficult to find a game.  

  The visuals in NBA 09 are superior to those in past games in the franchise, but they still fall 
 short of the competition. The crowd is well lit, it dynamically reacts to on-court play, and it 
 isn't just one model copied hundreds of times. Although player models (especially hair) seem more 
 accurate than in last year's game, they are still not on par with those in either EA's or 2K's 
 game. This is mostly due to the rubberlike skin textures, poor shadowing effects, and the occasional 
 cross-eye. In addition to the models, the visual presentation is slightly improved this year. NBA 
 09 has switched to a sideline broadcast camera, and while it doesn't make playing defense any easier, 
 it does make the game easier to follow, especially after turnovers. Player introductions at the 
 start of the game somewhat resemble the real thing, though the lack of highlights is disappointing. 

           Its got a chanceoh, wait, no it doesnt. And the ball will apparently land right there. 

  Ian Eagle does a reasonable job covering the game's play-by-play, but the color commentary from 
 Kenny Smith is far too infrequent. As a result, the audio quickly begins to feel stale and almost 
 unnecessary considering the frenzied pace at which the game is played.  

  NBA 09: The Inside is a small step in the right direction for a franchise that has typically lagged 
 behind its NBA simulation counterparts. While implementation of a default broadcast camera angle 
 and improved player models more closely mimic standards in the competition, glaring gameplay flaws 
 and the overall lack of depth continue to hinder this series.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (5 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: msspectac
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 14, 2008 4:11 pm PT
Review:  The life mode, mini games and finally the franchise mode make this game good, but Sony could make 
 it way better by combining the good stuff they have with some improvements eg. further developing 
 the franchise mode. A deeper life mode, and the all around gameplay and this game could definately 
 be up there maybe even better than the others. The franchise mode lacks in areas but the fact they 
 included it says they're moving some where. Life mode was interesting and fun although the stories 
 were very short. Also frustrating at times whilst trying to receive the trophies on All-Star level 
 as it sometimes feels impossible to achieve. Prehaps that explains why the life mode stories are 
 short as they can take forever to get through. Gameplay is probably Sony's biggest problem as it 
 lacks in places. It does however have a fun feel to it which makes it enjoyable. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ChuckHayesOwns
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 22, 2008 2:53 pm PT
Review:  NBA 09: The Inside
  
  First Impressions (Running diary, Skip down for actual Review) :
  The splash screen is pretty cool with real video pouring in and some snazzy tunes. Really like 
 the image of Ginoblis bald spot, good times. Alright first thing I do in every basketball game 
 going back to college hoops 2k2 is go to the check rosters feature and check out a certain someones 
 rating. Once again the game fails and refuses to rank Chuck Hayes at least a 95. Strike one. Good 
 load times, and I'm in there the Rockets versus the Heat. Yao Ming is gloriously tall. T Mac is 
 unstoppable, as is Dwayne Wade. Beasley looks real good, gotta love it when they get the rookies 
 right. I wish Joey Dorsey was in the game, hopefully he'll be in there at the update. Alright first 
 half ends I'm up 44-39. The game is smooth so far, some rebounding issues especially considering 
 I have chuck hayes out there and their is no way he would let the corpse that is Mark Blount get 
 an O bound over him but no matter. Really like the shot meter and really cool ball to rim physics, 
 they are completely independant (i. e. no ball is pulled magically to the rim at the last possible 
 second) Alright second half is starting. Dwayne Wade gets falls down and does not get up. He's 
 hurt, good realism factor off that bat. Chris Quinn just dunked... yeah. Last play of the game coming 
 up, I'm down 2, 3 seconds to go ball at half court. T Mac time... no, Yao? not a chance. Mr. Hayes 
 comes barreling off a screen from Ron Ron, and just misses a jumper in the corner to tie it. Alas 
 victory is the Heats. The game runs incredibly smooth, I'm loving the way the players move, a little 
 unrealistic in the way they jump, heads near the rim and such. Computer AI seems on point, lots 
 of off ball screens and the help defense is good. Hard to stop scoring in the paint. And of course 
 loses points for having Chuck Hayes miss a game winning shot, that would never happen. Ever.
  
  Features (9.5) :
  The Life mode - Really great, a little short but awesome cut scenes. I made 
 a 7'3 Ukrainian swingman, who is a dead ringer for Dolph Lundgren. Love that they brought the D 
 League into this, and the three stories with position specific stories is wonderful. Best feature 
 I've touched in a basketball game this year. 
  
  Mini Games- Some are real fun, some are real annoying, kind of what you expect from mini games. 
 Play trashcan golf, once you get the hang of it quite the fun. Also can make a decent drinking 
 game.
  
  Franchise - its nice they did this and its actually decent. Not too much detail and no fantasy 
 draft hold it back from being great but it does everything that you expect a franchise mode to 
 do.
  
  Progression Players - this allows you to take created players (either from the life or not) and 
 build up their stats throughout the game. you can play exhibitions or the life mode to do this. 
 Really cool feature, I've spent countless hours building up my guys, then bringing them into the 
 franchise mode together as a squad. I rebuilt my high school varsity team, oh reminiscing about 
 the glory days better move on before it gets dusty over my laptop...
  
  Weekly Updates - Apparently once the season starts we are going to able to upload updated rosters 
 which is nice. Also big games from the week we can download and then play the situations.
  
  Graphics and Presentation (9)
  The player models are very good, the faces aren't perfect 
 but they look okay. Only basketball game this year that is shown in 1080p and that comes up big 
 for it. Almost smooth to a fault sometimes, as it appears the players are gliding instead of running. 
 The arenas look awesome, very good atmosphere. The TNT display is awesome, looks like a real basketball 
 game. Excellent overall.
  
  Audio (8)
  
  The announcing in the game comes from Kevin Calabro and Kenny the Jet Smith, they are pretty good. 
 Sometimes too repetitive and often annoying they life up to the standard that is video game sports 
 announcers. The music has a pretty cool feature called the Jukebox which allows you to upload music 
 to the game and then play them in situations. Very interactive, a little tough to navigate but 
 when you figure it out its sweet.
  
  Gameplay (7.5)
  
  Very smooth and sleak but lacks some actual basketball elements which hurts it. The computer AI 
 is great but its so hard to stop people in the post makes you feel like every player is as inept 
 as Zack Randolph. The players move very well, and the right stick for the freestyle moves is nice. 
 Shooting is great, as is anything around the hoop. I don't love the separate button for dunk thing, 
 but that is more of a personal preference. The off-ball movement looks goofy, either they are running 
 with too much of a purpose (a dead straight line) or they are just standing there. Really great 
 animations around the hoop, when you see Ray Allen lay it in, its amazing how much it looks like 
 the actual Ray Allen.
  
  Overall (8.5)
  
  This game is remarkably different to NBA 08, to the point where the game play and the AI are almost 
 unrecognizable to last years version. That's a good thing. It really is just a blast to play, and 
 the features make it well worth it even if you own this years other basketball titles. It has its 
 faults but the fun factor overpowers it. 
  For more info on the game check out www. stepinsidethelife. com 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JTsensation
Rating: 5
Date: Oct 20, 2008 5:46 pm PT
Review:  bad bad bad thats all i got to say offence is easy defence u can never get a rebound .. The life 
 mood makes no sence at times... I love the mlb the show but stick with baseball basketball u guys 
 cant cut it.. spent 60 bucks only to return it the next day and get 20 for it... please people 
 get live or 2k9 .. The game does look so entertaining the life mode and all that stuff but it sure 
 dont hold up.. The game is flat .. I tryed playing and i just couldent get into it .. The players 
 looked like werd i lost 40 bucks and iam not to happy about that . My own faught i liked the demo 
 .. ps get 2k9 or live 06 05 07 will be better then this honesty truey your jason sensation orlando 
 magic 2009  
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GeoffZak
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 19, 2009 5:34 pm PT
Review:  Graphics: Nothing special, really good PS2 graphics but kind of mediocre PS3 graphics. They're 
 passable for this generation, you will see a lot of great textures that are very detailed, but 
 you'll also see some blurry things like the fans in the crowd.
  
  Gameplay: In one word, solid. The game engine is solid and works. Navigating around the court is 
 easy and the way you shoot the ball is also a great idea that works well by releasing circle when 
 the bar reaches the green area. The story mode, The Life, is great, it's fun to have a backstory 
 for your character and be given goals to complete in every game. The voice acting is great, but 
 the story isn't very in-depth. What could've used more work was stealing the ball while on defense, 
 being able to steal the ball happens once in a blue moon. Another thing that they should've improved 
 was the tip-off. It's extremely easy to get the tip-off when playing against the computer, all 
 you gotta do is to keep pressing triangle.
  
  I enjoy playing this game, it might not have the most realistic graphics, but it's fun. The Life 
 is also an interesting game mode, the story's are short, but the cutscenes are fun to watch have 
 have great voice acting. The mini games are also great, Own the Court, 3pt contest, Playstation 
 Skills challenge, (as seen in the all-star game) Rabbit etc. They're a good alternative for when 
 you get bored playing exhibition games.
  
  But what it comes down to is fun, I don't care if the animation sequences look awkward sometimes, 
 the game is fun to play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: boom_zenglish
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 9, 2008 12:06 pm PT
Review:  Over all I think the folks at SEC San Diego did a good job with this release (The people who brought 
 you 'MLB 08: THE SHOW') . Overall I was surprised on this release. I say it is worth the money. 
 Give you a glimpse of the whole life, from the street ball to the d-leagues to the NBA, and to 
 becoming the franchise.
  
  I think that most of these reviews were rushed, and were pretty biased. I think if the testers 
 really sat down and reviewed this game for what it is really worth, they would have given it a 
 much higher rating. It is very feature rich game now, and has a surprisingly high amount of depth 
 for being a pro-sports game. 
  
  The Con's - I think the only real con this game has is trying to break the horrible stereotype 
 that this title has had in the past. Props to the folks in San Diego on a 'in field home-run', 
 not quite a home run, and no where near out of the park yet, but this release should bring some 
 new fans to the game! 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
