-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: NBA 08
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/ps3/sports/nba08/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Tricolored shot meter is great.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Gameplay is generally lousy.
 There's clipping everywhere you look.
 No franchise mode.
 Barren season mode.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Sep 27, 2007
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 5
Critic Score: 6.6, 39 Review (s)
User Score: 5.3, 231 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: SCEA
Developer: SCEA San Diego
Genre: Basketball Sim
Date: Oct 12, 2007
ESRB: Everyone

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
It's better than last year's game, but it's still not worth playing. 

  NBA 07 for the PlayStation 3 was a mess, clearly rushed out the door to make it to stores in time 
 for the PlayStation 3's launch. SCEA has had 10 months to straighten things out for NBA 08 -- not 
 a lot of time in the world of game development. There's no question that this year's game is better 
 than last year's, but its gameplay is so laden with problems that it's still not worth your time. 

           How you're supposed to play defense when the ball can go right through you is a question 
 that has yet to be answered.      

  For starters, there's not a whole lot to do. There's no franchise mode, only a bare-bones single-season 
 mode. You can't manage a salary cap, draft players, sign contracts, manage team finances, or pretty 
 much anything else basketball games have been doing for the last several years. You can trade players, 
 but the CPU doesn't bother to veto trades, so you can trade the worst player in the league for 
 the best player whenever you want. There are a few minigames to choose from, though they're nothing 
 new. Own the court is a timed head-to-head shooting challenge that's pretty fun; the three-point 
 contest is entertaining against friends for a few rounds; and skills challenge, where you dribble, 
 pass, and shoot on an obstacle course, is rather lame... again. If you fancy an online game you 
 can go online and play an exhibition game. During online play the game ran fairly smoothly and 
 the lag didn't affect the timing of the shot meter much at all.  

  NBA 08's only unique gameplay mode is NBA replay. The developer took the best performances from 
 last year's NBA season and added them into the game for you to try to replicate. You don't have 
 to match all of the 57 points that Michael Redd scored on November 11, but you will be given just 
 a few minutes to score eight points, six of which will need to come in the form of three-pointers 
 from specific spots on the floor. Sony will be updating these challenges with new performances 
 as the real NBA season progresses. These challenges are fun for a while, but after a few weeks 
 they start to all feel the same; so it's hard to imagine finishing the 68 scenarios that shipped 
 with the game and still find yourself wanting more.  

  You earn credits for playing minigames and from challenges. They can also be earned by accomplishing 
 in-game feats such as dishing an assist with a certain player, getting a double-double, hitting 
 a shot, and more. These credits can be used to unlock new gear or boost a created player's stats. 
 It's an interesting way of getting you to care about leveling up your player, but it's hampered 
 by the game's paltry create-a-player options and the fact that you can score 50 points with your 
 player in his first game even though he's rated a 50.  

  Repetitive challenges and the lack of a franchise mode are really moot points, though, because 
 the gameplay is so poor you won't care that there aren't many ways to experience it. A few of the 
 problems from last year's version have been fixed, but many remain. It's near impossible to run 
 a fast break for the following reasons: There's no lead pass button; players will stop in their 
 tracks to receive the ball; and defensive players can pick off any pass longer than 15 feet with 
 ease. You can call plays with the D pad and, this year, even call them for a specific player, but 
 everyone gets so bunched up that most passes in traffic get stolen. Offensive players make little 
 effort to get open, and when they do try, they don't succeed because defensive players are stuck 
 to them like glue. Speaking of defense, how, exactly, are you supposed to guard people when they 
 can a) dribble the ball right through your body, and b) get bailed out on foul calls when you don't 
 even hit a button or come into contact with them? More Sixaxis controls have been added, and like 
 most every other game out there, they add nothing to the experience. They work OK when you're just 
 trying to perform a spin move, but why anyone would want to tilt the controller to raise or lower 
 their hands on defense when they could just do it with the right stick is a mystery.  

  But the game does a few things well. The tricolored shot meter that gives you a visual representation 
 of how difficult a shot is as well as the timing required to hit it works as good as ever. It's 
 the game's best feature by far. Low post controls are easy to learn, responsive, and effective, 
 even with defenders magically glued to your hips. Rebounding also works well thanks to icons on 
 the floor that show where the ball is going to land. This was in the game last year but didn't 
 work very well. This time around you actually feel like you've got some say over who is going to 
 end up with a rebound. The game's pacing is also pretty good. The CPU doesn't waste a lot of time 
 with unproductive passes and is pretty aggressive, so there's very little downtime.  

  NBA 08's visuals are all over the place. The game does run at a speedy frame rate, even in 1080p. 
 The courts look nice, too. There are nice reflections on the hardwood, and the crowds and arenas 
 are detailed. Player models are generally good -- at least if you look at them while they're not 
 moving. Once they get in motion things get ugly. Their heads follow the ball, but their eyes don't; 
 their transitions from one move to the next are awful; and there's an egregious amount of clipping. 
 That might explain why the presentation is so dull. The only time you'll see a replay is after 
 a dunk, since they look pretty good. The rest of the time it's as if the game is trying to hide 
 its problems from you by not letting you get too close to the action.  

           The shot meter is still the best thing this series has going for it.      

  Astonishingly 
 enough, last year's game didn't have any commentary other than a PA announcer. NBA 08 fixes this 
 with the addition of Kevin Calabro and Mark Jackson as announcers. They're passable, but they don't 
 have a lot to say and they frequently ignore big plays. This is mostly an issue on unexpected plays, 
 like when a player misses a free throw but a teammate comes flying in for a dunk -- Calabro won't 
 even mention the dunk, and will instead talk about the miss. The arenas are pretty quiet; the crowds 
 are subdued and there's not a lot of music during the games.  

  Sure, the game's better than it was last year, but this series is far from being good. So baby 
 steps -- even if they're in the right direction -- just won't cut it. The bottom line is NBA 08 is 
 not a good game, and there's no reason to play it.  

    Editor's note 09/28/07 : The original version of this review has been updated to correct a statement 
 relating to the number of players found online. GameSpot regrets the error.      
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (8 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: NBAmaster33
Rating: 5
Date: Aug 10, 2008 9:42 am PT
Review:  I'm a huge basketball fan, so I thought this game wouldn't be as bad as everyone said it was. Unfortunately, 
 it is. The gameplay features a tricolored shot meter to time your shot. It works alright but that's 
 pretty much how you shoot throughout the game. The gameplay itself is unrealistic, as you'll see 
 players make about 95% of their attempted shots before being fouled. I didn't really enjoy the 
 unrealistic scoring, plus the shooting is just plain annoying. Visually, the game looks awful. 
 The players don't look anything like their real life selves, and the animations are ugly. The commentary 
 is good for the most part, but they'll keep repeating the same things over and over again. The 
 frame rate doesn't hold up all that well and there's clipping practically everywhere you look. 
 This game should be recommended only to die-hard NBA fans who appreciate lousy gameplay mechanics 
 and awful visuals. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chad_giac
Rating: 2
Date: Jun 26, 2008 9:14 pm PT
Review:  Where to start, alright first ill give you the very miniscule list of the things this game does 
 right.
  
  1. It Has all the teams in the NBA
  2. Its ludicrously easy
  
  And now for whats wrong with the "game"
  
  1: Its ludicrously easy
  2: The game looks horrible 
 for something that claims to be 1080p i mean it still is sporting the 2D crowds....... C'mon.
  3: The Gameplay is broken, with the tricolered shot meter you can consistently make shots from 
 half court and further. WHAT A JOKE.
  4: even if you want a more arcade-type b-ball game, please trust me and go with nba street homecourt. 
 
  5: Dont even get me started on the sixaxis this game features.
  
  Bottom line: Stay away from this steaming pile, if this game costed 1$ it would still not warrant 
 a purchase. This may be a good title if youre 3 or under!
  
  hope i helped
  
  PSN: chadt33 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rob046
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 24, 2008 4:24 pm PT
Review:  I tried all 3 NBA games for the PS3 (2k8, Live 08, and NBA 08) and I simply liked NBA 08 the best. 
 And it didn't hurt that since I have a 1080P HDTV, which of course gave NBA 08 an additional edge 
 over the others. Not only does it run in 1080p, but also at 60 fps. Nice!
  Of course there is more to a game than 1080p, but if you are capable of 1080p it is certainly something 
 you don't want to dismiss.
  
  Also, I find the graphics in general to be as good or better than the other games.
  I noticed 
 that one reason this game got a low score here was the lack of franchise modes, salary caps, and 
 all that kind of stuff that I happen to absolutely HATE! So refreshing to just play some ball! 
 Managing franchises and salary caps is too much like work. I've personally been sick of games only 
 having franchise modes lately and no normal regular season mode.
  And finally NBA 08 just sticks to ballin' and I actually improve the game's rating because of this, 
 not lower it like the reveiwers here. Do all reviewers think that everybody loves franchise modes 
 and calculating hot dog prices?
  
  Here you have just the fun basics. You have your quick play games for quick action, an exhibition 
 mode, regular season mode, and playoff's. And of course there is the usual online modes. Other 
 than that there is a cool feature that has "games of the week" and there is mini-games such as 
 the 3 point shootout, a skills course, and an "own the court" shooting game that is pretty cool.
 
  
  The controls are nice too. Not too complex, just right. The sixaxis is implemented nicely. On offense 
 you can hesistate, push forward, spin, and between the legs dribble all with the sixaxis which 
 let's not have to waste your finger on the right stick (although you can if you want) and use your 
 fingers for other controls such as stealing and blocking, ect.
  The controls in general though are real nice, just the right amount of nifty moves without overcomplicating 
 things and all are easy enough to perform, which is nice because when playing ball you need to 
 be quick.
  
  So I have no complaints with the gameplay at all or anything else for that matter, at least not 
 at this point. Nice graphics at 1080p and 60 fps, nice controls, and NBA 08 doesn't make you deal 
 with any of that franchise crap. For all those reasons I have to rate this game a 9 and also say 
 that I definitely like this game better than the other 2 NBA sims, which somehow got much better 
 reviews than this one.
  When I say the 5 rating, that is what inspired me to write in here and up the user ratings a bit. 
 No way this game is a 5, although I do admit that if I didn't have a 1080p HDTV that the score 
 may not be a 9, might be a 7 or 8 though.
  Regardless, a solid sports game.
  And just to prove that not everyone thinks this game is just average at best, this game was voted 
 "Best Sports Game of 2007" at E3. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: teycor
Rating: 7
Date: Jan 23, 2008 3:52 pm PT
Review:  yo yo yo yo yo yo yo yo yo yo yo yo yo yo yo yo yo yo yo yo yo yo yo yo yo yo yo yo yo yo yo yo 
 yo yo yo yo yo yo yo yo yo yo yo yo yo yo yo yo yo yo yo yo yo yo yo yo yo yo yo yo yo yo yo yo 
 yo yo yo yo yo yo yo yo yo yo yo yo yo yo yo yo yo yo yo yo yo yo yo yo yo yo yo yo yo yo yo yo 
 yo yo yo yo yo yo yo yo yo yo yo yo yo yo yo yo yo yo yo yo yo yo yo yo yo yo yo yo yo yo yo yo 
 yo yo yo yo yo yo yo yo yo yo yo yo yo yo yo yo yo yo yo yo yo yo yo yo yo yo yo yo yo yo yo yo 
 yo yo yo yo yo yo yo yo yo yo yo yo yo yo yo yo yo yo yo yo yo yo yo yo yo yo yo yo yo yo yo yo 
 yo yo yo yo yo yo yo yo yo yo yo yo yo yo yo yo yo yo yo yo yo yo yo yo yo yo yo yo yo yo yo yo 
 yo yo yo yo yo yo yo yo yo yo yo yo yo yo yo yo yo yo yo yo yo yo yo yo yo yo yo yo yo yo yo yo 
 yo yo yo yo yo yo yo yo yo yo yo yo yo yo yo yo yo yo yo yo yo yo yo yo yo yo yo yo yo yo yo yo 
 yo yo yo yo yo yo yo yo yo yo yo yo yo yo yo yo yo yo yo yo yo yo yo yo 
::::::

::::::
UserName: joshboy1991
Rating: 3.5
Date: Nov 20, 2007 1:32 pm PT
Review:  what is the first thing you think of when you think of basketball, tall men, great skill, facst 
 paced game, michael Jordan, yep, thought so, and what do you think of when you think of NBA 08 
 on the ps3, murder, depression, the columbine massacre, ok, sorry, a bit too far then, but you 
 get the point, don't you, NBA 08 is bascially a terrible game, there is no purity or flow in the 
 gameplay, the visuals are just unbeleiveable (that was not a complement) and the modes are just 
 there to be laughed at, I just have to ask, why, why did you have to ruin basketball for me why, 
 why (as i'm saying this, imagine me crying, and then you get the picture) the only good aspect 
 of the game is that it isn't very long, so there isn't that much suffering, beleive me, choose 
 one of the better basketball titles of 08 such as ea's game or 2k8, hopefully, fellow gamers will 
 choose these titles instead of nba 08 and put faith back into mankind in the form of basketball. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AllGameSystems
Rating: 3
Date: Oct 12, 2007 8:30 am PT
Review:  This just isnt something to buy there are better NBA game available.
  
  I hope I save u some money...
  
  THX THX THX THX THX THX THX THX THX THX THX THX THX THX THX 
 THX THX THX THX THX THX THX THX THX THX THX THX THX THX THX THX THX THX THX THX THX THX THX THX 
 THX THX THX THX THX THX THX THX THX THX THX THX THX THX THX THX THX THX THX THX THX THX THX THX 
 THX THX THX THX THX THX THX THX THX THX THX THX THX THX THX THX THX THX THX THX THX THX THX THX 
 THX THX THX THX THX THX THX THX THX 
::::::

::::::
UserName: grimybrit
Rating: 4.5
Date: Oct 7, 2007 8:45 am PT
Review:  This game is better than last year but it's still pretty bad. It is still too easy to dunk and 
 score points. The only thing that has any real meaning is some pretty okay online. Although the 
 graphics are nice. I really really expect more out of the PS3 game. The PS3 has high expactacions 
 and this game doesn't meet it. It's really not good enough. The controls don't play very well
 
  and it has a few glitches. It's mostly the same as last year. Bad, weirdly boring, and for something 
 on the PS3 this game isn't that great. So pretty much the game isn't  
 MEDIOCRE OR POOR!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: evklinken
Rating: 4.5
Date: Sep 30, 2007 11:25 pm PT
Review:  There are no less than 3 basketball sims, and that's too much to have 3 great ones. NBA 2K8, NBA 
 Live 08 and NBA 08 are the rivals in basketball-sim land. But well, only two of them are enjoyable 
 at all. And too bad, Sony's NBA 08 is none of those two. The game mechanics are just too rusty 
 compared to its rivals. The graphics aren't bad, but also not good enough, thanks to weird glitches 
 and bugs. I had the game crash five times when playing, and the total playtime was 4 hours or so, 
 within 3 days. This game has lost the battle against his rivals, at any point. The gameplay is 
 too damn struggling, the graphics are full of glitches, you almost can't put fun out of this. Actually, 
 not really, because Xbox 360 fanboys will probably love this horrible PS3 exclusive. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
