-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: NBA 07
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/ps3/sports/nba07/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Multicolored shot meter works well.
 NBA replay is fun for a short while.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 The Life story mode is nowhere to be found.
 No announcers.
 Unimpressive graphics.
 Poor artificial intelligence and buggy gameplay.
 $20 more than the superior PS2 version.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Nov 16, 2006
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 4.9
Critic Score: 6.5, 25 Review (s)
User Score: 5.5, 396 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: SCEA
Genre: Basketball Sim
Date: Nov 14, 2006
ESRB: Everyone

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
NBA 07 on the PlayStation 3 doesn't have the fun story mode that the PlayStation 2 version has, 
 but it does have most of that version's flaws, and some new ones. 

  For a number of years now, Sony's first-party basketball games haven't been very good. In fact, 
 SCEA recently benched the series for a season in an effort to right the ship. It didn't help much, 
 though the hiatus did spawn one interesting feature in NBA 06 -- a story mode that followed the on- 
 and off-court life of a rookie NBA player. The Life was further refined in NBA 07 on the PlayStation 
 2 and was easily the most enjoyable aspect of an otherwise unremarkable game. Unfortunately, The 
 Life didn't make it into NBA 07 on the PlayStation 3, and the game suffers for it, because there's 
 nothing to hide the shallow season options and flawed gameplay.  

          The Clippers are something you want in a basketball game. Clipping is not.     

  Most 
 of NBA 07's game modes aren't particularly deep, but there are a handful of ways to keep yourself 
 occupied. You can play a single game or season, or jump straight to the playoffs. The season mode 
 is shallow and encompasses only the 2006-07 NBA season -- there's no multiyear franchise option. 
 You can trade players without having to worry about the salary cap, but general managers are a 
 little smarter than they were on the PS2, so you can't do something like trade P. J. Brown for Dirk 
 Nowitzki anymore. It was a little easier to swallow the lack of a franchise mode in the PlayStation 
 2 version of the game because of how much depth The Life offered. Here, there are no such distractions, 
 and the omission of a multiyear play mode reeks of the game being rushed out the door. NBA 07 does 
 have a bunch of minigames, most of which are enjoyable for a short time. From the NBA's all-star 
 weekend, the three-point shootout is playable, as is the skills challenge, where your dribbling, 
 shooting, and passing skills are put to the test. There's no dunk contest, which is curious, since 
 it's in the PlayStation Portable version of the game. You can take on the computer or three other 
 players in own the court, where you try to hit jumpers to take control of circles of varying point 
 values that are spread around the court. None of the handy drills from the PlayStation 2 version 
 of the game are here, which is a shame because they were really helpful in teaching some of the 
 finer points of the controls.  

  While The Life has been stripped from the game, at least one concept made it over, albeit in slightly 
 modified form. NBA replay has 50 of the best individual performances from the 2005-2006 NBA season. 
 There are two challenges each week, and you unlock the next week by accomplishing all of the goals 
 that go along with each challenge. After selecting a challenge you're given a list of objectives 
 that must be met, plus another list of optional goals. One of the first challenges gives you just 
 under three minutes to score eight points with Kobe Bryant, with the caveat that none of those 
 points can come from three-pointers and you've got to win by two. Sometimes you'll need to dish 
 out assists or limit the performance of opposing teams and players. Games of the week mode is a 
 modified version of NBA replay that features the five most impressive performances for each week 
 of the current NBA season. After beating each of a particular week's challenges, you can upload 
 your scores to a global online leaderboard. For some reason there are no online leaderboards for 
 the basic NBA replay mode, which makes trying to accomplish the additional "extra mile" tasks rather 
 pointless.  

  The replay mode is fun in small doses, but there are a number of issues that limit its attractiveness. 
 For starters, the difficulty is all over the place -- it starts off easy, then it gets hard, and 
 then gets easy again; it's very uneven. There's also not a whole lot of variety to the game scenarios. 
 They mostly revolve around individual statistics, particularly scoring and dishing out assists. 
 Occasionally, you'll need to maintain a lead or hold opposing players to a certain point total, 
 but you're rarely rewarded for steals, rebounds, or blocked shots. It's also a pain to check your 
 goals and how close you are to achieving them. A message will appear onscreen when you've accomplished 
 a goal, but once you've started a game the only way to find out what you have left to do is to 
 pause the game.  

          The shot meter helps you get your timing just right.     

  On the court, NBA 07 gets a few things right, but they're overshadowed by the things it does poorly. 
 The timing-based shot meter that uses red, yellow, and green to show how well you timed your shot 
 is helpful and works fine. A marker that shows where a rebound is headed is supposed to make it 
 easier to hit the boards, but the ball just ends up magically appearing in a player's hands, so 
 it's not very useful. Because it only appears for missed shots and it appears as soon as the ball 
 is shot, you know as soon as the ball leaves your hands whether the shot's good or not. This takes 
 quite a bit of suspense out of the game. You can perform jukes, crossovers, and spins via the right 
 analog stick, and this system works quite well. Alley-oops can be thrown by pressing R2 to send 
 a player toward the hoop and then X (or triangle for a no-look) to pass. When it works, this method 
 feels great, but too often it's hard to tell which player is going to make a run, and by the time 
 you figure it out, the pass is too late. One aspect that the developer did nail is the post game. 
 You can start backing a player down with L1 and then flick the right analog stick when it's time 
 to make your move. This control scheme is easy to learn, yet still allows you a lot of freedom. 
 Playing defense primarily is a largely futile endeavor that involves frantically trying to keep 
 the defender in front of the ball handler and then pounding the triangle button to block the shot. 
 But even your best won't prevent the game from quickly becoming a dunkfest.  

  NBA 07 uses the Sixaxis' tilt-control to let you perform spins, jukes, and crossovers. There are 
 no tilt-control moves on defense. Rotating the controller clockwise causes your player to spin 
 left, while rotating it counterclockwise makes them spin right. Moving the controller left or right 
 performs a crossover in the corresponding direction, and juke moves are done by pushing the controller 
 forward or pulling it back. Spin moves feel pretty natural and are easy to do, but crossovers and 
 jukes require a lot of force to perform, and the game frequently fails to respond to the movement 
 of the controller. Because it's so much easier to get to the rim by chaining together moves with 
 the right analog stick, there's no reason to use the tilt-control functionality once the novelty 
 of being able to control a player onscreen by spinning the controller wears off.     

  As for how the game actually plays -- it's not very good, but some casual players may be able to 
 look past the many gameplay flaws because the game's brisk pace and easy-to-learn controls make 
 it accessible. Players don't do much more than run from point A to point B to get open, so for 
 the most part you're on your own when it comes to creating shots. Even the worst players can get 
 to the rim by running around the court juking and spinning if they're persistent. You can call 
 a few basic plays using the D pad, but since it's not particularly difficult to get to the hoop, 
 you really won't need to use this feature very often. Should you want to play in a more realistic 
 fashion, you can't, because the computer blocks shots like Shaq playing against fifth graders, 
 particularly on the harder difficulty settings. The CPU is also adept at stealing any pass that 
 needs to travel more than 15 feet. Even if you try to keep your passes short, you'll often end 
 up throwing a cross-court pass that usually ends up getting picked off. Fast breaks aren't much 
 fun at all. Not only do passes get stolen all too often, but players tend to stop in their tracks 
 to receive the ball, and streaking players run straight down the court and never cut to the hoop. 
 If you manage to get the ball to someone near the rim on a break, they'll most likely be sucked 
 into a defender, even if that defender is several feet away. This happens in the halfcourt offense 
 as well. Sometimes you can get around players, but more often it feels as though you're caught 
 in the defender's gravitational field.  

          Hopefully you enjoy dunking, because you'll be doing lots of it.     

  The artificial 
 intelligence often employs some questionable tactics. If they're losing, opposing teams will often 
 intentionally foul late in the game, but when they get the ball they don't make much of an effort 
 to get a quick shot. If teams have the lead, they'll still pass the ball around, even taking shots 
 when all they have to do is dribble out the clock.  

  There are a host of bugs as well. Players can dunk through the backboards; blocked shots don't 
 count as missed shots; players routinely step out of bounds when they're near the baseline (though 
 sometimes they don't get called as being out of bounds) and they frequently get whistled for fouls 
 when no contact was made. But wait, there's more. It's near impossible to pick up a ball you've 
 knocked loose; referees will call backcourt violations when there aren't any, and often don't call 
 them when there are; players will sometimes get in defensive positions on offense; balls will speed 
 up and slow down for no apparent reason; and it doesn't count as goaltending when you block a shot 
 by jumping and sticking your arm up through the center of the basket.  

  Online play is bare-bones, offering nothing more than basic five-on-five play and leaderboards. 
 For the most part, the game ran lag-free online, but the frame rate took a nosedive on every change 
 of possession. As was mentioned earlier, you can download new games of the week challenges and 
 post your scores online.  

  NBA 07 is not the game you'll be using to show off your PlayStation 3 to your jealous friends. 
 It's not a very good-looking game, and the overall presentation is sorely in need of some flair. 
 The default baseline camera tends to be zoomed out too far on fast breaks, making it tough to play 
 anywhere near the baseline, though a quick change to the camera settings fixes this problem. The 
 arenas look pretty good, though there's some odd lighting in the arena that causes a halo of light 
 to surround the players sometimes. The courts themselves are highly reflective and look really 
 nice. The crowd is fully animated, and there are a few security guards and cameramen here and there, 
 but there aren't any mascots or cheerleaders. When you're viewing the action from the baseline 
 camera you'll notice textures popping in on the people sitting courtside. It's also distracting 
 to watch the depth-of-field blurring effect that's used on the crowd vanish as you dribble upcourt. 

  The player models aren't impressive, either. Checking out a replay reveals that players' faces 
 do have lots of detail, but many players don't look much like their real-life counterparts. Even 
 when the replay is paused, sweat will still roll down players' bodies, which looks odd. Certain 
 player animations like dunks and layups are smooth and look great, but the transition from one 
 move to the next is often poor or nonexistent, so it's not uncommon to see the ball warp from one 
 hand to the other or players spin around without moving their legs. There's an egregious amount 
 of clipping in the game. Players will pass right through one another, the rim, and the backboard -- they 
 can even magically pass the ball through solid objects.  

  The game looks crisp in 1080p, but the frame rate chugs on quick changes of possession. On the 
 other hand, if you're playing in 480i, the image quality is horrible but the frame rate is a steady 
 60 frames per second. The sweet spot seems to be at 720p, which runs smoothly while still featuring 
 a lot of detail.  

          Quit renting and own the court.     

  The soundtrack consists solely of hip-hop tunes and features a handful of songs from KRS-One, Rhymefest, 
 Big Rich, Rakim, Del tha Funkee Homosapien, and a few others. Save for a lone PA announcer who 
 calls out baskets, assists, and steals, there's no commentary to speak of. This omission is inexcusable. 
 The fact that the PSP version of NBA 07 has both a play-by-play  and  a color announcer makes this 
 even more difficult to accept. Short bursts of music liven up the arena a bit here and there, but 
 the subdued crowd is seemingly just as bored watching the game as you are playing it.  

  It's mind-boggling that SCEA is charging $60 for what amounts to a buggy, stripped-down version 
 of a PlayStation 2 game that wasn't all that good to begin with. Sure, there are moments here and 
 there where the game is fun, but these fleeting moments are always ended by one (or more) of the 
 game's glaring flaws. Other than having support for 1080p, the game in no way, shape, or form takes 
 advantage of the PlayStation 3's abilities.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (22 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: fizzlegloop
Rating: 3
Date: Jan 14, 2008 4:16 pm PT
Review:  I bought this game about two weeks ago the same time that I bought 2 other games. This has to be 
 the worst game that I have EVER played. Paid I don't know how much for a game that I had to of 
 played for about 20 minutes and then decide to take it back to the store. The computer is horrIble. 
 They do the same thing over and over again. The announcer gets very annoying and so do the people 
 on the field talking. The mini games are probably the only up side to this game. However with all 
 the better games out there why the heck would you want to waste your time on this one. When I bought 
 this game I said to myself it looks like a fun game from the cover but trust me its the biggest 
 waste of time. It was worse than nba 2007 the life to put it into perspective. The music in the 
 game was horrible too. This game is only good for ummmm... NOTHING. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CNS93
Rating: 7.5
Date: Dec 1, 2007 10:03 pm PT
Review:  Me personally, I liked the game. It was the first game I got for the PS3. There' s not really much 
 to say about this game. I didn' t think it had anything wrong with it. It addictive once you play. 
 It' s game where you can play all the time without getting bored. The graphics are amazing and 
 the learning curve is not hard. It' s a fun game. Season mode is fun. It gives you plenty of games 
 to play through. The 1 bad thing is that the game is kind of easy . You can make a 3 pointer easily. 
 Other than that is a good game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: leo-i
Rating: 7
Date: Oct 29, 2007 11:50 am PT
Review:  It' s not the worst game but if it's your first basketball game it's quite good. The best thing 
 in the game is the shot meter, the worst is that sometimes there are graphic problems: like sometimes 
 you pass through a guy. Sometimes and almost always you can't block an opponent while he is doing 
 a dunk.
  Compared to NBA Live, when you play at NBA 07 you don't have a lot of fun. Like the season mode 
 and playoff mode, you don't have the MVP or Finals cup .....
  So in conclusion this game is quite good in the game-play but weak for the rest. You should play 
 this game when you are really bored!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cedbrooks
Rating: 6.9
Date: Jul 3, 2007 6:52 pm PT
Review:  NBA 07 runs at a solid 60 fps and can even do 1080p, but the lack of features, limited animations, 
 and glitches really ruin this game. The game itself is not really that bad; it is even more fast 
 paced than any other NBA game out, which makes the game fun to play against other people. The shot 
 meter is a great feature which makes it a little more challenging. There is no The Life mode 
 on the PS3 version which brings the value of this game down. The online multi-player is decent 
 at best but tends to lag at times. There is a challenge mode which is updated every week from events 
 that happened in real NBA games during the season which is a pretty good feature. The graphics 
 are top notch for a basketball game but the animations are lacking compared to the NBA 2k series. 
 Players actions become very repetitive after a while; nothing really amazes you. There is really 
 no player collision feature in the animations and it is very hard to steal or block your opponent, 
 which makes the game totally about offense. Another bad thing is that there is no in-game commentary 
 which sucks because the only thing you hear is the action on the court and sometimes the crowd. 
 Glitches consist of dunking the ball through the entire basket, wrong player-stats displayed, and 
 the wrong calls by referees. While NBA 07 is fun to pick up and play for a little while, it becomes 
 very repetitive and unrealistic for a basketball simulation. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: batigol_9
Rating: 7.2
Date: Jun 18, 2007 8:24 am PT
Review:  Considering that I am used to having stripped down versions of games for the new consoles this 
 is not as bad as it seems. Let's all remember madden 06 or 07 for XBOX360, the first FIFA, NBA 
 for the 360, they were all stripped down, had problems with buggs and all that. Does that make 
 it ok though? Not really but we should just measure with the same stick, and judge them the same. 
 My son and I have fun with this game, is not as difficult (for him) as other ones he has played 
 and I guess it's all in the eye of the player.
  
  Graphics are great but Tim Duncan doesn't look a lot like the real Dunca, Ginobili is even worse! 
 That did bother me a little, but the sweat and all it's pretty cool, NBA 2K7 had bugs too, and 
 at some points the players were shirtless and stiff.
  
  It is lacking extra stuff but hopefully the NBA 08 will be better, I know that the second generation 
 of Madden and FIFA and NBA's were better on the 360 than the first ones, let's just wait.
  
  Plus its already at a lower price so it wouldn't hurt as much!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Tombom159
Rating: 7.4
Date: Apr 22, 2007 11:08 am PT
Review:  At first i thought it was awsome. Then i realised it isnt as fun without the story mode plus u 
 cant even create your own person. It's kinda way too easy to shoot so yah. Plus last years version 
 had much better graphics. They like dont even sweat in this one. But i have heard 2k7 was horrible 
 but i wouldnt doubt it, most 2k sports video games a stupid so yah. But not everything is bad in 
 this game. I mean you can use the sixaxis controller to do jukes, crossovers, and spins. All and 
 All NBA 07 was alright. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dmoney360
Rating: 2.6
Date: Apr 20, 2007 11:39 am PT
Review:  This is the worse nba I have ever played in my life save your cash whenever it comes down to this 
 game don't rent it Or buy it.. It has great graphics but sucky game play my cuz Brought this game 
 about a month ago after a couple of weeks of trying to get to like this stupid game he broke it 
 I would have done the same thing You would be better off getting the ps2 version its kinda sorry 
 as well but its way better than the ps3 version Sony needs to step there game up seriously why 
 charge people $600 for a video game system that sucks worse than a nintendo 64 xbox 360 is way 
 better than the ps3 and thats no lie. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ramansingh3
Rating: 5.1
Date: Apr 13, 2007 4:17 pm PT
Review:  The game looks next gen with its 1080p HD ability featured on the box of the title. The game is 
 shown with its crisp graphics and decent enough gameplay in its trailers. NBA 07 has its own gameplay 
 with its red, yellow, green and orange shooting modification, kinda like a trafic light. The game 
 misses out on someother game modes featured in it's competitors game like the dynasty/franchise 
 mode and no ''The Life Mode''. The game is fare behind its competittors. I don't recomend this 
 game not realistic at all go for NBA 2k7. Not what the playstation 3 first party games expected 
 to start out with. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fucu_1989
Rating: 7
Date: Mar 28, 2007 6:37 pm PT
Review:  i dont think its an awful game.. . it has goods and bads... but its nice... what i have to admid 
 is that the sound is horrible, the commentator is really bad..... the online gaming is very good, 
 u have fun with it.... and for being one of the first ps3 games its very good... most of people 
 talk about the shotmeter.. its very cool and if you get tired of it u can turn it off... people 
 should rent it or buy it and stop playing the demo.. then u can talk.... there are people saying 
 that there are too many fouls.. what??? its basketball!! stop playing streetbasketball .. face 
 the reality!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mikey_PJ
Rating: 4.4
Date: Mar 21, 2007 12:55 am PT
Review:  So really I guess I'll start wiht positive thoughts. Well this game has truely amazing graphics. 
 The floor is beautiful the players are b- well realistic. The only problem with the graphics is 
 that everything is abit too shiny. However, the shininess is quiet attractive. Well I'm done just 
 about all the good stuff in this game, now let's get to the negative.
  
  There's not to much to say really except the gameply sucks. The beginning of the game is terrible. 
 One time I found myself attempting a jump ball 15 times, because the hands kept going through the 
 ball. Then there were more problems. The game controlled terribly. Wow. And what else you ask? 
 How about no commentary, wow im surprised I wasn't asleep yet. However there were more things that 
 i had to see. These included crappy music and no life storymode YEY? I don't think so.
  
  Well I think I've insulted this game to its bare bones, but that's what it deserves. If sony was 
 making a graphics demonstration. they succeeded. If they were making a game, the failed terribly 
 and should be ashamed of themselves. I reccomend NBA Live 07 for the Ps2 personally it's a way 
 better basketball sim. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sebtko
Rating: 3.8
Date: Feb 1, 2007 12:28 pm PT
Review:  NBA 07 is the worst NBA game i have ever played!!!! not only is it full of glitches but the players 
 dont actually look like the players in the other sports games there not realistic at all. To tell 
 you the truth i wouldnt even rent this game its that bad!!!
  sadly enought i own it and not happy about that!!!! should of checked the ratings!!! dont be fooled 
 1080p has nothing to do with the game itself just would look nicer on a 1080p tv which costs over 
 2,500$$$
  
  although every game on the ps3 looks amazing so did this one but the gameplay sucks i say stick 
 with EA SPORTS Games they never let you down and when they do they come out with something amazing 
 next year around.
  
  hope this helps 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gamasutra
Rating: 1.5
Date: Mar 22, 2007 1:12 pm PT
Review:  This is the worst NBA game I have ever played. The PlayStation 2 version is way better. There are 
 no announcers. The defensive player are stuck to you. And after very basket they cut the game to 
 the inbound preventing you to go on a fastbreak. You only have four defensives plays to choose 
 from and four more offensive side of the ball. There is no flow in the game I feel like I can do 
 anything in the game. Its just plain boring. They should have done what EA did. They push back 
 their game a year so the can put out a real game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TBIRD7280
Rating: 5.6
Date: Jan 16, 2007 1:36 pm PT
Review:  The NBA series returns for its worst entry yet. I really can't even bring myself to explain just 
 how much it sucks. Gameplay
  
  Boring. The same old boring shot meter is there, and it is way too easy to control. You can easily 
 score more than 100 points a game without even trying.
  
  Sound
  
  Nothing new. The fans cheer on and off. The players never speak a word.
  
  Graphics
  
  
 The players look like their wrapped in vaseline. They start sweating, but you can't see the sweat, 
 they just get bright and shiny (thus, they look like they are wearing vaseline) .
  
  Get NBA 2K7 instead. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: baggy20
Rating: 5.1
Date: Jan 10, 2007 4:45 pm PT
Review:  NBA 07 for the PS3 had the potential to be a really good starting game for Sony's new system. After 
 the PS2 version having some surprisingly good features, i personally thought that NBA 07 could 
 be great with all the new graphics and such. I was wrong.
  
  This game may be the most non - indepth sports game for a very long time.... a very VERY long time. 
 It has absoluetly no Career mode, just season and playoffs. It has no The Life mode which was a 
 great feature on the PS2 and is a huge surprise. The only special mode it has is the NBA replay, 
 which actually was a pretty good feature and would have complemented the game a lot if it had more. 
 But it doesn't have more, so the NBA replay is there leading mode, which is very sad. The game 
 also has online, which is just simple games so there isn't really much to say there.
  
  The game of basketball in this game isn't really that bad - its actually pretty good i think. The 
 controls are simple, which is good, but are very easy to score with so you should change the difficulty 
 setting. NBA 07 is definately not one of the games that you can sit around and play for days, cause 
 you will definately get bored. Its a kind of game that when you have a friend over or something 
 you can play some ball. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: violent101
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jan 8, 2007 8:00 pm PT
Review:  This game does not deserve a 4.9 this is a better game than people think. People have been complaing 
 about the graphics saying it doesnt look good when its one of the best looking games out running 
 at 1080. I personaly like it better than 2k7 because I dont like playing the games to the side, 
 i like the camera to be behind the player so it feels like your controling him. Overall this is 
 a great game although it doesnt have franchise and it alot of fun to play online and if u like 
 to play basketball from the side angle get 2k7 not 07. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jdto20
Rating: 3.9
Date: Jan 4, 2007 9:39 am PT
Review:  This game has good graphics and decent controls but that ends the list of it's good features. The 
 AI in the game is very simple. Somehow the game was made with no announcers for the action, as 
 much as I hate the announcers in some sports games, when you play this you realize that any voice, 
 no matter how annoying can be an upgrade. Add that to the fact that there is no dynasty mode, fantasy 
 draft or life story mode, makes for a lack of features in the game. I would recommend this only 
 if you play basketball games with a friend and you only want to play exhibition games. Anyone looking 
 for a deep sports game should look elsewhere. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: trigun0006
Rating: 6.8
Date: Dec 30, 2006 4:14 pm PT
Review:  i personally like this game. im not a big fan of basketball, but this is a fun game with good graphics 
 and is generally fun. it has only one major downfall. The tilt controll sucks completly and it 
 makes the game feel wierd when trying to use them. The game is fun and accomplishes being an nba 
 game. the presentation is wierd and the menu system is simple but wierd. In season, i tried to 
 change up my traid roster, but it wouldnt work. i tried 3 times and finally gave up. later i figured 
 out how to but by then, i was over it. so i gave up and played a regular season with a regular 
 roster. the graphics are good too, whith a great cloth dynamic and a good sweat affect, it is one 
 of the better looking ps3 games ive seen. but the be quite truthfull, nba 2k7 is better, if you 
 want an nba game, get it and see if sony learns from its mistakes next year. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lethal_NFS
Rating: 4.1
Date: Dec 29, 2006 7:29 am PT
Review:  What do you expect from a game that sports Kobe Bryant on their cover? Everything about this game 
 is bad. In NBA 2K7 you can see interaction off the court. The fans will walk up and down isles. 
 Cheerleaders jump and down and react to the whats happening on the court. There are even mascots 
 for every team!!! This game has none of that. On the court there isnt much detail. It kind of looks 
 like some of the light bulbs burnt out above you. The players look dull plastic. Stay away from 
 this game!
  
  Graphics - 4
  This in no way what so ever resembles a next generation game.
  
  Sound - 5
  Even the sound 
 is bad in this game. It seems like it was never finished
  
  Value - 4
  I dont see anybody playing this game for more than a half. Return it and get NBA 2K7 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jovocop_25
Rating: 5.4
Date: Dec 26, 2006 2:02 pm PT
Review:  Simply, the game is way too short. They aren't enough things to do. The basketball part of the 
 game isn't bad, but the game is way too shallow. There is no franchise mode or the life mode for 
 some of the other games which was strong in the others. There isn't any commentary just the P. A. 
 guy at the arena annoucing who scored, which is quite sad. There's a lot of dunking in the game, 
 which is fun i guess but doesnt seem fun after thats the only good thing about the game. NBA Replay 
 is the only mode that is kind of enjoyable. NBA replay is a mode in the game where you can back 
 to last year and relive some of the great games players had last year. In conclusion this game 
 had potential, but didn't make it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: halo1399
Rating: 6.8
Date: Nov 25, 2006 3:19 pm PT
Review:  NBA 07 is not as bad as the score gamespot gave. It's dissapointing compared to NBA 2K7, and it 
 does have several annoying bugs and glitches, but it does what it intends, gives a fun game of 
 basketball. Mostly thanks to NBA Replay lets you play any game of last year or this years season 
 which is really cool.
  
  Bad: Graphics are no where near as good as NBA 2K7, most player faces dont look anything like there 
 NBA counter part. Sometimes freezes, No commentators what so ever, it's sometimes really hard to 
 get the opening tip off (if your playing a friend or someone online) . Ridiculous backcourt violation 
 and reach in calls when you havent even made contact with the player. No Life mode. No Franchise 
 mode. $60. Awkward controls, sixasis is pretty useless here. Only way to stop the offense is to 
 block a shot, steals only come during fast breaks. Sometimes lags when online. Its more of a dunk 
 fest than an actual NBA game.....
  
  Good: NBA Replay more than compensates for the lack of the Life. NBA Replay really extends value. 
 Minigames like skills challenge and 3 point are a lot of fun. Some textures look really nice, even 
 some player models look impressive, looks awesome in HD. Shot meter works to perfection, blocks 
 look great, season, playoffs, create a player all here. Kobe Bryants on the cover..
  
  If you like NBA basketball, and you have a PS3, i would rent this game before buying it, if your 
 not into NBA 2K7 I would definetly go with this game though. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: linkme
Rating: 4.1
Date: Nov 19, 2006 8:15 pm PT
Review:  I was looking forward to a game that was going to be fun and had a lifespan of more that a couple 
 of hours. I was so dissapointed i mean this was supposed to be cool and fast but instead it is 
 slow and jittery.
  
  Gameplay so boring i was doing work instead.
  
  Lifespan
  shorter than a goldshish memory (3 seconds)
  
  Graphics They are ok just they fail to please
 
  
  Sound
  You will want to shoot the commentators
  
  My advice dont bother with this game wait till a new one comes out and borrow it first. This is 
 for die hard fans only (ONLY!) .
  If you want my advice by Resistance fall of man instead. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kidsmurf2000
Rating: 8.7
Date: Nov 18, 2006 3:41 pm PT
Review:  I picked up this game with my PS3, and its really not that bad. I think the Gamespot review is 
 biased by the old Shootout games. The graphics looks great, way better than the 360. Don't believe 
 the lies, I have a 1080p TV and it looks way better than last year; s EA Live game running on the 
 360 in 720p. I hope there's more 1080p games coming along.
  
  I didn't notice any of the bugs mentioned in the review. Each time I get fouled out, I know why. 
 Sure more content would be great, but the free downloadable content will be great.
  
  This is definitely not a bad game for the PS3 launch.
  
  By the way, the other guy who reviewed 
 this game has not played it!!!! He is in Europe. This is the first user review from somebody who 
 OWNS a PS3!!! 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
