-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: NBA 2K7
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/ps3/sports/nba2k7/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Individual player shots look great.
 robust online play.
 terrific animation.
 more gameplay modes than you can shake a stick at.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Free throws are extremely difficult to make.
 controls are often unwieldy.
 motion-sensing support is minimal.
 frame rate isn't so hot in 1080p.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Nov 17, 2006
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 8.2
Critic Score: 8.1, 24 Review (s)
User Score: 8.3, 708 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: 2K Sports
Developer: Visual Concepts
Genre: Basketball Sim
Date: Nov 13, 2006
ESRB: Everyone

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Though not without flaws, NBA 2K7 is a great basketball simulation. 

  With NBA live taking a seat on the bench and NBA 07 pulling up lame, the PlayStation 3 launch represents 
 a great opportunity for Visual Concepts to establish the NBA 2K series as the dominant basketball 
 sim on the PS3. And that's just what it has done. If you've played the Xbox 360 version of the 
 game, the PS3 version isn't much different, so you pretty much know what to expect here. But if 
 you're new to the series or you've played it only on the PlayStation 2, you're in for a treat. 
 Signature shots, oodles of gameplay modes, feature-rich online play, and great on-court action 
 are just some of the many areas in which NBA 2K7 excels.  

           Individualized player shots look amazing.     

  NBA 2K7 features a dizzying number 
 of gameplay modes. Quick play, 24/7, season, the association, tournaments, and a robust online 
 component give the game tremendous replay value. There are also a number of options and sliders 
 that let you tweak the game to your heart's content. Having so many choices to pick from is great, 
 but navigating through all the modes and options is made needlessly difficult due to the new menu 
 system. It's unreasonably complex, and you're forced to bring up menus with the right analog stick. 
 Rarely are you able to simply go back a step; rather, you're forced to go all the way back to each 
 mode's main menu and do things all over again.  

  The association is NBA 2K7's multiseason mode, and it's deeper than ever. You're placed in charge 
 of an NBA franchise and it's your job to hire coaches, set up practices, perform general manager 
 duties, and play the games. Watching your team's chemistry as well as fatigue level is very important, 
 since players will tire after hard practices, thereby not giving you their best effort during a 
 game. Should you need to shake things up in the locker room, three player trades are supported, 
 though to be honest, we spent quite a bit of time trying to pull one off without success. You'll 
 also need to prepare for the NBA draft by scouting players and even putting them through a series 
 of predraft workouts. One thing's for sure -- there's never a lack of activities to keep you occupied. 
 For such a complex simulation, the association runs smoothly, without any major glitches. Dwayne 
 Wade did win the MVP five seasons in a row, but other than that anomaly, player statistics seemed 
 realistic and players retired at reasonable ages.  

  While it doesn't hold a candle to NBA Street, 24/7 mode is surprisingly robust for a secondary 
 game mode. Deep create-a-player options allow for some crazy-looking characters, such as a mullet-haired 
 baller that would make Joe Dirt and Randy Johnson jealous. Street-specific moves like bouncing 
 the ball off an opponent's head and some over-the-top dribbling give the game a decidedly arcadelike 
 feel. There's a story that accompanies your player's rise to street-ball glory, but its execution 
 is downright embarrassing. You're a young no-name baller who happens to be on the court while Shaq 
 is practicing free throws. Somehow your buddy is able to talk Shaq into letting you shoot against 
 him, and after you win, O'Neal hands you a flier with details on a legends tournament in New York. 
 The combination of a corny script, so-so voice acting, and silent NBA players who act out their 
 parts like mimes make the story difficult to enjoy. If you're looking for a street-ball experience 
 without the story, you can play one-on-one, 21, and half- or full-court in locales from Miami to 
 New York's Rucker Park.  

  On the court, Visual Concepts didn't make any huge alterations to how the game plays. Newcomers 
 will likely find the controls difficult to pick up, while series veterans will appreciate them 
 for their seemingly endless depth. Player substitutions, play calling, and more can be done during 
 play by pressing the appropriate direction on the D pad. Effective use of set plays is an integral 
 part of getting open shots, partially because that's how real NBA teams do it, but also because 
 players move around the court as if getting open and cutting to the hoop aren't high on their list 
 of things to do. Crossovers, spins, and hesitation moves are done via the "isomotion" controls 
 (R2 plus the left analog stick) . Shooting is mapped to the square button, or, should you prefer, 
 you can utilize the right analog stick for greater shot control. In theory, using the right analog 
 stick to shoot lets you pick the best shot for the situation. A shorter guard posting up a power 
 forward might want to opt for a fadeaway, while a taller player might go up strong and attempt 
 a power dunk. In reality, using the analog stick results in players frequently putting up unnecessary 
 low-percentage shots, rather than the simple shot you were hoping for.  

  Like so many other PlayStation 3 launch titles, NBA 2K7 doesn't make much use of the Sixaxis' motion-sensing 
 capabilities. But you can shoot free throws by tilting the controller back and then tilting it 
 forward as the shot is released. If you're holding the controller in your lap, it doesn't feel 
 much like you're shooting a free throw, but if you go the extra mile and hold the controller up 
 over your head, you can sort of replicate the feel of a real shot. Unfortunately, the whole mechanic 
 doesn't work particularly well because you've got to tilt the controller forward to release the 
 ball much earlier than when the player onscreen releases his shot. Because of the large number 
 of unique shots, you're forced to adjust your timing for each and every player, so unless you have 
 the time to learn each player's shooting motion, you'll want to adjust the free-throw slider straightaway. 
 There's a practice mode, but you're shooting from a different perspective than you would in a game, 
 meaning success on the practice court doesn't translate to success during a real game.  

           Mission Impossible.     

  Final scores and shooting percentages are noticeably low, 
 in part because teams play like their real-life counterparts. One night you might put up a bunch 
 of points against Phoenix, which loves to push the tempo, and the next evening put up far fewer 
 against the slower-paced Spurs. There's also an ugly side as to why scores are so low. Sometimes 
 defenders legitimately play great defense, but just as often you'll skate in place, performing 
 crossovers and hesitation moves against an invisible wall. Down low, the hop step is an effective 
 way of establishing dominance in the paint, but it, too, is often rendered useless by unseen forces. 
 Fast breaks are prone to coming to a screeching halt, either from a turnover due to an errant pass, 
 forced because the camera was too close (on the default setting) , or because streaking players 
 stopped in their tracks to receive a pass (even if you use the lead pass) . The big way in which 
 the game seems to keep scoring down is with an inordinate amount of missed shots. Blown dunks and 
 lay-ups, wide-open three-pointers clanking off the rim, and missed put-backs are all commonplace. 
 A few tweaks to the gameplay sliders can correct the anomalies, but that shouldn't be necessary. 
 But even then, it's tough to get players to go up strong for a dunk -- they just try to lay the ball 
 in most of the time.     

  The artificial intelligence seems to have been improved somewhat, and the CPU is more aware of 
 the clock and won't just stand around dribbling away precious time. But the PS3 and 360 versions 
 play mostly the same, and the CPU still does some quirky things. You'll still see players constantly 
 rotating into mismatches. It's not uncommon to see a center guarding a point guard or vice versa. 
 Not all of the AI is bad. When the computer is on defense, defenders will fight through picks, 
 rotate quickly, and double-team the hot player. Players also have a difficult time picking up loose 
 balls -- they'll just stand there and watch the ball roll around. When someone dives to the floor 
 to get a ball (99 percent of the time it's the computer) , there doesn't appear to be any sort of 
 animation for a defensive player to try and tie them up. Everyone will just mill about as the player 
 on the floor sits there looking for someone to pass to.  

           Nothing gets the crowd roaring like a man in an animal costume.     

  2K7's online 
 play is a great example of how to do sports right online. Whether it's a quick game of one-on-one, 
 a tournament, exhibition, or a fully-featured league you're looking for, NBA 2K7 has got you covered. 
 The league option lets you set up and customize an online season for up to 30 players. You can 
 allow trades, upload preferred slider settings, and even set how long people have to play their 
 games -- it's incredibly deep. You're able to check out other player's VIP profiles and even scout 
 their playing tendencies. Should you run into a jerk, a brief series of postmatch questions will 
 let you leave appropriate feedback. All of the options in the world don't mean a thing if the game 
 doesn't play well online, but there's no need to worry -- the game runs smooth and is very playable. 

  Perhaps the most noticeable and most talked about aspect of the game is the new signature style 
 animations. The developer went through the arduous task of adding hundreds of new player-specific 
 moves, so you'll see Shawn Marion's awkward-looking jump shot, Yao Ming's unique free throw, and 
 Kobe Bryant's unmistakable fadeaway. Basketball aficionados will no doubt love seeing their favorite 
 player's shot accurately re-created for the first time, but casual fans probably aren't going to 
 notice a whole lot of difference between players' individual shots, outside of the big stars, unless 
 they're watching a replay or shooting free throws. If you compare the 360 and PlayStation 3 versions 
 side by side, you might notice a few more signature moves, but the changes are minimal.  

  The rest of the graphics are generally excellent, but they are starting to show their age a bit. 
 Most of the popular players are instantly recognizable and look realistic. It is the lesser-known 
 players who don't look so hot, and even some recognizable players, such as Dirk Nowitzki, look 
 poor too. Little details, like player sweat and jersey movement look great, however, players' shorts 
 will occasionally disappear during breaks in the action, which, needless to say, looks just a wee 
 bit freaky. The player animation is outstanding. There are lots of little touches that go a long 
 way toward making it feel as though you're watching a real NBA game. Players move and react realistically 
 to the action and will move their heads to track the ball as it's in the air, and they'll try to 
 tip a just-out-of-reach rebound to keep it alive. You'll also notice players exhibiting more emotion -- raising 
 their hands in shock at being whistled for a foul, and hanging on the rim for emphasis after throwing 
 down one of the game's fantastic looking dunks. The arenas are another highlight, accurately modeled 
 and full of life. Cool things to look for are mascots and cheerleaders performing during timeouts, 
 fans milling about the arena, and the referees signaling that a ball has been tipped on a shot. 

  NBA 2K7 is one of the few PS3 launch games that supports 1080p. The game looks nice in "true HD," 
 but you're more likely to notice the aliasing around players' bodies, as well as blurry names and 
 numbers on their jerseys. All of this extra resolution comes at the expense of the frame rate, 
 though even in 720p, the action gets choppy. The frame rate's not too bad when you're playing from 
 the default camera angle, but it isn't as smooth as on the Xbox 360. The frame rate really becomes 
 erratic if you play using the baseline camera. It's not all bad news -- there seems to be less clipping 
 in the PlayStation 3 version.  

          Ignore the story and enjoy the streetball.     

  Kevin Harlan and Kenny Smith do a fair job calling the action, but they fail to offer a whole 
 lot of analysis, and they're quite repetitive. Plan on hearing about how a team can get a "two 
 for one" with 30 seconds to go nearly every quarter. Sideline reporter Craig Sager gives his canned 
 spiel at the beginning of each half. Kenny Smith shows first-half highlights and gives his "stamp 
 of approval" to the top performers during the halftime show. It's not particularly interesting, 
 and you'll probably end up skipping it after just a few games, but at least it's there. The players 
 are quite talkative on the court, yelling when they're open, calling out picks, and pointing out 
 double-teams. 2K7's soundtrack features a hefty number of hip-hop tracks, though you'd never know 
 it, since for some reason most of them are set by default to not play, forcing you to go into the 
 options and turn them on.  

  When everything comes together, NBA 2K7 looks and feels amazing. Watching a player in the low post 
 receive a bounce pass, pivot one way, take a drop step the other, and finally slam the ball home 
 is truly something to behold. Unfortunately, these instances of perfection aren't as frequent as 
 they could be, given the preponderance of nagging gameplay issues. If you already own the game 
 on the Xbox 360, there's no reason to pick it up again on the PlayStation 3. However, if you're 
 looking for a great, well-rounded basketball game for your new PlayStation 3, you'll be pleased 
 with NBA 2K7." .     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (48 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: NBAmaster33
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 10, 2008 7:25 am PT
Review:  I enjoyed the previous game, NBA 2K6 a lot. What's the difference between this and that game? Well, 
 it has cleaner visuals, better audio and AI. The visuals look great for a 2K game. The basketball 
 players actually resemble their real life selves. Th crowd looks good, and the animations have 
 been noticeably improved. The commentary has been improved so they aren't saying the same things 
 over again. The gameplay has pretty much stayed the same, except the AI is now a lot better, and 
 players actually go after rebounds. The controls are easy to come to grips with, and the game is 
 actually more realistic since the AI has been improved. There's still tons of fast-paced action 
 going on, and it is enjoyable to play the game and also to watch the fantastic new AI go head-to-head. 
 This is probably the best 2K basketball game I've played in a while, so I would recommend this 
 to anyone who likes to play a realistic game of basketball.
  
  Graphics: 8/10 -- there are some flaws, but the game looks very good
  
  Gameplay: 8.4/10 -- Improved 
 AI makes the game seam more realistic and fun
  
  Enjoyment: 8.2/10 -- I enjoyed playing this game a lot and it was really fun
  
  Final Thoughts: 
 If you like basketball games, then go pick this one up!
  
  Final Score: 8.2/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TDnD-Mtm121
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 9, 2008 9:36 am PT
Review:  The game itself is not an easy game its a medium game, so unlike nba live you will unlikely be 
 winning 124 to 32, like I used to, cause winning so easily also gets lame, its very realistic, 
 the graphics are great but not amazing, I have seen better graphics but not in a sport game, so 
 thats good for 2k7, even though the menus are retarded you get used to them pretty soon, the only 
 thing thats totally messed up is the free throw sixaxis, its almost impossible to make a free throw 
 even with an amazing player, which is weird, but oh well basketball doesn't revolve around free 
 throws, so that's just one thing, the dunks they do are not impossible, like some that kobe used 
 to do in some nba lives, i remember once he did a 360 spin between his legs with four people around 
 him, yea not possible what so every, but in this game that doesn't happen, you have to use teamwork, 
 and you have to pass often, cause most likely you won't trick the defender. This game was worth 
 the cash I payed for it, actually really worth, since I bought it for nine dollars, but still its 
 a nice game for the really low price. All basketball fans should buy it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kobe24mvp
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 16, 2008 4:04 pm PT
Review:  All i can say about this game is amazing. i definentely got my moneys woth out of this game. wen 
 i first got this game, i couldnt beleive how much detail is in it and i still cant up till this 
 day.... i got this game a year ago and still play it. the game runs smoothely, from the players 
 sweat on their jersey to the fans in the stadium. the graphics are pretty good, although they can 
 be improved, but the player look realistic, and the fact that the players jersey moves is superb. 
 but thats not the best part, the best part is the gameplay, each player plays different, has there 
 own style, personality, even there own shot which is awsome. the association mode is very deep, 
 confusung to but easy to get used too. what more can i say, if u love basketball, dont think twice 
 about getting it...... nough said. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Cabby44
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 2, 2007 6:46 pm PT
Review:  NBA 2K7 has incredible graphics, great gameplay, and so much more. Has plenty of difficulty modes 
 to keep you playing the game for a looooong while. 24/7 Mode is pretty cool, but The Association 
 makes the game modes variety over the top. You'll notice how realistic the game looks when... well 
 all the time. There are so many signature style moves that you'll think your watching a game. NBA 
 2K7 has everything you want in a great next-gen game for NBA Basketball. Peace :) ga ga ga ga ag 
 aga ga aga ga ag aga ag aga ga ag aga ga ga ag aga ga ag aga ga aga ga aga ag ga ag aga ga a 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kmckeever
Rating: 2.4
Date: Aug 4, 2007 9:56 pm PT
Review:  Maybe it's because I'm used to NBA LIVE series, but I found this game to be absolutely horrid. 
 The menus are cheezy and their structure makes absolutely no sense - you can get los in the menus 
 and/or accidentally quit a game very easily. It took several minutes to figure out how to turn 
 off the extremely annoying menu music and you're forced to sit through several pointless animations 
 of beams of light running through a city that is perhaps one of the cheeziest things ever placed 
 in a sports game, so I guess I should've known up front they weren't going for a 'professional' 
 product, however....
  
  While the actual gameplay looks more natural the the NBA LIVE series ever has, controlling it is 
 a major headache. The controls are very poorly thought out and just don't make sense most of the 
 time and things like the 'shot stick' are not explained at all in the manual, so good luck figuring 
 out how to make a basket. There's also no explanation of how to do crossovers, jukes etc., so this 
 is basically a very boring game. On rookie mode you'd probably get creamed by 20 points or more 
 if you can stand to play a whole game - I couldn't and was usually quitting by midway through the 
 2nd quarter. Fouls are called fast and furious and the computer will almost never choose to show 
 you a replay of one of your own nice plays, but will incessantly show you replays of itself making 
 very non-spectacular plays that you have to click through... if you can figure out what button 
 does that...
  
  In all, avoid at all costs. I would be embarrased to turn this on when freinds were over the menus 
 and music are so cheezy, thank goodness it was only a rental, but even that was too much to pay 
 for this turd. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: himankz
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jul 25, 2007 3:12 pm PT
Review:  Simply a thriller. Cheaper but better then the NBA 07 game for PS3. Everything is better, not as 
 many glitches not as many errors and much more smoother game-play throughout. *Computer* Game?
 
  
  This game is good for playing with freinds or whoever. I wouldnt suggest playing this with the 
 computer, basketball games are better off playing with someone or nobody, its just a whole lot 
 diffrence playing with the computer, its not as fun. Who is this game for?
  
  This game is for everybody and anyone who loves the sport basketball I would reccomend this game 
 for anybody looking for good graphics. This game isnt for people who would like good game-play, 
 because this game I personally feel doesnt offer that.
  
  Why NBA 2K7 Over Nba 08?
  
  The answer is simple, better graphics and more thrilling. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bear1961
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jul 21, 2007 4:01 pm PT
Review:  Okay, at first glance, the game is a hug graphical upgrade from the ps2 version. the game is much 
 smoother and crisp. the free throw shooting=good idea. all you have to do is tilt the controller 
 backwards and then right before the player releases, you pull the controller forward. every player 
 has his own signature shot, to just further add to the depth of the game.
  
  24/7 mode is a streetball mode that puts you against other nba players to earn a rep to get to 
 new york to participate in the legends charity tournament. they have all new street-specific moves 
 for street modes. the story is okay and the acting is kind of corny. but it is very fun altogether.
 
  
  The association is the franchise mode of the game. it puts you in charge of the general manager 
 duty and you set up practices, check your email, develop your players, scout, get the 411 on the 
 stats, and play the games. Online is very great and you will really enjoy it. ranked or unranked 
 matches, street, tournaments, leagues, its all there.
  
  The multiplayer is great also, so go ahead and pick up your friend and have a day of ballin'!
 
  
  This game is a must pick if you have a ps3 and pay any attention to sports at all. and its on $40 
 so it wont break your budget too much. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dentyne
Rating: 8.4
Date: Jul 20, 2007 8:28 pm PT
Review:  NBA 2K7 is a must have for all basketball fans. the Game contains great graphics and gameplay. 
 The graphics really showoff the power of the ps3. and the animation is very lifelike. The sound 
 is also great. The stadium noises and the swish when you score is very convincing. Seeing the 'sweat' 
 on the players makes you feel you watching a live NBA game instead of playing a video game. As 
 a bball fan, i always favored the nba live series but after playing my first 2k series, i think 
 they both have their ups, but i can't wait to see what nba live 08 or nba 2k8 will be like. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gatorforlife07
Rating: 5.3
Date: Jul 17, 2007 6:17 pm PT
Review:  NBA 2k7 an amazingly horrible game the gamemodes stink like 24/7 next has to be the boringest thing 
 ever the real players don't even talk so you can't understand what there trying to say. When I 
 was playing the game i could barley make it through the first Quarter and the half time show is 
 the dumbest thing i've ever seen. The only bright part in this game is the graphics and the sound 
 everything else just stinks. Another thing is that some of the really good iside players cant even 
 make a 2 ft shot and the free throws are almost impossible to make. The only reason you should 
 pick up this game is if you are a die hard basketball fan 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gokxxx
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jul 13, 2007 3:33 am PT
Review:  Well i could this thing if youre a hardcore fan of sports like NBA, NHL for example, then you should 
 buy this game. It will take you to a hole new level of playing simulation. The graphics are superb 
 if you play on PS3 with a HD ready TV and a HD cable, you will see how the players in the game are 
 getting tired, and for ex. in the 4th quarter you will see how the players are getting swet all 
 over the body, really realistic. Now the controls are a bit different when we played on PS2 you can 
 score pts. by pressing the square button or moving in the direction of the basket your analog stick 
 cool ha? and the best thing is the motion sensors, you will shoot fouls by tilting your controler. Also 
 you can play online in the NBA 2K7, there will be many players from around the world to play with 
 you, but dont go there unless youre ready to be number 1 ! also you can play together with your 
 friend on two controlers in the online mode in one team against others, well i hope this review 
 was useful, have fun! see ya! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: king23_
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jun 21, 2007 3:46 pm PT
Review:  Lets get to the basics
  
  Gameplay: The gameplay is great. if you liked the gameplay of previous nba 2k games you wont be 
 disopointed. The only new feature is free throws which are done by tilting the controller back 
 and then forward at the right time. This is fun but diffucult to do. unless you do it perfectly 
 you usually get a thing saying its not centered. this isnt a big deal though because you can switch 
 the free throw shooting to analog if you want. (you cant do this online)
  
  Graphics: These graphics are amazing! everything looks great! the only problem is sometimes the 
 uniforms will get messed up and a player will be running around with no shirt or with his shorts 
 stuck all bunched up but they will go back to normal after about 30 seconds.
  
  Sound: Well it sounds pretty much like a basketball game. From the Crowd to the ball bouncing. 
 The soundtrack is not great but its ok. It has some good songs and some bad ones.
  
  If you are a basketball fan you should definatley pick this game up. You can probably get it for 
 a cheap price now. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sycosi
Rating: 5.2
Date: Jun 17, 2007 10:57 am PT
Review:  The possible problem I was maybe going tohave with this title is that I'm not a huge BB fan. However 
 I do enjoy a good sports sim if it has engaging game play and nice personalised touches, which 
 to be fair this game does have. Now I'm sure that if you a BB fan the USA then you love this game. 
 However personally it was wasted on me.
  The ridiculous commentators and their daft dialog that makes no sense to me just served to annoy, 
 Well Bryant's going down town to pull off a major but comes up looking short in the second half, 
 and has been penalised for taking it all the way without a short lay off WHAT????? Speak English 
 PLEASE!!
  graphically the game looks 'Ok' but the lack of any really tangible excitement of atmosphere just 
 leaves you going, Hmmm ok I got a 3 pointer yaaawwwnnn. Its a boring game that lacks character.
 
  So if you're a BIG BB fan and enjoy the pomp and razzamataz then go for it as its certain a well 
 priced game at &pound;25. Sorry but I just found this game uninteresting and dull. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: genmonkey
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jun 13, 2007 2:35 pm PT
Review:  NBA 2K7 is the latest in the long-running franchise from American sports masters Visual Concepts. 
 Lauded for its continuing evolution in animation and seemingly endless depth, it continues to garner 
 praise on the other side of the Atlantic and decimate the competition in critical and commercial 
 success. Similar in nature to a Pro Evolution Soccer title, this is a game of immense complexity 
 and vast variety, providing an experience that at the very least resembles the flow of the real-life 
 sport. The difference here is that the 2K7 series also looks the part, and provides every reason 
 to pop the disc in to show off your new next-gen toy. If you never thought you'd sing the praises 
 of digital sweat effects, get ready for a revelation.
  
  If you've played any of the 2K sports basketball titles previously, you'll know roughly what to 
 expect when booting up 2K7. Navigating through the front-end reveals a vast swathe of different 
 game types, control tweaks and the usual variety of franchise, quick-play and online modes, along 
 with the 'street' inspired '24/7 Next' campaign. The game delights in presenting every option you 
 could ever think of to customise the experience, right down to the shooting percentages from different 
 areas of the court. Unfortunately, as per usual, the menu system is as needlessly complex, convoluted 
 and ugly as ever. Whilst it's hard to complain too much about this aspect when the on-court action 
 is so perfectly realised, you'd think that the development team would at least take a look at the 
 competition and significantly overhaul the front-end.
  
  Presentational gripes aside, the play mechanics in this years version are as solid and free-flowing 
 as ever. The right-stick 'Isomotion' controls are in full effect, with the range of different layups, 
 fade-away's, jumpers and dunks to produce truly staggering. Pretty much every single player in 
 the NBA has been modelled faithfully, complete with individual running, shooting and dunk animations. 
 Whilst not all the player likenesses are fantastic, the overall catalogue of unique individual 
 features in 2K7 is in an effort that puts other sports franchises to shame. The action is just 
 that much more realistic when every protagonist differs in a subtle but recognisable manner, and 
 you'll see all of your favourite signature moves along the way.
  
  The default AI is suitably challenging, without ever feeling cheap, but the game comes alive with 
 another human opponent. Again, the depth on offer here is the key to the experience, and successfully 
 double-teaming an opponent, posting up, calling for a pick or burying a 3-pointer are deeply satisfying 
 when pulled off correctly. Setup play and strategy are all-important in 2K7, and playing to the 
 strengths of the on-court personnel is the difference between winning a game or crashing to a 20-point 
 defeat; hopefully avoiding a barrage of abuse from a friend or Xbox Live opponent in the process.
 
  
  Unfortunately the series still contains little in the way of introduction for new players, which 
 could be argued to hamper the popularity of the franchise for those outside of the USA and without 
 a deep knowledge of the sport. There is a certain implied knowledge to the controls and series 
 history prevalent throughout, and due to the simulation nature of the action, an in-depth knowledge 
 of Basketball tactics is also required. Whilst you can play and get the basics of an enjoyable 
 game without too much experience, many of the refined features of the title will be lost; and as 
 those are the exact reasons why 2K7 shines, it's a shame that the development team didn't consider 
 taking a more newbie-friendly approach.
  
  The PS3 version is essentially the same as the 360 game released last year, with the benefit of 
 1080p visuals and some token SixAxis support. The controller can be held aloft when performing 
 a free throw, and used to mimic the technique shown on-screen. Moving the controller back to draw 
 the ball back over your head and then thrusting forward to spiral the ball towards the basket is 
 satisfying, and whilst the animation is still tied in to whoever is taking the shot in-game, the 
 variety of different misses are greatly increased when using this method. This may seem like a 
 small addition, but it adds an additional layer of interactivity, and can be considered to be one 
 of the few successful inclusions of SixAxis support on the PS3 thus far.
  
  The few small gameplay gripes from the 360 version still remain unfortunately, but again these 
 are very small problems compared to the huge raft of positive features. By default, using the right 
 analogue stick for shot selection generally results in a slightly too high percentage of missed 
 shots, but this can be corrected with the in game sliders. Also, when diving for a ball, the player 
 on the floor is often left with no option for a pass, instead just sitting there whilst the opposition 
 jump around looking for the inevitable interception. Silly, but annoying nonetheless.
  
  Overall there isn't a lot to detract from NBA2K7 as a purchase for any PS3 sports game fan. The 
 action is as deep and varied as ever, and providing you can put in the time to learn the nuances 
 of the control scheme and the benefits of playing to the strengths of your favourite team, this 
 is as deep and satisfying as any basketball simulation to come before it. It's also a considerable 
 graphical powerhouse; the flowing cloth physics and televisual in-game presentation will show off 
 your new hardware in a fantastic manner, and whether your interested in the purely aesthetic aspects 
 or the oodles of deep and varied gameplay, NBA 2K7 is a worthwhile addition to any sports fans 
 collection.
  
  Note: This text was originally written by myself and published over at strategyinformer. com 
::::::

::::::
UserName: steve-og
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jun 2, 2007 7:04 pm PT
Review:  this is a really great game, and the graphics are awesome. ok this is the best basketball game 
 that is out right now. I never used to be a 2k fan but now after playing this i am! graphics are 
 superb, sound is great, gameplay is smooth and great, and value is good, Also all the player models 
 look great, and look almost exactly like the real player. and another cool thing is you can see 
 the details on the court and when the players are sweating. I think it is worth what i paid. so 
 if you are looking to buy a basketball game for the ps3 i suggest you buy this game, it is worth 
 every penny. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Peppi
Rating: 9.3
Date: May 15, 2007 8:38 pm PT
Review:  This game makes me want to burn the last three editions of NBA LIVE that I own. I certainly hope 
 that EA is taking notes on what 2K7 is doing. The game is very much like REAL basketball............ none 
 that arcade run, gun and dunk stuff.
  
  You gotta play smart set up your plays and execute well. Don't get me wrong you will have an opportunity 
 for an occasional fast break but fast breaks are just a component of the game not the main part 
 of the game.
  
  I am sure NBA 2K7 is the wake up call that NBA LIVE needs to come up with a better product next 
 season! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PLAY-B3YOND
Rating: 9.2
Date: May 11, 2007 10:48 pm PT
Review:  This is truley the best basketball sim game i have EVER played!
  EACH player in the game has his real shot so it makes the game feel real!
  
  NBA 2K7 has all 
 the usual modes including Quick Play, Season, Playoffs, Tournament, Practice etc..
  Theres also this cool new mode called 24/7 which you create your own player and play street with 
 him and compete against other NBA Ballers and win tournaments, it's really fun!
  
  There's also online play which isnt anything special but its fun to play against other people.
 
  There are Leaderboards, Player stat sheet, Tournaments and Street.
  
  You can also play offline Multiplayerwith ur friends at home and even have a tournament with up 
 to 7 people at ur house if u hve that many controllers!
  
  Overall i really recommend NBA 2K7 if ur a basketball fanatic like me or just a casual sports player, 
 and i'll enjoy playing u online!
  
  BTW: Go Lakers! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JumpOff718
Rating: 9.4
Date: May 3, 2007 7:13 pm PT
Review:  THIS GAME IS SICK.. AMAZINGLY FLAVORY.. BEST SPORTS GAMES COME OUT OF 2K SPORTS . THEY MAKE GREAT 
 GAMEPLAY. ITS SAID IT TOOK ME 21 YEARS TO FIGURE THIS OUT. I GUESS IT WAS A GOOD THING LIVE 2007 
 DIDNT COME OUT FOR PS3 BECAUSE I PLAYED IT FOR 360 AND I GOT 2K7 FOR PS3 AND ITS 2K ALL THE WAY. 
 AND PS3 BABYYYYYYYYYY.. i cant wait for the NFL from 2k to get the right to make recent players 
 and not of the past. So far its 2K everything. WE NEED 2K SPORTS BOXING AND DEFINITLY SOCCER. BEST 
 GAMEPLAY FOR SOCCER IS KONAMI AND THAT IS JUST OK. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thevinsky
Rating: 8.9
Date: May 2, 2007 7:18 am PT
Review:  This game is everything that you want in a basketnall game. very fun and has a high replay value. 
 I recomend this for any basket ball fans who want to show off their skills in a virtual perspective. The 
 only downfall is that when I play online it doesn't look as smooth. Besides that fact , the sound 
 is totally awesome because it makes you feel like you are in the stadium. The presentation is everything 
 that you would expect from a 2k game like halftime highlights, deep association, V. I. P. tracking 
 and everything. This game rocks. Go and pick this game up today. What are you waiting for? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mtbobo
Rating: 9.6
Date: Apr 30, 2007 6:10 pm PT
Review:  Great balance of realism and arcade style fun gameplay. The graphics are great although the guys 
 sweat more than any normal person should. Could take or leave the new free-throw mechanics. Franchise 
 mode is great, except you cant quit a game in franchise mode after you've begun it - u must sim 
 to end of game. I couldnt get this game online , idk y, maybe something with my setup. Roster update 
 is available online for download. Teams and players are rated fairly, and there are many legends 
 teams, all star teams, and unlockable teams. U can create and save 2 teams u make up. New 24/7 
 mode is good, and it can be hard at times. Great upgrade from last year's 24/7 mode. Great game 
 overall , buy it if you love basketball, and btw i've been playing nba live 4 years and this game 
 has switched me over to the 2k series, bye bye nba live. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: drummer4drb
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 22, 2007 1:08 pm PT
Review:  NBA 2K7 for the Playstation 3 System is without a doubt one of the best sports games available 
 to the console yet. It has a buncha diferent game modes, including one that caught my eye; Celebrity 
 Mode, where you can play as about 15 diferent celebrities, including Flava Flave, Common, and a 
 few more, just to name a few. The normal mode (quickgame or career) is also fun and gives amazing 
 gameplay. A thing about these modes that amazed me was the graphics, which are perfect. From how 
 the clothes move with each player, to the tattoos, the sweat dripping at the free-throw line, or 
 the fact that if you zoom in on Instant Replay you can actually see the grains in the wood panels. 
 NBA 2K7 is a great game for the Playstation 3, and shouldn't be missed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xxxkingbobxxx
Rating: 9.1
Date: Apr 25, 2007 6:32 am PT
Review:  This is a fun game with a lengthy season mode. The Graphics are amazing on the ps3 1080p support 
 and the way youy shot free throws is anazing. This truley is a great basket ball sim. The is many 
 other mini games but i havent tried them out. Ive heard there good but not sure. There is also 
 online support which really addes to the game. Overall this is a great basket ball game for the 
 Playstation 3 system.
  
  Anyone who is not to into basketball games i would reccomed renting it first so your not out 60 
 bucks with a game you wont play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: William_Tan_199
Rating: 9.2
Date: Mar 27, 2007 6:13 am PT
Review:  NBA 2K7 is a brilliant game. I started playing it on PS2, and now I'm playing it on PS3. Trust 
 me, after playing the PS3 version, you will never play the PS2 version, again. The PS3 version 
 is just great, and to date it is undeniably the best.
  
  The graphics are very realistic and sharp. The 2K7 Beats offer some really great songs. It also 
 has a vast variety of game modes to play, such as Association Mode, 24/7 Next, Season, Tournament 
 and Online Mode. The Association Mode offers very in depth stats and carry out the general manager's 
 duties, such as setting up practices, hire your team staff, sign free agents and also initiate 
 player trades. 24/7 Next also offers some very enjoyable street basketball action, and is good 
 as a secondary game mode. The free throws are controlled with motion-sensor, but it is rather tough 
 to score from a free throw. For all basketball fans, this game is a must buy!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mr_Freeze_1
Rating: 9.3
Date: Mar 19, 2007 8:13 pm PT
Review:  I originally reviewed NBA 2K7 for the PS2, and I was in basketball heaven about the depth of the 
 control scheme. On the PS3, the game is much more deeper and because it is a port of the 360 version, 
 the developers had a little more time and could add in more realism to an already deep game. In 
 order to play you've got to know how each team performs in real life otherwise you've dug your 
 grave. The gameplay and graphics are fantastic, as well as the controls. The depth of the drop 
 step is insane, and the fact that nearly every NBA player has his shot makes it a must buy for 
 PS3 hoop fans. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MCNewYork87
Rating: 6.5
Date: Mar 11, 2007 7:11 pm PT
Review:  This game is highly unrealistic. Offense is horrible in this game due to getting stuck on defenders 
 every 5 seconds. The shot mechanics are not good because even if you have a perfect release its 
 not that likely to go in. Free throws don't make any sense with the release point in mind. You 
 have to tilt the controller forward at an awkward time. 2k games were worth the buy when they were 
 cheaper than NBA live but now that its $60 dollars its no longer worth the price. Buy it used and 
 don't expect anything great. NBA live even with all its faults has always been the better game 
 but too bad you cant get 07 on the ps3. NBA Live '08 will definitely have a better value than 2k8. 
 I mean at least it has the All-Star weekend and other better features. This game your stuck with 
 trash game play mechanics and no cool features or game modes. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DawgcityClev
Rating: 8.3
Date: Mar 3, 2007 6:13 pm PT
Review:  I will spew on a few things here. Not what is great about the game, but what bores me about it. 
 The Commentary should be alot stronger for a nex-gen console. Meaning there should be more than 
 1 set of Commentary guys for games. We should be at 3 different Commentary teams by now. The create-a-player 
 and create-a-team feature still isn't at it's best. It's more irritating and limited still. I can't 
 understand this. NOt a horrible feature by any means, but still limited. The Franchise Mode bores 
 me to death. Nothing grabs me in, and keeps me wanting to play. This game is sitting waiting for 
 trade. There should be an awesome presentation, that overshadows College Hoops. I should be able 
 to enjoy CH2K7's game &amp; presentation, then export players into the awesome NBA presentation. 
 TNT maybe, or some kind of Gameday or Weekly Fox Broadcast. Nope!! Same ole boring Franchise. The 
 NBA Draft should be more of a showcase as well, as many can't wait to see this. It's also very 
 boring. And lets tone down the steals for next title release please!! Other than these, it's still 
 eons above NBA Live as far as overall gameplay element. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JustinHendre
Rating: 9.3
Date: Feb 27, 2007 8:59 pm PT
Review:  NBA 2K7 for the PS3, is the creme de la crop of all basketball games to come out so far ever. First 
 off let me tell you the gameplay is near perfect, fast paced, fluid, realistic, just phenomenal. 
 Make sure to get used to the broadcast view, it's not the standard but everyone I know prefers 
 this and it runs the smoothest. This game has 1080P and the best graphics ever to be seen in a 
 full NBA game to date. Everything works perfectly, the game even allows you to actively pick off 
 passes quite often if you can aquire enough skill to do so. There is just so much signature dunks 
 and even when it comes down to players shorts getting ripped or people rolling on the floor to 
 save the ball, it all just adds to the feeling that you are playing a basketball game that could 
 be a TV broadcast. Tons of quality in this title, don't miss this one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Madden_Master44
Rating: 8.4
Date: Feb 23, 2007 5:52 pm PT
Review:  NBA 2K7 is the best NBA game for the PS3. Do not waste your money on NBA 07 because 2K7 blows that 
 away.
  
  The gameplay is fantastic. The signature shots make the game amazing. So when you shoot with Lebron 
 James, he will do his signature shot. They have so many signature shots, It's amazing.
  
  The graphics are the only down side of this game. The graphics are not awful but they are a little 
 fuzzy but don't worry, the game is still great.
  
  The sounds in this game are great as well. When the home team scores, the crowd erupts. Also, you 
 hear the players communicating on the court. For example, they yell out, Pick! Screen! Shot!
  
  I recommend this game to anyone who enjoys the NBA. It is by far the best NBA game on the PS3. 
 So get out and buy this game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: The_Rick_14
Rating: 8.4
Date: Feb 19, 2007 12:43 pm PT
Review:  Let me start with the graphics. While NBA 2k7 does not carry with it the true HD native 1080p resolution, 
 its player models are well above NBA '07. Signature-style is done extremely well and finally Kobe 
 does not have the same shot mechanics as Shaq. The interactive arena filled with spectators who 
 move freely out of their seats and up stairs as well as the mascots and benches bring a sense of 
 realism to the presentation of the game. Unfortunatly, a few minor graphical issues such as the 
 small amount of float from the players jerseys and the rare disappearance of the jerseys and shorts 
 keep the graphics from being a perfect 10. Gameplay can be jerky at times in the sense that player 
 movements are not always smooth but I've come to expect this from 2k sports games. The difficulty 
 levels are right on, allowing veterans of the series to give themselves a serious challenge while 
 at the same time allowing new-comers to jump right in a compete. My only problem with the difficulty 
 levels is that it seems the higher up you go, the worse your other 4 players play. Sound quality 
 is done well. The sound effects pull you into the game as the crowd gets louder towards the end 
 of a close game or starts a defense chant.
  
  This game also carries along with it a good value if you get into online play with the ability 
 to set up online tournaments and leagues. This will keep gamers coming back for me well after they've 
 gone through the Association mode or obtained all of the games trophies. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vegaking
Rating: 8.2
Date: Feb 19, 2007 6:36 am PT
Review:  there are some minor flaws. sometimes the players shirt looks like its flying off. the menu is 
 hard to control. online is very troubling to work. the aren't many extra features such as all star 
 mode there is just the game and nothing more. the great gameplay of this game though is able to 
 overcome thes little flaws. the players look really good and its very nice that they all have there 
 own shooting styles thought there are some weird moments for example I live in NY and use the knicks 
 and every time Marbury has a open lane to the hoop he dunks and does not do his underhand lay up 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BigSarge
Rating: 7.5
Date: Feb 14, 2007 2:37 pm PT
Review:  OK, technically it is just another video basketball game, but this is PS3!! I really wasn't too 
 big on getting a new system anytime soon --- that is until I played this game at my friend's place. 
 He'd already set up his team - the Cavaliers (D Wade, Shaq, and KG w/ King James!!) and just had 
 to get me to play. Aaaaawwww dddaaayyyyuummm!!! The graphics are phenomenal! The players are easily 
 identifiable because they look just like their mommas made 'em! Skip the obvious -- great dunks, 
 killer crossovers, behind-the-back passes -- these guys sweat!! Bead, pool, run, drip!! Stupid 
 thing to harp on, but somebody had to program that action and I for one am appreciative. More importantly, 
 I'm sold! Check it out. Oh, I did think the cheerleaders could've been hotter..... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sumo28
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 3, 2007 6:40 pm PT
Review:  Well I rented this game and had planned to take it out for an extra 30 days (pay the $1.25 Blockbuster 
 restocking fee) , but I'm not sure it's worth the hassle. First impression - the menus are very 
 cumbersome and hard to navigate, and really don't make any sense. As I became more accustomed with 
 them, I became more familiar but I still didn't like them. Also, I had a few major issues with 
 gameplay. First off, the free throw shooting really is very frustrating. My first go around I was 
 something like 2-17 with D. Wade, and my friend was shooting like 0% with AI. As I played it more 
 and more, I got the hang of it, but my FT% was on the same level no matter who I played. I'd like 
 it more to be based on actual, real-life ability of a player (I think you can customize it to that 
 though i'm not sure) . Also, there is something really wrong with lay-ups and close range shots. 
 I've never seen Wade miss so many shots in the paint 3-5 feet from the basket, it's ridiculous. 
 Also there are minor glitches, but that is expected I guess. What saved this game for me is the 
 level of customization. You can tweak the game for the user as well as the CPU so that you can 
 play the way you want. If you feel the FT% is crap, you can raise it for yourself and then gradually 
 lower as you become accustomed to it. If you feel you are hitting 10% of your shots in the paint, 
 you can actually raise up your %. Basically, you can change it to your style of gameplay or try 
 to make it as true to real life as possible. That aspect is unlike any other NBA game I've played. 
 Overall a really decent game, but a lot of things about it make me wonder ...
  
  Edit: I'm NOT a fan of the online mode however. It feels like there is a millisecond delay (no 
 problems in other games like 40 player Resistance) . And it is VERY annoying whenever my opponent 
 keeps pausing the game to make future subs or whatever the heck he's doing. Oh yeah, and the default 
 gameplay settings remind me how frustrated I was with the game out of the box. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RyanDude13
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jan 20, 2007 6:32 pm PT
Review:  Okay so NBA 2K7, a mainly fast paced game with lots of modes, fairly smooth playing, decent graphics 
 and basically everything else is pretty good except for the menus of the game. With all the modes 
 you can do anything from a little street ball, to running an NBA franchise, to starting from the 
 bottom as yourself and working your way up. 2K7 is sure to be a game with some good staying power 
 that will keep you playing just simply so you can see the whole game. The gameplay is fairly impressive, 
 it runs smooth with few bugs, but yet something seems to be lacking. It gets extremely repetitive 
 and with the same thing constantly happening it seems like it takes forever for anything to happen. 
 Although i guess that is kinda basketball for ya. The graphics aren't really good or bad, they're 
 just par but they could have done a way better job I think. I mean the graphics are good, just 
 not compared to other PS3 games. I'm sure it murders the 360 version but this aint the 360, this 
 is the big leagues. The only thing that is really really shoot me in the face terrible is the damn 
 terrible menu system of the game. It's like some sad attempt at a rip off of Madden 07 for the 
 PS3. But i guess that's not too big a deal, just a little annoying detail. All together I'd say 
 this game is alright for a next gen game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LAboy06
Rating: 7.8
Date: Jan 17, 2007 2:00 pm PT
Review:  This was the second game I got for my PS3. It said that it was the highest rated NBA basketball 
 game and I was expecting alot. Lets start with the visuals. The jerseys look real, the sweat is 
 shiny and looks reals, and the court looks photo-realistic. The only thing that looks bad in the 
 game is some of the player's hair looks fake, and some faces look weird. The controls aren't the 
 best, and may take some time to get used to. The biggest complaint is that the really good players 
 miss easy shots way too frequently and that is a problem. Besides that you have a great next-generation 
 basketball simulator that will appeal to all sports fan. The only thing I can't understand why 
 the PS3 version is $60 and the 360 version is only $40. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Col_Swamp
Rating: 8.4
Date: Jan 17, 2007 9:31 am PT
Review:  NBA 2k7 has a great feel to the basketball videogame genre. While the controls may become cumbersome 
 for newcomers to the 2K series, after an hour or so of play you should have the basics down pretty 
 well. Don't be fooled by the different difficulty settings of 2k7, you can find a challange at 
 every level of play.
  One of the great aspects of 2k7 is the many different play modes that you are able to participate 
 in, from 1 on 1 to crazy games of 21, you will never be bored if your in the mood to pound some 
 boards. Individual player models look great with signiture shots looking very impressive. Though 
 shooting freethrows via the Sixaxis is a new concept, after an hour or so of trying to hit the 
 singles, you will get the hang of it.
  All in all 2k7 is a great game that offers buyers a fun basketball experience. My only gripe would 
 have to be the menu system; quite confusing at first and it takes a while to get used to as well. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BlakkSteel
Rating: 7.3
Date: Jan 16, 2007 9:20 pm PT
Review:  NBA 2K7 was a very wanted edition to my collection of PS3 games from the gate. From the previews, 
 this was a must-have game. Based on its track record on the PS2, this was a must have game. Through 
 its consistent gameplay, superior graphics on PS2, &amp; always outlapping NBA LIVE 0-whatever, 
 this was a must-have game. Now that I actually own it for the PS3 (I play both the PS2 AND PS3 
 versions) , I can say that it's the best of the current lot of NBA games for the PS3. Smoother graphics, 
 fluid movement, &amp; solid gameplay, keeps it atop of the heep. However, some of the games flaws 
 can make this a hesitant play. The largest being the problems in the shooting schematics. No matter 
 how perfect the release of the shot, more times than not, you'll miss. The inside game is kinda 
 quirky (I've NEVER seen Shaq miss as many dunks in the 5 games that I've played during an entire 
 SEASON) . D-Wade misses 10 footers. However, your computer counterpart can drain 'em from almost 
 half-court. The free throw schematics aren't too tight, either. A novel idea to use the sixaxis 
 for the shot (to simulate shooting the free throw) ; but, you lose accuracy thru that same novelty. 
 It's frustrating to have a high 80+% shooter @ the line, &amp; he can't sink the ball. In 1 small, 
 nitpicking, graphic observation, the facial models are much more accurate on the PS2 than they 
 are on the PS3. But, with this game bein' so pretty, it's easy to get lulled into the visuals. 
 The realistic sweat, the muscle movement, the character motions, it's all great. I'm hoping that 
 they tighten a few things in 2K8, since I actually swear by this franchise for NBA (College hopp) 
 action. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TBIRD7280
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 15, 2007 8:27 pm PT
Review:  The NBA 2K series is here to make an appearance on the PS3 System. The Good
  -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  
  Graphics could not be better in NBA 2K7. You can see individual drops of sweat fall down the athletes 
 as they run up and down the court, you can see the individual markings on the ball, and you can 
 even see each fan personally detailed.
  
  The Halftime report rocks, too. They pay close attention to a player's individual stats.
  
 
  Most of the gameplay is very good, its everything you've come to see in basketball games.
  
  The Bad
  -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  
  The sound is ok, mostly from the crowd, but the players never speak a word. I was hoping that they 
 would.
  
  Some of the gameplay sucks, mainly one thing. The fouls are way too easy receive. Every time you 
 go for a block, it is going to be a foul.
  
  -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  
  If you are looking for a basketball game for the PS3, then this is what you need to get. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DavidGold
Rating: 8.3
Date: Jan 4, 2007 1:23 pm PT
Review:  In NBA 2K7 (2K Games and Visual Concepts) the game had plenty of features you did not have the 
 opportunity to get bored from few options. The game has a great online version but sometimes it 
 is just plain hard to get a game to work on the online version. I also ( with no disrespect ) do 
 not like the style of just randomly holding square to shoot and hoping to randomly make it. The 
 free throws are very hard to adjust to but you do get used to them later on during the game. I 
 have'nt experienced any bugs with the game so far and hope not to encounter in the future. the 
 game is also chat supportive. This game is most definitely better than NBA 07 and this game has 
 much better graphics with a whole different perspective to the game of basketball. If you are looking 
 for a fun sports game i would consider this a 2K must-buy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cpspeed
Rating: 8.3
Date: Jan 4, 2007 6:35 am PT
Review:  I have to admit, I have always been a fan of EA's NBA Live series. Although the 2K games have always 
 been much more of a simulation, the Freestyle control was so intuitive that it was easy for me 
 to overlook the flaws of the game. With no NBA Live entry available at launch for the PS3, I decided 
 to give NBA 2K7 a try. I have not been disappointed. I have not even powered on my 360 since first 
 playing this game, nor have I tried any of the other PS3 games or Blu-ray movies that I bought. 
 It is that addicting.
  
  It did take me a few games to get used to the controls, and the instruction manual could have been 
 a little clearer on what exactly all of the buttons do and how they give you total control of your 
 player, but I am figuring all of that out as I go. I really like the shot stick and I find that 
 to be more rewarding that using the square button. I also like the way that the game uses the motion 
 sensing capabilities of the controller for free throw shooting. It does take some getting used 
 to since the timing seems to be different for many players, but I have enjoyed the challenge, and 
 I seem to make a decent percentage of my free throws. If youve played basketball in your life, 
 you will be able to make the free throws. You tilt the controller back to make the player start 
 their shot, and flip it forward when you would flick your wrist if you were taking a real shot. 
 Its difficult to release perfectly every time, but then again, the challenge is enjoyable and 
 insures that free throws are not guaranteed. This is a very fun game of basketball and you can 
 adjust the settings to your liking to make it more of a simulation, or more arcade-style. The graphics 
 look great, especially on the close-ups and replays. I also like that when you sub new players 
 into the game while the action is still going on, you can see those players get up off the bench 
 and go sit in front of the scorers table until the next dead ball.
  
  I have noticed some glitches in the game, like for instance Vince Carters shorts disappeared for 
 a couple of possessions in one game, but it was more funny than annoying.
  
  The sound is awesome on this game. If you have your PS3 hooked up to your surround-sound, you will 
 notice so many sounds of the game. Everything from the crowd to the ball pounding on the hardwood. 
 It's all there and sounds great.
  
  I would recommend this game to anyone that is looking for a great game of basketball for their 
 PS3. Its the best one that is currently available. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ajenspina
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jan 3, 2007 2:52 pm PT
Review:  NBA 2K7 is the best Basketball Game ever made for any console, matter fact the best Sports Game 
 ever! With its amazing and realistic graphics from the Basketball Court, Basketball Jerseys, and 
 Basketball Shoes. But it has very terrible graphics on the Basketball Players from their bodies 
 to their faces. But with the unbelievable free - throw shots, you have got to be kidding me rite, 
 I mean you have to lift your contoller up and release just like in a real life free throw. That 
 is the most amazing idea on a Basketball Game and became successful with it. Also, the way that 
 the Basketball Players shoot the ball, for example, when you see Shawn Marion, Lebron James, Dwayne 
 Wade, etc. you get the point. It's just a Next Generation Sports Game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shockg2000
Rating: 9.4
Date: Dec 29, 2006 10:36 am PT
Review:  This is the best game sport game I've seen in a long time. Especially on the PS3. And if you have 
 the HDMI input than the game is even unbelievable. This game is so realistic and not arcade like 
 LIVE. You can actually be down by 20 pts and still comeback in the game and even win. I havent 
 stopped playing my PS3 since I got it. I love the fast breaks and hot the player keep running down 
 the court just by pressing the lead pass button. Oh my goodness, and the tilt feature. I'm mean 
 you can actually take the foul shot as if you were shooting a real basketball. Everyone of the 
 court has a job. I mean from the players to the refs, refs to the mascot, and masot to the cheerleaders. 
 I mean there not just there to be there. Players walk off the court be subbed and walk to the bench. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: myloman44
Rating: 8.6
Date: Dec 28, 2006 8:57 am PT
Review:  The NBA 2k series has been my favorite basketball sim for the past few years and 2k7 this year 
 is def the best i played yet the, the gameplay is very realistic no crazy dunks from the foul line 
 during a game, the graphics are of course amazing because its a next gen game. The AI is also suprisingly 
 good in this game i thought they would just let me cross um up and let me drive but they stay on 
 you and they play some nice d. I'm trying to keep this short but if you want a good sports game 
 for playstation def get this game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bahamaboy_basic
Rating: 7.2
Date: Dec 25, 2006 10:17 am PT
Review:  Just got done playing this title on the PS3 and I must say I was a little disappointed of the game. 
 Don't get me wrong it is a great game and the controls are tight and very responsive but the visuals 
 were a bit off. I also own this title on the Xbox 360 and a side but side view of both the games 
 show that the lighting in the 360 version is by far better than the one on the PS3 . Its not a 
 big complaint but if you have to stop playing on a HD and play on a SD the Lighting effects are 
 really noticeable. If I had nothing to put this game up against I wouid give it a better score, 
 but as is I give it a 7 0ut of 10.. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nUcLeAr_AtOmX
Rating: 9.8
Date: Dec 23, 2006 8:33 am PT
Review:  For a few years, the NBA Live series was the number one pick in the basketball videogame draft. 
 As time went on, the Live series gradually slipped from a starter to a reserve. NBA Live 07 is 
 basically a free agent for this year (hopefully the Playstation 3 version will live up to the hype.) 
 Thanks to 2K Sports and Visual Concepts, NBA 2K7 for the Playstation 3 has given fans a second 
 wind in what seemed to be a fourth quarter slip for basketball games. In comparison to the Playstation 
 2 edition of 07, this game is amazing when running on the next-gen powerhouse. When I first got 
 into the game, I was blown away. Navigation: The main menu is pwnage. By moving the right analog 
 stick in any direction, you can bring up the main menu as a side bar, even when you have an actual 
 game paused. It makes it easier for you to get to where you want to go. Loading Time: One very 
 nice difference between the PS2 and PS3 is loading time. NBA 2K7 on the PS3 is a very fast loading 
 game. The loading time between choosing teams and getting into the game isn't even 20 seconds. 
 Online loading is a little different, but that is also dependent on pings and connection quality. 
 Gameplay: This game is addictive. It could nearly be labled as a drug. Considering the A. I. has 
 been boosted, it is a more competitive game. The realism and tension is easily felt in a close 
 game situation. Playing online is even more intense, almost feeling like a real game. Graphics: 
 This is the fun part of the review. This game has absolutely stunning visuals. The players sweat, 
 it rolls off of their faces, and reflects the light on their skin. On hard fouls you can see the 
 players grimace and tighten their faces up in anger or pain. The player animations are beyond good. 
 It feels like every dunk looks somewhat different. The physics are unbelievable. The way the ball 
 rolls of the rim, comes off the glass, and goes through the nylon gives the game a highly realistic 
 feel. Sound: Crowd cheers, announcing, and player sounds have been improved nicely. The fans react 
 better to the situations going on in the game, the announcers seem to be more on target with the 
 game, and the players sound pretty good. Features: 2K7 brings back the 24/7 mode. Yes, it's back. 
 The online play is addictive, the create a player is awesomely improved with the brand new signature 
 shot styles and the added details to tweak the players, the Association mode is great, and the 
 Create a Team is always a great feature. Overall: Get this game, especially if you are a basketball 
 fan. If you aren't a huge basteball fan, get it anyway. It is worth it.
  
  -thedrizzle 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Iggy82
Rating: 8.2
Date: Dec 10, 2006 10:33 pm PT
Review:  Overall the game is very good, but I will stop short of describing it as excellent. When the game 
 runs on HD cable, the graphics are superb to even details such as players' sweat, facial features 
 and etc. The moves players perform look very realisitc and unlike I have ever seen before. As usual, 
 it's loaded with many features and options and the sound suits the game well. However, the greatest 
 flaw of the game, as it always is, controls.
  
  The crossovers are increasingly difficult to make and most of the time are ineffective. The biggest 
 flaw is the players' speed. One can literally run through the court in a few seconds and at times 
 one wonders if the players are running or skating on ice. That is the most unrealistic part of 
 the game. One doesn't even need to run any plays; it's enough to just take one quick player and 
 just run around the court and eventually one would get to the hoop and lay it up. This doesn't 
 even require any skill, nor comprehension of basketball or appreciation for the plays. This makes 
 the game boring. The most spectacular part of the game is players' individual moves. One can quickly 
 recognize players just by the way they release the shot, make a layup or dunk. One can see Lebron's 
 and Marion's weird releases and Garnett's feet stance, as well as Jason William's high jump followed 
 by his prototypical release. All in all, the game looks impressive. If controls are adjusted, they 
 get slightly better, but I expect better production in the future. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DominicanAG
Rating: 9.3
Date: Nov 30, 2006 4:35 pm PT
Review:  This gotta be the best baskeball game to get right now on any system. I own a 360 and the reason 
 I didn't get this game on the 360 is because I already purchase Nba Live 07 for it but if I knew 
 this game would look and play this game on the 360 I would of gotta it much sooner. The game looks 
 amazing on the PS3 I'm glad I bought it. The controllers are much easier than the nba live version 
 of the basketball game. The courts and the animations in the game looks great no skip of framerate 
 on 720p and it's smooth all the way through.
  
  If you're a basketball fan looking for a good baskeball game on the PS3 than you should definitely 
 get Nba 2k7 for it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sweetpinoy2k1
Rating: 9.1
Date: Nov 20, 2006 5:25 am PT
Review:  i know the PS3 Cost 500 for 20GB and 600 for 60GB.... what people expect that all the games can 
 be great.... technology aren't perfect.. i believe in a couple of years they will be more better.. 
 graphics are good but some of them have bugs and funny animation.... if i were for some of the 
 people who want one wait for it... the PS3 will stay for about 10 years on the market they have 
 most powerful cell that is out on the market... no one can top them XBOX360 is great too... but 
 PS3 is a dream for everyone so.... about this game of NBA 2K7 are great free throw are hard but 
 if you get use to it... it gets easier.... i'm not a basketball fan but this really makes it really 
 real nice graphics player coordination are good.... movement are just great as well.... that's 
 why this game will be #1 again 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheNIM
Rating: 7.5
Date: Dec 22, 2006 4:40 pm PT
Review:  I have played this game for all 4 systems. This version is a decent game for the ps3, but yet again, 
 falls short of it's 360 counterpart. The graphics appear to be a SLIGHT upgrade, but the gameplay 
 takes at least 2 steps back. In 1080p, the framrate again is weak. The controls are a little crazy 
 and the motion sensor plays a minimal factor. Free throw shooting is realisitic, not too hard and 
 I didnt like how gamespot reviewers are complaining about that. It adds a realism factor and no 
 longer are free throws a gimme. The shot animations are stellar and the sound effects of the ball 
 going through the rim and net are superb.
  
  Where this game lacks is in, at times, gameplay. The frame rate is bothersome and somewhat distracting. 
 Fastbreaks hardly develop like they should and your own players get in the way way too much. Sometimes 
 calling a play takes a long time to develop. A gfood game that could be a whole lot better. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 3PMMP3
Rating: 9.9
Date: Nov 18, 2006 6:15 am PT
Review:  Well the long awaited ps3 is finally out and i think its doing preety well with the launch titles 
 such as Resistance fall of Man, Nhl 2k7, Call of Duty 3, and this years Nba 2k7. This game is the 
 most realistic game you can find right now. Controls for this game are perfect along with the new 
 tilt control freethrow which takes a little time to get used to but is a great addition to making 
 the game real. If you have an HD tv then your in luck with this game because it looks fantastic 
 on HD you can see the sweat on richard hamiltons mask. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
