-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: NBA 2K8
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/ps3/sports/nba2k8/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 New signature style moves look amazing.
 CPU plays smart and is challenging but fair.
 Slam dunk contest is a fun addition.
 Lots of online options.
 Tons of ways to stay busy.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Too many missed layups.
 Awful instructions make it tough to learn new moves.
 Menus are still a chore to navigate.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Oct  2, 2007
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 8.5
Critic Score: 8.4, 17 Review (s)
User Score: 8.3, 930 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: 2K Sports
Developer: Visual Concepts
Genre: Basketball Sim
Date: Oct 2, 2007
ESRB: Everyone

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Despite a few nagging issues, NBA 2K8 is a fantastic basketball game packed to the brim with features 
 and game modes. 

  Developers are often criticized for seemingly doing as little as possible from one year to the 
 next with their sports games. That is not the case with NBA 2K8. It's superior to last year's game 
 in almost every way; there's loads of new content and the gameplay is better than ever. Issues, 
 such as missed shots close to the basket and atrocious documentation, hurt the overall package. 
 But this is still a game that's sure to please both casual and hardcore hoops fans.  

           The signature style moves are well implemented and add a lot to the game.      

  There's 
 no shortage of ways to stay busy in 2K8. The series has had a street ball component to it for a 
 number of years and it's back again. It's called NBA Blacktop here, but it has been revamped and 
 improved upon in a number of ways. You can participate in a three-point shootout or play street 
 ball using real NBA players. The goofy story from last year is gone -- you just play ball. The big 
 addition to the mode is the dunk contest. Up to four players can choose from current stars and 
 legends, such as Clyde Drexler, Dr. J, or Dominique Wilkins, for a three-round dunk contest that 
 takes place in the streets of Las Vegas.  

  There are three parts to each dunk: the gather, in-air style, and the finish. A gather is how you 
 start the dunk. You can bounce the ball to yourself, hop off of one foot, toss the ball in the 
 air, and more depending on what direction you move or rotate the right analog stick. In-air style 
 is determined the same way. Here, you can pump fake, spin, windmill, spread your legs  la the 
 Jordan logo, and a host of other actions. To finish the dunk, you press R2 or the right trigger 
 in the highlighted area of the meter. The closer you are to the center, the better your finish. 
 You can also place props, such as ball racks and benches, to add a bit of flair to your dunks. 
 It takes a little bit of practice and the game does a poor job of letting you know what you need 
 to do (though it does tell you what you did wrong after the fact) , but once you've spent some time 
 experimenting, you can pull off some amazing-looking dunks. Because the judges are all over the 
 place with their scoring, this mode is best played against friends offline or online when you can 
 trash-talk your opponent and argue over scores. Losing to computer-controlled opponents on a weak 
 dunk is no fun at all.  

  NBA Blacktop is nice, but it's more of a bonus -- the association is the bread and butter of the 
 series. It's still the deepest basketball sim out there, but not a whole lot has changed and it's 
 starting to feel a bit stale. The menus have been redone, but they are still a chore to navigate. 
 A lot of the tasks aren't much fun either, like scheduling practices and scouting future draft 
 picks. The way you negotiate contacts is more realistic than ever and you now have the ability 
 to include no-trade clauses. Hooray! Now you can be saddled with a bunch of horrible contracts -- just 
 like Isiah Thomas! You'll also need to assign roles (starter, star, sixth man) to your players 
 in an effort to keep their morale up -- unlike Isiah. All of these options may make it seem like 
 going through a season of the association is a lot of work, but the effect they have on your team 
 is minimal. It's possible to use the default roles, never schedule any practices, and scout very 
 little yet still do just fine. But you get what you put into the mode. If you really immerse yourself 
 in the life of an NBA GM and coach, there's a lot to enjoy here. Should you want to only worry 
 about the rigors of a single season, you can do that in the aptly named season mode.  

  Once again, the NBA 2K series sets the standard for online play. There's something for everyone 
 to enjoy here. Hardcore fans can participate in an entire season, complete with online draft. You 
 can create tournaments, as well as play ranked and unranked matches. The game never really bothers 
 to explain how to do it, but if you go to the online lobby page and scroll down, you'll find that 
 you can participate in all of the NBA Blacktop modes too. Up to eight players can play together 
 on the Xbox 360 and up to 10 players can team up on the PlayStation 3. All of your stats and progress 
 are tracked on your player card, making it easy for you to scout prospective opponents. 2K8 takes 
 a proactive approach to getting player feedback, not only asking you if you want to give Xbox Live 
 feedback on a player after a game, but also giving you its own series of questions to help ensure 
 people know what kind of player they're going up against in the future. None of this would mean 
 a thing if the game didn't run well. Outside of free throws being a little more difficult and the 
 referee sometimes not wanting to put the ball in play, our online experience was quite good.  

 
           It isn't perfect, but the new dunk contest is lots of fun.      

  2K8 boasts some impressive options, but how the game plays is most impressive. The signature jump 
 shots in last year's game were nice, but this year, Visual Concepts has raised the bar with signature 
 style animations. There are countless new layups, dribble moves, passes, and dunks. These new animations 
 complement the already great-looking jump shots. You'll be amazed at how realistically the game 
 plays and moves. The CPU does a great job of taking advantage of all these signature moves by making 
 the players play just as they would in real life. Even though we were on the wrong end of the beating, 
 we were dazzled as Steve Nash threw no-look passes, squeezed bounce passes through tiny openings, 
 and drove the lane with reckless abandon. Other players are just as lethal in the game as they 
 are in real life. Shaq's an absolute terror near the basket, throwing down vicious dunks over anyone 
 who stands between him and the hoop; Kobe will take over a game, owning entire quarters at a time; 
 while LeBron will beat you with his passing and scoring. It's one of those things you've got to 
 see in action to truly appreciate how everything comes together.     

   

  You wouldn't know it from the game's horrible instruction manual (save for some load screens, there's 
 no in-game instruction either) , but there are a number of new gameplay features this year. We didn't 
 find this particularly useful, but you can use the right stick to raise or lower your defender's 
 hands. You can also control other players at any time, get them open, call for the ball, and then 
 drain a shot. Another addition that will help you get open shots is a diagram that shows you where 
 players need to go when you run a play. This is a great way to learn the proper way to run plays 
 and should encourage you to do more than drive the line or toss up endless three pointers by making 
 it easy to run an offense like the pros. You'll also need to run plays because your players don't 
 do much on their own to get open. They'll shuffle around out near the three-point line, but they 
 don't work hard down low nor do they cut to the basket much on their own. The big change to the 
 way the game controls is that you now perform crossovers and other dribble moves strictly with 
 the left analog stick. If you're playing from the sideline camera, it can be a tough to get the 
 players to do what you want them to do. The system is much more responsive from the baseline view 
 because your actions more accurately mimic what the players are doing. It's a good change because 
 the controls were getting overly complex, but Visual Concepts needs to just swallow its pride and 
 copy NBA Live's use of the right trigger.  

           Unsure how to run a play? Let the game show you how.      

  These changes and additions 
 are not huge on their own, but how everything comes together is what makes 2K8 such an amazing 
 game. Once you get a handle on the controls, you have a wide array of moves at your fingertips. 
 The artificial intelligence is great -- it's more challenging than last year, but it never feels 
 cheap. Even free throws, which were frustrating last year, have been made more forgiving this time 
 around. If you toss in the fantastic signature style moves and the way they're implemented, you've 
 got a great game on your hands.  

  It's too bad, then, that there are some nagging issues that keep the game from being truly remarkable. 
 Once again, there are too many blown layups. Whether you use the shoot button or the shot stick 
 (it's a little less of an issue with the stick) , players will miss wide-open dunks and layups. 
 They'll turn around midair and throw up a circus shot for no reason. They also seem to have an 
 aversion to going strong to the hole. This seems to be the developer's way of keeping overall shooting 
 percentages realistic, but it comes at the expense of completely unrealistic percentages from in 
 the paint. It's such an obvious problem that even the game's announcers see what's going on, chiding 
 players for missing such easy shots. There are also some smaller flaws that bring things down a 
 bit. When double-teamed, ball handlers are too quick to pick up their dribble and often turn the 
 ball over as a result of being tied up. Defenders charge into the ball handler to push him over 
 midcourt for a backcourt violation, the AI does a poor job of helping you rotate defenders to cover 
 the open man, and there are a lot of questionable foul calls. None of these issues ruin the game, 
 but imagine how great it would be if they weren't there...  

  2K8 doesn't look a whole lot different from last year, but the addition of all the new signature 
 style moves does wonders for making the game appear more realistic. Many sports games have great 
 animations, but none of them react so realistically to what's happening, apply physics, and then 
 transition from one move to the next so seamlessly. Player models are generally quite good, though 
 many of the Caucasian players look downright horrifying, as do most of the coaches. The weird bug 
 where the shorts the players are wearing tear and vanish still rears its ugly head once in a while 
 too. Arenas look fantastic, thanks to great-looking courts, cheerleaders, dancing mascots, players 
 on the bench reacting to the action on the court, and (ugly but active) individual crowd members. 
 The frame rate is generally steady, but it does choke a bit during free throws and replays. The 
 announcers do a nice job of calling the action and mix in a fair amount of game analysis as well. 
 They do occasionally miss some big plays and there are a few situations where you'll repeatedly 
 hear the same call, but they're generally quite good.  

            Yeah, you got dunked on. At least it was a nice-looking dunk.      

  It is rare to 
 find a sports game where you're in awe of the moves you see onscreen, but it's something that happens 
 routinely with 2K8. Rather than get upset about how the CPU is picking you apart, you'll find yourself 
 admiring how it happened and then resolving to return the favor the next time down the court. It's 
 just too bad that such problems as missed layups, poor instructions, and a somewhat stale association 
 mode are present because even with these problems, NBA 2K8 is one of the greatest basketball games 
 in recent memory. Whether you're a casual basketball fan or a total hoops nut, this is the game 
 for you.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (44 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: WARLOCK234
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 30, 2009 8:31 pm PT
Review:  This is a very strong basketball game. It has great graphix and good and very easy to learn gameplay 
 and controls. This is even worth buying over 2K9! the only thing you may gain by buying 2K9 over 
 this is maybe a little bit of better graphix not much and there is nothing better about 9 than 
 8. The graphix are very good and it really almost looks like a real game, exept some of the player 
 movements seem a little weird at times. The commentary can get repetative but it is quite good. 
 This is a very fun and adicting game. The controls are very simple with maybe 4 buttons that u 
 absolutly need, but otherwise, you probly will only use like 3 buttons making it very simple and 
 fast to learn. The defense can be hard and seem like your not doing much controling but it is ok. 
 Shots can get frustrating when it should have been perfect but it turns out to be a complete airball. 
 The teams are also not right with teams that are supposed to be terrible, being as good as the best 
 teams and sometimes winning by alot. It is very fun multiplayer though with up to seven players 
 it can be very fun. The dunk contest is really fun also. There are many side modes and games and 
 stuff that i havnt even explored yet, it is so deep into the menus that it is hard to figure out 
 what is where and what. But in the end, it is mainly fun for its multiplayer and quick play mode. 
 This is the best buy for NBA games out there. BUY IT!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kasumifan
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 16, 2008 1:46 pm PT
Review:  Last year I was amazed by how great NBA 2K7 was, it was my first 2K NBA having boughten Live games 
 before. After 2K7 there was no way I could go back to Live. Now it's almost time for NBA 2K9 to 
 come out so I've decided to review this game.
  
  GRAPHICS
  
  I don't care what anyone says this game overall looks better then NBA Live 08, the animations are 
 fluid, from the lay ups to the dunks. Players look a lot more like their real life counterparts 
 in this game, in Live 08 everyone seems to be cockeyed especially Garnett. I played this game in 
 front of my uncle and he thought I was really watching an NBA game on tv.
  
  SOUND
  
  The sound fx in this game are amazing, from the sound of the ball dribbling to the sneakers squeeking. 
 Not to mention hearing the players yell commmands to each other. Most of the music that is heard 
 during the game is the same as last years addition so nothing new here. The commentary is more 
 or less the same with a couple of new lines added, such as Kevin Harlan and Kenny Smith mentioning 
 Kobe being frustrated in LA. Overall if you were ok with it last year, you'll be ok with it this 
 year.
  
  GAMEPLAY
  
  Now this is where the game truly shines, no other basketball game can compete with this games gameplay. 
 When you play you really feel like you're in control and you can do exactly wut you want for a 
 situation making you feel like you're playing basketball. The lock on d is a nice addition, and 
 the bars that show whether a player is hot or not is great. You'll know when or when not to use 
 a certain player, if a player is hot, keep feeding the hot hand, if he's cold ease off him a bit 
 and let him make some easy inside shots to get him going. Just great stuff all together. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Shlomiki
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 22, 2008 11:41 am PT
Review:  NBA 2K8 just improved a LOT over last years game. The gameplay has been polished up to operate 
 more smoothly, while the graphics got a boost, especially the player's faces look more accurately. 
 The sound has always been great, making the matches more immersive and realistic, but not a whole 
 lot has changed. The commentary is, well, OK+, let's put it that way, cause Kevin Harlan does get 
 repetitive but mixes up more analysis then last year.
  
  Furthermore, the streetball component has had a makeover and comes now without awkward storyline. 
 There's also a new dunk contest mode, wich can be a lot of fun, once you've mastered the controls 
 and feel.
  
  Well, everything is great actually, except for some nasty things:
  
  -The game has complex controls, but offers no decent manual to explain them. A real pain, for those 
 new to the series. Running plays and advanced sets has been made pretty much out of reach for the 
 casual gamer.
  
  -The menus are (just like last year's NBA 2K7) unreasonably complex and hard to navigate through. 
 Visual Concepts, why couldn't you just fix it this time??
  
  -Commentary is still repetitive, although it's been improved somewhat. The only real difference 
 to last year's commentating set is that the commentators mix in career analysis now as well.
  
  -Running the D has been made a little bit too easy because VC introduces a new Lock-On system. 
 This allows for some really tough D on your side. Think about a Center locking down on a PG. Unrealistic 
 and downgrading the game.
  
  
  Bottom line:
  NBA 2K8 features great gameplay, graphics and sound, but also some minor glitches. Lock-On D and 
 impenetrable menus for example, drag it down a little.
  Still, 2K8 is the best B-Ball simulation you've got out there. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NBAmaster33
Rating: 7
Date: Aug 9, 2008 8:39 pm PT
Review:  I've like the previous two 2K games for the PS2. But is this newest installment to the 2K series 
 as good as I thought it would be? Kind of but not really. What I really didn't like about this 
 game is the graphics. The player models look pretty bad, and don't look like the real life players. 
 There's a lot of clipping and glitches when you play the game, and the frame rate isn't all that 
 great. The gameplay is pretty fun. The controls are easy, but it's hard to make many shots. The 
 online is pretty fun but not as good as NBA Live 08. Is it better than NBA Live? Yes, but barely.
 
  Graphics: 5.7/10 -- pretty bad actually
  
  Gameplay: 7.8/10 -- it's pretty good but too hard to make shots
  
  Enjoyment: 7.3/10
  
  Final 
 Thoughts: A pretty good basketball game that anyone could enjoy, but the visual presentation drags 
 the experience down.
  
  Final Score: 7.2/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LivinnLegend
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 23, 2008 4:55 am PT
Review:  NBA 2K8... It's now time to hit the court with new signature moves, improved graphics and greater 
 gameplay. This game beats all the rest of the basketball sims there are in the game shelves. I'll 
 talk about the graphics first. It's amazing. People who say it's bad looking or it doesn't look 
 like them, haven't been playing in HD. From the reflections on the court, to the facial designs, 
 and to the signature moves, the game doesn't lose frame rate and keeps it all in tact.
  
  Next is the animation. It's fluid and whatever your about to do, whether it's a lay-up, slam dunk, 
 doing your signature moves, taunting, or going up for a 3 pointer, it doesn't look like it's slowing 
 down or having frame rate issues. The signature moves perfectly fit the players style. If you want 
 to be a tricky one and fly right by the opposition, use Iversons crossover dribble, if you want 
 to be heavy and come up with the dunk, use Richardson. Whatever style you want to play, it's all 
 there.
  
  But there's no game without any flaws. Firstly are the missed lay-ups. Yes, it's really annoying 
 if you try and go for the 3 point play and still don't get the bucket. That's the major one. The 
 next is actually the game itself. If you're killing them in season or quick play mode, for example, 
 100-34, you'll begin to miss lots of 3 point shots, lay-ups without any fouls, and missed free 
 throws. That's all the major/minor things I spotted.
  
  The game modes have been reduced down a bit, but nevertheless have they lost it's spirit. The Blacktop 
 mode is solid, along with it's season mode, where you can trade any player you want with another 
 team. The dunk contest be really frustrating because the analog trick system can be very hard to 
 learn for newcomers. The NBA Blacktop also includes a 3 point shoot-out, first to 21, and a dunk 
 school where you can learn to dunk.
  
  So if you're out in the game shops, and are a basketball sim fan, don't look any further then NBA 
 2K8. It's a great game with straight up gameplay, and you won't be dissapointed 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dutch777
Rating: 8
Date: Jun 12, 2008 11:13 pm PT
Review:  Last year, when I first played NBA 07 on the PlayStation 3, I could tell that there was a lot of 
 potential in the franchise, despite my low score. Ultimately, NBA 07 lacked some refinement and 
 was nothing more than a tech-demo, as opposed to a full-fledged basketball game. Why a tech-demo? 
 Well, it's bare bone offerings of gameplay modes felt like I was playing NBA Shootout '97 with 
 much prettier visuals. But its gameplay showed promise and I could see that immediately. I knew 
 that if Sony added more bang for the buck, as well as tightened up some gameplay quirks, we'd have 
 a really solid game of hoops. And indeed we do.
  Despite not being technically refined, NBA 08 still delivers a pretty solid basketball experience. 
 While it doesn't have a franchise mode to partake in, its nice gameplay mechanics and the Progression 
 System really do make the lack of a proper management mode a little easier to swallom. Furthermore, 
 the NBA Replay mode will offer a ton of additional value to the game, as will going online against 
 a friend. I'd like to see the animation overhauled for next year's game, and I'd also like to see 
 improved commentary - hopefully Sony is listening. Like I said last year, NBA 07 showed a lot of 
 potential, and NBA 08 is here actually demonstrating some of it. Give NBA 08 a shot, I think you'd 
 be pleasantly surprised. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: yoran92
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 31, 2008 1:03 pm PT
Review:  This is way better than nba live 08, I bought them both. 2K8 is more realistic and the gameplay 
 is way better. Although I think the shot stick isn't necessary, maybe they should use it like they 
 did in nba live 08. But I also have a question, when I'm playing a game, sometimes next to the 
 name of the ball handler is some kind of a green bag. I've got no clue what it is and I also couldn't 
 find it in the book that comes with the game. Maybe someone could answer this question, I'm anxious 
 to find out. And also another thing, in nba live 08, you can sometimes just walk out of bounds 
 and the refs won't even react, this is extremely frustrating. Especially when playing on the internet. 
 And another thing is that if you rebound the ball, it will get picked off very easily. Even though 
 you would try to pass immediately. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: merrill25
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 12, 2008 8:02 pm PT
Review:  2K sports has done it again with another stellar NBA game.
  
  Graphics: The players look amazing but the crowd could use some work with their polygon faces. 
 
  
  Playability: Once you learn to play like a pro, which doesn't take to long, you can get the player 
 to do exactly what you want. Free throws are my favorite part, you flip your controller up and 
 that starts the players shot then you level it back horizontally when the player releases the shot.
 
  
  Sound: The menu songs will be stuck in your head and the announcers get annoying as usual but they 
 can happily be muted. When your team goes on a scoring spree at home, the crowd roars and gets 
 your opponent frustrated while helping your game out.
  
  Value: A great competitive game for friends and online adds to the replay value along with the 
 boat loads of extras packed into the game. I has great replay, until the next one come out next 
 year.
  
  If you want a competitive game or a solid sports game this is the only way to go. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dirtysoutherner
Rating: 6.5
Date: Mar 5, 2008 2:37 pm PT
Review:  The game dictates entirely too much. The potential for a great overall game is clearly there but 
 it isnt capitalized on. Instead it settles for cheap gameplay. If the develoment team would have 
 fully fleshed out a skilled cpu and not relied on cheapness this game could have reached greatness, 
 but with its cheapness it doesnt reach its full potential. Not even close.
  
  My record in 2k8 is currently 15-5 and I have yet to be beaten. I havent lost a game without feeling 
 totally cheaped. Winning or losing is entirely up to the cpu in most games. Not the skill of the 
 cpu compared to you or how the teams actually play. No, its the control the cpu has over the ball. 
 The cheating seems so un-needed because the cpu can stick right with you throughout a game playing 
 fair and square without being cheap (mostly) but when they are going to win they do so by being 
 completely cheap. 
  
  2k8 does most things very well. The crowd is mostly terrific, getting very loud when they should 
 but they do get overly down everytime the opponent scores. Every single time the away team scores 
 you hear a loud "awww" which is totally overdone. But for the most part the croud is good.
  
  When the gameplay isnt being cheap it feels very good. Pulling up for jumpers and knocking 
 them down feels amazingly satisfying. The only thing that isnt top notch is the animations for 
 crossovers and some post moves. Crossovers are dictated completely by the cpu and the animations 
 are too slow. Some animations take you way too far than they should and its too hard to change 
 direction mid-animation.
  
  Ill say it again- the game dictates too much which is the biggest downfall. Winning or losing is 
 dictated by the cpu and not what happens on the court. The game sacrifices so much to try and keep 
 shooting percentages and other stats close to accurate.
  
  The cpu will cheap you... not beat you. Its such a shame because if the cpu was fair this game would 
 be great. Once you get good the cpu wont outplay you, they will just make sure you lose by any 
 cheap means nessasary. If you reach out and steal the ball or block a shot the cpu will keep possetion 
 90% of the time. Then they will most likely score because your guys will be out of position. Its 
 very obvious and rediculous. Most of the time when you block a shot on defense it will serve as 
 a pass from one cpu player to another. The ball always seems to fly right to the cpu now matter 
 how unlikely. When you steal the ball it will usually stay convieniently just out of your reach 
 long enough for the cpu player to recover, or they will just pick it back up before you, or your 
 guys will literaly reach out and touch the ball and not pick it up. It simply bounces right off 
 their hands and then a cpu player grabs it. Ive even seen one of my players (who was by far the 
 closest to a loose ball) dive before they were in distance of the ball simply taking themselves 
 out making it impossible to get the ball when all he needed to do was walk over and pick it up. 
 So the cpu got it of course. And loose ball cheapness is not the worst thing the cpu does to cheap 
 you-
  
  Excessive offensive rebounding is another cheap tactic that the cpu will use. On certain possestions 
 the cpu is going to score no matter what, just like sometimes when you have the ball you arent 
 going to score no matter what, regardless of how you play. The cpu will get incredible offensive 
 rebounds over and over. Play good defense and force a tough shot and you can usually tell when 
 its going to happen. No matter of the position of your players or the cpu players, or skill, or 
 size, they are going to get the offensive rebound until they score. A possetion could go like this- 
 Play great defense and force a very tough shot. Two of your guys are in perfect position for the 
 rebound they jump up and touch the ball then a cpu player comes flying in when they would have 
 no chance of getting the rebound and the ball vacuums to them in mid air. The ball touches your 
 teamates hands and then sucks out and suckes into the cpus hand. Then, the cpu goes up for a shot 
 and you block it. They somehow get it back after it bounces of your teamates hands again. They 
 go up and you defend it perfectly and they miss and get an improbable offensive rebound again, 
 same thing happens and they miss again and their point guard jumps over your center to get the 
 ball then scores and gets fouled. Watch the replays, its competely ridiculous.
  
  There are obvious tell-tell signs that let you know you are going to lose. Sometimes the game will 
 pre-determine that your going to lose before the game starts no matter what happens on the court. 
 Missing layups while the cpu makes contested long range jumpers consistently, unstoppable improbable 
 cpu offensive rebounds over and over to the point of madness, fast breaks when you have four guys 
 back and they simply do not pick up one cpu player who cuts to the basket or they do actually guard 
 him but he still manages to score against three defenders. Basically the cpu winning 4 on 2 matchups 
 on a "fast break" with just 2 players. One of my personal favorites is your team failing to get 
 rebounds after free throws. Thats middle school basketball and if it happened this much in the 
 6th grade it would be embarrasing. The cpu comes down, scores amazingly and gets fouled. They miss 
 the free throw and get the rebound and score again and are fouled...... again. Repeat. Some games 
 you feel cheaped almost everytime the cpu scores. I can handle a few backdoor cuts every now and 
 then by the cpu but it gets rediculous when the cpu constantly throws into a crowd of your players 
 and somehow always seem to magically score. Your guys either stand and watch the ball go right 
 by them or they reach out and hit the ball and it still goes right to the cpu. I can also handle 
 a few offensive rebounds that result in second chance points but this also gets completely rediculous 
 and overused to the point of madness. Doesnt get any lamer or cheaper than that.
  
  No matter how good the game is in most areas to be down by 10 points with a few minutes left and 
 work hard to get to the basket only to blow easy layup after layup while the cpu makes contested 
 fadeaways or just keeps getting offensive rebounds until they score is completely cheap and takes 
 any fun out of the game. The cheapness kills the drive to keep playing the game knowing that the 
 cpu will cheap you to win without outplaying you. Its very obvious when you have no chance of winning 
 and the cpu isnt going to outplay you but they will still win. Where is the fun or incentive to 
 continue playing?
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: tarugista
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 11, 2008 4:46 am PT
Review:  To be honest, I'm a long time fan of the NBA Live series, its my 1st time to play NBA 2k, and wow! 
 I'm so amazed of the gamplay.
  
  
  This game is not for the average gamer, this game requires patience, fast thinking and strategy. 
 I'm pretty good at video games, but this was the 1st time I found myself being kicked in the ass 
 by the A. I. The A. I looks for mismatches or opening and will not hesistate to take advantage on 
 the player. This game is so realistic, that I have to do time outs in order to organize teamplays 
 that wil make me score some points.
  
  The only downside is the lack of information in the booklet about the controls. There are tons 
 of moves to do, but I can't execute them because nothing is written in the game booklet. 
  
  
  If you want to make slam dunks in front of Shaq, or make 10, 3 pointers in a row, buy NBA 
 live. If you want realisitic basketball sim.. this is the one for you!
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: is0lati0n
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 28, 2008 4:36 am PT
Review:  NBA 2K8... It's now time to hit the court with new signature moves, improved graphics and greater 
 gameplay. This game beats all the rest of the basketball sims there are in the game shelves. I'll 
 talk about the graphics first. It's amazing. People who say it's bad looking or it doesn't look 
 like them, haven't been playing in HD. From the reflections on the court, to the facial designs, 
 and to the signature moves, the game doesn't lose frame rate and keeps it all in tact.
  
  Next is the animation. It's fluid and whatever your about to do, whether it's a lay-up, slam dunk, 
 doing your signature moves, taunting, or going up for a 3 pointer, it doesn't look like it's slowing 
 down or having frame rate issues. The signature moves perfectly fit the players style. If you want 
 to be a tricky one and fly right by the opposition, use Iversons crossover dribble, if you want 
 to be heavy and come up with the dunk, use Richardson. Whatever style you want to play, it's all 
 there.
  
  But there's no game without any flaws. Firstly are the missed lay-ups. Yes, it's really annoying 
 if you try and go for the 3 point play and still don't get the bucket. That's the major one. The 
 next is actually the game itself. If you're killing them in season or quick play mode, for example, 
 100-34, you'll begin to miss lots of 3 point shots, lay-ups without any fouls, and missed free 
 throws. That's all the major/minor things I spotted.
  
  The game modes have been reduced down a bit, but nevertheless have they lost it's spirit. The Blacktop 
 mode is solid, along with it's season mode, where you can trade any player you want with another 
 team. The dunk contest be really frustrating because the analog trick system can be very hard to 
 learn for newcomers. The NBA Blacktop also includes a 3 point shoot-out, first to 21, and a dunk 
 school where you can learn to dunk.
  
  So if you're out in the game shops, and are a basketball sim fan, don't look any further then NBA 
 2K8. It's a great game with straight up gameplay, and you won't be dissapointed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: meetah13
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 24, 2008 6:20 pm PT
Review:  Once you get used to the shooting and the free throws, it is a very great game. You are never bored 
 of the game because it isn't very repettitive and you have to pass the ball around a lot to score. 
 You will not make 10 three point shots in a row. Your player will get tired and miss a lot. Defense 
 is tricky and difficult. This makes it a lot more fun. I found that you will not be winning by 
 a very large amount of points vs. the CPU. Dunk contest is a lot of fun too once you get used to 
 it. I'm not a huge fan of the season mode or anything, but online is so great I don't do it much. 
 There are always so many people online so you will not have a hard time finding someone to play 
 with. Also, a great feature is the movie maker. You can take a saved replay, or more, and make 
 it into a movie. You have sound effects and visuals you can put in. You can look at videos other 
 people made, and share yours with them. Overall, great graphics, gameplay, features, and online 
 makes this the best basketball game on the market. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: moshoodboy
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 21, 2008 11:24 am PT
Review:  this game is very fun to play, but at times the players get slugish at times but overall its a 
 pretty a ok game . Gameplay is good. the players come to life. the online play is ok but a few 
 glitches that needs to be fix in the next 2k game. Theres alot of modes to choose from such as 
 the dunck contest, 3pt shootout and a street game. This game features like a espn look that shows 
 the live stats of other sports teams that is in action. For example, NFL, NBA, MLB, NHL, and etc. 
 that comes in handy when you are playin online and chating with people in the lobbys. This game 
 is pretty cool that includes different things to do. Great graphics and gamplay. There isnt much 
 of a downside to this game. I think people will be satisfied with the game. Its worth the $60. 
 ill recommend it over NBA live 08 and especially over NBA 08. So get NBA 2k8 and enjoy 
::::::

::::::
UserName: futurerain999
Rating: 6.5
Date: Jan 18, 2008 1:27 pm PT
Review:  Recently I purchased NBA 2K8 for the PS3. Before purchasing, I made sure that read some reviews 
 first. Most were relatively the same saying that the game is "challenging but fair". Graphics looked 
 incredible and being a sports nut I figured, hey, how bad could it be. 
  
  Lets start by saying that I am no stranger to 2K games in general. Hockey is probably my favorite. 
 Hall of Fame is tough but I can still pretty much win every game. Here is where the problem starts. 
 With 2K8 hockey, even a beginner can get on the ice, make some hits and with the rookie difficulty 
 level, pretty much win the game. With the NBA 2K8, this is not the case. Opposing teams seem to 
 have limitless supplies of three pointers and jump shots even on the lowest of levels. The practice, 
 or lack thereof, make things increasing difficult and leaves you feeling as though you are missing 
 some key information. This quickly leads to frustration when after 10 games, you have only managed 
 to squeak out a single victory. 
  
  I am a complete advocate of the NHL 2K series and was looking to broaden the scope of games in 
 my library with more of what 2K had to offer but I must say that after giving a solid try with 
 NBA, I won't be looking to add anything else anytime soon. If they have a formula that works for 
 one type of genre, try making it part of your sports line up. It just might entice players to try 
 all of their games instead of one. 
  
  Thanks! 
  Futurerain a. k. a. IronHide 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mountain_duwe
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 16, 2008 10:22 am PT
Review:  The last basketball sim I played before NBA 2K8 was NBA06, so it has been a while for me in the 
 world of roundball. I do appreciate the game of basketball, and I am a Knicks fan, so I KNOW that 
 I appreciate the game for what it is and not for the glitz and glamour of victory and whatnot.
 
  
  It's pretty deep for a 2K game -- I'm definitely more partial to EA Sports, but I got it for Christmas 
 from my parents so, who am I to complain? The franchise mode, or, 'Association', has lots of stuff 
 to do in giving you complete control of an NBA franchise.
  
  The gameplay is simple yet complex and it's always fun to post up with your favorite big-man and 
 drop in a hook-shot. There are a few plays to run with your point guard but other than that, it's 
 mostly just shoot, box out, rebound, shoot, score, get back on defense.
  
  PROS:
  Deep 'Association' mode
  Some players are UNSTOPPABLE (Dwight Howard, anyone?)
  Easy gameplay 
 that still offers a challenge to NBA noobs like me
  
  CONS:
  Terrible player models -- any other basketball game looks better than this
  Again, some players 
 are UNSTOPPABLE
  
  Overall, NBA 2K8 might be worth a buy if you're a hardcore NBA fan, but I haven't played the other 
 NBA games, so I don't know how it stacks up against the competition. I will say this though -- NBA 
 2K8 is a solid game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: king23_
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 12, 2008 3:03 pm PT
Review:  The first thing you notice when the game starts are the visuals. The graphics this year have both 
 improved and been downgraded. The players now look a lot less detailed, and they don't sweat very 
 much like they did in 2K7. However, the animations this year are amazing. All the dunks, shots, 
 crossovers, and all of that looks very realistic. Another improvement is that the glitch where 
 the players shorts/jerseys disapear is gone for the most part. You'll still see it, but a lot less.
 
  
  Gameplay in 2K8 has stayed the same for the most part, which means NBA 2K8 still the best basketball 
 gameplay in a video game. They have only made a few small additions like the cell phone bars and 
 lock on defense, but these don't really do much. The gameplay still has flaws though like the fact 
 that it feels kind of like a dunk fest.
  
  The presentation this year is top notch with a new post game show that allows you to watch the 
 Top 3 plays, Player of the Game, and Highlights from each player. They did remove Kenny's halftime 
 show, though. The commentary is better then ever, because they now seem to have more that they 
 will talk about. But it can still get a litlle repeptitive.
  
  
  One addition to NBA 2K8 is the Blacktop, which has replaced 24/7 mode. In the Blacktop you can 
 play street game, 3 point contests, and slam dunk contests. The dunk contest is difficult to learn, 
 but becomes fun after you learn it. You must push the right analog stick one way for a takeoff, 
 another direction for the dunk, and time hitting R2 at the right time to complete the dunk. There 
 are a ton of different dunks to do, plus you can do alley-oops to yourself and dunk over props.
 
  
  Online play is decent. You can still play lobby games, join tournaments, join leagues, play street 
 games, dunk contests. Going online is very fun but you most likely will spend most of your time 
 with the Association.
  
  Overall, NBA 2K8 is a great game and the best basketball game this year. If you like basketball 
 you should pick this game up.
  
  Gameplay: 8.5
  Graphics: 8
  Sound: 9
  Value: 10
  Tilt: 10
  
  Score: 9.2 
::::::

::::::
UserName: diggieman
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 7, 2008 9:09 pm PT
Review:  IT FRICKIN ROCKS the game play is top notch i have never played a sports game like this it feels 
 like i actually am in the game performing the various lay ups its like sex i swear it's that good 
 please don't change a thing next year. the only critique would have to be the opposing side was 
 to laxed when it came to defense and other times it was to rough on you it is weird mesh of AI 
 and stuped AI coming up to a player and trying to grab the ball was chore and a half i mean common 
 if you wanted to grab the ball it shouldn't be so hard that it's impossibe but over all this rocks 
 the house baby 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Alfredo_Sauce
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 7, 2008 7:06 pm PT
Review:  This basketball couldn't be more real then the real life playing outside basketball. The controls 
 are pretty simple, thats one thing I really liked about the game. The menus and getting around 
 could be confusing but you get the hang of it. Here's a few stuff about the game play I enjoy. 
 You can control the other player's besides the one that controls the ball. So you can set plays. 
 Speaking of plays when you select a play on offensive they put lines for you on the floor to show 
 you what to do in the play, so you don't get lost or have no idea how to play basketball and sort 
 of new. Another reason why I enjoyed this game is how real the players are on the field. The players 
 shoot all the same like they do in real life. The thing that kind of ticts me off and gamespot 
 agrees with me is that there is way way way to many missed layups. Oh I almost forgot a really 
 cool thing about this game is the right stick depending on where you move it thats the hand they 
 will use. Example is if you move the right stick right the player will use that hand to put the 
 ball in the hoop if your doing a jump shot that wouldn't really matter about which hand. More on 
 if your doing an lay up or dunk. The sound is good. I love the soundtrack. It has RUN DMC you can't 
 go wrong with that. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xMagic12x
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 2, 2008 2:16 pm PT
Review:  Last season it was champ versus chump in the videogame basketball wars. NBA 2K7 toppled NBA Live 
 07 by a margin wider than Denver Nuggets coach George Karl's waistline. This season the gap has 
 narrowed now that NBA Live 08 smartly pressed reset on its franchise. But there's no question that 
 NBA 2K8 is the No. 1 basketball game on store shelves. 
  One thing that keeps 2K8 in the top spot is the many chances the game takes: It grabs for further 
 greatness while Live plays this season completely safe. For starters, the game reworked momentum, 
 making it so players have to plant their feet before making a move. That means quick-footed guards 
 can't shred defenses by snaking back and forth -- even the Jason Kidds of the world need to dismantle 
 their defender with actual moves if they're going to sneak by. It slows down the game just a touch, 
 but it's very much for the better. It also keeps any contest from turning into a dunkfest. As for 
 scoring, you'll blow more layups than you'd like, which is a frustrating issue the game has yet 
 to resolve, but tickling the twine from 15 feet feels so good that you'll soon prefer pulling up 
 to stick a shot. 
  
  Another boon for the series is the impressive amount of animations. Just when you think you've 
 seen it all, someone will bust through the lane and break out a buttery finger roll that'll drop 
 your jaw or a baby hook that'll leave you pumping your fist. With the animations and the momentum 
 combined, there's so much more happening in terms of low-post moves and action as well. Not every 
 animation is smooth -- sometimes you'll see some pretty wicked popping -- but considering how real 
 the game feels, it's easy to forgive the occasional stammer or stutter.
  
  Speaking of realism, the stadiums and their audiences bring a fresh breath of authenticity. Last 
 year's game sparkled, but it looked like the players and the arenas were cut from different cloth. 
 Now, everything is one synched-up picture, and it's a beautiful one. The crowd isn't draped in 
 home team jerseys; they're wearing what most people wear to basketball games: jackets, collared 
 shirts, jeans, and slacks. It's way more realistic, making it a perfect backdrop for a LeBron James 
 fadeaway or a Kobe Bryant charge to the rim. 
  
  Beyond that, the franchise mode -- coined The Association -- is stellar. Now you'll assign roles 
 to players when you jump in, from stars and starters to sixth men and benchwarmers. If certain 
 player types aren't happy because of playing time or your team's lousy start, they'll be a cancer 
 in the clubhouse. It changes the way you sign free agents. Ron Artest has long been a perfect videogame 
 baller, because he's supertalented and all of his considerable baggage hasn't been an issue. In 
 2K8, signing him has ramifications. Can you manage him? Do you want to bother? Both are important 
 questions. Another noteworthy feature allows you to sign players to contracts with no-trade clauses. 
 That's just plain cool. 
  
  So what's holding this game back? The new defensive lock-on system is a little screwy. It basically 
 allows you to square up to a ball handler, and if you stay that way for long enough, you'll lock 
 on to them, which helps you stay between the dribbler and the hoop. But problem exist. Sometimes, 
 players simply don't lock on, and the game doesn't distinguish big men from pipsqueaks, meaning 
 Ben Wallace can guard the perimeter as if it's the same as the lane, and it's a little strange 
 to see Shaq keeping Allen Iverson on lockdown. If you play the game straight-up by, say, keeping 
 your center in the lane, this won't be an issue -- but if you're playing some annoying random dude 
 online (and the online options are superb, as usual for a 2K Sports game) who's just out to win, 
 expect to have problems. Another problem is that the defense doesn't contest enough jumpers. You 
 can make space, and they will just watch you fire up a shot. Curious. 
  
  But in the end, this game's brilliant A. I. on offense, the lightning-quick load times, the remarkably 
 improved faces of Steve Nash and Dirk Nowitzki, the new dunk competition minigame, and the removal 
 of 24/7 mode are a load of positives that far outweigh the hang-ups. Madden NFL 08 beat All-Pro 
 Football 2K8, NHL 08 torched NHL 2K8, but there's no doubt NBA 2K8 trumps Live by plenty. It's 
 the hoops game to get this year, and an important victory for 2K Sports. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: rsof2808
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 1, 2008 9:25 am PT
Review:  "NBA Live" . . . Sorry, you had the market cornered for years, but now this 2K Franchise, with 
 it's improvements each year, has completely and totally left you in the dust. They knew it when 
 they put out 2K5 for $20 . . . Saying "here give this a shot, we made a B-Ball game that is for 
 REAL."
  
  Now obviously the game is not perfect, but as far as realistic basketball simulation is concerned, 
 it's about as close as you can get.
  
  People that play this game complain that it is too easy. Well if you play a Franchise or Season 
 mode, 29 or more games a season, you will be playing quite a lot of basketball . . . So therefore 
 you are bound to find some glitches. 
  
  For instance it is amazingly easy to create turnovers (especially on-ball steals) , usually in a 
 7 minute game each player will have 2-4 steals. And when the other team turns the ball over 35 
 times your NEW Clutch Factor goes off the charts and makes the game a blowout.
  
  Also you can adjust about every aspect of the game in "MY NBA" - "Game Sliders". So if you become 
 remarkably good at the the game you can always adjust every attribute on the court to make your 
 team basically worse at the "default" game.
  
  But this company did it right. make a quality product for an inexpensive amount and match the competition 
 . . . Then when they beat the competition, JACKTHE PRICES RIGHT UP TO PAR. But really why complain 
 . . . you've got hours of game-play, even if it gets too easy it is still fun and addictive, especially 
 the Association Mode.
  
  Hopefully they did a good job with the College Game as well.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: RyusMaximus
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 31, 2007 12:42 pm PT
Review:  NBA 2K8 is simply the best basketball game out there on any platform! It is a must buy if you love 
 basketball video games! From its killer graphics to its smooth gameplay, NBA 2K8 is very fun! In 
 this game, you can play online against other people! You can also download various things such 
 as roster updates! You are also able to create an association where you can make all the calls 
 for a certain team! NBA 2K8 also offers what is kinda like Streetball! You can play off the court 
 and on the playgrounds and decide what pro players are on your team! Overall, NBA 2K8 is a very 
 solid game! You have to buy this if you are searching for a great basketball game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bbgambini420
Rating: 5
Date: Dec 29, 2007 12:41 pm PT
Review:  As a true 2K Sports fan, i've only owned 2k series games,
  and when i got this game as a gift, i was looking foward to playing it
  on my PS3,
  
  BUT 
 i was soon dissapointed.
  
  let me break it down for you on that REAL sh*t!!
  
  The 'DUNK CONTEST' is a great feature but BADLY EXECUTED, to much
  wasted time tryin' to run 
 back to the 3point line for a dunk...
  
  The '3pt SHOOTOUT' is a great feature but BADLY EXECUTED, right stick only... lame'
  
  The WHOLE 
 MENU SYSTEM is GARBAGE, you press 0 to exit, right stick, but wont quit, your stuck in the same 
 screen.... AHHHHHH just sad.
  
  NOW to what MATTERs, the game... Playing the game is ok, but DAMN! can
  you waste anymore time 
 TRYING TO CALL FOR A SCREEN!! By the time
  you try to get someone open & select that player you've run 10seconds of the
  clock., ohhhh & 
 on a fastbreak away play...... DAMN!! that needs WORK
  
  Never missed so many EASY OPEN SHOTS, LAYUPS in a game!!
  
  The 'Lock Defense' controls are 
 a good idea but again BADLY EXECUTED... one play LEFT is right & right is left & down is... F***!!
 
  there goes your man dunking on you because to reached out to the wrong
  side!!!
  
  The game is NOT COMPLICATED DIFFICULTY WISE, its just the MECHANICS & BUTTON SMASHING YOU HAVE 
 TO DO!!!
  
  OVERALL i had HIGH HOPES for this game & all the 'NEW STUFF' but sadly
  it didn't pull it off, HOPE 2K9 really IMPROVES!!
  
  If you have time to waste during a play 
 then this is your game, if not, DONT BUY IT for you or your kids/friends,
  With in 3days i returned it back to the store (thank you gift receipt)
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: kelseyjb
Rating: 2
Date: Dec 20, 2007 9:44 am PT
Review:  everything about this game isnt great or good the graphics is not so good all the players models 
 look bad sometimes the game finds itself playin by its self the hotspots are just not good miss 
 2shots and forget it you are cold for the rest of the game and some player and team ratings are 
 bad and did i say anything about the graphics gamespot pointed out how all 3 nba games look and 
 live looks a lot better and plays better what happen with 2k they was the best all i got was a 
 bad basketball game with horrible grapics and to be next gen these player models could have been 
 on ps2 or game cube and what made them think that its that hard to make a lay up to may miss shots 
 to many missed dunks and speaking of dunks who told them that it was ok to make a dunk contest 
 but you wont be able to make a dunk you would think that make dunk contest game easy or hard yor 
 choice no matter how close or far you are awy from the rim you miss it what a joke im sticking 
 to live 08. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chasman99
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 11, 2007 8:32 am PT
Review:  This game is quite simply the most addictive MBA game I have ever played. The court visuals are 
 insanely detailed, right down to reflections on the floor. Some of the player animations are a 
 bit strange, and while you can still look at a guy and see who he is, it does not fool anyone walking 
 into the room to think that you happen to be watching Kobe play in a Lakers game.
  
  The audio is very well done, but over time gets repetitive like many sports sims. The bigger issue 
 with the commentary is that they make comments that just don't apply at times. Recently I have 
 listened to lead in commentary where they comment on Chris Kaman and his rebounding prowess. Sadly 
 they always make this comment about my opponent and how Kaman is going to help them win. Chris 
 Kaman is on my squad.
  
  I've played on the easy level so far, and I can honestly say it is time to increase the difficulty. 
 Scoring is painfully easy (unless your guys are tired) , defense is another story. There are far 
 too many inside buckets and the AI causes the computer to hit tons of jumpers when it feels the 
 need to catch up and make the game interesting.
  
  The GM aaspects of the game are fantastic. Dealing with player moods, setting player roles and 
 attempting to make your owner happy are nice additions. Add to that the practices, developments 
 scouting and all the small extras and you have a great sim.
  
  Gameplay is smooth and the players shoot and move with their own distinctive style. The only time 
 this gets annoying is when it is time to shoot a free throw. God help you trying to shoot one with 
 Zach Randolph while learning the game. 
  
  All that being said this is a fantastic game, which adds many enjoyable not gameplay actions to 
 keep you interested in a full season. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ryder_Wilson
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 22, 2007 6:42 pm PT
Review:  1. The characters don't sweat!
  2. I'm lazy, and it takes too long to setup street games when you're playing alone
  3. Too many 
 missed shots when close to the basket.
  
  But when you catch fire, you see a HUGE difference in the clutch abilities of that player. So this 
 game seems to rely alot more on using your star players to win when you are down, which is good 
 because that is usually what they do in the actual NBA and since this game is a simulation I found 
 that this works perfectly and every game should incorporate it into their sports game, no matter 
 the sport.
  So yes, if you are a big basketball fan, I recommend this basketball game over all others :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: frankieguy
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 17, 2007 11:26 am PT
Review:  I love nba 2k8 its a good game the presentation the arenas there great but i would love 2k to stop 
 making alien face players please just imagine he graphics that nba live has and nba 2ks style of 
 play this game would be amazing so nba 2k has to do alot of work with there players so they could 
 lifelike i would prefer nba live 08 but dont get me wrong nba 2k8 is a good game thank god is not 
 like nba 08 now that game sucks but nba 2k8 is great....... so if you ae thinking on buying nba 
 2k8 rent it first and rent nba live 08 so could decide 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Funglip
Rating: 5.5
Date: Nov 16, 2007 4:16 pm PT
Review:  NBA 2k8 blows... 
  
  At the 1st glance, NBA2k8 may look extremely realistic with its fancy graphics/animations and recognizable 
 moves from most NBA stars. And even at the 1st few games, you may even feel you're playing an alive 
 and real NBA game. However, once you get deeper into the gameplay, you'll notice flaws and glitches 
 almost everywhere in the corners.
  
  Let's start with the positives; the best feature in 2K8 is the ability to fully customize the game. 
 Missing lay ups and close shots a little too often? Tilt up the percentages. Too hard to make a 
 free throw to go in, tilt down the difficultly of free throw. You can customize just about everything 
 to make the game feel just right. Another big plus is the animations; the game looks realistic 
 period. (especially when you have a not so great TV to notice the cartoonly parts)
  
  Now here go the negatives, a whole list of them.
  2k8 introduces a new mechanic called..... whatever 
 it's called! It's a cell phone signal bar like thing on a player. It basically let you know the 
 hot and cold zones of each player. For example, 3 point specialists like Ray Allan or Peja Stojakovic 
 would most likely have a full bar at the 3pt line. 
  The system uses real NBA stats so different positions would have different result. The signal bar 
 also changes as the game goes on, make a few shot will make the bar full red causing the percentage 
 to go up. Miss a few shot and the bar will turn blue causing the percentage to go down. While it's 
 an interesting idea, IT'S TOO MUCH. 
  
  Imagine this in a real NBA game; Kobe misses his 1st two shot. You may think: big deal! And you 
 are correct; it IS a big deal because Kobe won't make a single shot by then for the rest of the 
 game. Why? You asked, because Kobe went COLD and the freaking signal bar is BLUE so he won't make 
 a shot even when there's no one else but him in the whole freakin building. And this is the only 
 freakin thing that you CAN'T turn off, so you have to live with it. 
  Why don't you tilt the shooting percentages up? You asked. Well, if I'd do that then everyone will 
 be like a scoring machine since their single bar will turn red hot and nobody will miss a single 
 shot. The system is totally unbalanced and have ruined the game. However, there's something even 
 more annoying; yeah, more than this signal bar. The controls...
  
  While the animations are great, the controls suck more than a robotic vacuum cleaner. OMG where 
 do I start, there are so many things go wrong... I think I'll just list a few examples.
  
  -2 seconds left on the shot clock, I (T-mac) drive and tries to put up a quick shot (holding sqaure 
 for a sec) ; and T-mac pump-fakes.... I press sqaure for a whole freakin sec and he gives me a pump-fake. 
 pump-fake is a tap like 0.2 sec, not a SEC!
  
  -I hold the analog stick all way to the right with the turbo button pressed, so he should run to 
 the right, right? NO, he hops slowly to the right like a crap; GOD, if I wanna hop to right, I 
 would hold the stick half way to the right... Don't you think I wanna run when I'm pressing the 
 'turbo' button? Didn't think so.
  
  -I'm Steve Nash and I'm driving the lane; while spinning my way into the paint I tries to throw 
 the rock back out for a wide open 3. (Press X, x, and x again!) Not working, I need to finish the 
 whole spin move to do anything else; and I need to press X again after the move, those three Xs 
 I pressed before does NOT A THING
  
  -No more fancy moves, you can only drive to left or right, and hop step.
  
  -going up for lay-up, 
 open man next to me, press x to pass, NOT working again!
  
  -2 ft away the rim, tries to jump toward the rim but he jumps away from the rim...
  
  -I just 
 scored, now I want to go steal their in-ball-pass; not happening, the game forces my controling 
 player to go hi-five another teammate. WHO THE HELL IS PLAYING THE GAME??!! I'm not quite sure 
 now...
  
  -My team is winning by 2 and there's 5 sec left; I make a perfect pass and should be able to run 
 till the time runs out. But they need to foul! So from 5ft away they use magical power to stun 
 me and throw me to the FT line. Magic should be add to NBA games, why not?
  
  So yeah, 50% of the time you will feel like the game is playing, not you. You're just a puppet 
 going to the general direction you're pressing. Don't tell me thats how the real NBA works. NBA 
 players could make pass while making a move or a drive; they don't need a full second to shoot 
 a buzzer beater; and they don't hop like a crap when they wanna run. Next on the list.
  
  Playbook- You can use different plays to lead your team to victory, great... Let's use the SG pick 
 & fade play. a blue spot shows up on screen, and when you move your player to the spot, some lines 
 will tell you where to pass or go; simple and easy (NOT) . 
  The spot needs you to be exactly there, not even a inch off; but the problem is, you're a freakin 
 puppet! You wanna control your player precisely to that spot? If you're lucky, you may nail on 
 the 1st try; if not, you'll c your player hops, drives, crossovers before triggering the play. 
 And by that time, the shot clock is at 7; so you drive and try to pull up a quick shot but instead 
 you pumpfaked and you need 2 more sec to jump and shoot; you couldn't make it; turnover.
  
  One more example! Yeah~~ 
  Nash tries the backdoor pass and instead of passing around his defender, 
 he throw the ball INTO his defender; Yup, he tries to injure him alright. Throw it harder next 
 time, Nash.
  
  Thats it, so the game becomes more frustrating the more you play it; you pretty much wanna play 
 it in coach mode after a week or so. 
  
  Trash controls (slow and unresponsive) , trash AI (if you don't jump, no one will get the defensive 
 rebound) , trash gameplay (you're a freakin puppet) .
  
  So 9/10 on the 1st hr, 6/10 on the 1st week, and 2/10 after that. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jay_rock_
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 15, 2007 12:16 am PT
Review:  Well all I got to say is that this game is fun from the start it take some time getting use to 
 but after that you all good. The best thing about this games is the association mode even the players 
 have egos you have to deal with when you playing it. How the game looks: good but if you got a HDTV 
 then It will look better then good get me lol. The sound is just plain good like when I dunk with 
 kobe bryant they be like oooooooo did you see the that feel good when you dunk over someone. You 
 now have you top three plays of the game you just and highlights and more. But the duck contest 
 take sometime getting used to but you get it trust me best person to star off with LB  
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: worldcupiran201
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 11, 2007 3:41 pm PT
Review:  NBA 2k8 is the most realistic style basketball game to date. Jumpshots are as real as can be, and 
 dunking is phanomenal. No behind the back board layups, cough* NBA Live, no flying from the three 
 point line dunks, cough* NBA Live. There is not one thing I can suggest for 2K to work in their 
 gameplay, it is just magnificant. On the other hand, the dunk contest is very hard, 2K offers horrible 
 lessons to learn, but once you get the hang of it, its a blast. I definately recomment NBA 2k8 
 to ANY basketball fan, even if your the owner of NBA 2k7 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cloak989
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 2, 2007 11:18 am PT
Review:  Breathtakingly smooth, rich, and awesomely realistic game play and animation, challenge, depth, 
 and fun  its all here in this exceptional hoops game. Simply the best hoops game in years. 9 
 of 10.
  
  GAMEPLAY &amp; ANIMATION
  
  The very best part of this game is its game play and animation. The players, and especially the 
 NBA stars and superstars actually play and feel like them  thats how impressively rich the animation 
 is. The smoothness of game play is unprecedented. As an example, Dwyane Wade actually feels, plays, 
 and dominates the game exactly like Dwyane Wade  in his distinct style of play. Thats what sets 
 this game apart visually, and this extremely high quality of play and feel is exceptionally satisfying. 
 For comparison, in last years game, I tried to play like D-Wade, the drives to the hoop, the insane 
 smooth yet strong finishes, the brilliant passing, the sudden mid-range jumpers  all parts of 
 this superstars game in real life that make him one of the very best elite players of the NBA. 
 But it just didnt feel quite right, all the agility and strength and quickness just didnt show 
 through, and actually dominating the game without a great 3-pt shot was difficult at best.
  
  But in NBA2K8, D-Wade can and does dominate the game. Hes both smooth and strong all around 
 the basket, his offense is passing game are weapons, and it simply feels and looks like him driving, 
 finishing, taking jumpers, or passing the rock. He can and does play stout defense, as the blocking 
 animations and realism on help blocks has taken a huge jump in quality. The subtle changes to players 
 rating categories can be given some credit for this  it simply makes sense that every player has 
 a Strength rating, a Hustle rating, a Hands rating, a Quickness rating (and not just speed) , and 
 a Standing Dunk rating, among a few other new, smart ones.
  
  So players who excel in the NBA partly because of their unique combination of skills and athletic 
 ability do the same in this outstanding hoops game. Baron Davis is strong for a point guard, and 
 of course, like D-Wade, can be a dominating offensive force. And when you play him  it feels and 
 looks like Baron playing out there, with all the subtle strengths of his game, all the way. CHALLENGE
 
  
  This game is more challenging than its predecessors. I havent moved off the default difficulty 
 yet compared to prior versions where the learning curve to master that was significantly shorter. 
 The AI is much smarter, and will make you pay for your mistakes much more. Leaving a man open was 
 always bad, but dont do your individual part on a switch to stick to a man and fight through a 
 pick and youll get burned, plain and simply. Like all versions, present and past, good point guards 
 can quickly destroy you. So D-ing up on one with your own guard will often be tough if you dont 
 play disciplined  theyll blow by you and explode to the hope often. Overall, the realism of fighting 
 through picks and screens, and staying with your man on D is excellent  you really do have to 
 play smart, real defense this year, and actually force multiple passes and contest shots more and 
 more often. Thats pretty refreshing  you end up with game play that has everything the NBA has, 
 meaning a variety of offense and defense that includes lots of movement and decision making instead 
 of just hitting buttons and hoping for 3s and steals every possession. It just dont play like 
 an old video game anymore  it plays and looks like NBA basketball, and thats impressive.
  
  FUN
  
  The aforementioned realism makes it a fun, addictive game to play. You want to see 
 your stars moves, inside and outside, whether shooting, passing, or playing D. And the best part 
 is, the star players all exhibit the moves and game that truly remind you of their talent and performance 
 in reality. Add in a new game mode, the dunk contest called NBA Blacktop, that is amazingly and 
 refreshingly fun to play with your friends, and youve got plenty of good times with this game 
 for your console for a long time. NITPICKS
  
  The Gamespot review is dead-on on horrible documentation/instruction and some of the more laborious 
 parts of GMing in Association Mode (a mode which as always, obliterates Season Mode as far as fun 
 level) . And players' facial feature graphics took a truly noticeable step back.
  
  A few things you actually have to figure out on your own  like the 3pt contest  because theres 
 literally no help anywhere. Over time you figure things out, of course, but still it seems these 
 days, somehow, documentation is falling off the face of the earth on games. I understand the game 
 manual on paper is increasingly an expensive luxury that gets almost no attention (not like Koei 
 game manuals back in the day at all!) , and thats fine. But please, how about a full electronic 
 game manual at least? Whats so hard or expensive about that? In fact, it should be standard these 
 days.
  
  The Association Mode simply needs more tasks that can be simulated or have the CPU do automatically 
 for you. There's a little of this now, but some significant additional things should just be defaults 
 or have on/off switches unless you want the extra work so you can get into what matters most - 
 the games. That said, being able to work out trades and do some drills and such can be fun, but 
 again, more of it needs to have on/off switches so that your particular GMing experience can be 
 as hands-on or hands-off as you like while still having the feeling of depth you get in playing 
 in the multi-year experience of the Association Mode. Graphically, they seem to have shrunk the 
 game a little, so weve lost a little detail on the actual faces of the players for example. Some 
 guys really look like themselves. But then other guys dont look anything like they do in real 
 life. Its unfortunate that the game play and animation are so rich and smooth but that many player 
 faces look lacking in detail or outright train wrecks.
  
  OVERALL
  
  Incredibly realistic game play, fun, smooth, challenging, and exciting. What more could you want 
 out of a hoops game? NBA2K8 instantly becomes one of the very best PS3 games ever. 9 of 10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mrpear
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 22, 2007 8:14 am PT
Review:  The 2K series has come a long way and it seems they know the formula for making a successful basketball 
 game. First off, the graphics are well improved and i cant count how many player animations they've 
 accurately portrayed. i sat down with my friend one day and went through a good half of the nba 
 teams in practice mode just to see how many players they actually copied from real life movements. 
 Everything from Steve Nash's step back-dribble between the legs to the way Josh Smith hangs a little 
 longer in the air, 2k8 has all the right moves. Moving on to gameplay, they've steadily improved 
 realistic movement, nicely integrating it with responsive controls. This really affects how the 
 gameplay works since the majority of the controls of other basketball games feel either sluggish 
 or insanely too arcadey and unrealistically fast. They've also seemed to fix the shooting behind 
 the backboard bug that was so inherent to the previous 2K games, so that was a plus. All in all, 
 the gameplay has improved enough to eliminate a few of the exploits that were included with its 
 predecessors. On to the gripes... the menu is just horribly set up. Moving through it is like pulling 
 teeth. I would've rather gone with a 1995 Sega Genesis menu setup than this one since everything 
 is hard to find and nothing is easy to do. The player lock on is a nice feature they've added but 
 sometime is too powerful, rendering the opposing player useless as he picks up his dribble or steps 
 out of bounds. Sometimes, i dont even have to move my analog stick to stay on the guy as long as 
 i have my finger depressed on the L2 button. And my major gripe is a glitch that happens every 
 so often. Sometimes there's a double/triple team glitch that makes two or three of your players 
 match up to one of the opposing players... for the rest of the game... and it cant be fixed or 
 adjusted. the only thing you can do is switch to a zone defense to get your players out of the 
 matchup. THIS IS VERY FRUSTRATING. In the end, 2k8 was a great game, many improvements making it 
 just one step closer to the perfect basketball sim. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: the_black_one
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 17, 2007 10:36 am PT
Review:  Visual Concepts, Please tell me, HOW DO YOU DO IT?? This is once again the most amazing basketball 
 game of the year. The dunk contest and 3 point contest are extremely hard but are great additions 
 to an already amazing game. The create-a-team and create-a-player are still awesome and the signature 
 style moves are a super awesome addition. Why does NBA Live even try to compete with this game? 
 NBA 2k8 is almost too good to be worth just $80! I'd pay $100 for this game next year for sure 
 if they keep this up!! Man, what an amazing game!! It could be a while before I get bored of this, 
 I'll need to balance my v. g time between this and the other hardcore sports game, Madden 2008...... And 
 it could be a big challenge....... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BlakkSteel
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 8, 2007 2:32 am PT
Review:  The only skepticism there about this game for me, is the 1 problem that they still have to fix: 
 the shot schematics. Easy shots are not to be missed as often as you miss them here. Having to 
 adjust the shot sliders just feels like cheating, period. They MUST fix that for the next go 'round. 
 Now, on to the goods. NBA 2K8 is THE most handsome basketball game currently, hands down!! 2K Sports 
 boasted of the most realistic feel &amp; movements of players than any other basketball game. They 
 also stated the players would move like their real-life counterparts. They delivered on all fronts. 
 They've taken away a lot of the arcade-like quirks that existed previously. In essence, you'd better 
 pick your team wisely! LOL It's also in your best interest to get all of your players involved; 
 for, on this title, you can actually see how hot/cold your players are. This game is difficult 
 &amp; fantastic. This $65 is money well spent, &amp; geared for the upcoming NBA. I'll go more 
 in-depth, as I dig deeper into the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cometkd
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 5, 2007 8:26 am PT
Review:  Congrats 2K Once again on a well rounded game that is just amazing as expected. Love everything 
 that the game has to offer. The gameplay is just amazing, that is the only word that i can describe 
 for it. I cannot wait for the years to come in the futrue of the NBA 2K Series i just know it is 
 only going to get better, how? i dunno but i am sure it will. Thank for not letting us the Fans 
 down who support 2K Sports. Just wish you had the rights for NFL Football i could only imagine 
 what that would be like. We need to lobby or something for the rights!!!! I am serious!!!
  
  ~Go Browns! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bougiee
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 4, 2007 7:24 am PT
Review:  I havent had the chance to play around with the allstar competition, online play, association, 
 or any of the other secondary features. I mainly play the game every year to have fun with friends 
 and to appreciate the basic quick game play. The producers of 2K continually make big time changes 
 which make the game feel increasingly real more and more. My favorite feature this year has been 
 the increased feel of signature style. its a lot more fluid this year, and every player seems to 
 be unique. It feels like an actual basketball player with guys taking different shots from different 
 angles. You will truley notice the signature style at its best when you play with someone like 
 Allen Iverson. It was great to see that they had his hesitation cross over in the game. It looks 
 great, and adds another dimmesion to the game. My only complaint with the signature style is the 
 dominance of the star athletes. I played my friend as lakers vs Cavs. He used Lebron the entire 
 game and had 70 points. Grant it my defense might be spotty as i just started playing, but i was 
 tripple teaming him and he was draining shots and dunking over 3 defenders. I also thought that 
 Lebron had an even more effective jump shot than kobe, but thats not too realistic. It kind of 
 encourages you to just dominate teh game with one player rather than passing the ball around. This 
 is not the case against the computer though as defense is actually effective there. The 2k team 
 made it more difficult to drive the game in this installment, which is a good thing. But as the 
 gamespot reviewers mentioned, lay ups are way too often missed. These are professional athletes, 
 they are 6 5 and above on average, there is about a foot between their finger tips and the rim. 
 They shouldnt be missing layups. With the close range aside, the game did a great job of making 
 the mid range jumper a factor in this game. Its the first time in any sports franchise where ive 
 seen the mid range jumper as a makable shot. It's been my biggest complain of every videogame. 
 Most of the player models are great. Some of them arent, i was too impressed with nash. But someone 
 like Lebron looks almost life like in the game. I like how they added matchups ingame (rather than 
 start menu) and how you can see player status. In 2k6 they had hot/cold ratings but then took it 
 out during 2k7. It's definitely a good thing that they brought them back in 2008, and even better 
 that they made it more accessible. So overall i highly reccomend purchasing this game. Every year 
 i always say that 2k is the best sports game that i have ever played, and the trend continues. 
 It's not perfect, but it's heading in that direction. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thaid
Rating: 7
Date: Oct 4, 2007 6:33 am PT
Review:  Have you ever seen a movie and thought to yourself... I don't know what it is about this movie 
 that I don't like, but I just don't like it. That's how this game was for me. The game has tons 
 of new features, updated rosters, Great animations, good voice work, thumpin' soundtrack, but something 
 was just off. It could've been the graphics, (which in comparison to NBA Live 08, or even last 
 year's 2K7 offering, are under par) , or the unintuitive controls, (this coming from a player that's 
 racked up tons of hours on NBA 2K7) , or the ineffective documentation &amp; online help, but this 
 game just rubbed me the wrong way ever since I played the demo on Xbox Live. I picked it up yesterday, 
 (thinking that maybe I was missing something since all the reviews I've read seemed to sing this 
 game's praises) , played it for about 2 hours, and then said to myself, is this game worth the $60 
 entrance fee? Unfortunately the answer is no, at least not if you have NBA 2K7. This experience 
 has taught me a valuable lesson. Rent games first and then plunk down your hard earned cash on 
 only the cream of the crop, and unfortunately, NBA 2K8 isn't it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mistalewis
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 4, 2007 1:53 am PT
Review:  The gameplay is truly what makes this game shine and also make you forget the minor glitches that 
 can be an annoyance. 2K has brought the excitement into this sim and have you on the edge of your 
 seat. Teams and players play as they would live. Watch Kobe get back at you if you stop him on 
 a previous play and watch him take over a quarter. Watch Shaq dominate the key on offense and watch 
 LeBron jump leaps and bounds while scoring on you. The post game is off the hook and it is easier 
 to maneouver. All in all, this game is a must get for the hardcore nba gamers and a must get for 
 someone who is even remotely interested in the genre and would like something challenging. Get 
 it, you wont regret it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: adjuster716
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 3, 2007 8:59 am PT
Review:  I think it is the best game 2k sports has put out to date , I can not wait to really dig my teeth 
 into but it is very realistic in terms of signature shots and moves. The a i is spot on and the 
 arenas are very accurate. I can wait to see how good there college game will be. I am looking forward 
 to playing in my association as well I also noticed that they now hit the open shots now when being 
 double teamed. This makes for a more realistic feel to the game. I can't wait to play online ranked 
 games as well also to see how the games are played there also. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: metaljeff
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 3, 2007 5:49 am PT
Review:  I had high expectations for this game after the Demo, but I had no idea that I was getting ready 
 to play a game that connects on an emotional, as well as technical level. There are so many improvements 
 in areas such as control, physics, and Artificial Intelligence.... but let us just say that all 
 of this translates into one massive FUN FACTOR for Hoops fans.
  Previous fans of the NBA2k series may be quite surprised at the intitial 'heavy' feeling that this 
 game has... it has been given a REALISTIC speed and as such, players will be forced to learn plays 
 and variate theiir offense greatly. The days of the DUNKFEST are over..... AMEN. The presentation 
 is no slouch either, with an endgame 'Signature Highlights' feature that lets you check out any 
 player's buckets at the end of the game. The crowd is also excellent, probably the best ever in 
 a sports game. The broadcasting is good, although not great by any means.... one of the few things (along 
 with practice mode) that isn't RADICALLY improved. For the first time ever, a COACH MODE has been 
 added to the NBA series (C-Hoops has had it for a year or two) and the result is amazing. The Player-Lock 
 feature also performs splendidly, with your team members playing quite realistically. BUY THIS 
 GAME!!!... You will be rewarded with experiences I had barely dreamed possible. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hottstreetballa
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 3, 2007 12:35 am PT
Review:  I had a hard time today deciding between NBA 2k8 or NBA Live 08, and well you should know what 
 I chose.
  The graphics are gorgeous, the physics are realistic, the animations are the best I've ever seen. 
 But the few glitches it has, get on my freakin nerves more than anything.
  Missing wide open lay ups or wide open 4 footers will really piss you off, especially since the 
 CPU hardly misses period (My experience anyways) .
  And I am not too fond of the cross over mechanics in this game, the animation for them either last 
 too long from the time you initiated it 5 seconds later you're still in the animation and can't 
 do anything, or you go to sprint past your defender instead you pull back. However you can change 
 the crossovers to the right analog.
  The shooting mechanics in it are also a problem, try going to practice to mess around with jumpers 
 and 3's. If you hold the shoot button down untill the ball gets to the rim you'll get a Slightly 
 Late judgement on the shot!?!? Yet if you release it before the ball gets to the rim you'll get 
 a Very Late ....
  And with Iverson (The only player I noticed this with so far) he has a better accuracy for 3's 
 if you hold the shot button down and get a Slightly late than you will with perfects.... Very frustrating
 
  And the constant struggle to get shots to drop is a mental war brewing from the tip off till the 
 end of the game. The CPU against me averaged 75-80% FGP on All-Star difficulty and I averaged 30-35% 
 and I am no rookie NBA game player. Keep in mind you can change how frequent lay ups are made and 
 jumpers and so forth, but it also increases the % of the CPU as well so it's pointless to me.
 
  Also to me alot of the players were over-rated IE Lebron, Kobe, Arenas... When they get hot, they 
 get HOT and theres no stopping them.
  Other than that the only other problem I had (Which is the biggest) There was no freakin instructions 
 on how to play the game excluding the quick bits and peices they show you on very few of the loading 
 screens. They boast about the new Post up moves yet don't tell you how to do them!? They don't 
 even tell you how to throw oops! I found that bogus and absurd, I'm still trying to figure out 
 how to do some of the moves. One other thing I found I didn't like was the sprinting hop step (Spin 
 Move) kind of sends you to a dead stop without the option of a fluid shot after the step IE a dunk, 
 you almost always have to throw up a slow sluggish shot after it.
  The Slam Dunk Contest was a nice addition, and one of the biggest reasons I bought it. I found 
 it quite enjoyable and got a lot of laughs out of it (Jumping over a car, clipping your legs out 
 from under you and landing on your head with a loud *THUMP*)
  The Final Word:
  The glitches and flaws kind of ruined the game for me, but I see why to others it doesn't, it is 
 by far the best basketball game I've played despite some of the crappy gameplay. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Crunchy12489
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 2, 2007 11:51 pm PT
Review:  NBA 2K8.
  
  Oh yeah, this year it gets more intense, in-depth, harder, but most importantly... MORE FUN!!
 
  
  From crazy Nash passes, to fade away buzzer beaters, CRAZY signature crossover/jab step/dunk/pump 
 fake MOVES, NBA 2K8 starts it off.
  
  Coming off of 2K7, you'll notice first, the graphics. Boy, 2K8 developers STEPPED IT UP. It always 
 pissed me off how they never did Allen Iverson to the fullest (my fav player) . Anywho, They make 
 EVERYONE look like their life-like counter-part! Don't believe me? Look at Michael Redd from the 
 Bucks! ASTONISHING!
  
  Graphics ::
  
  Graphics definately get a 9.0/10 from me. NBA Live has great graphics, they lead JUST a little 
 more on the graphical side.
  
  But I mean, I'd rather have DAMN good graphics at a nice, smooth frame rate, than perfect graphics 
 running on SLOW FPS! NBA Live 08 is LAGGY. PS3 is worse, 360 controls the FPS better, but still. 
 NBA Live 08 is like NBA Live 99 in terms of fps.
  
  Sound ::
  
  Wow. Kevin Harlan and Kenny Smith really do a nice job with their commentary. It sends a chill 
 down your spine when you see Lebron just drive through 4 people and YAM it on someone. Kevin and 
 Kenny say OHHHHHHHHHHHHH and the crowd also says it with them. When Baron Davis goes on like 10-0 
 streak with dunks, you'll hear Kevin say, Ohhh! Baron DAVIS GETTING HYPHY!!! (Oakland Dance/Culture)
 
  
  They still have some things I heard from 2K7. I don't like that. They should just start scratch 
 and develop from that. But hey, I LOVE what they added this year.
  
  Sound gets a 8.5/10
  
  Gameplay ::
  
  Totally different from 2K7. This is a REAL sim here, folks! No more scoring 
 82 points with that favorite player of yours! (Except for Kobe. He makes everything. They totally 
 over-did him. That's my only complaint.) This takes a team effort, unless your the Lakers. On NBA 
 2k7, I scored 145 points with Iverson on 8 min quarters. Now? I score 45 with him on 10 minute 
 quarters. They seemed to trim down the pace with scoring in 2K8. I love that!
  
  Oh my god? The new signature style moves?
  
  So many different crossover/dunk/pump fake/jab 
 step/post up animations!!
  
  Get this.
  
  When you tap L he'll sit there and do a little freestyle dribbling to set up his next move! If 
 you keep tapping LT, RT, LT, RT he'll go from left to right left to right with some crazy stuff!
 
  
  You'll notice that each player has his own way of crossing or driving it in . Iverson and Carmelo's 
 way of dribbling is like oranges and potatoes. No comparison! Iverson can get you with that one 
 false move, and you are done for, pull up shot. Carmelo loves to drive it in doing alot of crazy 
 moves, back and fourth back and fourth until he makes it to the basket! THEY EVEN HAVE HIS SIGNATURE 
 JAB STEP MOVES!
  
  Shaq's post up abilities are unstoppable! Amare will straight up yam it on you if you even think 
 of contesting his shot! Camby? Marcus Camby? The Defensive Player of the Year who averaged the 
 most blocks and 2nd most rebounds in the season? Will straight up send your stuff to China. Gilbert 
 Arenas will hit ANY buzzer beater just about, and his penetrating moves to the paint are nearly 
 unstoppable!
  
  They did a f-- kin fantastic job of re-designing and adding new features to the game!
  
  Only 
 complaints are easy missed lay ups, iverson can sometimes go through you if you tap LT to much, 
 and Kobe is so overly-done. He'll make anything, contested or non-contested. He draws a foul 99% 
 of the time as well. No exaggeration here, folks, this is the truth.
  
  Gameplay is so much different and it feels as if I am actually in the game THIS TIME. 2K7 did a 
 mediocre job, but 2K8 is here to save the day!
  
  Gameplay gets 9.1/10
  
  TILT ::
  
  Oh my. You get ALOT for that $60 you been waiting to spend on such an exciting game.
  
 
  From Dunk Contest, 3PT Shoot out, pick up games, 21, and one on one. You get it all.
  
  3PT Shoot out is a little boring and it could have been spiced up. It's hard as hell to win it 
 also, it's a little too difficult.
  
  Dunk contest is what really made sh-t hit my pants. No seriously, don't even think of considering 
 that lame gamespot review. What do they know about NBA? They are all on Halo's bandwagon, who cares 
 about Sports? I know ALL about basketball and it's my passion.
  
  The dunk contest is WAY better than the one on Live. Over 200 combinations of dunks you can do 
 with props and everything! They will do some stuff to make you say, Damn........... 
  
  The dunk contest is SO FUN. Try to do a 360 funk or 360 windmill over a car. It's possible, but 
 it seems impossible.
  
  The pickup game areas/arenas/venues have been re-done. They look X360 worthy. They did a nice job.
 
  
  Street is fun, but it kinda sucks to play full court when its 2 on 2...
  
  Tilt DEFINATELY deserves a 9.6/10
  
  Overall ::
  
  2K sports brought it this year. They 
 mean business. If everyone in the world was exposed to 2K8, I know that Live would run out of business 
 and lose the NBA License they have had for more than a decade. 2K8 is setting up 2K9 to be one 
 of the greatest sports games in the history of mankind.
  
  I'm telling you. You DONT need to rent it. YOU NEED TO BUY THIS.
  
  This is SO WORTH $60. They 
 should have priced it at $80 with as much fun you will have with this! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: killerd04
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 2, 2007 8:07 pm PT
Review:  This game plays even better than NBA 2K7 and the animation looks great. It has plenty of game modes 
 and hours upon hours of fun. The player's look better than last years and the arena's look awesome. 
 It's been a while since a game has impressed me like this especially a basketball game. The shot 
 sticks feel alot better compared to 2K7. Layups can be a problem but you just have to know what 
 your doing when you get into the paint. That how basketball you never know whats going to happen 
 when a player leaves his feet and the realism i like. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DominicanAG
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 2, 2007 8:42 pm PT
Review:  I have to say I was a little disappointed with this year NBA 2K8 game. I was looking for a better 
 looking game from last year. But it doesn't matter when the gameplay and the player models play 
 and move as smooth as they do in this game. That's pretty much what you'll be getting in this year's 
 NBA 2K8. There's no doubt they have held it down as the best basketball franchise in the business. 
 I don't think Nba 08 for the PS3 and Nba Live 08 can hold a candle stick to this game at all. This 
 game is on a league of it's own. you have all the modes back from last year's 2k7 game. The only 
 new addition to 2k8 is the fact that they finally got the slam dunk contest something that was 
 missing from the previous installments of 2k basketball games.
  
  The graphics are great supporting 1080p resolution just like last year's version and the sound 
 and commentary is on point just like last year with with new audio for this year's version of 2k8. 
 If you're looking to get the best of the 3 basketball games out right now for the PS3 without a 
 doubt this is the best one out of all of them. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: the-darcwake
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 2, 2007 6:45 pm PT
Review:  I purchased this game today and I absolutely love it. I have been playing NBA 2K7 since it was 
 first released and I knew that 2K8 was going to be better.
  
  I enjoyed this game so much only because I love how 2K Sports didn't focus on making the graphics 
 look 10x better than last year. They many focused on signature moves and gameplay.
  
  The all-new Dunk Contest mode is absolutely amazing! I honestly prefer the Dunk Contest in NBA 
 Street V3 but this one is really good for 2K's first try.
  
  Other than the signatures and drunk contest mode this game is pretty much like NBA 2K7. Enjoy this 
 awesome game experience.
  
  This has to be the best out of all the NBA 2K games! Can't wait till NBA 2K9 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
