-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: NBA 2K9
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/ps3/sports/nba2k9/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Gameplay is excellent.
 Fewer missed layups this year.
 Living rosters provide up-to-the-minute statistical changes.
 Announcers do a nice job calling and analyzing the action.
 Signature player animations look great.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Very few noteworthy additions.
 Free throws are still harder than they should be.
 Controls are too complex.
 Play-calling and ads sometimes obscure gameplay.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Oct  8, 2008
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 8
Critic Score: 8.2, 25 Review (s)
User Score: 8.5, 450 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: 2K Sports
Developer: Visual Concepts
Genre: Basketball Sim
Date: Oct 7, 2008
ESRB: Everyone

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
NBA 2K9's game is strong, but most of its new features won't be appreciated by the average Joe. 
 

  NBA 2K6 was great, NBA 2K7 was great, NBA 2K8 was great, and -- you guessed it -- NBA 2K9 is great 
 as well. Key additions such as more frequent roster updates and the ability to play five-on-five 
 online are relatively minor and will probably appeal mainly to hardcore hoopsters, but thanks to 
 time-tested gameplay and a mind-boggling number of play modes, NBA 2K9 is rock solid yet again. 

           One year 2K Sports is going to get free throws just right. Maybe next year.      

 
  Let's start with what's new... or kind of new. Living rosters are frequent updates you can download 
 throughout the season to make sure your rosters are up to date. All decisions on rosters and ratings 
 are made by a single person known as the 2K Insider. At the time of this review only one roster 
 update had been released, and it consisted solely of roster moves. But if things go as planned, 
 roster moves are just one way living rosters will affect the game. If a player is on a hot streak, 
 for instance, the Insider will bump up his ratings accordingly until he cools off; if a rookie 
 turns out to be a ridiculous dunker, the living rosters will be updated to reflect his prowess. 
 Nobody's ever going to say that up-to-date rosters aren't a good thing, but as far as being touted 
 as the game's biggest feature, living rosters are underwhelming.  

  This year's gameplay remains top-notch. It's uncanny how closely the video game mirrors the real 
 NBA at times. Players will fight through screens, dive for loose balls, come flying out of nowhere 
 to tip in a rebound, and show emotion after a big play. Provided you're not moving around too much, 
 your teammates will move around and do a decent job of making themselves open. However, if you're 
 dribbling quickly around the court, your players tend to stand and watch. If your teammates arent 
 running the floor properly, you can call out a specific play with just a few button presses. You'll 
 want to call plays to get your teammates involved, because it's tough to score on your own and 
 the defense adapts quickly to cheesy tactics such as going to the rim and passing in midair. In 
 fact, the AI is quite adept at recognizing patterns and shutting them down. You might not notice 
 this when playing lousy teams such as the Heat or the Thunder, but it's very apparent when you're 
 playing a team like the Celtics.  

  Casual players may have difficulty figuring out how the gameplay has changed since last year. There 
 are, in fact, a number of improvements, though their effect on gameplay is generally modest. Fewer 
 shots are taken from behind the backboard, and you're less likely to step out of bounds, too. Missed 
 layups, while still a bit of an issue, occur significantly less often than before. It would be 
 nice if taller players exercised more authority down low and dunked rather than putting up two-foot 
 bank shots, but at least they don't miss too many gimme shots this year. Lock-on D was overpowered 
 in 2K8 -- Shaq could guard Chris Paul with ease -- and that's not the case in 2K9. Locking on to a 
 defender and then sticking to him with the right analog stick is effective without being cheap. 

           There are more signature player animations than ever.      

  While improved, 2K9's gameplay still could have been better. The controls are overly complicated 
 and the manual doesn't provide enough guidance. It's better than last year's, but when the instruction 
 manual refers you to a more detailed online manual (which is currently only available for the Xbox 
 360) , it's safe to say the controls have gotten a bit too complex. Passes often don't go to the 
 highlighted player, so using icon passing is a must if you want to reduce turnovers. Manually snagging 
 rebounds is inconsistent as well, even if you've clearly established position. Free throws -- a problem 
 for years now -- are still too difficult to make thanks to the different timing of each player's 
 unique shooting animation. The AI is generally quite good on defense, but it's a different story 
 on offense, especially at the end of the game. CPU-controlled teams that are losing will often 
 stand around and dribble precious time away at the end of the game, but when they're winning they'll 
 sometimes take quick shots rather than running the clock out. Your teammates typically do a solid 
 job without your interference, but it can be frustrating when they fail to rotate on defense or 
 when you call a pick-and-roll only to have them pick and forget to roll.  

  Once again, there are a boatload of game modes. And once again, the menus are poorly designed (though 
 they are new) . Association mode, where you take the reins of an NBA franchise, is back and has 
 seen a few improvements, especially with trades and contracts. No longer are you given a visual 
 indication of whether or not a team or player is pleased with your offer before you make it; you're 
 only told whether or not it's a valid offer with regard to the salary cap. The "Larry Bird" rule 
 as well as three-team trades have also been implemented -- though it's incredibly difficult to pull 
 off a three-team deal. Blacktop mode is back and mostly unchanged, although the dunk contest is 
 a bit easier -- and, therefore, better -- this time around. You can still create your own highlight 
 reels with the game's intuitive video editor and share them online, which is a pretty cool feature. 
 The biggest addition to the already robust online play is the ability to play five-on-five with 
 as few as one person per console. There's no player progression, but it's a step in the right direction -- or 
 at least it would be if not for the crippling lag and camera angles that made it difficult to follow 
 the action that plagued each and every game. Two curious omissions may upset series veterans: There's 
 no baseline 2K cam option online, and online lobbies have been eliminated. However, given the leagues, 
 the ability to share rosters, and the tons of other options, you couldn't ask for much more from 
 NBA 2K9's online capabilities.  

  Signature player shots and outstanding animation are series staples, but it's the little things 
 2K9 does that make its presentation better than ever. The arenas look amazing thanks to raucous 
 crowds, packed sidelines, mascots, coaches, and ball boys. On their own these things may seem insignificant, 
 but as a whole they do a great job of replicating the atmosphere of a real NBA game. In fact, from 
 the default gameplay camera view, there aren't a whole lot of faults to notice -- it looks like you're 
 watching a live game. Only during replays and free throws do the few visual flaws -- a choppy frame 
 rate and player models that are starting to look a bit dated -- become apparent. Neither of these 
 affects the gameplay, but the inconsistent frame rate does make it difficult to enjoy the otherwise 
 impressive replays when the announcers (accurately) break down the game between quarters. Two things 
 that do affect gameplay, however, are the Gatorade logos at the beginning of the half and the play-calling 
 menus. Both obscure a large portion of the screen, often making it impossible to see the ball handler. 
 This is inexcusable.  

           The crowds, sidelines, and arenas look fantastic.      

  2K9 sounds as good as ever. The crowds are loud, the PA announcer is solid, and like in a real 
 NBA game there's plenty of music in the background. Kevin Harlan returns, and he's joined by two 
 new personalities: Cheryl Miller, who reports from the sidelines, and Clark Kellogg, who helps 
 call the action. Their play-by-play and commentary is generally spot-on, though they tend to repeat 
 themselves, sometimes on the same possession.  

  It's disappointing that there aren't more noteworthy additions to this year's game. Living rosters 
 and five-on-five play are nice, but their appeal is limited. That said, there's very little not 
 to like about NBA 2K9. Player animations are outstanding, Association mode is deep, online options 
 are plentiful, and the gameplay is terrific. If you're a baller, this is the game for you.     
 
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (26 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: indu1990
Rating: 5.5
Date: Mar 20, 2009 4:24 am PT
Review:  When i played NBA 2K8 at my friends place, i liked it very much. I had always bought the live series 
 games but this year i bought the 2K9. And what a disappointing game after 2K8. 
  First the good things: 
  Graphics -- Players look really real and the crowd too. Though all spectators 
 in one section do the same thing. The Commentators do a good job. Online is pretty good as well
 
  Bad: Spectators in real life don't yell 48 minutes "Defense, Defense" or "Lets go Bobcats". And 
 there isnt always sell out crowd for example in Memphis. There are still so many missed layups 
 and open shots for the player. You cant miss an open shot in the paint but in this game you can. 
 But CPU hits all the open shots it gets. I mean shaq doesnt hit three point shots in real life. 
 But in this game he does. There are charging fouls that arent charging fouls, blocking fouls that 
 arent blocking fouls and goaltendings that arent goaltendings. The free throws are still very 
 hard. One of the most frustating things are the friendly Al. If someone from other team is breaking 
 through to the paint friendly Al goes against him and fouls or CPU passes the ball to an open man 
 who hits the shot even if his Shaq. One thing more. For ex sample you have been behind about 20 
 points and you are making a comeback. You are hitting all the shots you get (what you usually dont 
 do) and then when the margin is about five points you get blocked or something and the CPU scores 
 on their possesion they go away again. Suddenly they start making all the open shots and dont 
 commit any turnovers. And you start missing all the open shots you were making before. And there 
 is the stupid bounce passes in the paint. I mean... And the worst thing about the game are the 
 bugs. One game one of my players got hit on the nose. And then camera zoomed on the player and 
 showed him and stayed liked that. Just showed the player. I couldnt do anythings. All i could 
 do was to sim to the end of the game. 
  There arent many new features and improvements from the last game.
  So bottom line after playing 
 NBA Live 09 --- 
  Live is back and better than 2K9 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CursemarkChris
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 24, 2009 4:55 pm PT
Review:  Gamplay definately beats graphics, even so this game is by far better than live, great game i give 
 it a 9 keep it up 2k!! First fo all lets get started with the gameplay. 2k sports has added a new 
 application that allows you to se the right analog stick as a shot stick to shoot the ball. This 
 makes gameplay alot more realistic than live, and makes the game feel alot more real. Also its 
 alot more challenging than just hitting the circle button, which sometimes makes live feel more 
 like a game rather than real life, which sort of defeats the whole purpose of advanced or high 
 definition gaming givivg no need for wii ps3 or 360. In that game we might as well be playing super 
 nitendo. But 2k9 has its flass too. Graphics are sometime just horrible when the screen moves in 
 to highlight a player. (especially steve nash) not so great. But as always gamplay beats out graphics 
 and id rather have a really good game with not so good graphics, than a really bad game with the 
 best graphics ive ever seen. So in the end 2k9 has pretty good graphics, but gameplay is absolutely 
 explosive. So I give it a 9.0 straight, nothing more nothing lower. Great game 2k sports, keep 
 up the good work!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: markpizzy
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 22, 2009 4:25 pm PT
Review:  Pros-Terrific all around gameplay, Living rosters, Accurate signature moves, Live NBA ticker and 
 scores in the menu, Crowd looks and sounds good, Many game modes to keep busy, and it's only 40 
 bucks now.
  
  Cons-Court graphics are shoddy, Could be difficult for any casual basketball fan, Commentators 
 can sometimes be redundant.
  
  The Verdict-The best NBA game for the 2009 season and only costs 40 dollars. The gameplay is solid 
 once again, Graphics are pretty good except for the court and Living Rosters is a nice feature 
 that gives updates on trades and player attributes. This game is a must for hardcore NBA fans. 
 Casual fans might have a hard time on this game though because controls are complex and the difficulty 
 can be hard (including rookie) . This must be played continously to be able to get good at but that 
 shouldn't be a problem since this is an awesome game. It's a bang for the buck at 40 dollars. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: El_Esbirro
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 2, 2009 10:15 am PT
Review:  From the NBA2K that i played on PS2 to this one, there's a huge difference and the best part of 
 it all... it's total fun.
  
  I will make it short or try to...
  
  NBA2K9 is or feels like it's the best Basketball game right now on the market. That's how good 
 this game is. The game it's a total SIM. So once you start playing you will notice that you cannot 
 just waltz in thru the baseline and do a double pump spin dunk just because you want to. At the 
 same time, it's still fun having to look for ways to score. Usually on sim games, it's boring to 
 death when they try to make it so like real life. Lucky us, on this game it's Fun all the way.
 
  
  Pros:
  Graphics and animations... they are top notch. Great great GREAT! I love to see the stadium erupt 
 when you are on tight games, and you do an alley-oop to lead the game late on the forth quarter. 
 Once you play it, you will know what am talking about! The crowd is good, the player models are 
 great, and the animation and movement is just sweet.
  
  Gameplay... hard to score and strategy DOES work. So it's good too.
  
  Presentation... when i 
 played the NBA2K on the PS2, i didn't like the advertasing being all over the place... it felt more 
 like forced in, rather than trying to add more to the game. This time around, it adds tons to the 
 game, and it doesnt feel all that jammed in. I remember on the PS2 game, it even had the GMC truck... man, 
 look where they are now!
  
  Cons:
  Controls: Ok so its O. K. Not good, but O. K. For an average Joe or casual gamer, it's going to take 
 a little bit to get used to this... probably more than 2 days. To dunk i must press this and that 
 button?? why? it shouldn't be that hard for Shaq to dunk over Nash or is it? Good part of it, it 
 has Controller options... whepw!! if not this game would suck! I am sorry but i don't understand 
 why something so integral, make it so damm hard to do. Again, there is a controller option to assign 
 the button configuration.
  
  Menus: It's not good... they need to work on this, it's a bit confusing to get to where you want 
 to be.
  
  Coaching stategy: sometimes am able to select what i want to play out, sometimes i can't. Again, 
 this goes tied to the MENUS. It's confusing and if you do this during the game, it's even worse.
 
  
  In the end, even with the not-user friendly controls, with the enigma-dizzing-hyper confusing Coaching 
 Strategy book MENUS, this game still manages to provide an excellent good time. The actual feel 
 or atmosphere of the game (the crowd reaction is just amazing) , in combination with the top notch 
 graphics and player movement, will always come on top.
  
  So if you are a casual gamer, try renting it first. If you are a fan of the series or a like NBA 
 games, this game is for you.
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: lucario234
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 2, 2009 5:49 pm PT
Review:  To start of I got my ps3 for christmas wich was my first system that wasnt nintendo but anyway 
 I got my ps3 with this and little big planet. Im a huge basketball fan and since all I have had 
 are nintendo system you can understand I have not had good basketball games at all.
  
  But lets get started with the reveiw. This games is flat out incredible. The graphics are amazing 
 the face expresions are awsome along with the amazing realistic court and the fans look amazing 
 unlike any other gameThe gamplay is great but the only thing that realy effects this game is the 
 gamlay like some mindless lay up misses. I also really like how if in real life there is a trade 
 it changes the rosters in your game. Another great thing about this game is that the players actully 
 play there the position for the team is they should.
  
  
  
  
  Overall this game is amazing and would suggest it to any basketball and maybe even some non basket 
 ball fans.
  
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Tony_Atak
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 10, 2009 10:15 pm PT
Review:  I am a fan of EA games but when in comes to basketball 2K surpasses in many ways. Online feature 
 is second to none with all its live updates and score rundowns during game play its like you're 
 watching SportsCeter. I have to recommend the first thing you do is change the camera to 2K mode. 
 Then you can really get into the game. Masterful player details and arenas. They inherit arena 
 sound affects and fan reaction specially to each arena. Very cool shot release feature. Sweet game 
 modes such as "3 point shoot out" and "dunk contest". A bit on the hard side though and I was not 
 to happy with the navigation when entering online mode probably going to confuse some people. Long 
 story short its a game worth paying attention to for anyone who likes basketball! Have your doubts 
 them please rent it, the game will speak for itself I promise. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Rourkey412
Rating: 6
Date: Dec 20, 2008 6:30 pm PT
Review:  So, I start playing NBA 2K9 and i was very impressed. The fast breaks were finally changed and 
 there were way fewer missed layups than 2K8. Then i start an association. It was going great. my 
 team Terrible ( I traded Vince Carter away from the nets for a second round pick.) I was going 
 to rebuild the nets :-D. i try and go to my calendar to see my upcoming games... (Here is where 
 everything went horribly wrong) They got rid of the calendar!?!?! now you have to go through the 
 season week by week game by game. I spent about 15 minutes trying to find out if i could get it 
 back. Nope not there. Whatever i could deal but i wasn't going to be happy with it. I decide why 
 not play online? A few reasons I shouldn't have. The camera angles? you can't pick a regular 2K 
 angle online? you have to play from a side view or a helicopter view. Also navigating online is 
 tough. The game play online is laggy no matter what connection you have. I gave it a 6 only because 
 the normal offline game play features were good. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: taplok
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 15, 2008 9:06 pm PT
Review:  this is the best basketball game that i've ever played. very realistic, immersive, challenging 
 and fun... especially for the basketball fanatics! player appearance is almost similar to real-life, 
 so as their basketball moves! the offense and defense are very realistic, unlike in the old games. 
 even players reaction are cool. just try king james on the break-away or alley-oop! comprehensive 
 stats taking and replays. a great game for basketball/NBA fans! controls are a bit different from 
 LIVE (i got used to playing NBA LIVE for years...) . this is the first time that i got an NBA 2K 
 game and i didn't regret my decision! i love this game! one of my first 3 games with my PS3. i've 
 decide to buy this game upon viewing its gameplay videos here at gamespot. i got my mind made up 
 even before i bought my console. playing the season mode using you favorite team/s are exciting, 
 full of basketball action, great plays, upsets, buzzer-beaters... really gets yopu inside the world 
 the NBA... where amazing happens! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: marklovesbaseba
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 14, 2008 2:26 pm PT
Review:  i love this game it makes the nba way more fun than it actually is which is a good thing.
  Way better than nba live hands down..
  the crowd is quite impressive and makes ea look like a 
 group of underahieving slackers............
  if u have a friend over this game is amazing, as it is always fun to have a tight game the whole 
 time and when someone sinks a gamewinning shot it really satisfies you.. this game is so fun when 
 me and my bro were playing my other two friends and they tied it up with 3 secs...... so he runs 
 down there and i pass it down to him and he makes it and it made me and my brother actually celebrate 
 together rather than make fun of each other or fight....
  these type of moments make this game almost seem like more than a game andit is very deep....... so 
 when decicding which game live or 2k i would choose 2k becuase i used to buy live and that game 
 is just not fun its always a blowout and lacks the details that make u feel the actual realism........
 
  THIS GAME OWNS BUY IT 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bigboy31
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 11, 2008 4:44 pm PT
Review:  This game simulation is the closest your going to get to the real thing. Nba live still has a ways 
 to go to catch up to nba 2k9. The playability is so life like you actually think your kobe bryant 
 flying in the air for a jam. I feel the graphics could be a little smoother, but overall the game 
 play and presentation can't be beat. If you have a high definition tv and a ps3 or xbox 360, you 
 will actually think for a few seconds that your really watching a real gamer on tv. This game belongs 
 with the top video games of all time for realism. I would put it up their with Grand theft auto 
 IV, Motorstorm 2, Mlb the show 08, Metal Gear solid 4, and Call of Duty. Can this game improve 
 yes. I would like better graphics, maybe a post game hightlight show from around the league. I 
 would like the crowd to represent there team. If your a hot team then the crowd will always be 
 packed. If your the knicks then the crowd looks empty, MLb the show does that and it's pretty accurate. 
 All in all this game still packs a wallop and it's a must buy for all sports fanatics. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wiidog
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 13, 2008 2:39 pm PT
Review:  Nba 2k9 is by far the best basketball sim on the market. The graphics, physics and gameplay are 
 all perfect. The GS review says that its the same as 2k8, but they are completely wrong. For one 
 the graphics are alot better than 2k8. The character models are very realistic and the crowd is 
 actually alive this time. But one of the coolest additions this year is the player animations. 
 Players will dive, duck and interact with other players. You will see new animations constantly. 
 Gameplay has also been improved with the shot stick manipulation. Instead of just pushing up on 
 the shot stick you can actually alter your shot in mid air by moving the stick in different directions. 
 So you really feal like you are actually making the shot yourself. Most of the gameplay has been 
 inproved but one thing has gotten a little worse and thats the free throws. Instead of using the 
 sixaxis you have to use the shot stick for free throws. Its not terrible or anything, it's just 
 not as good as the sixaxis. But anyway this game is great. With live updating rosters, solid online 
 play and great animations this game is a slam dunk! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: emacdaddy08
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 10, 2008 4:19 am PT
Review:  First off i have to say, the game is fun and looks great. There are a couple of issues i've noticed 
 though. I find the learning curve a bit steep for a game like this, the first few hours is really 
 difficult, but i suppose this could be a good thing because it's due to the fact that the AI is 
 so damn good. The AI runs plays and executes them with relative smoothness, where in past games 
 they would just aimlessly pick and roll and pass the ball around. The second issue i noticed, is 
 a really odd one, i searched online for a while to see if anyone else had the problem but no one 
 seems to have. Sometimes i get into playing a game where someone scores, and the ball never switches 
 possession, the ball will go into the hoop, drop to the floor, and just keep bouncing there. The 
 points count but the shot shows up as a miss, all the while everyone just stands around, until 
 you grab the ball and proceed down the court without ever taking the ball out from out of bounds, 
 which starts to make you go crazy after a while because your star player who is shooting 7 of 11, 
 is in reality 0 for 11.
  
  Finally speaking, i love the game, controls are great, incredibly realistic, with exception to 
 that flaw i mentioned this game is the best basketball sim out there, highly recommended. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Pro_Zelda_playa
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 4, 2008 9:55 am PT
Review:  I liked this game much more than NBA live 09. This game is alot more realistic and alot more up-to-date 
 rosters. The coolest feature in this game is the NBA BlackTop... This feature is a whole other 
 game outside in the streets with music playing. In this feature you can play any pickup game from 
 one on one to five on five, dunk contest, and create new dunks with the analog sticks. I think 
 2k did a really good job with this game. The only problem is the graphics. I'm sorry but the graphics 
 totally suck. There are alot of glitches in the game. But this is not what you should pay attention 
 to. You should pay attention to the player creation, the NBA blacktop, the gameplay, and the up-to-date 
 rosters. This NBA game is the most realistic NBA game I ever saw in my life with T-mobile updates 
 between the quarters. I total success... It deserved 8.5. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lauryn2000
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 21, 2008 7:05 am PT
Review:  About time they had a women commentator in the game and Cheryl Miller probably is the best out 
 there.
  Anyways...2k9 much more improved, especially with the free throws. Last year I dreaded going to he 
 line.
  The players move pretty close to their counter-parts. And depending on what role you want the player 
 to play, it can effect his mood and the way he plays. The funniest thing is to make Allen Iverson 
 the sixth man and watch his facial expression on the bench.
  Some times the gameplay looks a little unbelievable, like your point guard scoring in the paint 
 wih three guys blocking his path. No fouls but at a desperate attempt, if the CPU is losing. It will 
 start hitting and making shots. Graphics are pretty good although I think the 2k8's graphics were 
 a little better.
  This is a fun basketball game.... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Yunggdre
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 16, 2008 2:05 pm PT
Review:  nba 2k continues to be the best year after year only thing missing is technical foul and i wont 
 even need to watch real basketball any more.. lol the new defence system is great and feels so real 
 with come from behind blocks ext. commentery still needs a little bit more work but not much just 
 more player senstive. the editable draft season on the assition mode is great and the rookies look 
 very real models of real people insted of generic lookin frozen face lossers, cpu trade major upgrade 
 for last year also smart beliveable trades no more ben gorden for steven nash and back and forth 
 trades having players trade 2 and 3 times in on year. my fav upgrade is the dunks in games no more 
 flying across the screen like nba jam .the A. I. is A+ your team mates run screen and hold there 
 hands out for the kick out ho! y sh! t 2Ksports All day baby if you anit got get asap!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xfactor674
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 15, 2008 4:44 am PT
Review:  In 2K9 my favorite players in the game are Derrick Rose Kobe Bryant Michael Beasly Eric Gordon 
 and Lebron James
  those are my favorite players because there the best in game and they dunk on people and commetators 
 always say ohhhh!. And in the assosiation they have Nba. com now and they change some of things 
 in their in the delvelopment they change it in the ball handling drill they make you go around 
 the cones and then when you go to a fake player sign you have to spin or put the ball behind your 
 back and then go back through the cones and they simulate faster but take long to develope in the 
 association the make the rookies overall high and and the best rookie than shoot in the game is 
 eric gordon because his outside shooting is A+ and every time you use him to shoot a 3 pointer 
 he makes almost all of them and derrick rose plays just like kobe bryant because they do similar 
 moves when they drive to the basket and lebron james he does alot dunks when he drives to the basket 
 but he mostly does fancy dunks like a winddmill a 360 a tomahawk o hi one hand dunk that he always 
 do in real life 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GRHEAT
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 14, 2008 11:44 am PT
Review:  Over NBA Live 09 because the game play but NBA Live 09 still great simulator and NBA 09 The inside 
 improves over last years but still sucking, NBA 2K9 best game for PS3 i love Basketball and lets 
 go Miami Heat and D. Wade!!! NBA i love this game but the camera feels rare the first time you play 
 the game because is diferrent to NBA 2K8 and NBA 2K7, Online play is cool but haves difficulties 
 sometimes is excellent the mechanic of Living Roster great because sucks to edit rosters every 
 day happens a trade or a sign or wait 4 months to download rosters and the DNA is excellent like 
 in NBA Live 09 but in live stinks because you need to pay 20 bucks to have da DNA and NBA Live 
 Rewind in NBA 09 The Inside da players look like plastic toys the graphics and player signature 
 shots, dunks, movements and etc. are cool like in real life NBA 2K9 feels like a real NBA game in 
 TV, in NBA Live 09 the gameplay is not too good but the anklebreaker button and crossover is cool 
 and NBA 2K9 not have that and the free throw control is cool in NBA Live 09 and NBA 2K9 stills 
 the same every year and playing online its too difficult do a free throw 
::::::

::::::
UserName: laplace985
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 6, 2009 7:47 am PT
Review:  2K9 is an awesome game for basketball purist. This game can be called the soul caliber of basketball 
 games because there are so many moves you have to master to be good at this game. Dont get me wrong 
 this is a pick up and play title; however if you face me online and never practiced the in game 
 tutorials you will get crushed and never know what hit you. NBA live is more user friendly but 
 of less quality and someone who plays that game for the first time can compete with veteran players. 
 I was surprised that easports actually made an attempt to improve that game over last years disaster 
 which caused the ea faithful to sign petitions to get their money back. NBA2k9 ;however is the 
 best bball game this year and I'm willing to bet that gamespot was paid to rate this game an 8.0 
 but im happy to say that the gamers always get it right at a reasonable 8.6 average on the ps3 
 and a 8.9 average on the 360. In conclusion if you love basketball this is a must have. If the 
 default difficulty is to hard then all you have to do is play with the game sliders because their 
 are many. Enjoy 
::::::

::::::
UserName: OMG126
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 13, 2008 7:49 am PT
Review:  WOW/OMG This is my 1st buy of the NBA 2k9 games and all I can say is wow.
  
  This game is awesome the only negative is the display very hard to navigate but after a few hours 
 it's not that bad.
  
  This game is perfect the game play is awesome playing on my 48 Inch LCD 1080P Display and it's 
 like i'm watching a real game..............
  
  Other features, such as Living Rosters, Association Mode 2.0, and Online Play are absolutely amazing. 
 You can play Association Mode for hours on end and it is so addicting! 
  
  Living Rosters are updated whenever 2K deems necessary, and it is a great option; no longer have 
 to wait for months to update rosters online or doing it manually, this is a great feature to have!
 
  
  Online good too but takes 5-10mins to get a game with someone. 5v5 online games are a blast! Tons 
 of fun to do, with friends or just random people who are online.
  
  TBH Stopping reading and just go and buy it, it's well worth it!
  
  Sorry must go gotta get 
 me 2k9 fix! Yeah I've got game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: halo1399
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 11, 2008 11:46 am PT
Review:  The strong 2K basketball series makes yet another yearly debut and the result is nothing short 
 of greatness. 
  
  Straight to the point... NBA 2K9 is a great basketball game and if you like NBA basketball.. Get 
 it!! 2K9 offers beautifully smooth gameplay and an endless amount of modes and features that will 
 make your head spin. It includes your run-of-the-mill season, association (this is sick) playoffs, 
 situation, practice, tournaments, online tournaments, online play, and street ball 5v5 if you want. 
 There is so many options, essentially there is no weird restrictions like in 2k7 or 2k6 and everything 
 seems to be here. Man you can even create a player and give him a contract! 2K9 is superfluous 
 with modes that will keep you busy for months. 
  
  Gameplay wise NBA 2k9 does a marvelous job, shooting feels great, plenty of control on offense, 
 and the controls are generally compatible to make it a very fun experience. However sometimes on 
 defense you don't feel as though you have as much control, and guarding a player 1v1 can seem impossible. 
 You; ll find yourself constantly pressing the D-Pad to switch up to 3-2 or a 2-3, and I highly recommend 
 playing a 3-2, because in 2K9 for whatever reason the computer hardly ever miss 3-Pointers, its 
 terribly unrealistic. I mean seriously, I know Mike Miller and Ray Allen are good, but the guys 
 just never miss a shot. Miller was 8-11 and Allen was 6-10 from three land. However the computer 
 realizes adapts to your defense or offensive strategy which is unbelievable. Spin moves still feel 
 awesome with the thumb stick. Overall the gameplay is definitely realistic and great, it isn't 
 as good as 2K6, but the games controls feel great and don't feel awkward at all.
  
  Graphically 2K9 is one of the best looking NBA games I've ever seen, and it sounds even better 
 than it looks. The Presentation is incredible, offering highlights, stats, and info after every 
 quarter, also it has a great soundtrack. The Online play is also great, it is lag free and very 
 enjoyable especially the the street modes. The Menu system is incredibly easy to work with as well, 
 and so are the free throws. (Don't believe the Gamespot Review)
  
  Overall NBA 2K9 is a great basketball game and it definitely lives up to series name. I mean I've 
 had NBA 2K, 2K2, 2K3, 2K5, 2K6 (MY FAV) , 2K7, 2K8, and now 2K9. It lives up to series name, if 
 you like basketball, or 2K games, BUY THIS!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: james1607
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 10, 2008 9:55 pm PT
Review:  Okay first off, I really do appreciate 2K Sports for improving NBA 2K a lot year by year, but I 
 think NBA LIVE have narrowed the gap this year by features. NBA 2K9 have worked hard on online 
 but considering how hard it is to play an online opponent, these features are eliminated. 
  
  The graphics been improved. Now, players have sweat on their forehead except for Andrew Bynum; 
 2K just transferred the 2K8 version of Bynum onto 2K9 except they gave him vivid age lines; GOSH 
 2K, he's only in his early 20s! With sweat, the players don't look bland anymore. Courts are shinier, 
 making them look more real, but the blurriness of the logos on the courts and on the player's uniform 
 are a total let down (go to the 2K forums and you'll see what I mean, many complaints on that) . 
 Though the cut scenes are great, players have too many jaggies and their movements are very robotic-like. 
 I would like to see more action replays in-game.
  
  On to gameplay, some good and some bad. Iso-motion is horrible and way too complicating. There 
 is no stopping the CPU in paint, they just get it in even if you have your hands in his face. Manual 
 game slider is required to experience the whole simulation because it is too easy for you and the 
 CPU to score on default. Many people been complaining about 2K eliminating the 2K camera view. 
 I don't really use the 2K view because broadcast looks way real, but I hope 2K release a patch 
 on adding it so people can stop whining about it. 
  
  Black top has not gone anywhere though the location of the Slam Dunk Contest's changed. Association 
 is a lot better this year. Now with player ambitions, in-game NBA. com, three team trades, etc.
 
  
  Overall, NBA 2K9 is a solid game that beats all other basketball simulation video games. Online 
 is really crap and I can only hope 2K fixes it in the future. All people who have NBA 2K8, rent 
 it first because you may regret buying it, but I was going to get it regardless. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: derrick2331
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 9, 2008 6:17 pm PT
Review:  First of all, I must say from the beginning that if you're getting this game for online -- DONT BOTHER!! 
 IT SUCKS FOR ONLINE PLAY!! 
  
  But lets be realistic, can you really have a SMOOTH basketball online anyway?? I haven't seen it 
 yet!!
  
  Now about the game itself:
  GRAPHICS -- ks great (not as clear as NBA Live 09) but a shade better than last year especially with 
 the facial expressions on the players!!
  
  CONTROLS-oves will take some getting use to but in the post, off the pick n roll etc.. but for them 
 most part. its very smooth!!
  
  FREETHROWS!! ---ive seen alot of people say that its hard to shoot free throws. For the PS3 just 
 hold dwon the right analog and follow the players follow-thru on the shot ---if you cant get that?? 
 contact me... its not that hard!
  
  COMMENTARY ---is alot better than last year w/ Kenny Smith.. Clark Kellog really helps be more versatile 
 with the comments on individual players and teams with their focus as games go on. I wish that 
 they had Marv Albert though -- hes the best!
  
  LAST BUT NOT LEAST!! -- GAMEPLAY -- NBA 2K9 IS A TRUE SIM GAME, ESPECIALLY NOW THAT YOU CAN DOWNLOAD 
 SLIDERS (LIKE MLB THE SHOW) TO FIT YOUR STYLE!.. I downloaded the "true sim sliders" and my game 
 experience went up another level!! 
  
  I'm sure that there are some gamers out there who don't just think every play doesn't have to be 
 a dunk but know how to play TRUE SIM basketball.... so if you want the "slam-n-jam" version of a 
 sim.. get NBA Live 09.
  
  But true ballers play here.. not just do features every year!!
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: thaid
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 9, 2008 6:38 am PT
Review:  I've played this game for 2 days now, and continue to be awe stricken by the sheer complexity of 
 the title. My personal review breaks down as follows:
  
  Gameplay : 10
  Graphics : 9
  Audio : 8
  Online : 0 (Broken)
  Presentation: 5
  Overall : 8.5
  
  Let me elaborate on 
 the 2 worst aspects of the game. The amazing lobby system that was present in the last two NBA 
 2K games is mysteriously missing this year, and in its place is some persistent ladder system that 
 seems far less user friendly than their previous interfaces. What's really driven me nuts thus 
 far is that the online match making system has locked up my PS3 3 times!!! This is unacceptable!!! 
 I doubt that I'm the only user experiencing these problems so I hope 2K will address this blatant 
 flaw immediately. Yet it seems overly sloppy to release a $60 game in today's market with a broken 
 online component.
  The second gripe I have with the game is it's stripped down interface. Honestly, this interface 
 would have been perfectly appropriate for the PS2, but it's not even up to the standards of last 
 year's game. 
  
  In conclusion, if you can get by the last generation presentation, (when not in the game) , and 
 you don't mind forgoing solid, dependable, online play, (for the time being) , you won't find a 
 more fun, immersive, and addicting basketball simulator this year.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: rakasan
Rating: 7.5
Date: Oct 9, 2008 5:56 am PT
Review:  Great graphics and soundtrack. Game can be fun, but controls are sometimes unresponsive and button 
 combinations are a cruel joke.
  
  Overall, the game is put together very well. It's pretty deep in terms of content. Gameplay is 
 fun for me if I try to keep my moves basic. Menu navigation is easy.
  
  It took a while to get a few ISO moves down, and then they only sometimes work as you intend. Too 
 many combinations. Basic moves are easy to pull off, but more complex moves are a crapshoot.
  
  I haven't spent much time online yet, so no comment.
  
  I haven't played a basketball sim 
 in a while, but the scheme hasn't changed much. Glad I picked this title up, I just hope the advanced 
 iso moves come to me over the next 10 hours. I like the game overall, so I'm willing to be patient 
 (besides I just invested $60) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Recklessdude
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 10, 2008 11:11 am PT
Review:  Yo so i had like mad high expectations for this game, as like everyone else in the world. I went 
 through like 11 stores to get it cause its mad sold out everywhere in ontario or some crap like 
 that. But yo, it was worth it. First i admit im an intense basketball fan and watch the NBA (Raptors) 
 like everyday so yeh my review is slightly biased but so wut? All u white guys with ur hockey sticks 
 and shyt, if u dun like basketball then stay the **** away from this game cus its too good 4 u. 
 But that said, ima try and be unbiased, and like compare this to recent successful titles such 
 as mgs4, gta4, bioshock, etc. ANywayz, yeh its a vast improvement on 2K8. The pick and roll system 
 in 2K8 was way too cheap and u could abuse it so much by passing over mad traffic in the post, 
 but thats been fixed now cause if u do that itl get stolen fo sho. If i had one word to define 
 this game, it would be...... smooth.
  
  Gameplay - 9/10: Well i cant rly give this a 10 cause we're like comparing this to titles like 
 MGS4, bioshock and crap like that, but yeh its freaking amazingly smooth gameplay that plays just 
 as real life. The many risk reward systems are so sick and u actually feel like its like 50/50 
 one way or another (such as stealing, blocking, changing shot in mid air, etc.) The most amazing 
 subtle things happen, like one time James Posey caught the ball as it was going out of bounds, 
 and threw it off my player's leg and saved a possesion. Was ridiculous i was like ****ing amazed. 
 The only real problem is that theres jus too many white guys in the crowd, i saw this guy with 
 a matt sundin jersey and i was so pissed off i almost broke my ps3.
  
  Graphics - 9.5/10: Kevin Garnett looks exactly like Kevin Garnett its like scary, when he drives 
 to the rim for a dunk, his facial expression chages and holy crap its awesome. Players are so life 
 like, and the animations are like spot on, with unique animations for each player, especially the 
 star players like Kobe, lebraun and stuff. But the white players like Nash and Dirk dont look rly 
 life like. I found this very racist, and i dont know why 2k is so stereotypical.
  
  Interface - 7.2/10: First of all, id like to address that the menus in this game are horrible, 
 lol. Like some other dude said, itd be find for like ps2. ALthough for me, many options are easy 
 to find as I have experience with 2k8. But it seems that some features and options and online stuff 
 will be hard to find for newcomers to the game, and the manual doest do justice either. I think 
 this is the sole reason why IGN or Gamespot rly critised and got frustrated with this game, and 
 decided against a 9/10 rating. Also, the presentation of the menus are very normal, nothing rly 
 visually appealing, and if changed from nba 2k8, changed for the worse. But, overall, its not exeptional, 
 but if u have some experience with 2K bball games, you shouldnt have a problem with it. Well, i 
 mean everyone but the hungry guys and the retarted white kids with the hockey sticks. But hey, 
 i honestly dont care much about that, and i guess neither did 2K, so this did not have such a large 
 impact on my rating.
  
  Sound - 9.1/10: this woulda gotten 10/10; however, come of the commentary is a little slow. Mostly 
 that new white commentator, Kenny smith is spot on and rly jks cause hes mad hungry. Sometimes 
 id make a chain of shots with kapono, and like 5 plays later, when i dunk with bosh, the commentator 
 is like OOOHOHO KAPONO IS ON FIRE, but other than that sound is amazing. The soundtrack is so sick, 
 use to be mad hungry songs (mad black rappers and shyt) but now thers a good mix of stuff and yeh. 
 Also the crowd is amazing, they go crazy and all have unique animations, they make u feel like 
 ur in the stadium........ somehow. Thats right white kids.
  
  Value - 8.5/10: if ur a basketball fan, its wortth every penny and more. Everything is spot on 
 and comparable to NBA in RL. If ur just a casual fan, or just white, im not sure if ull rly appreciate 
 the subtle changes that jus take this game to a like a brand new level. But still, the presentation 
 and a lot of the gameplay has been modified and polished nd it jus makes u so **** hungry.
  
  Online - ?: havent rly gotten into the online play and stuff, i heard is a bit buggy cause 
 those white developers are havin mad problems (mad annoying u dont c this happen with other games 
 like NHL and shyt, **** racist **** are havin some issues, this goes with live 09 as well. I dunno 
 Ill give 2K like a week to sort things out, else ill be disappointed. I've only played a couple 
 of online games and they are really like delayed (like its not laggy but the controls are not as 
 responsive) as like all sports games online. It is difficult as of now to find a specif friend 
 online as u cannot create a game specifically for someone. You just have to hope that ur friend 
 gets in ur room faster than anyone else. About the live roster thing, well the real season hasn't 
 started yet, so nothing rly has changed. I guess we will find out soon so just be patient white 
 guys, jus keep rockin that guitar. but yeh for now, i have not included the online in this review.
 
  
  So yeh, as a basketball fan, id give this game 9.9/10 (cause its not perfect, no game is, not even 
 GTA4 or MGS4) but as a general game overall, id give it a 9/10. In conclusion, everyone that owns 
 a ps3/360 needs to get out and somehow get a copy of this game. (P. S. about the 2k9 vs live 09 
 comparision, theres rly no point in saying anything, u all know the truth... nuff said :) , ****ing 
 white kids) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Obitron64
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 7, 2008 9:23 pm PT
Review:  NBA LIVE 09 is touting its updated roster feature and updated moveset, but guess what guys?? NBA 
 2k9 has it too! The game is AWESOME! Everything about it from the graphics to the presentation 
 to how fluid the animations are is what makes this game great. This is TRUE SIM basketball. NBA 
 Live 09 is great for the casual fan, but if you really and I mean REALLY love basketball then this 
 game is for you. The commentary is improved from last year as are the players. You see them get 
 down and dirty unlike last years version. NBA 2K9 has won the war once again. The player movement 
 is TIGHT! I just can't wait for the season to start so that I can try the living rosters mode. 
 It is supposed to be updated daily. If your player is doing well his rating will adjust and change 
 according to how he is playing for that season. I really am excited about this as I always have 
 tried to keep my game updated in the past. I hope they will add in players who are signed as free 
 agents and make them look like they do in real life. This game has ALOT of potential. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
