-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: NBA Ballers: Chosen One
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/ps3/sports/nbaballerschosenone/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Stylish presentation.
 Plenty of current and past NBA players.
 Lots of great nicknames for your created baller.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Repetitive gameplay.
 Controls are needlessly complex.
 Act-a-fool combos are overpowered.
 Fouls, charging, and goaltending don't belong in an arcade basketball game.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Apr 23, 2008
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 5.5
Critic Score: 5.7, 25 Review (s)
User Score: 6.3, 85 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Midway
Genre: Basketball
Date: Apr 21, 2008
ESRB: Everyone

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Chosen One isn't what Skee-Lo had in mind when he wished to be a baller. 

  EA and Midway share the rights to NBA-licensed arcade basketball games. As a result, the NBA Ballers 
 franchise is released every other year, with EA's NBA Street series occupying the year in between. 
 This year is NBA Ballers' time to shine and that didn't happen, which means it's a down year for 
 arcade hoops. NBA Ballers: Chosen One has some interesting ideas, particularly with regards to 
 its presentation, but it's ultimately a disappointment thanks to repetitive gameplay and needlessly 
 complex controls.  

           Win scenarios vary from one match to the next, but they have little impact on how you 
 play the game.      

  You can single-play games of 1V1, 2V2, and 1V1V1, or sharpen your skills in practice, a shootout, 
 or three-point contest. You can also play ranked and unranked matches online using your custom 
 character, which is pretty cool. The bulk of Ballers' content, however, is found in Story mode. 
 Here you create a player, give him a nickname (we went with "Beans") , and choose from hundreds 
 of different shirts, pants, shoes, jewelry items, and more to customize his appearance. You'll 
 unlock more gear as you progress, but you can make a truly unique baller with just the stuff that's 
 unlocked from the outset. Your created player will be terrible at first, but his attributes will 
 improve slightly after each game. These attribute boosts are supposedly based on your performance 
 in the previous game, but they seem more random than anything else. Story mode's premise is simple. 
 Each year after the NBA playoffs, the top players in the league take part in a street ball tournament, 
 the winner of which will be known as the "Chosen One." Story mode is divided into six episodes, 
 each of which contains five chapters. Episodes are introduced by short video segments that feature 
 Public Enemy's Chuck D as a host of an  NBA Tonight -like show. He doesn't have anything particularly 
 riveting to say, but the segments are nicely produced and add a bit of realism to the mode.  

 
  Although the game's six episodes have diverse themes, they don't feel that different from one 
 another. Most of the time you go up against other players one-on-one and try to beat them. Sure, 
 dunks might be worth three points in a round, you may have to pull off a particular special move, 
 or you might play to 21 instead of 11, but after a couple of chapters you realize there's not much 
 variety, or at least variety that matters. Even the media mogul chapter, where you're vying for 
 a spot in a soft drink commercial, isn't interesting. You spend most of the chapter beating guys 
 head-to-head and then the last chapter performing specific moves against LeBron James while the 
 commercial is filmed. But this just ends up feeling like the rest of the game because the moves 
 are presented in list form before the round (once you start playing, you can't reference them again, 
 either) , you're doing the same combos you've been doing for the last few hours. The "commercial" 
 that plays when you're done doesn't even look like a commercial, nor does it feature the moves 
 you performed while shooting it.  

  Most people don't expect a great story or a lot of variety to the game modes when they play an 
 arcade-style basketball game. They want the best players, over-the-top dunks, hard fouls, diverse 
 court locales, as well as fast-paced, fun gameplay. Chosen One delivers most of these. There are 
 more than 80 current NBA players as well as legends such as Wilt Chamberlain, Moses Malone, Daryl 
 Dawkins, Dr. J, Larry Bird, Magic, Bill Russell, and more. The basketball courts are spread out 
 among a number of interesting locations including an airplane hangar, a penthouse suite in Boston, 
 the Chicago lakefront, a rooftop in Dubai, South Beach, and the mountains of China. Dunks are suitably 
 outrageous. Even someone like Steve Nash can throw down some crazy dunks and pass the ball to someone 
 standing courtside for a long-distance alley-oop. Toss in plenty of blocks, steals, and physical 
 play, and you have a game that should be a lot of fun, at least on paper.  

  But NBA Ballers: Chosen One isn't fun, and there are a number of reasons for this. To start with, 
 the controls are much too complicated for this style of game. You can juke with the right analog 
 stick or a face button, but you can also hold down any of the shoulder buttons to further modify 
 your jukes, dunks, and alley-oops. Eventually you'll learn all of the moves, but you'll still have 
 a difficult time performing them thanks to frequently unresponsive controls, especially when you're 
 forced to hold two shoulder buttons in conjunction with another button. Like in NBA Street you 
 must perform flashy jukes and dunks to fill a meter. The twist here is that this meter serves to 
 fill  another  meter, which, depending on how many levels are full, gives you a guaranteed steal, 
 successful juke, made shot, block, or game-ending super dunk.  

           Act-a-fool combos are just plain foolish.      

  These super moves, particularly the 
 game-ending super dunk, are so effective that you'll spend most of your time trying to fill your 
 meter with the game's worst feature: act-a-fool combos. You begin an act-a-fool combo by holding 
 a shoulder and face button together while standing near a player. Once the combo starts, button 
 icons appear onscreen, and you must press them as quickly as possible. The defender can also try 
 to press the buttons, and if they do so before you, the combo ends. The AI won't stop you very 
 often, though, and once the combo has ended after five moves, there's usually an open path to a 
 dunk, which will be worth five points thanks to the bonus points awarded from the combo. Not only 
 do you get bonus points for the combo, but you fill your meter as well. It takes just three or 
 four successful act-a-fool combos to fill the meter to the point that you can end the game with 
 a super dunk. Playing the game this way is cheesy and boring, but you're forced to do so because 
 some of the challenges, like coming back from 20 points down with three minutes to go, and beating 
 T-Mac in a game to 11 without letting him score, are absurdly difficult.  

  The problems don't end there. For some reason there are fouls in the game, and though you aren't 
 penalized for the first four, when you get your fifth foul, the other player gets a foul shot that's 
 worth three points and they retain possession. The defensive fouls may be annoying, but they do 
 serve to keep you honest. The fact that you can get called for charging is just plain annoying 
 and has no place in this kind of basketball game. One particularly terrible game variation gets 
 rid of the checked-ball rule, so you don't have to take the ball back on a change of possession 
 or after you score. The game devolves into both players standing under the basket trying to catch 
 the ball as it goes through the net, and then immediately putting up a shot when they do catch 
 the ball. It's mind-numbingly stupid. Toss in inconsistent goaltending calls, repetitive cutscenes 
 for super moves that often end with you facing away from the basket, and horrific clipping problems 
 that see the ball go through the rim on dunks so that you don't even know if you made them or not, 
 and you're left with a flashy-looking game that isn't much fun.  

  NBA Ballers' strongest aspect is its presentation. Even the menus are attractive. The cutscenes 
 that introduce players like Kobe, Agent Zero, and LeBron look cool and inspire a sense of awe when 
 they play before a big matchup. It's a shame that big-name players like Shaq, Kidd, and Gasol, 
 who were recently traded, aren't on their current teams. Nevertheless, players look lifelike and 
 have a swagger to them that only NBA players seem to have. There's little variety to more routine 
 actions like running, diving for the ball, and shooting from one player to the next, but there's 
 no shortage of great-looking dunk and juke animations. While the "normal" moves generally look 
 great, the developer got carried away when it comes to the cutscenes for special moves. These noninteractive 
 clips that play for every special move are repetitive and do nothing but interrupt the flow of 
 the game. To make matters worse, there's no way to turn them off.  

           Chuck D does a solid job as both host and play-by-play announcer.      

  Chosen One's 
 audio is surprisingly subdued. The soundtrack by Just Blaze stays mostly in the background and 
 doesn't stand out as particularly good or bad. In addition to hosting the TV show in the game, 
 Chuck D also provides play-by-play. He gets a little repetitive, but he's better than most of the 
 announcers found in other street games. Plus, hearing him yell "They call him Mr. Beans!" when 
 our player threw down a dunk never got old.  

  NBA Ballers: Chosen One deserves credit for trying to bring some new ideas to a genre that isn't 
 known for mixing things up. But while many of these ideas may have seemed good during the design 
 phase, they don't work in the context of the actual gameplay. There's no reason to pick this one 
 up, regardless of how bad you need a basketball fix -- there are plenty of cheaper, better options 
 available.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (1 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: Don_Mafia420
Rating: 6
Date: Aug 19, 2008 6:44 pm PT
Review:  Nba Ballers Chosen one is exactly like all the other ones, all that is different is the Music, 
 and the different moves when your special is up and thats about it. If you ask me its pretty good 
 tho, I mean im a basketball fan and all and its a game that can get pretty intense don't get me 
 wrong now. The Two player (co~op) Lacks in this game some what, such as not being able to do 3 
 Point Contest, and whatever else there is (I forgot what else there is) but you can play 1v1v1 
 and its 3 people so have 2 friends join you and you have a pretty exciting game.
  
  Music: The music in this game is Pretty Solid, It has some pretty fresh beats that I was enjoying 
 listening too.
  
  Graphics: Well im just gonna say, They look like anyother NBA BALLERS.
  
  Controls: The Controls are good the usual O=shoot/dunk and L2 is Turbo, Triangle will do a 
 Style Move, You can also do combo moves to get your Meter full to do your "Special Move." On Defense 
 you have Square=Block O=Block Triangle=Jump and If you hold Turbo while Pushing O you commit a 
 Foul that will grab the other player and kind of throw them making them lose control but putting 
 A foul on you, after the fifth foul the player you Fouled Prior to the Fifth one is sent to the 
 line, If he makes it then its Three Points and Possetion of the ball.
  
  Game Rules On Default: First one to 11 and has Won by 2 or its like 3 minutes and whoever is ahead 
 is the winner, and you win 2 rounds before you win the match, and the game will have you at the 
 edge of your seat when you and the other people have 9 and its a race to see who can score first.
 
  
  Hotspots: Ive noticed the Big 2 or 3s in the court and they are known as Hotspots making it easy 
 to shoot from that shot and Most Likely making the shot, Tho not every time.
  Thats My Review and Thank You For Your Time:) :)
  
  
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
