-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: NBA Live 09
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/ps3/sports/nbalive09/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Signature playcalling makes running plays a breeze.
 New pick-and-roll mechanic is simple and effective.
 User-friendly controls.
 Marv Albert and Steve Kerr do a nice job in the booth.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Lousy defense leads to lots of dunks.
 Dribble moves are too often ineffective.
 Be a Pro mode isn't very deep.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Oct 16, 2008
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 7.5
Critic Score: 7.7, 24 Review (s)
User Score: 8.0, 262 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: EA Sports
Developer: EA Canada
Genre: Basketball Sim
Date: Oct 7, 2008
ESRB: Everyone

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
NBA Live 09's gameplay has again seen some improvement, but there are still a few rough edges.

  NBA Live has had a rough transition to the current generation of consoles; however, slowly but 
 surely, the games have gotten better every year. NBA Live 09 doesn't make the same leap forward 
 that 08 made, and the much-hyped dynamic DNA feature has little effect on the gameplay. However, 
 new pick-and-roll controls, as well as signature playcalling, make this Live the best in several 
 years.  

           Kobe Bryant's DNA: It's not just the property of the Eagle County sheriff's department 
 anymore.      

  NBA 2K9 has "living rosters," whereas NBA Live 09 has "dynamic DNA." No matter the name, the result 
 is generally the same. EA will be updating Live's rosters on a daily basis to reflect what is happening 
 in the NBA. If Chicago Bulls rookie Derrick Rose continues to show no fear driving to the hoop 
 as he has this preseason, his in-game persona will reflect that. Should Shaun Livingston prove 
 he can stay healthy with the Miami Heat and start the season off on a hot streak, his attributes 
 will get a bump to immediately make him a factor. Basically, you're going to have really up-to-date 
 rosters; if that's important to you, you'll enjoy the feature. If you were pretty happy with the 
 frequency of roster updates in previous years, you won't get as much out of it.  

  Dynamic DNA isn't just used for current rosters; it's used throughout the game, though its implementation 
 is better in some areas than others. Floor overlays and percentages that tell you how likely a 
 player is to drive left to the hoop aren't very useful. They're also -- judging by the updates after 
 a bucket -- quite often inaccurate. The DNA feature is most useful with regards to playcalling. You 
 can bring up a playcalling menu at any time with the press of a button while dribbling. You're 
 then presented with four playcalling options. These options are determined by what plays are typically 
 run when the ball is in that player's hands in real life. That's neat, but the best part is that 
 once you call a play, the game walks you through it by placing markers on the floor. This not only 
 teaches you what your role is in executing the play, but it also makes what your teammates are 
 doing extremely obvious so you're not just running to spots and wondering what to do with the ball. 
 If you prefer to run a simple pick-and-roll, you can do so with ease. If you hold down the left 
 trigger or L2, a player will come set a screen, and you can use it as you see fit to drive or take 
 a shot. You can also get your teammate involved a little more. If you release the button before 
 the meter fills, your teammate will go to the hoop. If you release it later, he'll step out for 
 an outside shot. It's a simple mechanic that's easy to use and very effective.  

  It's good that calling plays is intuitive because you'll need to instruct your fellow players if 
 you want them to move around at all on offense -- they do very little on their own to get open. But 
 even that's not a huge problem because it's pretty darn easy to dunk at will. Unlike previous games, 
 however, you won't always be able to take the ball coast to coast with a single player. Dribble 
 moves with the right analog stick are quite often ineffective, thanks to some unseen gravitational 
 field defenders have that keeps them close. Instead, you'll sometimes have to wait for the CPU 
 to make a bad double-team so you can hit a teammate near the rim (you'll need to use icon passing, 
 since regular passes rarely seem to go where you want) for an easy dunk. Although you can cover 
 your man fairly well with the effective lockdown-defense feature, bad team defense is one of the 
 game's trademarks. Even if you double-team a player, he's nearly unstoppable should he receive 
 a pass in stride while cutting to the rim -- players just don't react in time. Poor reaction time 
 is also a problem with user-controlled rebounding; it seems no matter how early, on time, or late 
 you jump, you're going to miss the ball a good portion of the time.  

  Most of the gameplay modes are the same as last year, but that's not necessarily a bad thing because 
 there's plenty to do. You can practice the basics in the NBA Live Academy, prove you're the best 
 team on the planet in the FIBA World Championships, take part in the slam-dunk contest and three-point 
 shootout in the NBA All-Star weekend, or take control of an NBA franchise in Dynasty mode. An intuitive 
 interface and interesting method of improving your staff are the highlights of the Dynasty mode. 
 But we experienced such quirks as Andrew Bynum winning the MVP while averaging 7.9 points and 10 
 rebounds per game, or even worse, a few crashes that left us unable to continue our season.  

 
  Live 09 is the latest EA Sports game to include the Be a Pro mode found in NHL 09 and FIFA 09. 
 However, unlike those games in which you control one player throughout the course of his career, 
 you're only able to play a one-off game in Live. This makes the mode downright uninteresting because 
 you have no vested interest in how you mesh with your teammates. You'll have a little more incentive 
 to be a team player if you play the five-on-five Team Play mode online. Not only do you receive 
 a rating based on your performance, but you'll have to deal with some pretty unhappy teammates 
 if you hog the ball or play like a jerk and cost your online club a win. Online play lags a bit 
 when playing with more than a few other human opponents, but in general, the online experience 
 is fairly smooth.  

           Of course there are lots of dunks -- it's NBA Live!      

  Live 09's presentation is inconsistent. Pregame intros are nicely done, most of the better-known 
 players look reasonably like their real life counterparts, and there's plenty of great animation. 
 However, the transition from one animation to the next is often poor, and the in-game presentation 
 is rather dull. Marv Albert and Steve Kerr are back in the booth, and once again, they do a nice 
 job calling the action, though they don't have much new to say this year.  

  While it's a little disappointing that Live 09 isn't a drastic step forward, it is an improvement 
 over Live 08 and a very solid basketball game. Dynamic DNA isn't going to change the way you enjoy 
 a basketball game, but effective pick-and-roll mechanics and intuitive playcalling certainly will. 
 If you want a basketball game that's fast-paced with easy-to-manage controls, NBA Live 09 is worth 
 a look.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (17 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: t-max_22
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 3, 2009 12:26 pm PT
Review:  Basketball is a game with lot's of action that make's you very excited and that's what NBA live 
 09 present's for you.
  
  The good:
  1. Dynasty mode really get's you in the game.
  2. NBA Live 365 feature is excellent.
  3. The soundtrack is amazing.
  4. Controls are just 
 simple and effective.
  
  The bad:
  1. Be a pro mode isn't what we've hoped for.
  2. Defense is really lousy and leads to lot's of dunks and lay-up's.
  
  NBA Live 09 is the 
 best in series and lot's of new features have been added like:
  - NBA Live 365.
  - Be a pro mode.
  - NBA Live academy.
  and more.
  
  NBA Live 365 get's you updated with:
 
  - Players DNA.
  - DNA tendencies.
  - DNA ratings.
  - DNA hot and cold streaks.
  - DNA lineup's.
  - DNA roster update's.
  - NBA Live rewind game's
  but first you need to 
 connect to EA servers and have a valid code to use the NBA Live 365 features.
  
  Be a pro mode is good but it could have been better.
  - you'll take control of your favorite 
 players! the rule is: you will be scored based on your position and skill.
  
  NBA Live academy:
  - complete progressively harder challenges to test your NBA Live skills, or 
 work on your team's game in team practice.
  
  well, you can say that this game has a few rough edge's like stopping a fast break (which is almost 
 imposable and really annoying) and some other things, but it's still a masterpiece and it's worth 
 a look. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: the_red85
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 22, 2009 7:41 pm PT
Review:  Havent played a NBA game in years. Great to see the game play is this much improved. Almost life 
 like! Good Dynasty mode..
  Only down side is the loading times. and you always go back to the main practice arena after each 
 game, which is quite annoying. game play is awesome, almost like the real thing. one of my games 
 has glitched though. mid way through the 2nd quarter, i scored a basket and the opponent got caught 
 in a loop trying to pick up the ball. love the create player, dna, areas. some good little side 
 games as well.
  will be playing this game for quite a bit of time i think. 
  graphics, 8 (only because its not 1080p)
  music, 9 (great songs)
  commentary, 7 (great variety, 
 but with all games can be repetitive)
  longevity, 8 (quite a few good modes to last hourssss)
  overall, 8.5 (cant wait to see next years 
 installment)
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: achildbyfire
Rating: 4.5
Date: Mar 3, 2009 1:20 pm PT
Review:  NBA Live 09
  
  [I review games based on my own personal beliefs on what I think is important in video games, for 
 more info - check my blog.]
  
  I like to think I know a little something about basketball, I watch it quite frequently and have 
 been more involved in it over the last 5 years or so... and if EA thinks they have figured out the 
 formula to a realistic basketball sim, they're mistaken.
  
  I'm not sure where to start, I guess I'd like to point out that I usually play this game in dynasty 
 mode and use position lock (I play as the shooting guard) . I have played it using all team members 
 like every other basketball game in the past, (when you pass to a guy on your team, you become 
 that player, etc.) but I like the idea of position lock. That's one addition that is definitely 
 welcome in this years game, and in my opinion is welcome in every sports game from here on out. 
 It does make you feel like you're playing a TEAM sport and are just one piece to the puzzle rather 
 than controlling every aspect of the team.
  
  The Pros of the game:
  Position lock (like stated above)
  The graphics are great for the most part
  The animations 
 are realistic looking (including different shooting, dunking, free throw, etc animations, as well 
 as the dribbling stick/ankle breaker ball handling.)
  
  The Cons of the game:
  The AI is abysmal
  The animations are "realistic" looking (How is this both a pro and con? I'll 
 explain below.)
  "NBA 356" updates are basically useless
  
  I'm quite the pessimist, so I'll skip the pros list explanation and start with the cons (The pros 
 are pretty self explanatory.)
  
  I've been playing in Dynasty Mode as the Orlando Magic, and if anyone is watching basketball this 
 season you'll know who leads the league in both total blocks and average blocks per game -- Dwight 
 Howard of the Orlando Magic. Even with this fact I still cannot count how many times Howard has 
 been blown past in the lane and dunked on in my dynasty. The AI RARELY slides over to help on penetration, 
 and whether you play the game on player lock or not -- you can't be the entire team... so you as 
 the player are just as bad as the AI of your teammates. Furthermore the game has set plays you 
 can run on offense, which sounds great and actually works great about 10% of the time. Your teammates 
 will run the plays either 100% true to form or will disregard the play all together and make a 
 horrible decision... leaving you with a dumbfounded look on your face and asking yourself why they 
 didn't kick you out the pass for a wide open 3-pointer. The other side of this is that your teammates 
 will make the passes as planned in the play regardless of the defensive set... which means if there's 
 a defender in the passing lane - your team just gave up a turn over. Your teammates never cut to 
 the basket when its clearly an open lane, and when you try to throw them the alley-oop to force 
 the issue they usually miss the pass completely and no one on your team has the awareness to fetch 
 the arrant pass. Instead you just watch as the ball bounces out of bounds and you commit yet another 
 turnover.
  
  The game has a pick and roll function which works decent for the most part, but there again sometimes 
 you'll set the pick and the player will have a wide open layup at the rim but will instead decide 
 to pass you the ball when you've got 2 defenders on you from setting the pick... It's incredibly 
 irritating. If you're going to have a "player lock" option in your game, you had better make sure 
 your other 4 teammates have half a brain.
  
  About the animations looking realistic, the game often feels like instead of pressing triangle 
 to attempt a blocked shot, you press triangle to trigger a block shot attempt animation. What I 
 mean by this is that I go up for a shot block, it looks very real, but afterward my player turns 
 around to watch the shot and does other random actions that were attached to the tail-end of the 
 animation. When in reality I'm pressing my left stick towards the basket so I can try and box out 
 for a rebound on a missed shot. Furthermore, when playing defense you are forced to strafe sometimes. 
 The reason this is annoying is this: If I'm guarding a guy on the perimeter and the other teams 
 PG starts to dribble drive to the hoop, I want to sneak in and have a swat at the ball -- knowing 
 full well I've just left my assignment, but keeping it in mind that he is still out there. So what 
 happens? The penetration leads to a kick out pass that I knew full well was a possibility, but 
 instead of darting back to my spot to defend my guy, I'm stuck in a strafe mode "crab walk" towards 
 a wide open shooter at the 3-point line. It's annoying, you might say "well you shouldn't have 
 left your guy." But what if I wanted to create the kick out pass? I was successful in that aspect, 
 but now I'm stuck in a realistic looking animation instead of being able to TAKE CONTROL of my 
 player to get back in time... So you're forced to play a hum-drum defense... but of course if you 
 do this, Dwight Howard's AI is so retarded that he gets blown by as if glued to the ground and 
 the team is awarded an easy lay-up. So it's a lose/lose situation.
  
  On a side note, I was playing a Dynasty as the Dallas Mavericks and was offered a trade from the 
 Suns that would give them Jason Kidd, and I'd get Shaquille O'neal. This trade seems very stupid 
 to me for both teams involved, but I'm able to look past it.... But in this same dynasty, I was 
 able to trade Jason Kidd to the New Jersey Nets for VINCE CARTER... and if you're even remotely 
 a basketball fan you'll realize that this trade is ridiculous on a few different levels...
  
  This years NBA Live has something called "365 Updates" which is cool in theory. [NOTE: these 
 updates are FREE if you bought a NEW copy of the game, if you bought it used you might get lucky 
 and have the code included with the game work. Otherwise I think its 10 bucks to get the updates, 
 which in my opinion are not worth it.] Basically - every time you boot up the game, it downloads 
 a very quick update that changes the way the AI plays for every player including their tendencies 
 and hot/cold streaks. If you're a stats enthusiast (like me) you'll love to sort through the update 
 and check out how they're affecting your favorite teams or players... unfortunately, I don't see 
 where it affects the gameplay whatsoever.
  
  Now to break things down into my important categories:
  
  -Customization
  The game has pretty 
 deep customization options. You can make a player and adjust many of his facial features and characteristics 
 (including his shot styles, sweatbands, and even his kicks... which is important for any baller.) 
 You cannot create your own team, which is slightly disappointing, but its not the end of the world. 
 
  
  A cool feature in the customization department is that you can edit and save replays from gameplay 
 and save them to your harddrive as highlights that will show later in your practice gym on the 
 big screens located in the corners of the building.
  
  -Options
  The game has standard options found in most any basketball game. AI sliders, rules, sound options, 
 etc...
  
  -Controls
  The controls are good and precise for the most part and the offensive dribble moves are fun and 
 sometimes create an "Oh snap!" moment... but the animations that play out on the game sometimes 
 give you the impression that it doesn't matter what buttons you're pressing at certain moments.
 
  
  -Coop Modes
  The game supports at least 4 players on one machine and runs how you'd expect.
  
  -Game Modes
 
  The game has the usual modes - Dynasty/Season, Exhibition and All-star weekend with the addition 
 of a practice facility to work on all aspects of the game. Plus there's a FIBA mode in case you 
 want to play using the teams from around the world... which include the super-stacked USA squad. 
 (Kobe and LeBron on the same team?! Go ahead and win that gold medal boyeee!)
  
  -Sound/Music
  The sounds in the game are decent, the commentary is pretty good with Marv Albert 
 and Steve Kerr calling the action. They sometimes say repetitive things about the players, but 
 its ignorable. The soundtrack for the game is just as annoying as you'd expect from an EA title. 
 I've muted all the tracks. Here's an idea EA, instead of having a department devoted to signing 
 those big time record label bands and making sure you have an ex-TREME soundtrack for your games, 
 make that department focus on something more important... say for instance, that the game works 
 properly?
  
  -Artificial Intelligence
  Awful. Truly the game's downfall.
  
  Honorable mentions::
  The game has a fun online mode that is similar to playing a pick-up game 
 down at your local park. It's pretty lag-free for the most part but there seems to be a slight 
 delay in the buttons pressed which makes it hard to shoot because of the timing issues. If you 
 play it enough though you can get the hang of it. Unfortunately this mode usually turns into a 
 game full of fast breaks and dunks... but its still fun occasionally.
  
  When you're fooling around in the gym a window will sometimes pop open in the corner with a video 
 from the recent sports center recording. It'll show you the top-ten plays of the week. I'm not 
 a huge espn fan but it's a cool addition.
  
  Final Verdict --
  In closing, the game has a lot of cool little features that work well for the most part... but at 
 the end of the day - I want to sit down and play a basketball sim that is true to life... and unfortunately, 
 this is not it. I give the game a 4.5 based on the fact that it's a basketball game... and being 
 a basketball game it is successful in one thing -- allowing you to play a game of basketball.... no 
 matter how unsatisfying it may be. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cooldude1888
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 12, 2009 2:40 pm PT
Review:  Oh my god! This is a game with amazing ball physics, great graphics and
  great tricks. The ball physics are amazing and the AI are smart opponents.
  When you get a free 
 throw, the sixaxis comes into use where you have to 
  tilt it back then forward. To shoot you pull back the anolouge stick and press it forward in the 
 direction you want it to go in. Its an amazing game and so 
  addictive. I cant get over the graphics. To be honest, it probably has the best
  graphics ever 
 put into a video game! Its that good! Its got great tricks to do 
  and the shooting tricks is so cool. Characters respond in a realistic way to the
  situation. 
 Like when you're under a net and guys are a round you, a teammate
  might move into space for you just where you want him to be. You can now
  choose exactly which 
 person you pass to now thanks to the R1 button which
  lets you chosse a person with the control pad. The passing has different wats
  and by running 
 from side to side, you r basketballer should do some nice
  tricks confusing the oppsition. The game is great! I got the demo and was really impressed by it. 
 My mum walked in and thought I was watching a basketball match it was that realistic. What a laugh 
 it was! Anyway 2k sports
  are amazing at making sports games. They also made Top Spin 3 another 
  favourite of mine which 
 also has the amazing graphics! If you like cool realistic
  sport games then give this one a go and I can garuntee you you wont regret it!
  One of the best 
 games I have ever played. Get it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mathew_vartuli
Rating: 6.5
Date: Dec 1, 2008 2:39 am PT
Review:  This is going to be a very short review, NBA is a good game to play is you are a basketball fan. 
 The graphics and commentary is up to scratch and the offense is great. The down side, is the defense. 
 Often too hard to defend, and there are way too many dunks. I think that the players are very stiff 
 sometimes and it makes it harder to defend. Be a Pro doesn't flash any new bells for me, i played 
 one game and i got sick of it. I like the new addition of FIBA tournament. Im a soccer fan and 
 i got this as a present. This gamed appealed to me for about 60 15 hours, which is a good thing. 
 But then i went onto playing NFS Undercover, Motorstorm and Guitar Hero World Tour. I think that 
 this game is good especially online with no LAGGING.
  
  6.5/10
  
  Pretty good if there were a few adjustments. I liked it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kameelj
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 5, 2008 11:48 am PT
Review:  It may not be as complex as NBA 2K9 but that is where it shines. The controls are simple at effective 
 if done correctly. Game-play is solid with a few minor bugs, hopefully an update addresses those 
 minor issues. Lighting and graphics are actually better than 2K9. NBA Live is a solid game if fun 
 factor is considered. 
  
  Try both LIVE 09 & 2K9, see which one you like more, I prefer Live because I don't want to spend 
 hours just to learn the controls. So if thinking of which game to buy, play the demos first. Then 
 decide if you like complex crossover controls with buttons (NBA 2K9) or if like to just execute 
 crossovers with the flick of a stick (NBA LIVE 09) . Don't be to fooled by the demos as well because 
 they are no deep enough to make the decision as a whole. If possible try renting the games, what 
 is $5 each games, when you're going to buy one of them for around $50 anyways. You will be glad 
 you did. And remember Have FUN, because in the end that is what it is all about. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xfactor674
Rating: 7.5
Date: Oct 26, 2008 6:43 am PT
Review:  In nba live 09 it is better than nba 2k9 association because of the all star weekend. In the all 
 star weekend they have a 3 pt shootout where the best 3 pt shooters are invited to. In the rookies 
 vs sophomore game they are invited for how they play during the season. in the sprite slam dunk 
 contest the best dunkers are invited to be in the contest. the dunk contest you can do any dunk 
 you want. They make you do 2 360's which is a 720 and they make you do a 360 and a 180 which is 
 a 540 and they both give you a perfect score. to do the 720 you have to press triangle and circle 
 and spin the left analog stick around twice very fast are you wont be able to it. to do the 540 
 you have to press triangle and circle and spin the left analog sticktwice holding L1 or you wont 
 do it. In the all star you can play around do alot of alley oops if you want or you can just keep 
 dunking peopleand score the most points to win the MVP 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pigsybum
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 2, 2008 2:33 am PT
Review:  NBA Live might be the same arcady game every year during the PS2 period, but now it has all changed. 
 It has become something thats simulation but FUN at the same time.
  
  Games are meant to be fun, if it doesn't provide so, it has failed the first objective as a game. 
 Which is why i didn't liked 2k basketball. 
  
  Live is different from last year's. There's improvement like lock-on defence, better pacing of 
 the game, solved framerate issues and more FIBA teams. But regarding the game mode, it's still 
 the same which i felt they could invent something fun to go along with.
  
  Graphics:
  One word to describe, "Excellent". I don't think you can find another game that does charactor 
 modelling that well, couple with sweat and smooth animations, the players in the game are one of 
 the best i've seen, probably due to competition in the NBA franchaise.
  
  So is there any problems? YES, one problem was the replay framerates, sometimes it goes so slow 
 that you're better off skipping it, but recently EA sports made a patch that improvemented things 
 around. Some major change you would notice is that in nba live 09, you do not have to install the 
 game.
  
  Gameplay:
  Better than any in the market. Sorry i do not think 2k9 surpass this in term of gameplay, simply 
 because 2k recycles the previous gameplay on it's new games, which makes me sick of playing it.
 
  
  Shooting is better, rather than 100% skills in 'The Life', you also need to depend on ur luck and 
 the player's skills. Speaking of that, one major item i liked was the hotspot, it gets updated 
 everyday, and it helps me to decide who should shoot from where.
  
  Many, like gamespot says nba is about getting the rim, but i do not think so, occasionally dunks 
 do get rejected if you did not shoot it in a good position. But in the case of 2k, once the dunk 
 animation starts, theres no way to avoid a 2point.
  
  Online is another part which does better than 2k. 2k has slow servers, while EA sports dedicate 
 servers to it's games, liek nhl and fifa. 
  
  Sound:
  Music is there as expected and it's great to listen to. EA trax is really something no other developers 
 can beat, you get EA trax on all EA sports games, which makes a standard like custom soundtracks 
 for all it's games.
  
  Commentary are well done, just a tad repititive since they used last year's and add some lines 
 to it.
  
  As a ending statement, i just want to say Live is finally the better game of basketball after years 
 of being the tail to 2k. Some may not agree with me, simply because u didn't afford the 60 bucks 
 to try this game out. Great games requires efford to enjoy, u won't find much about a game with 
 just the demo. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Fir3man786
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 20, 2008 6:45 pm PT
Review:  i love this game been a fan since 06.
  
  When writing your review, remember to keep the language clean. Reviews must be 100 words minimum. 
 We encourage you to try to get your review right the first time-you may choose to edit it later 
 on, but by doing so, you will lose any positive feedback associated with the review. We encourage 
 you to write your review in a word processor or text editor, save it to your local disk, then copy 
 and paste it into the posting box below.
  
  When writing your review, remember to keep the language clean. Reviews must be 100 words minimum. 
 We encourage you to try to get your review right the first time-you may choose to edit it later 
 on, but by doing so, you will lose any positive feedback associated with the review. We encourage 
 you to write your review in a word processor or text editor, save it to your local disk, then copy 
 and paste it into the posting box below. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: armyman_22
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 16, 2008 9:14 pm PT
Review:  I swore off ALL SPORTS games about a year or two ago. Meaning I was not going to buy anymore at 
 all. This has changed for me this year as basket ball games to me have hit hard in 2009. Both Live 
 and 2K this year are great, but to me Live wins where it counts the monst: Gameplay. 
  
  First off I dont know what the reviewers at GS are smoking, but when I retire ill contact them 
 to get some. They got this game review all wrong. Lets start with the graphics which are just fantastic. 
 There is the typical sweat the only problem with is they start sweating all to early. The faces 
 are remarkable..... the jerseys move with fluid and life like realism. The bench, coaches, crowd 
 and EVEN mascots get you pumped and into the game with every big play. There is no doubt that the 
 graphics are one of the best aspects of this game.
  
  The gameplay is also spot on. I dont know what the GS reviewers were doing when they said your 
 players dont play good "D" I played like 10 games and in 7 of those games my computer controlled 
 team mates had more or caused more steals than I did. Unlike previous years they jump at shootes 
 and try to block shot instead of letting shooters run wild. The one problem I see is rebounding. 
 Its tough to do and the mechanic seems busted as rebounds often seem to appear in a players hands 
 no where near the rim. The offense is also impressive as you can control your dribbling unlike 
 2K where you dribble and crossover moves are assigned to one stick. The breaks to the hole are 
 good. Bottom line sharp gameplay equals good game.
  
  The Music in this game isnt going to get you hyped to play by any means, but the sounds and effects 
 will. Playes scream at each other, and the crowd more than gets into whats going on in the game. 
 This is a mixed bag. The commentators do a real goood job of calling the game and keep up with 
 the action well.
  
  The presentation is not as good a 2K9, but it gets an "E" for effort. As cheerleaders hit the court 
 at the begining of the game and every other opportunity such as time outs. There are highlights 
 of the quarters after you play them, but unlike 2k arent set to music that make it seem liks a 
 telecast. Also unlike 2K there are no top three plays, player exsclusive highlights, and Unreal 
 TV presentaion altogether. 
  
  Sure you can pick another BBALL game and youd probably like it.... but I dont think youll go wrong 
 with NBA Live this year where gameplay is concerned. After all isnt that what makes a game great? 
 So go out and at least rent this one like I did to get into the experience. I think youll like 
 it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: HSoto19
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 14, 2008 3:08 pm PT
Review:  Live is getting there. I rented 2K9 it's a good sim but the controls are hit or miss and there are 
 no guides to help you figure them out. Now back to live gameplay is much smoother than any other 
 live. Still has some glitches nothing major. Difficulties are on point this year. Love the new 
 feature of uploading your replays to EA Sports World. com I think its to early to say anything about 
 the DNA feature. The lock down feature needs work doesn't feel realistic. Graphics are always up 
 to par in live. Be a pro is a nice add to the game. Wish EA would make the "D" adapt to your style 
 like Madden does. Fiba teams are a nice add more teams than they where in the last live. I think 
 Live is getting where it needs to be gameplay needs a little more work but its still a fun game 
 to play. I'll always be a live fan. LIVE IS BACK!!!!!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: buqra
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 12, 2008 2:22 am PT
Review:  ts the best nba game  have ever played . ja ja ja ja ja ja ja ja ja ja ja ja ja ja 
 ja ja ja ja ja ja jaja jaj ja ja ja ja ja ja ja ja ja ja ja ja jaja jaj ja ja ja ja ja ja ja ja 
 ja ja ja ja jaja jaj ja ja ja ja ja ja ja ja ja ja ja ja jaja jaj ja ja ja ja ja ja ja ja ja ja 
 ja ja jaja jaj ja ja ja ja ja ja ja ja ja ja ja ja jaja jaj ja ja ja ja ja ja ja ja ja ja ja ja 
 jaja jaj ja ja ja ja ja ja ja ja ja ja ja ja jaja jaj ja ja ja ja ja ja ja ja ja ja ja ja jaja 
 jaj ja ja ja ja ja ja ja ja ja ja ja ja jaja jaj ja ja ja ja ja ja ja ja ja ja ja ja jaja jaj ja 
 ja ja ja ja ja ja ja ja ja ja ja jaja jaj ja ja ja ja ja ja ja ja ja ja ja ja jaja jaj ja ja ja 
 ja ja ja ja ja ja ja ja ja jaja jaj ja ja ja ja ja ja ja ja ja ja ja ja jaja jaj ja ja ja ja ja 
 ja ja ja ja ja ja ja jaja jaj ja ja ja ja ja ja ja ja ja ja ja ja jaja jaj ja ja ja ja ja ja ja 
 ja ja ja ja ja jaja jaj
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: fatsamandmj
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 11, 2008 10:52 pm PT
Review:  nba live best nba live bestnba live bestnba live bestnba live bestnba live bestnba live bestnba 
 live bestnba live bestnba live bestnba live bestnba live bestnba live bestnba live bestnba live 
 bestnba live bestnba live bestnba live bestnba live bestnba live bestnba live bestnba live bestnba 
 live bestnba live bestnba live bestnba live bestnba live bestnba live bestnba live bestnba live 
 bestnba live bestnba live bestnba live bestnba live bestnba live bestnba live bestnba live bestnba 
 live bestnba live bestnba live bestnba live bestnba live bestnba live bestnba live bestnba live 
 bestnba live bestnba live bestnba live bestnba live bestnba live bestnba live bestnba live bestnba 
 live bestnba live bestnba live bestnba live bestnba live bestnba live bestnba live bestnba live 
 bestnba live bestnba live bestnba live bestnba live bestnba live bestnba live bestnba live bestnba 
 live bestnba live bestnba live bestnba live bestnba live bestnba live bestnba live bestnba live 
 bestnba live bestnba live bestnba live bestnba live bestnba live bestnba live bestnba live bestnba 
 live bestnba live bestnba live bestnba live bestnba live bestnba live bestnba live bestnba live 
 bestnba live bestnba live bestnba live bestnba live bestnba live bestnba live bestnba live bestnba 
 live bestnba live bestnba live bestnba live bestnba live bestnba live bestnba live bestnba live 
 bestnba live bestnba live bestnba live bestnba live bestnba live bestnba live bestnba live bestnba 
 live bestnba live best 
::::::

::::::
UserName: daveflava
Rating: 5
Date: Oct 10, 2008 11:45 am PT
Review:  NBA LIVE SUCKS. ,I found out u have to PAY 19.99 for the live rosters and DNA. EA is a rip off. 
 How u gonna promote the game without telling people there's a FEE. So we paying 82.00 for THIS!! 
 NOT ME. IF u don't believe me ,go to the PS3 store, click on add-ons. NBA 2k9 is wayyy better than 
 LIVE.
  
  the graphics
  gameplay
  sound
  presentation
  
  What happen to u LIVE . u were the best basketball game ever since ps1.
  
  When writing your 
 review, remember to keep the language clean. Reviews must be 100 words minimum. We encourage you 
 to try to get your review right the first time-you may choose to edit it later on, but by doing 
 so, you will lose any positive feedback associated with the review. We encourage you to write your 
 review in a word processor or text editor, save it to your local disk, then copy and paste it into 
 the posting box below. 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: lozvil
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 9, 2008 4:44 pm PT
Review:  I've been a fan of NBA live from SNES to the original PlayStation, but since the PS2 came the 2K 
 series put them (Live series) totally down. Even in the next gen consoles, the NBA 2K series really 
 still lead (up to 2K8) . But I could say that NBA Live '09 won this time, why?; 1st, the animation 
 really improved a lot; 2nd, the graphics really improved too; 3rd, the gameplay; 4th, the new features 
 (which i don't really have time to explain cos I have to play the game after I make this brief 
 review, lol) which includes the DNA thingy (which is kind of interesting) ; and of course the Online 
 Play is smooth and fun to play, including the Be a Pro feature which let you control one player 
 or position then will rate you how you did in the game with that particular position. What I'm 
 trying to say is you should give this game a chance. I saw in almost every forum, NBA 2K9 wins, 
 which i can't really blame them cause even me I'm a big fan of 2K series but I'm telling you this 
 game made it this year. Just at least rent this game first before you buy it to say what I'm talking 
 about. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mayham88
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 9, 2008 12:07 pm PT
Review:  Ok lets face it the coolest thing this year is of course the 365. Now that they have it fixed and 
 we can all enjoy I do have to say that its going to be pretty cool.
  Now of course this game is not perfect, in fact its far from it, but its an improvment from last 
 year and thats all that counts. Now that being said, last years game was awesome. This game is 
 going to be a lot of fun to play this season and I cant wait.
  One area that I saw that needs work is the replays. Ok, yes there are some flaws but what game doesnt 
 have them. I decided to shut replays off and it eliminated the problem. As long as it dont mess 
 with gameplay im ok with it.
  I have also noticed that fouls are down but with minor adjustments in AI that can be changed. The 
 whistles are absent some times in games which is annoying, but who knows an update can fix that. 
 
  Overall, the graphics are better than 2k, gameplay is great, commentary is greay, and 365 is cool! 
 So what do you have to lose go get your copy today. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: ramansingh3
Rating: 7.5
Date: Oct 8, 2008 8:39 am PT
Review:  NBA Live 09 starts out in the NBA academy when you first decide to pop in the game. The NBA academy 
 is a new feature to this years game it reminds me of the training camp feature in the past madden 
 games. The NBA academy takes place in the arena of your favorite NBA team and can be used to get 
 better and understand the game more or to just beat all the tasks that are avaliabe to you once 
 you complete the prerequisite. 
  
  The other feature that is new to 09 is the ''Be a Pro'' feature where you get to control your favorite 
 player for a single game, very similar to that of last years FIFA 08. 
  
  The game has the classic all-star weekend, dynasty mode, online mode and the new ''NBA 365.'' ''NBA 
 365'' I have not been able to use it yet, due to the fact that the season hasn't started yet, but 
 the mode is essentially a daily roster update that changes players ratings and tendencies to that 
 of their real life counterparts from the previous games night. 
  
  The game also has ''NBA rewind'' which is the ability to play a past game with the rosters of that 
 game and the players streaks of that game being hot or cold. 
  
  The graphics are as good as ever, but the game comes down to the gameplay. The good thing is the 
 game is an improvement over last years, but still falls short of the competition of NBA 2k9. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
