-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: NBA Live 08
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/ps3/sports/nbalive08/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Controls are tight and responsive.
 Game is fast-paced but doesn't feel too unrealistic.
 Vastly improved over 07.
 Kerr, Albert, Johnson, and Anthony do a great job calling the action.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Players miss too many easy shots and still attempt layups from behind the backboard.
 Transition animation could still be improved.
 Not a whole lot in the way of new game modes and features.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Oct  4, 2007
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 7.5
Critic Score: 7.5, 26 Review (s)
User Score: 7.5, 603 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: EA Sports
Developer: EA Canada
Genre: Basketball Sim
Date: Oct 1, 2007
ESRB: Everyone

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Thanks to significantly improved gameplay, NBA Live 08 is a good, solid basketball game. 

  NBA Live's transition from the last generation of consoles to the current generation has been 
 fraught with problems -- too many to list here. Nevertheless, the team at EA has kept plugging away, 
 and it seems the third time is the charm. There aren't really any new features to speak of in NBA 
 Live 08, but the gameplay has seen vast improvements on both sides of the ball. You'd never think 
 it was possible after the last few years, but NBA Live 08 is much-improved and actuallygood. 

           You don't need to bring up the hot spots overlay to know this is going in.      

  
 Forget how last year's game played; it's a whole new ballgame in Live 08. For starters, the default 
 camera angle has been changed to a dynamic broadcast-style perspective. It's easier to see what's 
 going on and also cuts down on the number of shots you'll put up from behind the backboard, though 
 that still happens far too often. The controls are where the game really shows improvement. The 
 basic scheme is mostly unchanged, but it's a lot more responsive this year. It's a piece of cake 
 to perform a crossover, pass the ball, perform a hop-step, and then decide whether to dunk with 
 the square (or X) button or shoot with circle (or B) . This results in a fast-paced game with lots 
 of sharp passing and great finishes. Some people might find the game to be a little to run-and-gun, 
 but there's no denying that the gameplay is exciting. It would be even more fast-paced, but players 
 tend to stop to receive passes on the fast break, and ball handlers will sometimes inexplicably 
 slow the break with a lob pass. There are a few other things that are in need of improvement. Players 
 miss some absurdly easy shots down low, and the officials call the games too tight (especially 
 charging) . Furthermore, defense is haphazard, and outside of fast breaks, players tend to stand 
 around a lot and don't do much to get open. Regardless, the game plays much better than it did 
 previously.  

  The whole "superstar icon" bit from 07 is gone, but there are still ways to differentiate the stars 
 from the scrubs. Top players such as Kobe, LeBron, Arenas, Wade, and Dirk each have a special go-to 
 move that makes them really valuable when the game is on the line. With the exception of some of 
 the big men, the move is generally some sort of side step or step back that leads to a nearly unstoppable 
 jumper. They're a bit overpowered, but it is nice to be able to count on your star player in crunch 
 time. The other way to tell the great from the merely good is to press the left bumper or L1 button. 
 This brings up your player's hot spots, a color-coded overlay that shows what part of the floor 
 that particular player is most successful shooting from. This may not sound like a significant 
 feature, but there's a huge difference between a player's shooting percentage in a hot zone versus 
 a cold zone. As a result, you'll find yourself working to get players open in specific parts of 
 the floor. You'll even pass up open shots because you know a player isn't good from that area and 
 there's another player with a better shot. Both of these features are quite useable, even if they 
 are poorly explained in the pitiful instruction manual.  

  It seems as if the developer's resources were focused entirely on making the game play better, 
 because otherwise there aren't any significant new modes this year. You can take part in the slam-dunk 
 contest and three-point shootout. You can also participate in the rookie challenge as well as the 
 FIBA tournament, neither of which anybody really cares about. Online play has been upgraded and 
 now includes online leagues, which means that things have finally caught up to the 2K series in 
 that regard. Our online experience was slightly smoother on the Xbox 360, but both versions played 
 reasonably well. It was frustrating that there seemed to be some rubber-band artificial intelligence 
 that made the games closer than they probably should have been. Sure, the games were more exciting, 
 but it's obnoxious to suddenly not be able to hit wide-open layups. Dynasty mode has seen some 
 subtle improvements, but is largely unchanged. It's nice to be able to jump into a game mid-sim 
 and save your team from defeat, though. The stats and results seem to be fairly accurate too; however, 
 it was surprising to see Shaq retire after the 2007-08 season.  

  There's very little visual difference between the PS3 and Xbox 360 versions of the game. The 360 
 version appears to have slightly less aliasing and runs a tad smoother. Player models look great, 
 and although they don't look as smooth as 2K8 when in motion, they're vastly improved over last 
 year. There's far less ball warping, and the transition from one move to the next is better, though 
 there's still a lot of room for improvement. The floors, which show off real-time reflections, 
 are attractive. Likewise, the arenas are equipped with working scoreboards and filled with excited 
 fans.  

           EA has heard your cries; you can finally play as the French national team. Vive la France! 

  Considering that Steve Kerr has left the broadcast booth to run the Phoenix Suns, there was some 
 question as to who would fill his shoes in NBA Live. The good news is that it's... Steve Kerr. In 
 addition to dealing with Shawn Marion's trade demands in real life, he's back alongside Marv Albert 
 in the game. Once again the duo is nearly as good in video game form as they are on television. 
 They do a fine job of keeping up with the action, and they mix in a nice bit of analysis and banter 
 in-between. Ernie Johnson and Greg Anthony do a great job calling the All-Star Weekend events. 
 They're always good, but they're at their best when the competitors are at their worst -- they'll 
 really let you hear it if you stink.  

  If you're just doing a rundown of what features and modes are new in NBA Live 08, you might think 
 the game's not all that different from 07. That couldn't be further from the truth. It still has 
 a long way to go before it catches up with the outstanding 2K series, but all of the little tweaks, 
 changes, and enhancements add up to one vastly improved basketball game. NBA Live 08 is worth a 
 look, especially if you like your hoops games with a bit of arcade-style flair to them.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (23 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: BaraChat
Rating: 6.5
Date: Nov 27, 2008 7:50 pm PT
Review:  I enjoy basketball, I've been playing the sport for 13 years. I'm a big fan of the Live series 
 and their right joystick freestyle control. So that's why I opted for that game over 2k8, even 
 though its reviews were not as good.
  It was not a BAD choice, but not far from it. You can enjoy the arcade style of basketball if you 
 can look over the bugs and glitches that are all over the game. I went litteraly through a player 
 once, even the replay showed it perfectly, through the man's chest... Sometimes I was running out 
 of bounds with the ball, no whistle. A whole bunch of lay ups behind the board. Stuff like that 
 that makes you scratch your head and think "how the heck can that happen? is that even possible?"
 
  It has good graphics in HD (no great, good) , some cool playing modes (less than 2k8, but still 
 quite a few) and playing a game is enjoyable and fun. Even though sometimes the funniest thing 
 in a game was a weird glitch in the game. The "practice" menu is kinda nice, although the menu 
 itself is a pain to navigate through. If you don't have HD most of the writings are impossible 
 to read.
  So you can get a few hours of fun from this game if you're able to stand all those technical errors 
 in the game.
  Overall, it deserves a "fair" rating. 6.5 does the trick. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pigsybum
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 7, 2008 9:47 am PT
Review:  This is one of the 3 series of basketball game. I used to prefer 2k, but for 08, the graphics isn't 
 as good as live, and the pacing is also slower. But then live has it's problems, if u can overlook 
 them it's the best basketball game yet.
  
  Gameplay:
  It's a lot better than previous series. Now u get to use the sixaxis for shooting free throws. 
 
  The gameplay is more realistic now, but not to the point where you wouldn't have fun like 2k8. 
 There's many teams, also WNBA, but it's very limited and heard that EA is going to add more next 
 year.
  
  You start the screen in a training basketball court, very much similar to fifa08, you can pick 
 your player u want in the court to practice on.
  
  The presentation is great, but repititive, meaning the introduction of players are always the same. 
 But somehow i am never tired of it.
  
  One big thing added this year was the player's favourite shooting area layout. It makes u instantly 
 recognise who ur 3 pointers are and who ur dunkers are.
  
  Now to the bad part, the loading times, it's pretty long, but can be overlooked. Another thing 
 is the slowdown bug, i don't call it framerate because it isn't exactly so. Whenever a replay is 
 on and u exit it, the game will start to lag bad, the way to solve it is to see through the replay 
 and exit halfway or lower the chances of auto replay.
  
  There's many variations of moves, but also more dunks, more accurate moves of each players. It's 
 like they did a motion capture. But one flaw is the collision, it's evident in other basketball 
 games as well, like 2k8, sometimes players shud have gotten an offensive foul but they didn't, 
 so they kind of smash though a player and do a dunk, sometimes even makin a defensive foul.
  
  aphics:
  
 
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
 
  
  
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Williamthethor
Rating: 7
Date: Aug 31, 2008 3:51 pm PT
Review:  nba 08 is a good game i play it a little here and there its lots of fun in the beggining but slowly 
 dies right off its a game for people who enjoy playing not serouis sports games the ones were u 
 actully need to play defense this game has the basics and a little more but thats the problem sure 
 its your basketball game the one you shoot the ball into the hoop but the main problem is ull find 
 your self doing that alot even on superstar it is probally one of the easiest games ever i usally 
 have about a 20 to 30 point lead after the first quater and when that happens the comp switches 
 and all of a sudden your missing all those shoots you would make even the easy wide open lay ups 
 plus the game glitches huge ever time they show a replay of the lay up or dunk etc the whole game 
 slows right down and glitches out its stupid and a waste of time but if you skip it then the gameplay 
 slows down its an endless spiral the problem is i hate 2k sports games and nba live 08 kills 2k08 
 if u think that live is not the best check out 2k ouchh terrible really what it comes down to is 
 live08 isnt that bad youll have fun playing it for a liitle bit and youll work around the glitches 
 what gets me is how easy it is hopefully 09 is much much tougher maybe ever one will actually play 
 defense so u dont have a score of 150 to 75 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NBAmaster33
Rating: 7
Date: Aug 9, 2008 8:36 pm PT
Review:  Every year I usually buy both the EA and 2K basketball games. I usually like 2K games better, but 
 I bought this game because I also like EA games. Was it worth a purchase? Yes, but the game does 
 have some noticeable problems that drag the gameplay down a bit.
  Graphics -- the player models look great, but the animations look bad. Players pass the ball weirdly, 
 and there are still those little glitches were players' arms or heads will go through either the 
 net, rim or backboard. The animations for running look jerky., also. The crowds look bad, but that's 
 in just about every basketball game ever made. I'd say the graphics aren't perfect but are a lot 
 better than NBA 2K8.
  
  Gameplay -- the controls are fluid and easy to understand. To shoot you press O, to pass press X, 
 press squareto steal, press triangle to block, and so on. Unlike previous PS2 versions of NBA Live, 
 this game's gameplay runs somewhat like 2K8's. However there are some problems that drag the fun 
 down a little. There is no timing on your shot, and it feels like you're not in control of your 
 shot. The AI is bad, since your teammates just stand around after a missed shot and don't attempt 
 to get the rebound. Also, your teammates don't make that much of an effort to get open for a shot. 
 The fouling system is unrealistic and quite annoying. You get charged for charging fouls way too 
 often, and it actually doesn't look like you bumped into the guy if you go to the replay. When 
 a CPU player is driving towards the basket and gets fouled, 90% of the time he hits his attempted 
 shot while in midair. When you play down low on offense, you shoot from behind the backboard too 
 many times. The scoring during a game is still too unrealistic, as the scores usually end up to 
 at least 115 points each team per game. Also the blocking is awful. It's nearly impossible to block 
 a shot, even when you're playing as the center and are trying to block the point guard. An addition 
 to the gameplay are these "hot spots" the players have, which gets annoying. An example of this 
 is when a player is wide open for a three, you pass it to him, but he's in his cold zone so he's 
 very likely to miss the shot, even if it's Kobe Bryant. The multiplayer is really fun. When I play 
 online, I usually play the team play, where it's 5-on-5. I think it's really fun, even with the 
 gameplay problems.
  
  Graphics: 7.9/10 -- the faces and models look great but the animations look jerky and stilted, along 
 with some minor glitches.
  
  Gameplay: 6.3/10 -- good control layout but there's too many problems preventing it from being solid, 
 so it's just ok.
  
  Online: 7.2/10 -- pretty fun but not excellent
  
  Enjoyment: 6.7/10 -- i enjoyed it, but there's a lot of problems that EA need to fix in order for 
 it to be a really good game.
  
  Final Thoughts: If you're a basketball fan get this game, but for anyone else avoid, unless you 
 like some easy achievements. This is a solid basketball game, considering that there isn't much 
 that's better except NBA 2K8.
  
  Final Score: 6.9/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: djkearse36
Rating: 8
Date: Jun 2, 2008 2:58 pm PT
Review:  This game is great. It has great graphics, the shots that go on in are very releastic, the go to 
 move feature is beast, and dynasty mode is pretty good. Even though this sounds weird, they dribble 
 up the court releasticly. Pretty decent back down moves, great offensive foul addition. They are 
 very releastic amount of fouls in a game. Like 12 a game is you play 5 minutes. It feels pretty 
 real in terms of how much times you go to the line. 
  The bad stuff is WHAT LOTS OF PEOPLE COMPLAIN ABOUT THAT HASNT BEEN FIXED! When you play online 
 sometimes it will refuse to let you play. The person just can't change teams. Other times everything 
 goes fine. We're playing a game and we're all set when suddenly the guy just cant press anything 
 but back, he cant change his team... he cant do anything! That is a big promblem that stopped me 
 from playing online altogether. Fastbreak animations are pretty bad. Sometimes you pass the ball 
 and he will go back to get it when he is on the run and the ball will be a floater. It gets taken 
 away everytime. There's slightly too much dunking but thats not really a promblem. The ball hits 
 the backboard or the bottom of the rim WAYYYY to often. Sometimes people will atempt to alleyoop 
 behind the backboard!!!! Well its a pretty good game and deserves a 7.5 atleast. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kobe24mvp
Rating: 6.5
Date: Apr 2, 2008 6:02 pm PT
Review:  So, I got NBA live, and I played it for a while, it was a great game at first. Awesome graphics, 
 good commentary, and nicely improved game play with signature shots and go to moves were pretty 
 smooth. The dynasty mode is good, in terms of how deep it goes. only some problems though, the 
 players do not improve realistically in dynasty mode, the max I got was about three ratings improved, 
 but you usually u only get 1 rating improved from your players if that, none at all. Also, you 
 start playing the game, and after three to four months or so, the game gets unbelievably easy, 
 and it's not worth playing because every game is a 30 point lead in the first quarter. Online play, 
 it is alright, I mean you won't get a blast out of it. The computer AI is extremely easy, the game 
 does not run smoothly, such as how players dunk, layup, or sometimes shoot, it looks a little awkward 
 to me. If you are a basketball junky, I wouldn't consider this game to you, but if you suck at 
 basketball games, give it a try. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: do_the_mario
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 23, 2008 8:57 am PT
Review:  Well this game was always in my mind after my basketball season ended (Me and my buddies) So when 
 I got to blockbuster to buy my nephew a gift I see this and Burnout Paridise. I was gonna buy NBA 
 live 08 but didn't hava a lot of cash (Saving up for an acoustic guitar and soft pick) So yeah, 
 Anyway this game has slightly impressive graphics though I believe that NHL 08 has better graphics 
 where as sound I think is more realistic in NBA live 08! Anyway Gameplay is all that matters right? 
 Anyway in NBA live 08 there are so many game modes that well it lags, A lot but the game modes 
 are a lot of fun like Practice, Sprite Slam Dunk contest, Fiba cup, 3 point contest, and Create 
 a baller! However with out the ability to create a team EA really "Dropped the ball" Yes laugh 
 the pun up while I got vomit! Anyway NBA live 08 is good but not good enough! I mean the Raptors 
 don't even have Jamario Moon and he's not in Free Agents either! Anyway I'm being a little hipocritical 
 so I'll stop here! So rent the game and THEN decide on wiether or not you're going to buy it!
 
  
  DTM signin' Off 8) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: weddlecm
Rating: 7
Date: Feb 20, 2008 1:27 pm PT
Review:  NBA LIve 2008 is the newest hit basketball game for the live series. This game is really much different 
 from the other games. Just updated players. The controls are pretty good but a little ify sometimes 
 which always gets agrivating. Also the gameplay is solid, which a touch of wow with the intelligiant 
 looking graphics. The game players actually get seatier during the game play, which is a nice little 
 touch to the game. But it just really dissapointed me how it's just the same game play. The menus 
 are the same, I just wish that the makers of sport games would put a little more effort in them 
 and add some new touches to the series. Other than that, if you are looking for a solid looking 
 basketball game with nicely developed graphics I would reccemend this game to you. Thanks for reading 
 and send me a friend request if you wish. 7.0/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gatorforlife07
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 29, 2007 7:01 pm PT
Review:  NBA live is back but would it be better than the other the other NBA live games? The answer to 
 that question is yes because of good graphics and great gameplay. The graphics are alot better 
 than other NBA games but could be a littile bit better unfortunatly the graphics are not like the 
 graphics in the NFL games that EA sports makes but they are still very good. The gameplay is also 
 alot smoother than other NBA games but there are still some problems with it but EA should fix 
 it in next years game. Another good thing that is in this game is the all star weekend and you 
 can play a slam dunk contest , three point contest, and all star games. There are also many other 
 different features that are very good and fun. If you ask me this game is better than the the 2K8 
 game and is deffinatley worth buying if you are a fan of basketball. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: coolkid93
Rating: 7.5
Date: Oct 15, 2008 6:34 pm PT
Review:  This is a pretty goodgame but it has some things that would bug people.
  The bad things about this game is that there is no defense on certain players, and when you try 
 to make close shots or layups you miss them most of the time. You will sometimes miss easy shots. 
 Come on if I miss one from down town, no big deal, but like standing 3 inches away from the rim??? 
 But other than that the game play is good. The graphics are good and the sound is. I like NBA Live 
 08. The game will also show you where you players hotspots are
  which is helpful. The arenas have working scoreboards and a lot of excited fans. The game has some 
 pretty good controls and the controls are very responsive but when making layups or very close 
 shots is sometimes a pain in the butt and not much has improved on this game since the Past series. 
 This basketball this isn't the best basket ball game but good.
  This isn't the greatest basketball Game I have ever had.2k8 might be a little better. The game 
 is fun and all but has some issues. NBA live 08 has 'Rent Me first' written all over it. NBA live 
 08 is a game you should rent first before you buy and right now the price is worth buying it for... 
 if you really like the game. You can also download the demo at the playstation store. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kelseyjb
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 20, 2007 9:29 am PT
Review:  I like this live the best sense live 03 at first i wasnt to sure should i get it after playing 
 it i really liked it it has some issues still but it is leaps and bounds over last year live i 
 was a 2k fan but this year 2k8 wasnt really that good live controls better has great graphics and 
 its a fun game to play they will only get better after as the years go on this nba live is good 
 start i really hope they keep getting better and the go to moves work great and its just a fluid 
 game keep it up live. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sinister2016
Rating: 6.5
Date: Dec 5, 2007 10:15 am PT
Review:  NBA Live '08 left me wanting more. The slow game play, the player graphics all left me saying that 
 they could have done much better. It's not like the PS3 is new, there is no excuse for what I see 
 is a hurried program. Saying all that it is playable, the on-line games seemed to have improved, 
 the side games are cool, and the create a player also showed improvement. The fans in the seats 
 look more involved, too bad; I would have liked to see paper cut outs than the lack of improvement 
 on the floor.
  This game could have led the genre, but instead it seemed like the developers wanted to push a 
 game out there solely on past success.
  Bored after 1 day .
  JOMO.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: WereAllCritics
Rating: 5.5
Date: Nov 17, 2007 2:42 pm PT
Review:  As a Gilbert Arenas fan, I've wanted to play this game since I saw him on the cover. I saw commercials 
 with crisp, clean, photorealistic graphics which convinced me that this game was worth a play. 
 Good thing I rented it. Had this game had graphics that were any less than superb, it would have 
 been god-awful. This game has stunning visuals and presentation on the PS3, as well as an interface 
 that's very visually appealing. Once you play the game, however, you will see exactly how hard 
 it really is to have fun with this game. My list of complaints goes on and on, but here are a few 
 key points that should dissuade any nba fans from buying this game (or any gamers, for that matter) . 
 First of all, the controls and player movement in this game prevents you from playing any defense. 
 Go-to-moves offensively are often overpowered and make your accuracy rediculously high (to this 
 date I have missed only 2 go-to-move shots in probably well over 100 attempts) . Kobe's go to move 
 is seemingly unstopppable from anywhere on the court, even 10 feet behind the 3-point line. Not 
 every player has a go-to-move, and regular shots or even point-blank layups are not nearly as reliable 
 as Gilbert's special shot, even just beyond half court. Finally. this game simply has too many 
 bugs to enjoy. During the 4th quarter of one game there was 8 seconds left and the wizards (me) 
 were down by 2 points to Cleveland (AI) and I had the ball at half-court just about to inbound 
 and have Gilbert make his unstoppable shot. However the player inbounding the ball was Josh Boone 
 of the New Jersey Nets, who isn't on either team, who I couldn't control and was turned the ball 
 over because he held the ball for 5 seconds without inbounding. I lost the game because of that 
 ridiculousbug and many similar bugs have affected me during games. As pretty as this game looks, 
 on't waste your money if you plan to actually play it. It's not NBA 07 or 08 bad, but it sure as 
 heck is NOT anywhere near NBA 2K level. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: frankieguy
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 16, 2007 8:23 pm PT
Review:  Well first of all this game is way better than last years 07 game is much improved especially on 
 the graphics stand point when u play a game u could actually see there sweat and muscle defenition 
 on every player and the arenas look amazing. I could say the live series is going to a coluld path 
 i just cant wait for 09 so if your thinking on which game to buy 2k or live u should go to live 
 2k is a good game and i really love it but this year i am sooo amaze of nba live cause they really 
 step up this year and it plays like nba live is soposed to play!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: leerpac
Rating: 1
Date: Oct 8, 2007 4:20 pm PT
Review:  Although it may be better than earlier nba lives, it's still not good. there is almost no defense 
 and to make up for it players will randomly miss shots, especially lay-ups, but the special moves 
 are unrealistic because you almost never miss. this is not even a close second to nba 2k8, i would 
 not recommend this game to anyone that like sports simulations. if you like to just run and gun 
 and don't care about guarding anyone (because you can just slide them out of the way) this might 
 be the game for you. some people will say i am just a 2k sports guy, however my buddy bought the 
 game (he has always played the live series) and he can't bear to play it any longer, he is selling 
 it on ebay to buy 2k8. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DMoneyWill
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 17, 2007 5:23 pm PT
Review:  I've read alot of preview articles about Live 08 and 2k8 comparing the two (PS3) so when the demo's 
 became available, Im tried them both out and I was really impressed with Live 08 improvements more 
 so than 2k8 which was basically the same game as 2k7 with new rosters and a couple of new game 
 play modes ( Dunk contest and Blacktop) . I purchased NBA Live 07 on Xbox 360 last year and was 
 very disappointed. There are still a few flaws in Live 08 but with all the improvements to 08 Im 
 glad to see EA is trying to make Live worth buying again. So I made NBA Live 08 my first PS3 purchase!! 
 If you a serious baller check out both games but as for me Im cool with NBA Live 08. EA has shown 
 me some progress and Live 08 is way better than last years debacle of a basketball sim. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LordKTF
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 6, 2007 11:04 am PT
Review:  Nba Live has always been a good game to play. But its time to make Live a AMAZING GAME to play. 
 Live needs to set to tone for next year, by pushing out of their comfort zone into uncharted land. 
 I think gamers and fans of the Live would love to finally see the full likeness of next-gen. I 
 think Live should include schedule practices during franchise mode, workout session, and basketball 
 training program.
  
  Practices -interactive drills ( which the team runs or just your player)
  -going over gameplay 
 with teammates and coach
  -learn the new game strategy by running new plays before every game.
  
  Workout Sessions
 
  
  -weight training
  -running suicides -defensive workouts
  -offensive workouts
  
  Training Program, this program helps you gain strength in all areas. Its can also help you get 
 in shape. Like for example when Lebron James came into league, he had the height and weight but 
 not the totally force behind it. He train hard and eventually even his strength with size. At the 
 begin of the program you'll take before &amp; after picture of yourself . Also a before &amp; after 
 ratings of yourself. The program can involve:
  
  -hard workouts -weight lifting, running, etc.
  -gain needed physique for your position.
  -gain 
 muscle and body mass with it.
  -become a stronger player in 8 weeks training 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Samim21
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 5, 2007 10:24 pm PT
Review:  This game seems to be better than last years game in alot of ways but also took a step back in 
 some ways. When you play the game at first it doesn't feel too good but as you play more you notice 
 that its much better and well worth it. The only major problem that i noticed with this game was 
 that the player models are not close to as good as it should be. And they also seem to miss alot 
 of easy shots and take some from behind the backboard but if they fixed those 3 things the game 
 would be about 9.5 but right now i'm gonna say about an 8. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ROCKYJER
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 5, 2007 1:21 pm PT
Review:  I have been playing this game since NBA live 95 and all the versions in between have sort of been 
 the same with the exception of the graphics get a little better each year. NBA live 08 has re-kindled 
 the fire, the game play is amazing from skip passes on the fast break to the big men down low moves. 
 And now when you put a shot up it doesn't alway go straight in (nothing but net) . It may bounce 
 around the rim a few times before the shot drops just like real life. Along with more frame rates 
 to improve the look of the game, a lot of thought and detail has been put into this version and 
 I am very impressed 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Miljas
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 5, 2007 6:00 am PT
Review:  Way better then Live 07. Though not perfect, I think Live is on its way back to the top. I use 
 to always play Live but after last year I was worried for what was in-store for this year. The game 
 runs smooth, the graphics are great. Only real flaw I can see is too many missed layups, but other 
 than that its a good buy. If you are a Live fan , you'll be pleased to see this game. Its cool 
 to practice in the gym and be able to listen to espn radio or watch tv footage of espn on your 
 screen.. I cant complain about this game . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: al721
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 4, 2007 10:11 pm PT
Review:  This year's NBA LIVE is a complete turn around. First off, the gameplay is a lot better than what 
 a lot gives them credit for. Although it's still not as sharp as 2K's, you get much less of the 
 arcadey feeling. The graphics in LIVE is amazingly good while continuing to offer their usual stellar 
 presentation. Superstar's shots look realistic and most player models are done very well. Dynasty 
 mode is as fun as ever with a few new additions. Taking out the superstar mode is something EA 
 should've done a long time ago. This year without the amazingly ridiculious superstar moves, is 
 actually for the better. The subtraction of that feature overall really helps them lose the whole 
 arcade image. Other than several minor bugs and issues, this game is enjoyable and actually fun 
 this year, minus the arcade experience. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: neovico
Rating: 6.5
Date: Oct 4, 2007 9:36 pm PT
Review:  It&acute; s certain that this game is far from the disaster of Live 07, but it&acute; s no enought, 
 overall in terms of gameplay.
  
  Yes, the graphics are great, faces, details, sweat, all really acurate (the arenas need much work, 
 more ambience) , but if the gameplay is not convinced??, It&acute; s clear that is a step forward, 
 but there&acute; s so many aspects that affect gameplay.
  
  First of all, this game remains arcade over simulation, if you preferd arcade style, there&acute; s 
 no problem, but i preferd real basketball. Ball physics and player animations are strange yet, 
 in the sense of that you have not the TOTAL control over your players and the ball, a ball that 
 seems medicinal . On this game you can crash the hoop since the first moment, and well, it&acute; s 
 no real in this sense. Player animations are ok, only ok, but they are far from 2k movements. Most 
 of the plays like pick and roll, screen, low post, etc.... are really strange, and you finally will 
 go to smash the hoop instead of a shoot. The game is a bit limited on this.
  
  Resuming, it&acute; s much better than 07, overall for the inclusion of the FIBA teams, but it&acute; s 
 strange to find the feeling that you are really taking the control and playing real basketball. 
 I know that comparations are pure hate, but if you take this game and after it you play 2K8, well..... there&acute; s 
 a big hole between both games.
  
  I hope a real competition between this 2 games for next year, because of this way, the consumer 
 always wins.
  
  Take care 
::::::

::::::
UserName: iri7
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 5, 2007 7:45 am PT
Review:  I just bought the game earlier this afternoon. I tried the Demo for all 3 NBA games and I just 
 loveeee the graphic for NBA live 2008. Most superstars have their own GO TO MOVES (something like 
 their trademark when it comes to shooting and scoring) . As for the game play, u are free to control 
 ur dribbling by the right analog (I am a point guard when it comes to playing basketball.. so being 
 able to give me more option in terms of dribbling and crossover, I enjoy NBA live game play much 
 more than the other 2. Overall, the graphic and the game play are the two main factors why i choose 
 NBA live over NBA 2k8 and NBA 08. =D
  
  P. S. For those who played the DEMO, u will notice the game LAGS for some time when any side starts 
 the ball. They fixed that bug but it still does lag until u pass the half court line. this only 
 happens occassionally. it doesnt bother me much cos the actions are after the half court line =D
 
  
  ADDITIONAL COMMENT AFTER GAMESPOT RELEASED ITS RATING
  notice that gamespot review mentioned NOTHING about the graphic at all.
  i wonder if they are 
 just playing the game blindly or something... cos i think graphic makes the FIRST and the BIGGEST 
 impression when u started the game. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
