-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: NBA Street Homecourt
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/ps3/sports/nbastreet4/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Slightly simplified gameplay is outstanding.
 Dunks are better than ever.
 Player animation is smooth and realistic.
 Eclectic soundtrack is a joy to listen to.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Value hurt by a lack of gameplay modes.
 Graphics filter hurts more than it helps.
 It's often nearly impossible to pick up loose balls.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Mar  8, 2007
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 8
Critic Score: 8.2, 31 Review (s)
User Score: 8.3, 633 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: EA Sports Big
Developer: EA Canada
Genre: Basketball
Date: Mar 6, 2007
ESRB: Everyone

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Light on content but deep on gameplay, NBA Street Homecourt's PlayStation 3 debut is ultimately 
 a great one. 

  When the original NBA Street hit the scene in 2001, it took the over-the-top basketball formula 
 established by the NBA Jam series to the next level. Since then, enormous rim-rocking dunks, intentional 
 fouls, and blatant goaltending have been a part of nearly every play. Rather than simply adding 
 more content and possibly making the latest game in the Street series too complex, developer EA 
 Canada has trimmed the fat and focused almost entirely on simplifying and perfecting the gameplay. 
 NBA Street Homecourt is easier than ever to pick up and play, and almost all of the new moves and 
 dunks are fantastic, but because of a shallow career mode and a limited number of other gameplay 
 modes, there aren't enough ways to enjoy it.  

          Once again, the dunks leave Mars Blackmon asking, 'Is it the shoes?'     

  NBA Street's 
 fast-paced, over-the-top gameplay is back, and it's as good as ever. The trick stick has been removed, 
 but the new simplified controls work very well. Basic dribble moves are mapped to the square and 
 triangle buttons, and the really crazy stuff is performed by hitting one of those face buttons 
 in conjunction with a shoulder button. As always, the more moves you make, the faster your gamebreaker 
 meter fills. And if you really make a defender look bad, you'll earn a bonus for your trick points. 
 As crazy as they are, the series' dunks are so frequent that they've almost become routine. Almost. 
 Homecourt has breathed new life into dunks by adding a few twists. For starters, teammates will 
 sometimes get down on all fours at the top of the key and act as launching pads. All you've got 
 to do is run up to them and jump, and you'll soon find yourself high in the sky heading toward 
 the rim for a vicious dunk. The biggest addition to the dunk repertoire is the double, and sometimes 
 triple, dunk. A meter fills as you hold down the dunk button, and the longer you hold it, the more 
 powerful your dunk. If you release the button too late, you'll get denied by the rim, but if you 
 time it just right, you can dunk the ball, catch it, and dunk it again. If you do this during a 
 gamebreaker, you can dunk the ball a third time. Multiple dunks are both awesome and awful. It's 
 great when you're the dunker, but as the dunkee, it's maddening to lose a close game as a victim 
 of a double dunk. It's bad enough when you're playing against a friend, but it feels downright 
 cheap when the CPU does it.  

  After you've performed enough tricks and dunks to fill the gamebreaker meter, it's time to unleash 
 some pain. Once the meter is activated, you've got a limited amount of time to score, but you'll 
 want to take some time to perform as many tricks as possible because the more you refill your meter, 
 the more points your bucket will be worth. As usual, the moves and dunks you can perform here are 
 completely over-the-top, even by Street standards. While the game's focus is mostly on offense, 
 you'll need to hunker down on defense if you're to rule the streets. Goaltending and fouling aren't 
 just allowed -- they're encouraged. The way you play defense is largely unchanged, and for the most 
 part, it's very satisfying, especially when you're blocking shot after shot. The only negative 
 aspect of the gameplay is that it's often very difficult to pick up loose balls, particularly if 
 you're on defense. The CPU even has a difficult time picking the ball up and getting it back to 
 the baseline after a bucket.  

  The one area in which Homecourt is lacking is the number of gameplay modes. You can play a basic 
 game without tricks and gamebreakers or play games where points count only if they're scored with 
 a full trick meter or a gamebreaker. However, none of those modes are particularly interesting. 
 Online play offers up the same games, as well as leaderboards. While the game runs well online, 
 it would have been nice to have some sort of true online career mode. Because the other modes are 
 so shallow, nearly all of the game's value is found in the Homecourt Challenge.  

  Homecourt Challenge is where you play on your local court, eventually make a name for yourself, 
 and take on real NBA players on their homecourts. You start by creating a baller, but rather than 
 altering individual features, you select from one of a handful of generic heads and then merge 
 it with the heads of two NBA players. This means that you can finally find out what the love child 
 of Steve Nash and Yao Ming would look like. (It's every bit as horrifying as you might imagine.) 
 Outside of being sort of creepy, the create-a-player feature is quite limited. After you've created 
 your Frankenstein baller, you assign him a position and playing style. Then, you head to the court 
 where you can round out your squad of three by picking up some no-name locals. Once your squad 
 is assembled, you'll play pickup games against other local players, and eventually, you'll get 
 to take on teams made of NBA and even a few WNBA players. The rules for victory vary. Sometimes 
 the winner is the first to score 21 or the first to lead by three points; other times, you'll only 
 be allowed to dunk or take jump shots. Your created player's attributes improve slightly after 
 each game, and when you reach a certain level, you can max out one skill by designating it as a 
 "freak skill." This makes your player nearly unstoppable in one aspect of his game, and knowing 
 you have a deadly shooter, shot blocker, or rebounder is invaluable in tight games against the 
 CPU. You won't want to get attached to your teammates because you'll constantly be adding and dropping 
 players to improve your team's talent level.  

  Part of the appeal of the NBA Street series has always been the great player animation, and Homecourt 
 does not disappoint. Dunks are satisfying not only because they change the score, but also because 
 they look powerful, leaving fallen players and bent rims in their wake. You never know what mind-blowing 
 dunk you'll see next, either. It might be a reverse, or a reverse with a flip, pump, spin, and 
 a windmill. These moves look even better, thanks to a consistently snappy frame rate. The players 
 look realistic, and because the game's roster is mostly made up of the NBA's better players, they're 
 almost all instantly recognizable in-game and look even better in the replays. The real-life courts 
 on which you play vary greatly in style and design. Most of them aren't instantly recognizable 
 locales, but whether it's an indoor gym, beachside court, or urban setting, they all look nice. 

  It's odd that the developer decided to muck up all of the great-looking animations, players, and 
 courts with a "retro" look. Everything is run through a filter that gives it a sepia tone. The 
 idea was to make the NBA players' homecourts look as they might in home movies or pictures. This 
 might make sense if there were any old-school players, but it's a safe bet that Carmello Anthony's 
 home movies weren't shot with an old 8mm camera. There's no option to turn the effect off, either. 
 Eventually you can get past it, but it's still lame. Homecourt supports 1080p, but it doesn't look 
 much better than the lower resolutions; and the frame rate, which is fine in 1080i and 720p, takes 
 a pretty big hit in 1080p.  

          Unless you look like a combination of both AI and T-Mac, morphing two NBA players into 
 one isn't the ideal way to create your own baller.     

  The game's audio also has a bit of a retro feel to it, but it works because it's cool. When you 
 bust out a gamebreaker, you'll do so to the synthesized funk of Herbie Hancock's "Rockit." The 
 outstanding soundtrack features artists, such as RJD2, Quincy Jones, The Jackson 5, DJ Shadow featuring 
 Q-Tip and Lateef, the Herbaliser, and many more. On the court, players will talk trash, which itself 
 is nothing new, but here it actually doesn't sound supercheesy.  

  There's a lot to like about NBA Street Homecourt's debut on the PlayStation 3. The controls are 
 easy to learn, the gameplay is as tight as ever, players look great and move well, and the soundtrack 
 is top-notch. As any good game should, Homecourt leaves you wanting more, not only because it's 
 so much fun, but also because there isn't enough to do. However, there are worse things you can 
 say about a game other than it left you wanting more.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (30 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: amplified217
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 3, 2008 6:42 am PT
Review:  Homecourt is a fantastic addition to the NBA Street series. Though there are a few letdowns, it 
 is overall still a great game that's extremely enjoyable to play, especially with friends.
  
  In the Homecourt Challenge mode, you will play unknowns, NBA and WNBA players, working your 
 way up from local prodigy to street hero. There are goals for each game, for example: first to 
 30, first to make 6 dunks, etc. On the way you will earn your nickname and increase your skills 
 and abilities, such as shooting, blocking, and dunking. You will also be given two chances to fill 
 a skill category to 100% through the 'Freak Skill' and 'Master Skill', so I recommend you choose 
 wisely. The moves in this game are absolutely insane. There are two trick buttons and two modifiers 
 which allow you to pull off crossovers, bounces off the opponent's head and other sweet moves, 
 all of which are executed much better if you have a skilled ball handler like AI or Chris Paul. 
 
  
  One of the most notable new features of Homecourt is the double dunk: hold Circle for just the 
 right amount of time when dunking and you will execute another one on the same play. Hold it for 
 too long and you'll end up with a terrible miss and your opponent with possession of the ball. 
 You can also use your teammates as launching pads for dunks, and of course you can lob the ball 
 when you see your teammate in the air for the alley-oop.
  
  The gamebreakers in Homecourt are better than ever. After having filled up the meter performing 
 crossovers, spin moves, dunks and the lot, your player will go to centre court and activate the 
 gamebreaker. Toy with your opponent with even crazier moves before heading for the rim for a mind-blowing 
 jam. The more tricks performed the more points you will receive after the dunk. Or you can wait 
 for your teammate to crouch down at the three-point line for you to execute a barrel-roll jump 
 off his back and throw down a triple dunk.
  
  There's no commentary on this one, so no Bobby Garcia, however there are some sweet tunes and you 
 will get to hear the players talking to one another, calling for the ball and insulting the other 
 team. 
  
  The graphics are incredible, some of the best on a basketball game. The court, surroundings, players 
 and their jerseys look great, and the movement is smooth and fluid. Though I've seen some negative 
 comments for the sepia-style tone, I think it looks good and works well, but I guess you'll have 
 to decide for yourself.
  
  There were only a few things that brought the game down for me, the first of which was the length. 
 The second was the fact that there isn't as much freedom in customisation as in Street V3. For 
 a game entitled 'Homecourt' it surprised me that you can't create your own court, a feature which 
 I loved in the previous instalment. There also isn't nearly as much choice in clothing and accessories 
 apart from a few jerseys and sneakers. The third was that the Street Legends and NBA legends don't 
 appear, which was a big disappointment for me. I would've loved going up against Bird or Magic 
 in this one.
  
  However the negatives certainly don't take away from the fact that this is a fantastic and addictive 
 game. As a basketball fan I loved it, but I have friends who aren't big on basketball who loved 
 playing it as well. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: cbmurphy2489
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jun 5, 2008 6:21 pm PT
Review:  NBA has a lot of decorated arcade basketball games such as 'NBA JAM', 'NBA Ballers', and even 'NBA 
 Showtime'. But none of them are as better as 'NBA Street Homecourt'. Well, 'Street V3' is still 
 better than the others, but Homecourt is still addictive and fun to play.
  
  Much has been changed here on Street, such as the single player mode called "Homecourt Challenge", 
 where you create your own baller, find the skills that suit you better, and go from an unknown 
 player to a homecourt legend in your hometown. Also, you can only face the present-day NBA ballers 
 and not the NBA or "Street" legends, which is a major disappoint-ment to me and the Street fans. 
 Secondly, the differences are that you can only choose faces, randomize heads, and choose Air Jordan 
 gear for the player. No tattoos, caps, pants, jeans, or anything like that. That feature had been 
 removed for some reason. Not to mention the 'create-a-court' feature from Street V3. Also, there's 
 not much you've expect to achieve on there, but at least you get to make yourself known.
  
  The first new feature is the "Trick Remixer", where you get to string together the perfect blend 
 of moves with crossovers and tricks. You can tap, hold, and release the Square button for crossovers, 
 while you press the Triangle button to bounce the ball on the defender's head and use it for tricks. 
 Another thing, EA had removed signature moves such as Magic Johnson's and Biggie Little's, which 
 also pissed me off. Whatever happened to 'Cucumber Slice' Garcia? That dude was funny as hell.
 
  
  The "Double-Dunk" feature, which can be done by holding the Circle button at the last possible 
 moment, once you make or modify a dunk move. Hold it too long and it will be anybody's ball, but 
 make sure the defender doesn't catch the ball. Secondly, the leaping shoulder dunk can be done 
 by getting near your teammate and pressing Circle. Also, the "Gamebreaker" feature has been modified 
 and simply balanced to its core. You get to do these crazy crossovers and dunks for bigger points. 
 Now that's insanity!
  
  'NBA Street Homecourt' is an electrifying game to play and at a good price, too. If some of you 
 Street fans have never played this one, you should. Once you have the control in your hands, you 
 won't ever stop playing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: unreal1212
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 22, 2008 1:27 pm PT
Review:  NBA is a sequel to he NBA series. The series is all about basketball (duh) . Fans of the series 
 (and sports games) will love this game. 
  
  The graphis in this game are pretty good. They make it look like they shot the game from an old 
 camra but in my opinion it doesen't work well with "next-gen" systems. The gameplay is basic NBA 
 Street. The game, as most games, can go up to 4 players and is really fun when you have a party 
 over. There is online, but every time I get online, no one is on which is a bumber. So I can't 
 tell you how the online is.
  
  There is "rule the streets" story mode which you go around challanging people to play some B-ball 
 and that's it. There is also quick play where you pick a team and play. There are also game modes 
 such as "Classic" where there is no gamebreakers and "Gamebreaker battle" where you score points 
 but you have to score points using gamebreaker. Points without Gamebreaker wouldn't count.
  
  Overall, the game is pretty shout but you could have LOADS of fun with that time being.
  
 
  NBA Street Homecort get an 8 out of 10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LURCH87
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 20, 2008 1:48 am PT
Review:  Homecourt is way better than V3, but pales in comparison to the classic Vol. 2. Best played with 
 a friend who is as good as you, so that games will have that excitement and constant lead changing 
 fun.
  
  Graphics: These are the best of the series by far. All the characters are rendered so well it's 
 eerie. The courts look magnificent and the effects are great. Jersey's flow with the player in 
 a natural way and the gamebreakers are much better this time around. Presentation is nice also 
 from menus to how they show videos.
  
  Sound: The music is also on point with the soundtrack consisting of soul tracks to underground 
 hip hip, there's even tracks created just for this game. The player chatter is funny and even informative 
 at times, players occasionally say how many points they are up by and taunt the opponent.
  
  Controls: The controls are revamped completely, but in a welcomed way. You now have two trick 
 buttons and two modifiers. This may sound simple and it is, but it masks serious depth. You will 
 definitely need to use the practice mode to find out what every trick looks like and the best way 
 to use it in a real game. Defense is improved too as you can now counter better and push your opponent 
 is they like to trick too much. Even on offense you can counter the defense, so they can't abuse 
 the push button.
  
  Overall: This is second best to Vol. 2 because it completely lost NBA Legends and the Street Legends 
 (although xbox owners can buy the Street Legends and even new courts) . This game also lacks game 
 modes, but the double dunks and online play will take your mind off of that for awhile. This is 
 definitely a step in the right direction though. GREAT GAME!!!!!!!!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chrismaster36
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 31, 2008 6:55 pm PT
Review:  Homecourt follows the story of Melo's life, where he lived, how he started his career and goes 
 along with all your fav NBA all-stars. When your ready for some hoops, you get to create your own 
 character. You can unlock shoes, shirts and new teammates as you play. The graphics are good in 
 this game an I'm just sayin good. At some points the graphics can be like an old PS2 game, but 
 it won't really bother you. You'll face real NBA players in the campaign and they get tougher along 
 the way. There's various tyes of game modes like Gamebrealker Battle, which is really hard to pull 
 off, shots only game, which is easy, dunks only game, and that's it. Also, the game likes to track 
 your wins and losses through the career, which is really cool. I haven't tried the online yet, 
 I don't even know if there is online. The game by- itself should take you 5-6 hours to beat, so 
 it's really short. Also, when you beat the game, you unlock new courts, all the bonus courts, shoes, 
 and shirts. You can choose who you wanna be, someone from the NBA, or someone from the WNBA, which 
 a cool addition that they put in there. So yeah, you should pick this game up if you are a Die 
 hard NBA fan. BEST NBA STREET!!! Cons are the graphics and the games length. But anyway, pick this 
 game up!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vishakhenzo2005
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 16, 2008 11:18 pm PT
Review:  WELL TO START WITH THIS IS NOT A GAME WHICH GAMERS WITH NO IMAGINATION WILL LOVE... IF U DNT LIKE 
 'UNREALISTIC' GAMEPLAY... THEN WHY DNT U JUST GO TO A BASKETBALL COURT AND PLAY THE REAL SPORT... THERE 
 ARE IMPOSSIBLE STUNTS AND TRCKS IN THE GAME ... BUT THAT IS WHAT MAKES THE GAME SO AMAZING AND WONDERFUL 
 TO PLAY.... THE INTERFACE IS REALLY SIMPLE AND IS REALLY EASY TO UNDERSTAND AND DIFFICULTY LEVEL 
 IS JUST RIGHT FOR THE AVERAGE GAMER... ALTHOUGH SOME WILL FIND THE GAMES DIFFICULTY EASY...
  THE GAMEBREAKER IS THE MOST ASTONISHING AND 'WOW' THING IN THE GAME... WITH THE COOL MUSIC WHICH 
 STARTS TO PLAY WITH EVERY GAMEBREAKER IT WILL JUST MAKE U SO ACTIVE SUDDENLY... AND THE TRICKS DURING 
 THE GAME CAN HUMILIATE ANY OPPONENT TO THEIR GROUND... THE PACE OF THE GAME IS JUSTR PERFECT EVEN 
 DURING ONLINE PLAY... BUT THE ONLY FLAW IN THE GAME IS THE LACK IN NO. OF GAME MODES BOTH IN OFFLINE 
 AND ONLINE PLAY.... A LITTLE MORE OF GAME MODES CAN MAKE THE GAME LOOK PERFECT ..
  WELL OVERALL I STILL SAY THE GAME IS PRETTY AUSUMN AND FABULOUS .... WITH VERY VERY MINOR FLAWS... BUT 
 THE BEST NBA STREET GAME AS AND TILL NOW FOR SURE..
  
  GAMEPLAY-
  9.5
  
  INTERFACE-
  9
  
  SOUND-
  10
  
  VALUE FOR MONEY-
  8.7
  
  OVERALL... AUSUMN GAME
 
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: speedjunkie4
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 29, 2007 2:46 pm PT
Review:  Homecourt has taken a radcal turn for the better. The premise of this game is to play some b-ball 
 in some courts were some of the NBA's stars started out in. But also, you get to make your own 
 baller and go round the US, picking up players and unlocking more courts along the way. Also, the 
 soundtrack has dramatically changed, with a less approach to hip-hop and more to "Home tracks." 
 (Even a song from Tiger Woods PGA Tour 07 is represented here. I think.....) But, with the good 
 comes the bad. There isen't alot of variety to the events in the main mode (There is only a few 
 varietions of a normal game.) , and some of the courts have a aura when you are playing. WTF? But 
 also, there are some new changes to gameplay. There are some very awesome dunks that look like 
 the impossible. Also, the gamebreaker meter has changed from a bar to a spinning basketball that 
 shows how much gamebreaker you have by spinning. (So, if you have no gamebreaker, it will spin 
 slow. If you have enough gamebreaker to unleash it, it will spin really fast.) All in all, this 
 game is light on variety but deep on gameplay, but with some crappy feutures, it may leave arcade 
 b-ballers unsatisfied. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Princeneptunes
Rating: 7.5
Date: Oct 17, 2007 4:56 pm PT
Review:  First off lemme say this game is so DAMN short. The gameplay is not but like others have said, 
 this doesn't compare to version 1 &amp; 2. I missed the feature where the backboard would brake 
 if u did a crazy dunk. This is just a game you would rent but not buy. I'm about to sell back this 
 game. This game like other ps3 games is pretty good in the graphics department but falls short 
 in the actual gameplay. the concept of the game is good but could've been better. They could've 
 expanded the story mode alittle bit more. This game seemed like it was rushed or something. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: streetthug
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 10, 2007 1:00 am PT
Review:  Well I am a major fan of the NBA STREET line and this one is well in NBA Street V3 we got the trick 
 stick and i was liking that but now in Homecourt that stick is gone and now you have just square 
 and triangle and the L1 and R1 are the remixer buttons but counter tricks is so easy as you watch 
 when it shows the triangle or square. The Game-breaker is a battle you just fill your meter and 
 go to half court and show off but be careful because your opponent can still it. The thing that 
 should have been in it is if its Homecourt the court creator is missing so all they know is your 
 name and where your from thats it. But this is the first NBA Street WITHOUT THE LEGENDS NOW EA WHAT 
 IS GOING ON. But it goes as to a character you pick between three types and they are guard, center, 
 and forward. When that is done you can pick two NBA players heads and this lets you see what it 
 would be if those to had a baby ha ha. But the game is addictive with the double dunk and boost 
 dunks it feels like real life the way they talk trash like your on the court. But the thing thats 
 most convincing is as you play through with your creation the more you do of a skill the more the 
 skill increases and soon the first upgrade will be a FREAK SKILL this lets you obtain a full increase 
 in the skill you pick so choose wisely and later on you will get the MASTER SKILL this is what 
 you baller is all about what brings you and make you that HERO. But the thing i love is if your 
 player has that jump shot then every long range shot is going in all day. But the game is good only 
 thing is WE WANT THE LEGENDS but other then that it lives up to the Series 
::::::

::::::
UserName: djs336
Rating: 6
Date: Aug 21, 2007 9:23 am PT
Review:  They had something good going until they had to change the button configuration. Street 1 and Street 
 2 will always stand out as the best Street games made. Sure Street 3 and Homecourt have better 
 graphics, but they don't compare to the gameplay and tilt of the originals. You had better control 
 of what dunks you wanted to perform and they weren't so off the wall that it just made it ridiculous. 
 Also, online play for homecourt is horrible due to the lag of the network connections. Streets 
 is such a fast paced game that the lag screws up and deteriorates gameplay. I am disappointed in 
 the direction that EA sports chose to take streets and the changes that they made to the core features 
 that made streets 1 and 2 my favorite PS2 games of all time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: djkearse36
Rating: 7.5
Date: Aug 5, 2007 5:01 pm PT
Review:  This game is fun right off the back. The crazy jumps and double dunks and alley-oops. But i rented 
 it. And it payed off... not worth buying. I beat the game before i returned it to Hollywood. WAY 
 2 SHORT. It is fun in the beggining but after a while it feels like your doing the same thing over 
 and over again. It becomes boring and I only had it for five days. It became boring after the third 
 day. 10 score in a rent but do not buy. It does not even reconize game data utility. Nevertheless 
 fun. The alley oops are improved, and the double dunks add a fun element. The new crossover system 
 stinks. Its releastic but not as fun. There is no street stick or whatever. Now you do like only 
 3 diffrent crossovers. V3's crossover system was MUCH better. By far... anyway... ummm gamebrakers. 
 They are worse. The moves are kinda cool during gamebreaker like always but definitley worser than 
 NBA Street V3. Letdown for me but still Homecourt has managed a fun game. Like if I go to my friends 
 house and play it I'll be like THAT WAS AWESOME! but if you have it, it becomes boring. The story 
 mode literally is like play people over and over and over again. The new things that i like are 
 the double dunks, the alley-oops and the freak skill you get in story mode. The freak skill is 
 a skill that after 10 matches (which is very less) you get to choose one, and only skill to get 
 all the way to hundred. I did shots and it helped me out a lot. Ok allright thats all I have to 
 say. Game is still pretty good, my review sounds mean to it but It is still a game that has fun. 
 I mean... its not horrible... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: the_black_one
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jul 25, 2007 6:23 pm PT
Review:  This is a great game. I love the new hometown theme. It really allows you to learn about your favorite 
 players. And the gameplay is simply on another level. Double and Triple dunks galore! The only 
 bad thing about this game was the lack of creativity with making your homecourt character because 
 you can't choose your height, weight or edit the faces. But it's a small price to pay because this 
 game is totally amazing. I have 4 ps3 games so far and I can honestly say this one just might be 
 the best of the 4. But once I get Madden 08, that may change. Anyways, I recommend this game to 
 ANYBODY. Whether you're just an absolute NBA junkie like myself, or a big-time gamer. This game 
 is great and it's worth the $60. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thomas10soa
Rating: 5
Date: Jul 6, 2007 3:53 pm PT
Review:  nba street homecourt is an alright game, but feels like too much time was spent on the graphics 
 and not gameplay.
  
  what i mean by this is that the gameplay is not deep and not enough has been put towards it.
 
  the courts all look verry similar
  the moves all look verry similar
  even gamebreaker moves dont look that great
  
  like i said though the graphics are brilliant 
 and all characters look verry cool and realistic.
  
  the sound also aint too great, the crowd will talk smack too each over but it gets a bit too repetitive, 
 after youve heard the same person say whats the score whats the score? you kinda get fed up. the 
 tracks are also quite annoying, giving you good song....... oh wait a minute it aint even the proper 
 song its just the tune of a great song with no singer at all.
  
  overall nba street homecourt is a flop you could enjoy it but for $50 i certainly didnt! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: king23_
Rating: 8.2
Date: Aug 13, 2007 10:13 am PT
Review:  The gameplay is basically like this do insane tricks, rack up the points, continue to do even more 
 insane tricks, rack up even more crazy points and repeat. It's pretty fun but this might get boring 
 and repititive after a while. There aren't many game modes in NBA Street Homecourt. The main one 
 is the career mode. You start off by creating a character following creating a player you will 
 go into the core of the career mode. The career mode tries to throw some different goals and objectives 
 at you. The bad thing about career mode is that it won't take very long to beat.
  
  The online for Homecourt is terrible! If you start beating your opponent they will usually quit 
 which gives them a loss but you get nothing from it. If you can ever find a person who will play 
 a whole game with you it still is very bad because the game will go very slow.
  
  The graphics look decent but they're not anything that is going to blow you away. The game looks 
 pretty good overall but the graphics aren't as good as maybe motorstorm or even NBA 2k7. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SvV_Ying
Rating: 8.1
Date: Jun 18, 2007 9:03 am PT
Review:  Gameplay:
  - This game is great on gameplay. It's easy to pick up and play, and once you master all trick 
 moves and dunks it's even better, especially against some friends. Most tricks now require the 
 trick remixer which alows you to mix al kind of tricks and get a gamebreaker quickly, the gamebreakers 
 are even flashier than before and also a bit different, now you can also steel the bal during the 
 opponents gamebreaker and that makes the gamebreaker your own, but offcourse you can also loose 
 the ball again! Brand new is the double dunk which let you score 2 points with one dunk, hold the 
 o-button till the dunk meter is full and voila...2 points. The game plays smoothly and is fun to 
 play, gameplay deserves an 8.
  
  Graphics:
  - One of most obvious thing is the new graphic style. The game uses a kind of old film filter that 
 gives the game a unique look, you like it or you hate it. I liked it. The whole game is presented 
 in a old styl, with 'old' looking menu's ando old music. But back to the graphics, each baller 
 is very detailed and the animations look good. The dunks look very flashy and over the top, but 
 thats offcourse how it should be in a NBA Street game. Overal the graphics are great, not very 
 very special or something, but just good.
  
  Sound:
  - The sound is what I liked most, the old hip-hop tracks are nice and match the game style perfectly. 
 During gameplay you hear people shout from everywhere and this really adds something to the game. 
 Sometimes it can be very relaxing to play a pick up game on easy with a nice beat on the background 
 ans just have some fun while listening to the music and all sounds. Sound for me personally deserves 
 a 9.
  
  Value:
  - Value is discussable, if you dont have some friends to play with it's worth a 7, but if you have 
 some friends to play with a 8. For me it's the second. There aren't alot of things to do apart 
 from the Homecourt challange and the milestones aren't special and probably put in the game last 
 minut. But with a friend or 2 it's alot of fun to play with/against eachtoher and make eachother 
 look stupid with all kind of cool tricks. I'd give the value a 7.5 if it was possible, but I'll 
 go with a 8. Online is OK but nothing special. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MoragArkadia
Rating: 7
Date: Oct 4, 2007 3:10 pm PT
Review:  Homecourt carries on the great tradition of Hangtime . If you are a fan of this series then you 
 will enjoy this iteration. Controls work well and the game has a fun arcade feel. Though there 
 is no announcer making statements like Ram a lang a Ding Dong each of the players on the court 
 have many s**t talking comments to make. Single player is fun and can be challenging however the 
 game is most fun when challenging one of your bros. Graphics are not great but are not bad either. 
 This series however was never about great graphics and always about fun gameplay which this version 
 more thatn adequately succeeds in. If you own a PS3 this is definately worth renting and if your 
 like me and are a fan of the series then this is an owner. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nichol4s
Rating: 9.2
Date: May 23, 2007 12:19 pm PT
Review:  Many will remember the He's on fire! quote from NBA JAM, which was my favorite crazy basketball 
 game. I did not play NBA Street from the series so this is my first Street game and I'm impressed.
 
  
  Gameplay: 9/10
  Ok. I'm not into NBA or Basketball, except I do play the sports sometimes but I'm not into Basketball 
 simulation. I played the NBA 2k and live series before but it bores me. Homecourt is different. 
 It's like NBA JAM, with crazy moves and dunks and no official rules. The controls are pretty easy 
 to pick up and I'm finding more and more crazy moves each time I play the game.
  
  I read that EA Big has redone the game from scratch and they took the street series, refined it 
 but fans of the street series told me they've reduced the number of moves.
  
  Apart from the usual way to score in a basketball game, you can do tricks which will increase this 
 gamebreaker meter, and when you've reach the max, you can do a special where in this time limit, 
 you can perform as many tricks as you can which will lead to additional points when you finally 
 score. The thing is, when you're doing tricks, you're vulnerable with the ball being stolen and 
 the opposite team can counter your gamebreaker. This risk and reward system works very well.
  
  Graphics: 10/10
  From presentation, models of players, environment to animations of the players, 
 everything is top notch. This is truly a game to show off nex-gen graphics. I love the filter effects 
 on the game as well.
  
  Sound: 9/10
  Not much to talk about the sound. Everything is great but the voices of the players are repetitive 
 sometimes.
  
  Value: 9/10
  The game features a career mode where you play against challenges of other teams just like any 
 other sports game. There's online mode as well and there's a mode where you can switch off the 
 crazy moves and play a normal basketball game.
  
  Final thoughts:
  Homecourt is an amazing experience for me. Fans of the series might be disappointed because they 
 redefined the game from scratch but at least rent it. For me, it's a must buy if you love games 
 like NBA JAM.
  
  Final Score 9.2/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ice-vanilla
Rating: 8.9
Date: May 22, 2007 10:27 pm PT
Review:  Ive always been a fan of EAs street basketball games. Homecourt has only made me like it more!!! 
 It is easily the most thrilling game in the series! The game is fun when your playing with yourself 
 or with a friend. The dunks in the game are INSANE!!! There are so many crazy tricks in the game. youll 
 never have enough of it!! The new tricks and leveling up an added character is a nice feature. When 
 I saw the preview screens for the gameI was like no way this is gonna be possible. But now after 
 playing itthe graphics were sooo stunning that it left me DUMBFOUNDED!!! Its quite impossible 
 to get bored with this game. You could probably play it a hundred times and never get bored with 
 it!! For those who love sports games especially those in the street genre this game is a must have. 
 Even if youre not into sports games give this one a tryIm sure youll love it!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NooBAFIED
Rating: 9.8
Date: Apr 28, 2007 7:28 pm PT
Review:  This is My favourite Baller game and i got to say it rocks! It has everything, from insane tricks 
 too CRAZY DUNKS! Its a really fun game playing with another or by yourself, trying out new tricks 
 or leveling up in carrer mode, the best part is the DUNKS! so many ways of doing it and they all 
 look SICK! I dont think you can get bored of this game! If you dont have it and you like playing 
 sports be a true baller and get this, everythngs sick the music graphics EVERYTHING!
  Awesome Multiplayer give it a try..
  This Game is for True Ballers! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hi_rev_kev
Rating: 7.8
Date: Apr 18, 2007 3:15 am PT
Review:  NBA street v3, an addictive and incredibly playable game with plenty of sweet moves to break ankles, 
 dish passes, slam the ball and humiliate your opponent. There was also the dunk comps which were 
 a whole lot of fun on their own. Sadly a lot of the things that made v3 such a great game have 
 been left out in the newest addition of NBA Street. Homecourt is still a fun game, but giving that 
 past titles deliver so much more, it leaves you to wonder what the people at EA Big were thinking.
 
  For starters, the dunk comp. Gone. The wide range of tricks at your disposal. Limited. Commentary 
 of the action is gone (not really a bad thing) but the soundtrack has been reduced to a repetitive 
 and at times annoying upset. It's not all bad though. For starters the gamebreaker feature has 
 been improved, instead of set moves that can't be prevented, now you can defend against them. This 
 is a nice addition because now the offense has to pull off tricks to earn more points but at the 
 same time try not to get the ball stolen, because if the d does manage to swipe the ball they get 
 the gamebreaker, which can turn the flow of the game. The defense has also been improved too. Instead 
 of running around swinging your arms around like a mad man, now you can push the offense, or take 
 a swipe at the ball. The offense can pull off tricks to counter-act you, however with a well timed 
 press of the right button the defensive player can read the move and take the ball, however if 
 you miss the oppurtunity to grab the ball the offensive player can hit you in the head to add salt 
 to the wounds. This all sounds a bit much, but it makes scoring a bucket that much more rewarding. 
 Another nice touch is the new dunk meter. When you go for a dunk you can now hold the dunk button 
 to add more points to your gamebreaker gauge. If you are able to fully charge the dunk, you will 
 slam the ball in an over the top fashion and then catch it as it goes through the net and dunk 
 it again, all in one fluent motion. However, if you over charge the dunk your character will fail 
 to dunk the ball in a hilarious fashion which can be anything to face planting into the backboard, 
 to getting your leg stuck in the rim. Fans of the older titles will be a little bit dissapointed, 
 but should get over it because at the end of the day, it's still over the top basketball, with 
 the best graphics to date, updated rosters and well... pretty much everything you'd expect from 
 a sports title. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ian_fisher
Rating: 7.7
Date: Apr 6, 2007 6:11 am PT
Review:  One of the best arcade sports titles to come out in the past 10 years was NBA Street. The game 
 had the perfect mix of pure arcade fun and basketball skill. Its been nearly 3 years since the 
 last NBA Street and now the series is making its PS3 debut with NBA Street Homecourt.
  
  With each addition in the franchise Street has become more mature. One could say that NBA Street 
 1 was a young child while NBA Street Homecourt is a young adult. Homecourt doesnt feature the 
 somewhat cartoony visuals or presentation that the other Streets did. Homecourt is a lot like NBA 
 Street Vol. 3 in that the presentation is taken a bit more seriously. Theres no more annoying 
 commentator and the Street narrator from Vol. 3 returns. Homecourt also has some more meaning behind 
 it too. See in this version some of the key NBA players represented in the game have their real 
 homecourts where they practiced their skills in the game. Some of the players such as Carmelo Anthony 
 will actually narrate their homecourt level or discuss the importance it has to them. This is a 
 nice touch to the series and takes the franchise into a good direction.
  
  Other than the mature feel of the game, Homecourt has also gotten a revamped control scheme. The 
 first two titles had the shoulder buttons handle the tricks while Vol. 3 had the right analog stick 
 handle the tricks. Homecourt now features a context sensitive trick system that take awhile to 
 get used to. The triangle and square buttons now handle the tricks while L1 and R1 and trick modifiers. 
 Depending and how long or how many times you press the triangle or square button your character 
 will perform a different move such as a crossover. The trick system also takes into account the 
 size of the player when it comes to tricks. So you cant do the same tricks that Steve Nash can 
 do if youre playing as Shaq. Dunks have also gotten a revamp. When you go for a dunk holding down 
 the circle button will charge up a meter. The longer you hold down the button the more points you 
 get and if you time it well you can pull off a new double dunk. Double dunking consists of your 
 player doing an insane move such as grabbing the ball with his feet after dunking to score another 
 dunk. When you double dunk you obviously get 2 points instead of 1. This trick system does take 
 awhile to get used to since you cant really button smash your way to victory due to the new stealing 
 A. I. Compared to other Street titles you could usually do a ton of tricks and not have to worry 
 about your opponent stealing the ball but that changes with Homecourt. The A. I in the game will 
 be all over you if youre careless with your moves. Stealing is a bit easier too so if you do loose 
 possession you have the chance to win the ball back quickly if you select the right player to make 
 the steal attempt.
  
  One of the best aspects of the Street series is the Gamebreaker moves. Over the course of the franchise 
 the Gamebreakers have evolved with more elaborate moves and visuals. Sadly the Gamebreakers in 
 Homecourt are a bit disappointing. First of all the biggest problem with the new Gamebreakers is 
 how you activate them. In the past titles you simply pressed L1+R1+Circle but in Homecourt when 
 youve filled up your Gamebreaker meter you need to go to the half court and press triangle to 
 activate it. This method of activation is a bit clumsy and disrupts the flow of the tricks you 
 do. When it comes to the tricks themselves theyre also a bit disappointing. In the previous Streets 
 all the Gamebreaker tricks were essentially the Uber tricks and couldnt be done in normal play. 
 But in Homecourt all the tricks youre capable of are basically the same as your regular tricks. 
 The only exception is that depending on how many tricks you did prior to scoring you will gain 
 more points such as 2 or 3 points and deduct more points from the other team. Theres also none 
 of that visual flair that the Gamebreaker tricks had other than a different visual filter. Another 
 new element to the Gamebreaker system is if you lose the ball the other team can actually go into 
 Gamebreaker mode. This is a nice concept since it keeps you on your toes more but in some cases 
 you may lose the ball to a cheap move or simply a gameplay error which can be frustrating.
  
  Of course Homecourt being a PS3 title the game has gotten a graphical boost. The various courts 
 in the game, which are all based on real courts, are visually sharp and have nice details to them. 
 The character models are also good and mirror the real-life counterparts but they have somewhat 
 of a shiny look to them which looks like theyre perpetually sweating. While the courts are visually 
 nice theyre missing some of that character the made up courts had in the previous NBA Streets. 
 There are several visual filters used in the game which help add some character to the game but 
 at times they can be overused and potentially cover up any flaws the graphics have. In the end 
 the visuals in Homecourt are pretty solid but nothing amazing or awe-inspiring. Another returning 
 feature is the career mode. Just like the other Streets you create a baller and work your way through 
 the trenches competing against other NBA players as you progress. There are no real changes made 
 to the latest version compared to others which may disappoint some. The only real change to the 
 mode is that you travel from various courts through the game. Each court has different matches 
 you can play with the eventual meeting with the NBA player before progressing. There is some variety 
 to the matches since some consist of dunks only, shots only or a certain point requirement. Sadly 
 you dont face any legends in the game such as Michael Jordan nor will you encounter any of the 
 made up legends such as Stretch or Takahashi. It should be noted though that there is an upcoming 
 Xbox Live expansion for Homecourt which does feature 8 Street legends such as Stretch but at this 
 time there is no word of this hitting the PS Store yet.
  
  A rather odd feature is the create-a-baller mode. Instead of adjusting your players height and 
 other attributes you select the position you wish to play as and then select a template face. Other 
 than that you have no control over what your baller looks like or his attributes. Instead of upgrading 
 your skills through experience points, the game automatically adjusts your skills based on your 
 performance in the game. So if you do a lot of dunks then youll get some dunk experience. This 
 may disappoint some since you never have any control over your progression through the game. An 
 interesting new feature is by unlocking certain clothes and wearing them you can gain experience 
 quicker. So if you wear the unlocked Jordan jersey and Air Jordans then youll have a faster time 
 leveling up.
  
  Homecourt is also a bit light on content. While there are the standard games mode the create-a-homecourt 
 and create-a-sneaker modes are not in the game. These were some nice aspects that were featured 
 on Vol.3 and it wouldve been nice to see them in Homecourt. And the dunk contest mode from Vol. 
 3 is also missing. While the dunk mode did have some issues it was a fun mode and its really disappointing 
 that EA didnt include this or try to build upon it. There is an online mode that is pretty solid. 
 You can play both ranked and unranked matches. The online experience is pretty good and doesnt 
 feature any lag or slowdown that could potentially ruin the experience.
  
  Homecourt is a solid title but in the end its almost the same experience that weve been playing 
 for the past few years. Despite the addition of a new trick control scheme the game doesnt really 
 do anything that sets itself apart from the previous Streets. It also loses some of that flair 
 the the Street titles are known for. If youre a veteran of the Street series you may want to rent 
 the game before committing to the purchase. However if youre a newbie of the Street series then 
 you may dig the game for its fun gameplay and sharp visuals. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hamorhage
Rating: 8.2
Date: Apr 6, 2007 1:31 pm PT
Review:  Ok so you've all read the reviews on gamespot and other sites by now. You should've anyway if you 
 want to get a good idea of what you're buying. One thing they all agree on is that the presentation 
 of this game is SOLID! The urban graphics, colors, perfect soundtrack, excellent modelled players 
 (even though they don't come close to the realism of NBA2K7 and a good solo and online mode. So 
 instead of repeating what you already know I'll just tell you some things I didn't really read 
 in the reviews.
  
  I was really looking forward to bring my game online once I got good enough to keep the PC begging 
 for mercy on the highest level. The options available though are limited. You can play single games 
 only, there's no leagues or tournaments which in my oppinion wouold've made this game solid. On 
 the other hand you've got a good ranking system that will get you coming back for more action to 
 get up to the top. Another nice thing is that you can play with your created ballers and let your 
 own homecourt splash onscreen. Take proud in where your from !
  But here is where it starts to get dodgy. All the games I played on the PS3 ran smooth as a baby, 
 but with Street I sometimes have heavy slowdowns with very slow framerate leaving your team responsivness 
 in bed. Seriously, you can't pull of a double dunk or quick fakes when you're 3 seconds behind 
 the real action. Very annoying aswell is that some players can't take a loss very well so just 
 diconnect on you at the final hoop, leaving you with no victory to your list.
  It seriously got on my nerves in the end, and for the moment I put it aside for NBA2K, which really 
 is a solid game with so much depth for you, you'll keep coming back.
  Even with the criticism on the online mode, this game is well worth your money cos it's just so 
 cool looking! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Wurz1515
Rating: 8.8
Date: Mar 29, 2007 9:16 pm PT
Review:  This game offers fun interesting gameplay for quite a while but gets repetative. The graphics are 
 stunning and the dunks themselves leave a player breathless. The controls are fairly simple but 
 using turbo and the modify trick buttons can become a bothersome. Shooting is next to impossible 
 unless nobody is next to the hoop because the AI will just swat it down with no goal-tending rule 
 enforced. Create a Baller didn't change much but the challenge dosen't last long because shortly 
 after you win a few hard earned matches, you get access to a few great ballers who you can use 
 until your guy is leveled enough to max a stat. Dunks also get repetitive unless you use other 
 NBA players who's dunks vary from just a simple layup to running along the backboard and dunking 
 it. Some issues occur with just button mashing to steal or having trouble diving for a lose ball 
 but above all it runs smooth enough. The loading can be a bit unbearable especially when switching 
 courts in legend mode. Other than some flaws here and there it is a very well thought out and nicely 
 played addition to the NBA street franchise. If you're looking for a solid crazy dunk and quick 
 scoring game, this is it; but stick with NBA2K7 for standard basketball. Not as good as the Origional 
 PS2 and it's follower, but it's a great start for the next generation console. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hallgren
Rating: 8.8
Date: Mar 27, 2007 5:23 am PT
Review:  I am a big fan of the street series and Homecourt is an outstanding game for next gen systems. 
 Going back to the old school style of maping your tricks to the buttons and the shoulder buttons 
 was the right thing to do as the gameplay seems very smooth with this control scheme. The game 
 is presented very well it looks fabulous and i loved hearing about the stories of all of the NBA 
 stars and where they began. I love being able to steal a gamebreaker and then turning it into one 
 of your own as well, GOOD TOUCH! I also liked how you were able to level up your created chracter 
 I found this to be balanced extremely well! My only complaint is that the Homocourt challenge feels 
 a little on the short side, i wish it was longer and I wish I could have gone up against some of 
 the legends in this mode like in the first NBA street. This was a fun game that was easy to get 
 into! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ranker
Rating: 8.4
Date: Mar 22, 2007 12:44 am PT
Review:  I'm not saying that Homecourt is a bad game, it's just not where I thought it would be in some 
 aspects. The first of which is the lack of a true character customization option. Being an EA game 
 and considering the extensive customization you can do on your character in games such as Fight 
 Night Round 3 and Def Jam Icon, I would have thought that Homecourt would have done essentially 
 the same thing. Instead they did the exact opposite. I actually prefer NBA Street Volume 2's character 
 creator option, which shouldn't be, this is the next generation. The second would be the seemingly 
 small amount of moves, both dunks and tricks. I've seen the same dunk/trick move pulled off again 
 and again during games. This is a shame. I had hoped that the library of tapes available and the 
 creative minds at EA would have been able to add a vast amount of different moves to Homecourt. 
 Once again, Street 2 appeared to surpass Homecourt in this critical area. It's not a bad idea to 
 simplify the control scheme, but in doing so it seems that they lost some abilities.
  
  The third of my complaints would be on the lack of game modes. With an outrageous game like Street, 
 you would expect to see some stylish mini-games or even HORSE, but saddly no. The forth... NO CUSTOM 
 SOUNDTRACK!!!
  
  Aside from the short list of somewhat glaring complaints, NBA Street Homecourt is still a great 
 game. While some don't like the retro look of the camera, I found it to be really cool looking. 
 Some games need a stylish look to them in all departments and Homecourt is definitely one of them. 
 The graphics are great, which is to be expected and the soundtrack is just as enjoyable as they've 
 been since day one. Even though the list of moves seem to have taken a hit, they all look fluid 
 when in motion. Seeing a double dunk pulled off, the rim flexing and then springing back into position 
 is a site to see (even when the computer repeats this motion over and over and over) . All in all 
 Homecourt is really well done. I suspect the next addition of NBA Street will be at the top of 
 it's game, let's keep our fingers crossed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: butterlou
Rating: 8.3
Date: Mar 17, 2007 11:02 am PT
Review:  Homecourt and Street versions in the past have always been fun. They almost make you totally forget 
 NBA Slam from back in the day. So why then can EA make such a good basketball game here and the 
 company struggle so hard on the traditional game? That is my only question. Homecourt showcases 
 some flashy substance of gameplay. All the tricks, double point dunks, and the 'And 1' antics make 
 this game a true trash talker's dream. Great game for group of teens, young adults, or older players 
 that like the new bball style of play to sit down and enjoy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: djroberts
Rating: 7.3
Date: Mar 16, 2007 3:45 pm PT
Review:  First the good. In 720p the game is smooth, graphics are cool and sounds right on. The smack talking 
 as ambient sound is always entertaining and fairly accurate. The graphics look really good. I wasn't 
 as thrown off by the filter at gamespot but I completely understand their point. It removes you 
 ever so slightly from the visuals. Online play was decent. First, it didn't work the day the game 
 was released for PS3. Second, it's sometime very laggy. When both folks have a good connection 
 it does work well.
  
  The good:
  1. Good and smooth graphics in 720p.
  2. Nice classic feeling music, could be a bit more upbeat sometimes but still good.
  3. Cool 
 dunks, moves and animations. Backboard animations are also very cool.
  4. Decent game modes, can disable gamebreaker or do gamebreaker only for instance.
  
  Here 
 comes the bad:
  1. The PS3 version has video issue affecting many TVs that support 1080i and/or 1080p requiring 
 those modes to be disabled, then re-enabled everytime you want to play.
  2. Noticable slow down in 1080p. It usually runs smooth but some animations slow down very noticably.
 
  3. Limited game modes. Challenge mode is good but that's pretty much it for a solo compaign.
 
  4. 1on1 only online play. You cannot get 3 people together and play online against 3 other people. 
 Other games support this, e. g. NHL2K7 and NBA2K7. This is really a lame limitation to the game.
 
  5. No M. J. Granted it's probably not their fault, none the less, he isn't there.
  6. Lacks good single player mode.
  
  Overall its a good game. However, if EA does not fix technical 
 video issues many people have already stated on forums, etc... that they will be demanding refunds. 
 Bottom Line: Rent first, then buy if you like. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Deadly_Fatalis
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 14, 2007 5:06 pm PT
Review:  When I first got this game I thought it would just be ok. When I put in the disk and a few minutes 
 later I suddenly found myself surrounded by friends playing some addictive basketball. The controls 
 are easy to get into and allow easy access to flashy tricks. The gameplay is nice and smooth as 
 you dribble the ball. And the graphics are pretty nice, not the best but pretty nice. The best 
 part however, I have to say is the multiplayer. Its very easy to pick up and play then compleatly 
 forget the time as you dunk/shoot, whatever you friends. The game is a shear addiction and is difficult 
 to put down. If you got a PS3 then I would definitaly check out this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sdkingsht
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 14, 2007 10:36 am PT
Review:  NBA Street has overgone some changes since it's first debut on home consoles and slowly has become 
 the flagship of street/arcade basketball (remember NBA Jams? yeah they used to have a pretty good 
 monopoly on the genre) . Known for it's over the top moves and dunks, fun gameplay and overall addictive 
 vibe... it's now officially jumped into the next generation. In this generation NBA Street is no 
 different. They've simplified the gameplay quite a bit but for those interested you can get deep 
 and pull off some moves others won't with the trick remixer. The gameplay is responsive and feels 
 right with no lag. The graphics are phenomenal... the courts and textures all look incredible. The 
 majority of the player models are dead on (with a few lesser known players looking a bit rushed 
 over) . The different positions all have their different playing styles and fitting set of moves. 
 The gamebreakers are a breeze to build up and pull off once you get the hang of things as well. 
 The music is once again on an old school hiphop vibe but it's very fitting and actually a good 
 change of pace from the top 40 soundtrack that accompanies most sports games nowadays. The story 
 mode this time around is cool with the whole homecourt put-your-city-on-the-map feel. It's really 
 cool to see your hometown flash across the screen when you come down on someone with an incredible 
 gamebreaker to win a game. The development of your character this time around is also a cool addition. 
 Basically... the better or more you perform something during games (steals, dunks, passing, shooting, 
 etc) the quicker you build that attribute up. It makes sense and is a motivation to make you play 
 the way you want your character to be. If you're big on building up blocks and dunks then you've 
 got to hit the boards like Ben Wallace and sky on people every chance you get like Vince Carter 
 or Lebron James. Overall... another strong entry into the Street franchise. BBall fans and game 
 fans alike will enjoy reppin their city on the next generation. Just don't bring that weak stuff 
 in my house... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: A-Bomb05
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 28, 2007 11:56 am PT
Review:  This is the best NBA Street game of all time! If they make a new Street i dont know how they are 
 going to beat it! 900 dunk is awesome. I just got it today and dunks are off the hook. The best 
 dunk (in gamebreaker) is the Catipult 900 triple dunk. Best ankle breaker is when you breakdance 
 on the ball.
  This is the best NBA Street game of all time! If they make a new Street i dont know how they are 
 going to beat it! 900 dunk is awesome. I just got it today and dunks are off the hook. The best 
 dunk (in gamebreaker) is the Catipult 900 triple dunk. Best ankle breaker is when you breakdance 
 on the ball 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
