-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: NCAA March Madness 08
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/ps3/sports/ncaamarchmadness08/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 New post moves work great.
 Improved interface makes dynasty mode more enjoyable.
 Does a nice job capturing the college atmosphere.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Yet another PS3 EA Sports game with a busted frame rate.
 Gameplay is sloooooow.
 A large number of small nagging issues really bring down the gameplay.
 Lack of real team schedules and inability to alter sim length are big oversights in dynasty mode.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Jan 11, 2008
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 6
Critic Score: 6.7, 13 Review (s)
User Score: 7.4, 76 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Electronic Arts
Developer: EA Canada
Genre: Basketball Sim
Date: Dec 11, 2007
ESRB: Everyone

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
March Madness 08 has some new moves, but it's still not ready for the big dance. 

  NCAA March Madness 08 is a frustrating game because it really should have been good. The developer 
 got a lot right, such as a new low-post game, an improved interface, and online leagues. But for 
 every improvement, there seems to be a problem to cancel it out. And it's not just small problems, 
 either. The gameplay is incredibly sluggish, the ball physics are off, teams don't have their real 
 schedules, and the frame rate is downright terrible on the PlayStation 3. March Madness 08 is still 
 worth a look, but hardcore hoops fans probably won't be able to look past the game's many faults 
 to enjoy what it does well.  

           The new low-post moves are terrific. Finally, your center is useful!      

  The biggest 
 change to the gameplay this year is that low-post play has been totally revamped. And while it's 
 by no means flawless, it represents the best post play in any basketball game to date. By moving 
 the right analog stick in conjunction with the left analog stick, you've now got a wide array of 
 moves available to you, both on offense and defense when in the paint. The controls are easy to 
 learn and, more importantly, they're useful. You'll actually want to work the ball down low to 
 take advantage of a mismatch (which the game highlights with a huge circle around the player) , 
 rather than try to run a fast break every time you snag a rebound. The controls are just as satisfying 
 on defense because they really make it feel like you're engaged in a one-on-one battle with the 
 ball handler. The only problem on D is that if you're controlling a perimeter player, you're not 
 likely to be able to switch to your center before the offensive player makes his move when the 
 ball gets passed into the paint.  

  It's too bad that the rest of the gameplay didn't see the same improvement. Using the right analog 
 stick to perform spins and crossovers still works great, but the rest of the controls often feel 
 sluggish and unresponsive. For example, when you pump fake to get a defender in the air, you'll 
 find yourself unable to move for a short period. Most of the sluggishness can be attributed to 
 the overall pace of play, which has been slowed  way  down in an effort to encourage players to 
 take the time to use the new post moves, but you almost feel like you're playing underwater. You 
 can speed things up with a slider, and while that helps some, it makes the weird ball physics (a 
 problem at any speed) even more pronounced. The issue can best be described as "sometimes the ball 
 does whatever the heck it wants." A pass that should go to a wide-open player might suddenly decide 
 to go to the defender, or it'll sometimes go faster than it should, appearing to almost teleport. 
 Occasionally, it will decide that it hates gravity and will fly all the way to the ceiling of the 
 arena.  

  While there are lots of options and gameplay sliders, changing the default settings doesn't seem 
 to have much effect on a lot of the problems. Even with user blocks turned all the way up, you'll 
 be hard-pressed to get more than a few blocks during the course of a full 40-minute game. Steals 
 are incredibly frustrating because it seems like, at least half the time, your player simply pokes 
 the ball out of bounds, pokes it away and doesn't try to pick it up, or picks the ball up then 
 steps out of bounds. You can call a limited number of plays on the fly, but there aren't very many 
 to choose from and your players don't move around a whole lot on their own.  

           The home crowd will give you an extra edge in close games.      

  The fact that there 
 doesn't seem to be any way to display player names or numbers below the player is another issue. 
 Unless you enjoy chucking up three-pointers with your brick-laying power forward or non-shooting 
 center, you'll have to memorize every player's number and position, then check the players' jerseys 
 to find out who you're controlling. Users playing on a non-high-definition screen really get the 
 short end of the stick here because it's nearly impossible to read jersey numbers on a standard-definition 
 display. While it may seem that the number of negatives outweighs the positives with regards to 
 the gameplay, there's still fun to be had -- you just have to be willing to look the other way when 
 bad stuff happens.  

  Most of the changes that have been made to the dynasty mode -- where you have complete control over 
 the basketball program of your choosing -- are cosmetic, but they go a long way toward making the 
 experience more enjoyable. The overall look and feel is reminiscent of NCAA Football 08. Not only 
 are the menus more attractive, but they're easier to navigate. All the latest news on team rankings, 
 scores, player awards, upsets, and more is available on the main screen. It just takes one button 
 press to check out alumni challenges, recruiting, stats, and other administrative options. Recruiting 
 involves little more than picking a few good players and then selecting a few scouting options 
 every week. But the ability to search for players by their home state, position, ability, height, 
 and even interest in your school is nice and really streamlines the process.  

  It's too bad, then, that there are a few major issues that really hurt the mode's values for hardcore 
 fans. Once again, teams don't have their real schedules, and while you can customize them to an 
 extent, you can't get them exactly right. EA has all the NCAA license rights, so it's puzzling 
 that this happened again. There also doesn't appear to be any way to change the length of simulated 
 games, which will be a larger issue for those who enjoy a realistic simulation. This means that 
 unless you're playing 15 to 20 minute halves, your statistics simply aren't going to mesh with 
 everyone else's. Not only is this annoying, but it makes it nearly impossible to get a player named 
 an All-American and it makes some of the alumni goals, such as getting a quadruple-double or scoring 
 100 points, unattainable. It's a shame that a few, seemingly easy-to-correct problems bring an 
 otherwise solid mode down.  

  March Madness 08's presentation hasn't changed a whole lot since last year. The player models are 
 still top-notch, and there are lots of great-looking animations, though the transition from one 
 to the next is often poor. The visuals are able to convey a lot of personality thanks to rowdy, 
 sign-holding fans, cheerleaders, mascots, and even players that can interact with them from time 
 to time. It never gets old seeing one of your players run off the court to dance with the cheerleaders 
 after a big play. As has been the case with many of EA's sports games, PS3 owners get hosed when 
 it comes to the visuals. Not only is there a lot more aliasing in the PS3 version, but the frame 
 rate is pitiful -- stuttering and stammering from the opening tip to the final buzzer. It's a huge 
 problem, and one that makes the game significantly less enjoyable.  

           A new interface goes a long way toward improving the dynasty mode. It's too bad there 
 aren't real team schedules, though.      

  Other than the addition of Erin Andrews (voice only) as a generally competent sideline reporter, 
 the audio is unchanged. If you hate Dick Vitale in real life, you'll hate him here, but he and 
 Brad Nessler do a solid job of calling the action. There are occasionally some long bits of silence, 
 and from time to time, the duo will blurt out something that has nothing to do with what's actually 
 happening on the court. But generally, Vitale and Nessler are on-point, as well as a key part of 
 the game's ability to recreate the atmosphere of a college basketball game.  

  You can't argue with the results of EA's focus on revamping 08's post play, and some people will 
 really dig the inclusion of a large number of classic teams (with short shorts) , but it's really 
 a shame the developer didn't spend a little more time addressing the little nagging issues. These 
 are what's keeping the game from reaching its full potential. If you're the forgiving type, not 
 worried about real schedules or accurate statistics, and willing to look past a few annoying gameplay 
 quirks, you'll probably have a good time with the game, but it's hard to recommend to hardcore 
 hoopsters.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (1 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: pokes404
Rating: 6.5
Date: Dec 12, 2007 9:26 pm PT
Review:  I have been a long-time fan of EA's March Madness series. I remember thinking that either the home 
 court advantage, lock-down stick, floor-general play-calling or any one of the other features EA 
 introduced were sure to get March Madness back on track.
  
  The reality has finally hit home, March Madness is far behind the College Hoops series.
  
  
 There are some positives to this game. First, this year's new addition, dynamic low-post controls, 
 works very well. Big men battle inside to gain good position. Once guards feed them the ball, you 
 have an arsenal of moves to choose from both offensively and defensively. This makes low-post play 
 more fun in March Madness than in College Hoops.
  
  Second, EA's lock-down stick requires a little more skill, and is overall much more satisfying 
 than 2K's defensive controls.
  
  Now comes the bad news (keep in mind I have only played the PS3 version) , the game looks very bad 
 in motion. Animations are choppy, graphics are jagged and the framrate drops quite a bit (not good 
 considering it's only 30 fps to begin with) , AI is suspect, passing is unpredictable and the ball-physics 
 are just a little bit off. Players tend to look more robotic and clothing more stiff than in CH. 
 Jump shooting is very hit-or-miss and you'll be frustrated at your lack of control over whether 
 or not your shots go in. Not to mention the fact that every player shoots the same looking jump-shot. 
 In the end, this is not a big deal, but for those who really watch basketball, you know that each 
 player's shot is unique and personal. This gives MM an arcade look to its players, while CH gives 
 jump-shots that little personal touch that makes its players feel more "real."
  
  The last little aspect that I want to mention is the fact that there are attribute point limitations 
 on players. In years past, if you disagreed with player ratings, you could just go in them as you 
 saw fit. But now, if you're star player was given a 74 OVR, you can't make him any better than 
 a 74. This happened to me, I'm an Oklahoma State fan and our best player, by far, is a true freshman, 
 Jame Anderson (SG #23) . I look up O-State's roster and see that Anderson is 74 OVR and the 3rd 
 or 4th best player on the team. Not that I was going to make him 99 OVR, but I was at least going 
 to make him the best player on the team (around 80-82 OVR) . But I can't do it. Sure I can change 
 the ratings around, but if I want to make him a good shooter, I have to make him worse at something 
 else. For die hard fans that spend the year tinkering with their favorite team's ratings based 
 on how they're playing during the year, don't get MM. You're stuck with whatever rating EA has 
 given your players. Again, another aspect that isn't a huge problem, but another cause for aggravation.
 
  
  Unfortunately, it's another disappointing year for MM. There is still hope for the franchise. Low-post 
 play is fun, commentary is good and I've heard the game is much smoother on the 360. I would suggest 
 that you at least rent the game. I'm sure there are a number of people out there who will prefer 
 MM over CH. But as for me, and I'm sure the majority of "die-hard" college basketball fans, College 
 Hoops is the best choice. EA has closed the gap, but still has a ways to go to catch 2K. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
