-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: NCAA Football 09
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/ps3/sports/ncaafootball09/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Online Dynasty mode supports 12 players.
 Great college atmosphere.
 Home-field advantage is effective but doesn't feel cheap.
 Custom rosters can be shared online.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Lots of missed tackles.
 Recruiting gets old quick.
 Campus Legend is more of the same.
 Icing the kicker works way too well.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Jul 24, 2008
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 7.5
Critic Score: 8.0, 15 Review (s)
User Score: 8.3, 429 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Electronic Arts
Developer: EA Tiburon
Genre: Football Sim
Date: Jul 15, 2008
ESRB: Everyone

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
The addition of the Online Dynasty mode will please many, but the lack of significant improvements 
 to other key modes of NCAA Football 09 will disappoint many others. 

  The NCAA Football series has always been in the shadow of its big brother, Madden. But like Eli 
 Manning or Ronde Barber, both of whom have a more-famous sibling, NCAA Football has established 
 its own identity and proven itself to be more than Madden with marching bands. This year's effort 
 benefits from the inclusion of an Online Dynasty mode and the ability to share custom roster files, 
 but other than these two additions, little has changed.  

           Dynasty mode can be played online as well as offline this year.      

  Series fans 
 have long clamored for the ability to play Dynasty mode online, and EA has finally made that dream 
 a reality. Up to 12 players can compete head-to-head online for up to 60 in-game years. Setting 
 up an online dynasty is a breeze. One person acts as the commissioner and sets the rules and difficulty 
 and sends out player invites. Because you're free to play as any Division 1A school and might not 
 otherwise encounter another human opponent, it's good that the commish can alter each team's schedule 
 to ensure that people get to play against one another. You'll want to make sure you play against 
 one another because although you're all recruiting against everyone else, doing so doesn't provide 
 any sense of competition -- it's just navigating menus for weeks on end. NCAA 09 seems to do a good 
 job anticipating the problems that typically arise when coordinating a large group online for any 
 length of time. If one player is holding the group back, the commissioner can advance the week 
 or even boot the offending player from the dynasty. You can even throw out results from a game 
 if you suspect something's fishy. If you lose a few people, or just want to add a few new coaches 
 to the mix, you can do so at any time. It would have been nice if you had the option to play a 
 few weeks ahead if you wanted to, but there's very little not to like. It was a long time coming, 
 but it was worth the wait.  

  It's a good thing Dynasty mode is online this year, because few changes have been made with regard 
 to how it's played. You pick a school, recruit players, and try to lead them to a championship. 
 While you now have the option for the AI to handle a few minor aspects of recruiting and you can 
 quick-call prospects to save a few minutes, the process once again gets tedious after you're about 
 halfway through the season. There simply aren't enough variables to make it interesting. One notable 
 addition is the ability to download custom rosters and use them in Dynasty mode. Some ambitious 
 individual has already made a file available with real player names, so no longer will you have 
 to play with fake player names, nor will you have to spend hours altering individual players. Another 
 mode that hasn't received a whole lot of attention is Campus Legend, where you create a player, 
 guide him through the final games of his high school career, and help him pick a college where 
 he can pursue his dreams of becoming a legend. You'll still need to attend practice to work your 
 way up the depth chart and boost your attributes by studying for class, going to the gym, reviewing 
 your playbook, or going to the trainer. That may sound interesting on paper, but it involves nothing 
 more than picking an option from a menu and hitting a button. If you've never played Campus Legend 
 before, you'll find that it's a lot of fun for a season or two, but if you've previously spent 
 time with it, you'll be let down that there's nothing new here.  

  Home-field advantage is a huge part of college football, and it's a huge part of NCAA 09. If you're 
 on the road playing in a hostile environment like Nebraska or Tennessee, you'll have to contend 
 with the crowd as well as the opposition on the field. A rattled quarterback who checks his receivers' 
 routes preplay will see the normally straight lines replaced with a moving, squiggly mess or, worse 
 yet, a question mark over the players' heads. If you manage a few successful drives, you'll take 
 the crowd out of the game (they'll actually leave the stadium in a blowout) and the routes will 
 return to normal. It's a neat way of taking home-field advantage into account without going overboard 
 as is the case with icing the kicker. When the game's on the line, you can now call a time-out 
 to "ice" the kicker. This moves the camera down behind the kicker, which makes it tough to aim 
 and literally puts ice on the kick meter. It's extraordinarily difficult to make even a short kick 
 if you've been iced, which is completely contrary to what happens in real life, where the tactic 
 has a minimal effect on the kicker.  

           Dancing with a sweaty dude in an animal costume never gets old.      

  Fast, offensive-minded 
 gameplay has always been a series staple, but this year it's even more wide open. Defenders seem 
 to have been slowed down a bit, so you'll see a lot of long touchdown runs if the ball carrier 
 gets past the first wave of defenders, the secondary simply can't catch up. Huge plays are also 
 common because there are too many broken tackles. Players often slip out of defenders' arms as 
 if they've been coated in oil or bounce off 300-pound linemen like they're made of rubber. The 
 game's breakaway engine is supposed to let you quickly transition from one move to another mid-animation, 
 but most of the aforementioned elusive moves seem to happen on their own without your input. In 
 fact, the breakaway engine doesn't seem to do much at all. You'll still get stuck in long animations 
 and sucked into defenders by some magical, invisible force even if you're madly pressing buttons. 
 Broken tackles are great if you're the person with the ball, but they're particularly frustrating 
 on defense because of how often you'll be victimized by receivers who have an uncanny knack for 
 getting open and who almost never drop the pigskin. Although receivers have no problem getting 
 open, they still have the propensity to catch the ball short of the first-down marker, even though 
 the game touts "smart routes" that let receivers adjust their routes to get first downs.  

  Despite these problems, the gameplay has been improved over last year and generally plays quite 
 well. Offline co-op play is back after a long absence and allows up to four players to play together 
 on the same system. There are fewer interceptions, but you'll still pay the price when you make 
 an egregiously poor throw. Running the option is as fun as ever, especially since you're not likely 
 to make a poor pitch, even if you're being swarmed by defenders. Many of the on-field changes won't 
 matter to casual players but will be appreciated by long-term fans of the series. You can now audible 
 to a new play while remaining in your original formation so as not to tip off the defense, and 
 you can also display bluff plays when checking your routes before the snap. Defenders aren't without 
 their own weapons, however. You can alter individual assignments or change what your line, linebackers, 
 or secondary will do with just a few button presses. It's great to have this much control over 
 your D, but you'll really have to be quick with the controller to get all of your changes done 
 before the ball is snapped.  

  NCAA Football received a major presentation overhaul last year, so it's not surprising that 09's 
 presentation isn't vastly different. There are a ton of real stadiums in the game, and as always, 
 they look great. Customization is a large part of how NCAA's presentation stands out from other 
 sports titles -- little touches allow you to become completely immersed. You can save photos and 
 replays and display them in your team's shrine, which is filled with trophies you've won over the 
 years. The menus are attractive and easy to navigate, and the newspaper-style articles in Dynasty 
 mode are particularly cool-looking and accurately reflect what's happening around college football. 
 On the field you'll notice a few new player animations, the most notable of which are celebration-related. 
 You can run up to a mascot after a touchdown and interact with him, and some teams have a custom 
 celebration that can be performed with the touch of a button. The game's audio provides a similar 
 level of freedom thanks to the custom music feature. This lets you take music from your hard drive 
 and assign it to a wide variety of events: sacks, first downs, touchdowns, extra points, kickoffs, 
 and more. Even if you don't take advantage of the ability to import your entire Michael Bolton 
 collection, you'll have plenty of music to listen to courtesy of the game's large number of marching 
 band songs. Lee Corso, Kirk Herbstreit, and Brad Nessler do a solid job of calling the action on 
 the field. Their comments are sometimes disjointed, but the presence of ESPN's number-one broadcast 
 team brings an authentic feel to the game.  

           Big plays are easy to come by in this year's wide-open game.      

  Thanks to the 
 long-awaited addition of an online dynasty and downloadable custom rosters, NCAA 09 is an improvement 
 over NCAA 08. However, those are the only noteworthy changes to a game that otherwise has a little 
 too much in common with its predecessor to feel entirely fresh. Playing NCAA Football 09 is like 
 watching your favorite college team blow up a lower division opponent; fun, but not very surprising. 
     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (27 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: DKHardee
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 13, 2009 9:53 pm PT
Review:  I love the game, I just wish it had the FCS schools incorporated in the game, so in Dynasty mode 
 you could start out at a small school like Coastal Carolina and work your way to a big school like 
 Texas. The Mascot Games are a waste of space and shouldn't return for 2010. The Bowling mini game 
 is kinda fun but the others, not so much. Dynasty mode is almost perfect if it only had the FCS 
 schools as mentioned earlier. Recruiting is good but could be a little better. Graphics are good. 
 Player models look good. Stadiums look better than they did in '08. Haveing all the alternate uniforms 
 is a major plus. Having the ability to put your on music in the game after touchdowns is a really 
 net feature as well. In the end the game will keep you coming back and in my opinion its one of 
 the best NCAA football games to date! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: biller88
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 18, 2009 7:35 pm PT
Review:  NCAA Football 2009 may not be as good as the NCAA's of 5 or so years ago, but it is a very positive 
 step in that direction. 
  On the multiplayer side, with the inclusion of Online Dynasties, the game has added a lot of replay 
 value that keeps you in the game by inviting you to play with 11 other people online, competing 
 for recruits and trophies. 
  Also, the addition of mini-games, such as the option dash and tug-of-war, the game adds a bit more 
 playability than just game after game.
  In the single player dynasty mode, expect much of the same things you are used to from the typical 
 EA dynasty.
  As far as the feel game, it is a lot different than Madden '09, and in my personal opinion, much 
 better. Madden feels like an arcade game, and plays as quick and action packed as one. In NCAA, 
 the flashy presentation is gone, and you are given something a bit grittier and more realistic.
 
  
  Overall, I would recommend you take a look at NCAA '09, especially as the price goes down. It is 
 a good game for college fans and fans of a realistic football game that this years Madden just 
 didn't deliver. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nayroneal
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 25, 2008 9:22 am PT
Review:  NCAA Football is clearly still the prototype for college football games. It is undoubtedbly the 
 second greatest sports game ever, Madden edges it. I too know that there are usually minimal differences 
 between the yearly titles, but the small changes make the gameply more fum, the online mode works 
 better than last year's title, the gameplay took a little longer to adjust to this year, but overall 
 it was an improvement to me from last year's title. I still primarily play the dynasty mode, I 
 still draft my NCAAF 09 players into the Madden league, and I stil play about 5-6 seasons per title. 
 I create about two players the first three years and bring them up for the draft. trying not to 
 lose late in the season is the main challenge, trying to win the Heisman is second One thing I 
 would like to see though, a better reward for winning the championship. The celebrations are always 
 somewhat boring, and a slightly better trophy room would also help. The game needs a more elaborate 
 champioship celebration, and a better franchise tracking method for success. The momentum engine 
 should be upgraded as well, and more violent hits that cause turnovers. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bigflu
Rating: 7
Date: Feb 3, 2009 8:12 pm PT
Review:  I probably shouldn't rip into this game too much, because I actually like playing it. But with 
 each and annual version, there are the usual annoying little things.
  
  First the good - The game play is the best to date. The player movements seem to correspond to 
 the controls better than before .... or at least they do for me. The graphics get better every 
 year, and the season options are as in-depth as ever. I especially like how the QB can now just 
 take off running without having to select the option to "run" button. If I see nothing, I just 
 start sprinting downfield. I do wish the downfield receivers would pick up what I'm doing faster 
 though and block.
  
  The bad - With every version of this game, passing is either easy or it's extremely difficult. 
 I keep waiting for the developers to balance this out. This version makes it easy, but also mixes 
 in about 4000 interceptions per team ..... or what I'm trying to say is an unrealistic amount. 
 I've played seasons with three different teams, and all of them seem to have the same results ..... 
 tons of picks's that get returned for scores, and very few fumbles. I'm not that good of a player, 
 so for me to intercept at least two per game .... and have 10 returned for scores in a season means 
 that part of the game is entirely too easy. I don't play the easy level either in case you were 
 wondering.
  
  And they either took away the ability for the ball carrier to quickly shake (or juke) to the left 
 or right ........... or I just simply haven't found it yet. After playing so many older versions, 
 it took me forever to try and remember NOT to hit the L1 or R1 buttons to try and get around defenders.
 
  
  Overall, I like this game and find myself playing it a lot. I'm not crazy about the recruiting 
 part where you have to allot how much time you spend talking to a prospect. You seem to get the 
 same (if not better) results if you use the QuickCall the prospect option as opposed to the direct 
 Calling of the Prospect. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ocdog45
Rating: 7
Date: Oct 25, 2008 10:16 pm PT
Review:  great graphics and best looking game for the ps3. A few new additions to the playbook make this 
 game decent. ea lockers was ruined with no real support. The patch is up so it kind of works now 
 (I think) . Online dynasty works if you have committed players with you. 
  
  Recruiting is too serious and should have more help from the AI if you want it to. It all seems 
 too slow when moving from recruit to recruit. Seems like the week bye week simulation ahs been 
 slower in my opinion. Mascot mode is stupid. The mini games are excellent if don't want to play 
 a full game. 
  
  oh Ohio state should NOT BE 99 OVERALL / OFFENSE / DEFENSE / SEPECIAL TEAMS. Total bull.
  
 
  this was the first year I took the game back. ea doesn't seem to care since we will still be buying 
 this over and over every year. looking forward to next years installment.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: melonhead57
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 20, 2008 3:05 pm PT
Review:  This is my first sports game on PS3 and it's definitely my favorite sports game that I've played. 
 If you haven't played any NCAA games I highly recomend you do! With NCAA you can't just buy the 
 best players you have to convince them to come to your school. One thing they could've done is 
 add some FCS schools to make the game more realistic, and had formation subsitutions. With those 
 two features I'd give it a 10! The fluid controls when you run the ball are great as well! The 
 use of the EA Locker is great because it lets you get the names for all the players and the online 
 dynasty is a great addition. If you were to ask me whether you should get Madden 09 or NCAA 09, 
 I'd definitely say NCAA all the way! 
  
  (i needed to get 75 more characters and didn't have any thing else to say!!!!) sjljsljlfjlsj lsjlfjsljfj 
 lsjlfjlsjl sjfljsfljflsj lsjlfjsljflsf 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gangstaa9
Rating: 7.5
Date: Oct 16, 2008 2:43 pm PT
Review:  When you get this game and turn it on for the first time it's really exhiting the graphics are 
 amazing theres a huge selection of teams to pick from and theres a new online dynesty which is 
 great. If you never played a fotball game before you'll play on freshman and have fun until you 
 relize that a 4 year old could beat it. Then you'll put it upto varsity and if you have the ball 
 you will probably still get a TD or filed Goal then it's time to play defense and you'll relize 
 that this game sucks the only way to stop them is to cross you fingers that they run because the 
 pass D is impossible and unlee you turn on no offsides you won't get a sack ether. Also theres 
 a new thing that you can jump the snap count so if you move the controller you defensive line men 
 will kill the offensive line men whic is fine but 99 out of 100 times it will be before the snap 
 so 5 yard penelty repeat down. The most annoying thing though is on third and long 9times out of 
 ten its a first down for some reason your defense just stinks on third down. Its not done yet when 
 you be a CB and try to intercept a pass the defender will probaly drop it occasionally intercept 
 or do something retarded while the reciever catches the ball. Finally you just might stop them 
 and force a firld goal and just like evrey game its impossible to block which I guss is better 
 then always being blocked but it still makes me mad when the ball goees through the defenders hands. Finally 
 you resisted the temtation to through your PS3 out the window and get started on offense. If you 
 don't run with the Quarter back which is an automatic fumble thenits a touchdown unless you throw 
 it to the touchdown because when you do the quarter back's accureccy goes to 0 or somthing which 
 turns out to be a pick.
  
  If you play 5 minute quarters then the score will probably be around 45-42 and you can do it all 
 again.
  
  I like recruting even though my favriote team is Syracuse so the most I can hope for is a 2 star 
 prospect its still fun to try and get the # 1 ranked person (and fail) Despite the whole paragraph 
 above this game is still worth buying or at least renting.
  
  sorry for spelling SC isn't working 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LucianoJ
Rating: 6.5
Date: Sep 23, 2008 7:04 pm PT
Review:  While the graphics are good and the presentation is decent, NCAA Football 09 fails to live up to 
 its potential. It took 2 patches to make this game playable. A lack of sacks, a poor running game, 
 poor execution of the option, laser-like CPU QB accuracy, ridiculous CPU offensive strategy and 
 goofy AI all ruin the sim aspect of NCAA 09. Beware the pick 6. Be prepared for "robo QBs" to complete 
 around 80% of their passes and convert most 3rd downs and redzone chances.
  The playbooks are lacking compared to last year's Old Gen versions. Sweeps look like dives in the 
 playbook. 
  
  Although the frame rate is stable, the choppy strides of a breakaway runner are terrible. The speed 
 of the game seems off, as well. Some runners sprint while others seem stuck in the mud on a treadmill. 
 The lack of ball rotation in the passing game is embarrassing. 
  
  Tiburon has their work cut out for them next year. They need to look long and hard at all of the 
 critical posts on the Operation Sports forum. Learn from your mistakes, EA. NCAA always seems like 
 a poor follow-up to the previous year's version of Madden, but at least managed to be more fun. 
 This year NCAA is just frustrating. 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Toxic8
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 22, 2008 10:41 am PT
Review:  Like everyone else I have played all of the NCAA games and this is the best so far (as it should 
 be) . If you have played any of the other games in the series you will not find alot of changes here 
 in this installment. The online modes do however spice up the game.
  The graphics are better than last years installment. Just like Madden 09 the grass is probably what 
 you will see right off hand. Too bad they can't make the fans look any better, but then again that 
 would really eat up the systems resources. The one thing I found really goofy was the way that the 
 players run. Doesn't look fluid and is choppy. Come on EA!
  The sounds are almost the same, which is a bummer really. Seems like the commentators say the same 
 things year after year after year. We need dynamic commentary as I call it. More on the lines of 
 a real life game. Where they bring up certain points of interest and different games, etc. That would 
 really add to appeal I believe.
  NCAA 09 is good for people that like the series and enjoy college football. Too bad certain elements 
 of the game is always rushed out due to time restraints and other factors. But I always enjoy the 
 crowd going bananas, that never gets old. Rent this first and then see if you like it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: corespoon
Rating: 7.5
Date: Sep 15, 2008 8:31 pm PT
Review:  for the first time ncaa made no up grades. exp for the online dynasty. personaly i hate games that 
 care more about online play then the game itself. but this is the NCAA also is not better then 
 madden and that's not good. the same game as NCAA football 08. there are a lot of things they need 
 to bring back or make something that will blow us away. 
  
  things they need to bring back. 
  1) create a school.
  2) remember after you made a big play 
 or scored a TD and you had a choice to pick what kind of celebration you could do? like R2+ (square) (and 
 that was a 15 yd penailty every time but i loved it.) and L2 (square) and so on. that really needs 
 to come back. 
  3) i kind of like the taking test and picking my major (in the campus legend) it game me more college 
 feel. 
  4) when you played at a tough stadium and when the crowed got loud the screen shook.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: metaldude05
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 9, 2008 8:00 pm PT
Review:  This game is one of the best games that i've played. The updated game play is great. the effects 
 of being the visiting team are extremely detailed. From the home team were shirts to make field 
 goals harder all the way to the shaky routes gives the game an edge to make home field advantage 
 actually matter. Campus challenge is not a lot different from last year. It is still incredibly 
 fun taking your players from the high school ranks to being Heisman. The kicker for me though was 
 the new online dynasty mode. there is nothing like competing with friends and coworkers for the 
 national championship and bragging rights. It is always better when you end up getting a recruit 
 from your friend rather than a mindless CPU. Playing as your team and building your team to be 
 a national powerhouse is one of the things so appealing about the franchise as a whole. This game 
 has just perfected the things we've all come to love about the ea franchise 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Abbott97
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 26, 2008 12:23 pm PT
Review:  The game is good and difficult depending on what team you are playing and where you are playing. 
 The Dynasty is actually well designed and thought out. Campus Legend is where I have issues with 
 the game. I wish they would bring back the old Campus Legend where you control both sides of the 
 ball, not just the position you're playing. I love the Stadium Sound, even though it seems unrealistic. 
 I also dig Ice the Kicker, I use it several times. I think they should have one and only one cover 
 athlete instead of 3 or 4 different ones. I love the avatars from Ea Sports World. Very well designed. 
 Love the download roster part of the online system. If i had the option to change one and only 
 one thing. It would definetly be the Campus Legend. Dont like the fact that you cant skip the High 
 School Playoff games and also that you only control your position. One positive about Campus Legend 
 is that the team wont comform around you and only you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gatorforlife07
Rating: 7
Date: Aug 19, 2008 3:07 pm PT
Review:  Well the new NCAA game has finally arrived after a long wait but was it as good as last years game? 
 In my opinion the answer to that question is no but before I get to the bad stuff I'll start with 
 the good stuff. The highly anticipated new online dynasty was a great addition to the game and 
 it is very fun to play with your friends or other people in the game. Another new feature I like 
 in this game is that you can share your highlights with other people on the website so you ca show 
 them something really cool that happened. I still like the campus legend game mode even though 
 it's plain and still same as last years campus legend, that being said I wish that EA Sports would 
 add something new to the Campus Legend. One thing that is bad about this game is that the pass 
 coverage is awful one time I went 25/26 passing with Tim Tebow which is not realistic at all. Another 
 bad thing about this game is the pass rush is completely useless because the Quarterbacks in this 
 game rarely get sacked. In my opinion if EA would fix those problems this would be a great game 
 but it is still worth a buy or a rent 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fathut1
Rating: 6.5
Date: Aug 11, 2008 2:18 pm PT
Review:  the games are very similar (08 and 09) they just didn't put enough new features in the game to 
 make it anything special honestly i couldn't tell the difference between the games. it is still 
 a fun game just nothing new is in it to make it more exciting. one thing i do like the stadiums 
 look alot nicer they are a lot more detailed that is one of the new positive things but i wouldn't 
 suggest buying this game if you already have the 08 edition. the msrp is $40 i wouldnt pay that 
 2 get a game i already own just with a 09 instead of a 08 its just not worth it.
  
  Positives
  : Stadiums look great
  : updated rosters
  :some new dynasty features but none 
 4 campus challenge
  
  
  Negatives:
  :Graphic did not improve
  :same play book
  :same main screen layout
  :not more than 10 new features ( 2 name a few (changing numbers, gameplan, top 
 25 strength of schedule) their just not that intesting or anything that changes the game.
  
  
  i hear madden is spose 2 be awesome and it comes out tomorrow so im gunna buy that and 
 hopefully that will be a lot more entertaining and fun. it is spose 2 have 85 new features witch 
 sounds really good. one that im excited 
  2 see is that during sim. not every running back gets 2000 yards cause it was unbelievable reggie 
 bush getting 2000 rushing yards hahah. 
  
  -Hunter 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jshaas
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 28, 2008 11:24 am PT
Review:  I've recently joined the next-gen community, and I have to say this is the best NCAA ever! The 
 graphics, sound, and animations are amazing. The controls are a little different from previous 
 installments, but once you get used to them you realize it's better this way. I've been playing 
 NCAA since 2001, and I've seen every improvement along the way. This year it's the online dynasty 
 mode that takes the cake. Now you can see what you're really made of. It's one thing to be the 
 best within your circle of friends, but playing against the rest of the PSN nation is a whole new 
 ballgame. Another improvement is the AI. In the past you could run the same play over and over, 
 and never be stopped. Now, that's not true. EA has done very well to keep the game from getting 
 out of hand, especially games against highly ranked opponents. With all things considered, I don't 
 know what else EA could do to improve on this great game. I guess we'll see next year. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: herbie92
Rating: 5
Date: Jul 26, 2008 12:49 am PT
Review:  Give EA some credit... at least they are consistent. Every year you can bank on them adding new 
 pretty new "fluff" for the casual college football fan to drool over. Let's see there was the hit-stick, 
 Race For the Heisman, the momentum meter, and the ever-helpful matchup stick to name a few. Oh 
 yea, I forgot about the mascot games. Anyway all that fluff still equals a lame football game if 
 the gameplay is not up to par. NCAA 09 offers the usual new gimmicks but still suffers from the 
 same problems that has plagued it for years. That of course is gameplay. This year's theme is "wide-open 
 gameplay". Boy do they mean that. Now you can score with ease, strait out of your Arena Football 
 dreams. Before I go any further, I need to explain one quick thing.
  
  The NCAA Football fan base is split between two sides. One side is the hardcore college football 
 fans who want a sim-style game ala Madden. The other side is the casual football fans who get bored 
 if they don't win by 50 every game (by exploiting the horrible A. I.) . Sorry hardcare fans, we are 
 out numbered. But hey we might live long enough to see EA actually FIX their gameplay bugs. (I 
 know wishful thinking) 
  
  OK back to the 09 game. Same old problems. Horrible defensive A. I., generic playbooks, depth chart 
 bugs, etc... But by far the biggest frustration lies with playing defense. Your defenders will always 
 allow one receiver to run open. Of course that receiver will catch the ball every time. All you 
 have to do is run some sort of crossing route and you will be guaranteed to have an easy completion. 
 It does not matter what defense you call. It does not matter if you call press or zone. There will 
 always be open receivers period. Basically your defenders are "dumbed down" and suddenly get slow 
 when they are trying to cover a receiver laterally. Of course you can't see the outside receivers 
 (thanks to the limited camera options) when the ball is snapped so you can't see how they get open 
 as the play unfolds. All you see is a receiver streaking across the field (when they get into your 
 camera range) and your defender or defenders trailing behind (not matter the speed ratings) . Of 
 course the result is high scoring games. Never at any time do you get the feeling that you can 
 stop the offense. You basically have to rely on getting an INT, penalty, fumble recovery, or hope 
 the opponent will start conservative play calling. (Did I mention the pass rush is non-existent.)
 
  
  The gameplay cannot be any more unrealistic. But hey, EA has to entertain those 13 year olds. The 
 bottom line is that this game should have never left testing with all the bugs and flaws that are 
 still present. (They still test right??) It's just shocking to see how many bugs this game has. 
 Stat bugs, drive summary bugs, unrealistic stats etc... I'm not even going to go into the online 
 glitches.... too many to mention. It's pathetic that we can discover these countless bugs and errors 
 that their testers should have caught. Unless those testers just don't know anything about college 
 football, which really looks like that is the case these days. 
  
  Sadly, us hardcore fans are going to have to play Madden to get some realism, while the casual 
 fans will enjoy the scoring spree, riding the glitch pony all the way home. Do yourself a favor 
 and save your $60 for a good game, unless you think the roster update is worth it.
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: MarcusTheKidd
Rating: 7
Date: Jul 25, 2008 4:49 pm PT
Review:  I am a first time NCAA Football owner. Therefore, my review does not take into account for previous 
 features of the game. Also, I mainly play the dynasty mode. This review does not make reference 
 to features outside of the dynasty and game play. 
  
  Please excuse my spelling and grammar. I do not have spell check on this device. 
  
  When I 
 first got this game, I was super psyched. Mainly because its football and I appreciate the college 
 atmosphere. The presentation of the game is pretty good. The announcers are pretty good. However, 
 after a while you start to notice the major imperfections of the game. 
  
  For one, some of the moves are over exaggerated and at times are quite lame. The lead blocker moves 
 don't work right half the time. There are some animations that don't frankly are stupid. Players 
 stumble and are affected by opposing players that havn't even touched them. It gets kind of annoying 
 after you break a long run and someone gets near you, you stumble, and a different player makes 
 that tackle. Or lets say that the I go to perform a juke move in the open field, my player may 
 slightly juke, but if the same situation repeats itself when I am near the sideline for some reason 
 my player is superman and his juke move covers about 10 yards and he leaps out of bounds as if 
 he has just scored a touchdown. Lets not forgot about the 5'9 160lb receiver who threw my lineman 
 to the ground like a rag doll on his way to breaking about 4 more tackles and scoring a touchdown. 
 Recruiting is also a little annoying. You have to talk to these recruits every week. What would 
 seem like a relatively easy process if you are say FSU, can actually be pretty painful and not 
 make much sense. Often times players interest and the teams attributes compliment each other perfectly. 
 However, the player would end up losing interest in your school for some odd reason and go to a 
 school whose attributes don't fit that player at all all. This player may not even have an opportunity 
 to play at this new school. Yet, he doesn't pick your school. Also, for some reason it can take 
 you an extraordinarily long time to sell an elite attribute of the school, which is most important 
 to the player. I dunno. Doesn't make much sense to me.. There are other things that just frustrate 
 you, like my profile is set to run a balanced playbook on offense and a multiple D defense; yet 
 when I play the games in my dynasty, I have to change the playbooks from the FSU playbook and the 
 4-3 defensive playbook every time I play a game. Of course as always it seems as though when your 
 defensive players attempt to make an interception they never catch it, but on the other hand the 
 computer players always seem to catch the pick. Just on a general note the computers defense is 
 way better than yours. From the lineman to the db's. There is really no excuse at this point. EA 
 is just terrible. The in-game drive summaries and records are pretty aweful as well. For example, 
 I returned a punt and the record I set was for 152yards. Those of us who know anything about football 
 know that there are only 120 yards on the football field, which includes the end-zones. I could 
 go on for a while about why this game is so terrible. Lets not mention the fact that there is/was 
 that whole roster editing situation.
  
  Despite all of the imperfections with the game it is still pretty fun, which is why I give it a 
 7. After all, it is college football.... The gameplay is pretty exciting, while frusterating at 
 times, the big play is always a possibility. Also, it is pretty easy to blow out a team that is 
 a lot worse than you. It isn't impossible like madden. I player whose speed is rated a 99 for the 
 most part is faster than anyone on the field and will not be caught by, lets say a linebacker whose 
 speed is rated at a 87 like madden. It's pretty easy to rattle the computer quarterback with the 
 crown noise and what not. The teams don't outplay their ratings. Rivalry games are pretty cool. 
 Most of them that I have played are or were at one point, pretty close going into the second half. 
 I guess you get what you expect from EA. An unpolished game with a ton of glitches and imperfections, 
 while at the same time still giving the player some sort of satisfaction. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: latin_boi
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jul 24, 2008 8:28 pm PT
Review:  With sports games, the pressure to make each year's iteration of a game a new experience while 
 retaining the same fun and excitement as previous installments is always present. With NCAA Football, 
 it's never been more apparent, especially when trying to set itself apart from Madden. Not only 
 does the series have to be fun, but it must be refreshing each year, while not seeming like a rip-off 
 of its pro football counterpart. This year's edition of NCAA Football may seem like deja vu to 
 those who played last year's version, but there's enough change in 09 for those people to enjoy 
 it.
  
  The first noticable thing in NCAA Football 09 is that there has been a nice graphical overhaul. 
 While it's not completely different, it makes the game look and feel all the more realistic. Player 
 models are accurate (no outrageously large college players) , the overall presentation has been 
 tweaked for the better, and the new animations are phenomenal. The most noticable are the last 
 two. With the addition of cheerleaders, mascot celebrations and a better looking stadium crowd, 
 the college atmosphere aimed for in all of EA's college football games is more apparent than ever. 
 With the new animations, there's never an issue of players running through each other. They'll 
 actually interact with each other in a realistic manner instead of completely acting on their own. 
 
  
  Apart from the graphics, the gameplay in NCAA 09 is almost completely unchanged. The biggest changes 
 are the reduced amounts of fumbles (thankfully) , improved player AI (thankfully) , and a new Ice-the-Kicker 
 feature. The new Ice-the-Kicker feature may come to mixed opinions among players. Despite the fact 
 that it is pretty darn realistic, it is a little one sided. Opposing players will have the option 
 to call a timeout before a key fieldgoal attempt, causing the kicker to get nervous. This will 
 cause the camera of shift so it is not completely aligned with the goal post. Also, the kicker's 
 power and accuracy meter will be frozen over so it is impossible to determine how hard or accurate 
 the kick was. This can be annoying for players whom this is used against, but challenging as well. 
 Players of 08 will also immediately notice the reduced amount of fumbles, and it should come to 
 great relief. Player AI will also come to great relief. Instead of merely watching a ball fly over 
 their heads, recievers will actually try and catch the ball now. They'll dive, jump, cut a route, 
 and basically do almost anything in order to make the catch. This makes sure a Quarterback's efforts 
 (especially in Campus Legend mode) will rarely go unrewarded. Yes, Campus Legend is back, but it 
 remains completely unchanged from last year's NCAA. Players will still choose a position, and play 
 his/her high school team's last few games and then choose a college to go to. Then they'll play 
 three or four years in college in hopes of winning the Heisman trophy or leading his/her team to 
 a National Title. While it remains unchanged, the Campus Legend mode is still incredibly fun and 
 addictive, and still stands out as the best NCAA Football gametype. The other gametype, Dynasty 
 mode, also remains slightly unchanged as far as single-player is concerned. However, the major 
 addition to NCAA's gameplay lies with Dynasty mode in that it is now taking it online. Players 
 can now play up to 60 years of a dynasty with up to 12 other players online. There are all sorts 
 of neat function for the commisioner to use in order to make sure no one cheats/slows the rest 
 of the players down/etc. However, this feature is a little disappointing in that you cannot join 
 a Dynasty at random. Players must invite all those who they want to play with. It would have been 
 a lot nicer to be able to join a Dynasty on the fly and play with random people. Other than those 
 two game modes, NCAA brings back the goofy minigames and Mascot Mash-Ups found in previous versions. 
 Once again, these gametypes are the same as they were previously with some small additions. Overall, 
 despite NCAA Football 09's small, if any, additions, it still remains a fun game to play both offline 
 and online.
  
  Overall, this game is highly underrated. Despite the fact that not much is new, NCAA 09 remains 
 a highly fun game to play. Fans of the series will most likely find a game mode to keep busy with, 
 and college football fans will be impressed by the overall look and feel of the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GordonFan92
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jul 24, 2008 12:08 am PT
Review:  NCAA Football 09 is a very good football sim. The graphics have been greatly improved and players 
 actually bump into each other in the cut scenes instead of walking through someone. The animations 
 however don't always work. Receivers will often do a toe drag when they are not close to the sideline, 
 then fall down ending the play. Screen play animations don't work, the RB pr WR will come back 
 for the ball, resulting in a big loss, also the middle of the field is wide open. Other than that 
 tho the game play is great. Bobble catches/pics are cool but happen a little much and the option 
 pitch is more realistic and doesn't always result in a perfect pitch to the RB. 
  
  PS2/Xbox features such as Home Field Advantage and Mascot Mash Up are now on next gen. Mascot games 
 are fun and are great for when you don't want a serious intense game but just to have some fun. 
 Home field advantage is well done and doesn't totally diminish your players, it really all depends 
 on your QB. They have also added bluff play art which is great for vs. offline. QG quizzes are 
 an interesting way of gaining or losing composure after a INT, basically if you know the play you 
 gain confidence and won't make the same mistake again, or at least that's what its supposed to 
 resemble.
  
  The new featured game mode this year is online Dynasty, EA has tried very hard to do more online 
 with their games (check out EA sports world, make an avatar and show off your skills) . The online 
 dynasty can have up to 12 users and is controlled by the commissioner, and can go for 60 years. 
 Offline dynasty and Legend modes have basically gone untouched, they have added some mini-games 
 and you can upload videos and pictures from in game to the EASW website.
  
  Overall NCAA Football 09 will appeal to anyone who likes College Football or wants to show off 
 their skills online against friends and play for an actual championship year after year. I have 
 not experienced any of the issues found in the game however, it does cause my PS3 to overheat (so 
 did Madden 08, seems only to be EA football games) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: braxon1
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 23, 2008 4:33 pm PT
Review:  I have been a fan of the NCAA series for years. I usually like the way EA goes with it. IT's alot 
 better than Madden by far. There are so many places to begin with this game. I'll start with Dynasty. 
 Dynasty Mode is really no different this year than last years. I do enjoy the new menu screens. 
 The Gameplay is phenomenal. It seems to me that the AI got a mind of it's own this year. I noticed 
 that the Defense was actually starting to adapt to my style of play and started messing with me 
 in the later quarters in Heisman Mode. It seems like a much easier, free-flowing control scheme 
 on both sides of the ball. You can literally take on multiple defenders and be successful. I also 
 like that during my Dynasty the AI tried to throw me an upset and was very impressed at how well 
 EA set up the entire scheme this year. The play feels much more realistic and it's not like I am 
 blowing the other team away every game. I like the excitement of knowing that I might lose or that 
 this one play could mess up my whole season. I think that is the way football should be and I hope 
 they can take alot of this game and bring it to Madden 09. The Online Dynasty is not perfect, but 
 is highly enjoyable. I enjoy the fight for the BCS Championship and there is really not much lag 
 on the PS3 servers. As long as you have a good comissioner then the online portion is great. To 
 the new things that were added. The custom stadium sounds is great. There is nothing like scoring 
 a touchdown to "Hells Bells" or converting on Third Down and hearing "We Will Rock You" blast through 
 the stadium. Homefield Advantage is another thing that aggravates me but totally adds to the excitement 
 of the game. I actually have to learn certain routes and recievers. It just adds to the whole feel 
 of the game. There are certain drawbacks like only having 12 players in Online Dynasty, LOOONG Load 
 Screens and That Campus LEgend hasn't changed a whole lot since last year. With those being the 
 only minor things, I think EA has made agreat football game and almost completely redeemed themselves. 
 Let's just hope that I am this excited after playing MAdden 09 next month. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Fyoung
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 21, 2008 5:44 am PT
Review:  To anyone thats not played this game I've read a lot of reviews. The one thing that stands to me 
 on this game is the speed of game play and graphics. The plays that you run are so fluid and sharp. 
 To me the games are almost like real. The close up shot of a replay is extremely sharp. If you 
 like college football you'll love this game. I've seen some unique plays. One that stood out was 
 when I was playing Clemson vs NC State my middle line backer intercepted the ball about ten from 
 the qb he reached up and tipped the ball then pulled it down and ran it in for a touchdown. I've 
 only seen that once since i've been playing. To me this is one the best looking football games 
 I've ever played.
  Some of the weaknesses that I've noticed is that the fans in the background look like ps1 graphics. 
 It also seems easy to beat the com. I've raised the level to all american. I beat the com. easy 
 on that level. I may raise it to Heisman. One other thing that has stood out. I've not seen one 
 fumble in 11 games so far.
  I must say even with these minor problems this game is awesome. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: smithbubbajones
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 26, 2008 2:41 pm PT
Review:  Last year, NCAA Football 08 was a step in the right direction for making an incredible football 
 franchise this generation. Many were expecting NCAA 09 to be incredible, with its new break away 
 animation system, and other new features. Unfortunately, I could have had a V8, but luckily, NCAA 
 football 09 is that great experience football fans have been waiting for.
  
  The biggest step up for the franchise is in its visuals. Now, I know I always praise EA Sports 
 games for being pretty, but this game is assertively beautiful. Player models all look sharp and 
 crisp, they move smoothly changing animations, the field has the best looking grass of any game, 
 lighting is stellar. Mascots are detailed, as are cheerleaders and stadiums. The game runs smooth 
 at 60 frames (even on the Ps3 version) . Although there is still a lot of clipping going on, none 
 of it affects gameplay in the slightest bit. The game doesn't look perfect, but this is the best 
 looking football game so far.
  
  A big new gameplay feature is the animation system. Players, running backs in particular, aren't 
 stuck in a set animation for each move, they are free to move as they wish. Controlling a ball 
 carrier has never been better, and it's never looked better. It can be a little difficult to pull 
 off moves at times, but like most games, there is a learning curve. Quarterbacks move authenically, 
 as do the men in the trenches. The tackling animations are incredible, as certain tackles actually 
 look painful. The amount of mocap done is amazing, and mostly everyone moves realistically. My 
 only complaint is the lack of running animations. Everyone still runs the same, and it looks a 
 little awkward, but overall this is a huge step up from last year.
  
  Momentum has been taken to the next level. Quarterbacks have a "QB Quiz" after an interception. 
 They are shown a series of plays, and if they select the right one, they shake off the pick, and 
 move on. If they choose wrong, their momentum moves down, making their accuracy erratic, and their 
 cadence subtle. When offensive linemen allow a sack, their momentum moves down, making them more 
 vulnerable. Running backs fumbling or receivers dropping passes effects their momentum. Vice versa, 
 if they perform well, they are on a hotstreak, and their ratings go up, and they play better with 
 more confidence.
  
  The same can be said for defensive players. Allowing a big play makes them play worse, but getting 
 a big hit or a pick makes them better. It's a very dynamic approach to confidence and momentum, 
 that works extremely well, and you will come to rely on.
  
  What I've always loved about College football are crazy plays. Those are here in full effect. You 
 have a ton of option plays, and you can return field goals. NCAA Football 09 captures the essence 
 of playing on Saturday. The crowd has booming cheers that effect the way the other team plays. 
 If the crowd is crazy, nobody is certain about where they are supposed to be, or even what the 
 play is. The toughest stadiums to play in are not friendly. After touchdowns, you can perform certain 
 school specific celebrations. Florida will do the gator, Boston College will pretend to fly around 
 like an eagle. This is the most authentic sports game on the market, and it's something Tiburon 
 should be proud of.
  
  Campus legend mode returns, with zero changes. You can pick a player and continue their careers, 
 or you can create a player from scratch, take him through high school, find a team that wants you 
 and play your career. It's a good game mode, but it could use a face lift after this long while. 
 You still cant' become a kicker or punter, unfortunately.
  
  What is cool, is how momentum effects you on the field. It works just like it does in an actual 
 game, but it's more immersing when you are controlling just one player.
  
  Dynasty has seen the most polish. Scouting is deeper than ever, as you schedule visits and phone 
 calls with prospects, you can redshirt players, offer scholarships, the like. There are top 25 
 polls, and ESPNews from around the nation. Do your job, and the fans will praise you, don't do 
 your job, and you could see yourself out the door. You have the ability to take any dynasty online 
 and compete with others, and you can finish any online dynasty offline. It will take up most of 
 your time, and it's shows tons of polish. It's the next best thing to being a real coach.
  
  NCAA Football 09 is a great game. It has tons of improvements over last year, and is a great 
 step in an even better direction. It's football season, and you need to get into it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: packman527
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 19, 2008 7:03 pm PT
Review:  I wasn't sure about the way the NCAA series had been going in recent years. I've been unhappy with 
 the AI in recent games, and have always had to mess with the sliders. And even then I could not 
 get it to something that was realistic. There were way too many turnovers in last years game, too 
 many interceptions and fumbles. I could have a 70% completion rate and still throw 25 ints a season. 
 The ball was either caught or intercepted, the was rarely an in-between. But in this years version 
 there are alot of pass break ups by the defensive backs, and not everything they get their hands 
 on is caught, and it's much more realistic. I haven't had to mess with the AI at all, and the Heisman 
 mode plays very realistically in terms of stats and difficulty. I am also impressed with the running 
 aspect of the game. The CPU running backs seem to be a little slow, like they don't use the R2 
 accelerater button for themselves. So far I am only giving up about 20 rush yards a game, and may 
 have to up the AI CPU sliders for CPU running ability. But overall I am very pleased with the NCAA 
 Football 09 version, and all the passing (catches, pass breakups/deflections) and running animations 
 have been amazing. 
  
  I also enjoy playing the mini games, and played them extensively for the few days I was waiting 
 for my ordered rosters to arrive. They helped me get used to the Heisman mode without having to 
 play entire games. And they are fun. 
  
  I wish they would bring back the create-a-school option though. I enjoyed creating a school and 
 importing it into dynasty and starting from scratch. And I am uninterested in the Campus Legend 
 mode. 
  
  In all, great game, with a much better AI and assortment of run and passing animations. The more 
 "wide open gameplay" they were going for was a success. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gundstrum
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 19, 2008 4:30 pm PT
Review:  Those who are stating that this is the same game with the same gameplay as last year, only with 
 updated rosters are dead wrong. For the record, I have been playing the NCAA Football series since 
 1998. Before the release of NCAA Football 09, I spent the preceding weeks playing NCAA Football 
 2008, in order to see the difference between the two. Gameplay of NCAA Football 2009 is much improved, 
 with players reacting to movement much more realisticly than past series, with momentum playing 
 a part of shifting direction, rather than just switching to the new direction on a dime. I can 
 actually complete downfield passes because of this, without being intercepted every 1 out of 2 
 passes longer than 15 yards. The actual game structure is pretty much the same as last year, only 
 this year there is an added feature that I am really looking forward to: Online Dynasty. This gives 
 you the option to play with up to 12 other gamers in Dynasty mode, and play it for up to 60 game 
 years. Sure, the game is missing some aspects that I enjoyed on last gen consoles, but overall, 
 NCAA Football 2009 is the best in the series to date. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Phantompgh
Rating: 5
Date: Jul 17, 2008 12:43 pm PT
Review:  Well the game was great to me until I went online and I'm not talking about the roster issues or 
 other problems that are filling up the boards. I ran into a huge problem in my onlne dynasty which 
 was EA's main selling point this year..... Week 1 I was matched up with another user who was OHIO 
 STATE and I play with PITT, I beat him 31-24 in a great game but when I went to save vids and pics 
 to brag with it wouldnt let me and my commish said he had the same problem but he played the computer 
 so we now know its not a user vs user issue BUT WAIT...... IT GETS EVEN WORSE      
  
  NOW REMEMBER I WON THE GAME 31-24 and basically ended his season and boosted my title hopes even 
 more........... BUT wait................ WEEK 2 it now says I'm 0-1 and that he beat me 31-10 I almost 
 threw my stick threw the tv what happened , I mean whats the point of even playing now this is 
 college football 1 loss can end your season and I won but yet it says I lost even my commish who 
 is a good friend could not believe it.......
  
  EA WHAT IS THE POINT OF A FOOTBALL GAME THAT CANT EVEN KEEP TRACK OF WIN /  
 have never had so many problems with one game all I can say is whens the recall.................. and 
 please give up your exclusive rights so I can at least have the chance to purchase another football 
 game because this is flat out broken..........
  
  the score I give this is only for graphics........... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SimSimDaBear
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 16, 2008 9:20 pm PT
Review:  I have been a die hard fan of the NCAA Football series since it was on the Playstation (NCAA Football 
 '98, Danny Wuerffel cover) , which I can barley remember playing. Although I was infatuated I didn't 
 truly fall in love with NCAA Football until 2003 when the designers were so detail oriented they 
 even managed to get every aspect of Martin Stadium (Home of the Washington State Cougars) correct. 
 It was a beautiful game and a landmark in sports video game history. NCAA Football 03' was a truly 
 deep, realistic, and fun game to play. I was hooked and played countless seasons of Dynasty mode, 
 wearing out a few Playsation 2s on the way and not stopping until even UL Monroe was a national 
 champion. I threw my controller in rage at my RB's fumble in a SEC championship game, I was elated 
 when my dual threat quarterback won the Heisman for his 50+ TD year, I felt heartbreak when I was 
 upset by lowly TCU, but leaped from my chair in joy as my last second 52 yard field goal against 
 Washington went through the up rights and beat my arch rivals who were twenty places higher in 
 the AP poll. NCAA Football 03' was a video gamer/football fanatic's greatest dream! And somehow 
 EA managed to continue the legacy that was NCAA Football 03' in the following years, they even 
 managed to build upon the greatness that was 03' (Campus Legend mode) . Every year was fantastic, 
 I never listened to the haters who said you were paying 50 bucks for a roster update. To me every 
 year, NCAA Football 03', was the greatest sports game ever made! Until next-gen...
  
  It was as if someone had ripped out my heart when I played Xbox 360's version of NCAA, the first 
 next-gen version of NCAA. Everything was gone from the game that I had fallen in love with. Sure 
 there was dynasty mode, but barley, sure the graphics were better but I would have taken poorer 
 graphics to get the game that I loved back. And there were all these new features that were put 
 in place to trick me into thinking the game was better but it wasn't better, it was a worse game, 
 much worse! So much potential in the new consoles lost just to make a quick port of NCAA Football 
 in hopes of capitalizing on the next-gen console rage and make some money. All hope was lost as 
 I watched my, what looked like steroid injected players, run around the same field game after game 
 in some sort of robotic dance. I was crushed and when I did get a PS3 and get NCAA Football for 
 the PS3 I felt even worse, another year wasted! What had become of the series that I loved! Where 
 was it! Was I doomed to this same crap game year after year? The PS3 was suppose to be the next 
 step in gaming but NCAA Football was taking steps back! I became nostalgic and played NCAA Footballs 
 from years past. As I played I cried naked as I realized what could have been wasn't, in fact it 
 was worse. I reverted to playing soccer, baseball, and dare I say it tennis games in some sort 
 of sick fantasy that I would find what I was looking for in these boring sports! I was a defeated 
 man with no direction in life until...
  
  NCAA FOOTBALL 09'
  *Light shines through the clouds.
  
  What a heaven sent! What a marvelous game! Amazing game 
 play, better graphics, a fantastic dynasty mode, great commentary, tons of options, online dynasties, 
 fantastic atmosphere. The list goes on and on but there was one thing that did it for me and it 
 was seeing my favorite team's stadium modeled with such perfection and detail it made me want to 
 cheer, laugh, and cry at the same time! Martin Stadium is as good looking as it ever was and the 
 detail of the surrounding campus is almost creepy, i. e. the top of the WSU library, the nipple 
 as it is called is even in the game. In the words of Neo, woah.
  
  There are so many great things about NCAA Football 09. For one the graphics seem to look so much 
 more realistic than years past, the players and stadiums don't have this glossy perfection about 
 them they seem natural, real, dynamic, alive. The animation's have all been redone and look and 
 feel fantastic. This really stands out when you are the ball carrier and when you move your player 
 all the movements on the screen are so smooth and natural, it is incredibly realistic. The overall 
 feel of NCAA Football 09, when your controlling a player, is just amazing. Everything is very smooth. 
 Although on replay the running motions are a little robotic. But NCAA Football makes up for this 
 by including many new animations that make the game look great. I. e. stiff arms, jukes, spins, 
 ball strips, blocking, etc.
  
  The graphics aren't the only thing that is revamped, the sound is incredible as well and might 
 be the best part of the game. The commentary, like always, is fantastic and realistic, the stadium 
 sounds are incredible, great atmosphere, and of course the on field sfx are top notch. But one 
 of the coolest parts about NCAA Football's sound is the custom stadium sounds where you can load 
 custom sounds to be played at certain events like touchdowns. I have added a few sounds I got off 
 you tube of martin stadium, which was incredibly easy (make them .mp3) , and it sounds great!
  
  The features are another area in which NCAA Football 09 has succeeded. There are many new options 
 including new options in Dynasty mode such as quick calls on recruiting which really help out. 
 But there is also a new online dynasty mode which is very cool and very fun. If your ps3 is hooked 
 up to the internet I highly recommend using online dynasty. And of course the campus legend is 
 still in the game but it seems somewhat forgotten about.
  
  Overall NCAA Football 09 is a must have for college football fans. One word springs to my mind 
 when I play NCAA Football 09 and that is detail. You will be amazed at how much detail the developers 
 have put into this game. It is truly amazing from realistic stadiums to using the actual logos 
 of the school's newspapers on the campus news in Dynasty Mode. Take my word for it if your a fan 
 of college football you owe it to yourself to go out and buy this game, you won't regret it. NCAA 
 Football 09 makes NCAA Football 03 proud and hopefully the legacy will continue.
  
  NCAA COLLEGE FOOTBALL IS BACK! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: HicktownMayor
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jul 16, 2008 8:06 pm PT
Review:  I have played NCAA since the 03 game (or somewhere around in there) . I live in TN and college football 
 is everything. NCAA Football 09 is the best yet, however it's not the best it can be.
  
  The Good: Great graphics, terrific sound, custom stadium sounds, ONLINE DYNASTY.
  
  The Bad: 
 Custom stadium sounds don't seem to work all the time for some reason, campus legend hasn't changed, 
 "Hit triangle for celebration"... hmm.... nothing happened, alot of the same.
  
  Even with a longer bad list than good list, NCAA Football 09 gets a 8.5 from me. It's the same 
 great football game you've grown to love.
  
  Some suggestions for NCAA Football 2010:
  
  1. Do something different with Campus Legend.
  
  2. Get realistic -- Too many tackles are 
 broken too easily, kickers can kick a freakin mile, fast QBs are slow, celebrations not good enough 
 (for me) . All these things make up the true college football atmosphere.
  
  3. Mimic the actual games better. An example: During a timeout, end of quarter, change of possession, 
 or after a score (and PAT) , the score is displayed at the bottom of the screen on the TV and the 
 announcers announce the score like: "This is a crucial timeout for Alabama, trailing Tennessee 
 by 4 late." (UT 21, UA 17 1:23 4th) . Remember that was all an example. I think it'll be cool if 
 the makers of NCAA Football could make that happen.
  
  4. Allow which part of songs can be played in custom stadium sounds. I have some songs I wanna 
 play that would fit the situation perfect (like the original Rocky Top for when UT scores a Touchdown) 
 but it doesn't get past the intro of the song b/c each song starts from the beginning. They need 
 a set time of playing, like to be able to start the song a minute into or song (at the chorus, 
 for example) .
  
  These are just my suggestions. Great game! GO VOLS! 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
