-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: NCAA Basketball 09
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/ps3/sports/ncaabasketball09/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 College atmosphere captured well.
 Deep playbook options to customize style of play.
 Easy-to-learn controls.
 New pick-and-roll mechanic is simple and effective.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Dribble moves rarely work.
 Defensive AI is not consistent.
 Response times during gameplay often slow.
 No online team play mode.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Nov 19, 2008
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 7
Critic Score: 7.1, 12 Review (s)
User Score: 6.8, 55 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Electronic Arts
Developer: EA Canada
Genre: Basketball Sim
Date: Nov 17, 2008
ESRB: Everyone

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Thanks to a new game engine coupled with improvements to atmosphere and online play, NCAA Basketball 
 09 is a good game. 

  In previous years, college basketball gamers had a choice between EA and 2K's college offering. 
 However, with the departure of 2K from the market, EA's NCAA Basketball 09 will be the only college 
 basketball game in stores this holiday season. Luckily, EA has improved upon several nagging gameplay 
 issues, resulting in its best college basketball effort to date. The most significant change for 
 the series, formerly known as NCAA March Madness, is the use of the same game engine used in EA's 
 NBA Live series. This has led to improved player and ball physics, dramatically reducing instances 
 from years past when the ball seemed to teleport to different spots on the court. This has allowed 
 EA to focus on improving upon the college atmosphere of previous titles.  

           No college basketball game is complete without male cheerleaders.      

  As in earlier 
 NCAA Basketball titles, the attention to detail and graphics is impressive. All 328 Division I 
 teams are represented, and most arenas are exact replicas of the school's gym, with mascots and 
 cheerleaders adding to the ambiance. More fan chants have been added this year, taking the total 
 to 400, of which half are school specific. Dick Vitale, Brad Nessler, and Erin Andrews return to 
 provide solid commentary. EA has also added team tempo control and unique team playbooks, which 
 causes each team to play the same on the virtual hardwood as they do in real life. Game tempo control 
 dictates the speed at which teams play, and each team is supposed to excel at a particular speed. 
 Team tempo dictates the speed at which each team excels and, while it causes the CPU-controlled 
 teams to play more like their real-life counterparts, the impact on user-controlled teams is questionable. 
 For instance, if you're an up-tempo team like North Carolina, you're supposed to shoot early in 
 the shot clock to stay within the appropriate tempo, but the benefit and rationale for doing so 
 is unclear.  

  In dynasty mode, you can choose any of the three tempos, which gives you the option to play in 
 whatever style you'd like. Before each game, you choose three areas to focus on in the game, such 
 as spread out the attack, or manage fatigue. You'll get coaching tips from the sideline depending 
 on which areas you choose to concentrate on with EA's new coach feedback system. EA has partnered 
 with the National Association of Basketball Coaches (NABC) , which means actual coaches are giving 
 the majority of the in-game tips. While the tips aren't always helpful, the college atmosphere 
 is enhanced by seeing Rick Pitino and Billy Donavan stalking the sidelines.  

  Revamped playbooks and signature play calling are also a welcome addition. In previous years, there 
 was little need to run set plays due to how easy it was to get to the rim and dunk the ball. However, 
 with the new game engine, set plays work well and are needed when you're playing as one of the 
 less-dominant teams. Because right analog dribble moves (renamed "quick-strike ankle breakers") 
 aren't particularly responsive and a gravitational-like force sticks the offensive player to his 
 defender, set plays are needed to free up a player for an open shot. You can even customize your 
 playbook to add the plays you run the best. Defensively, there are several trapping options, as 
 well as zone defense not seen in the pro games. These defenses can be effective, and with the ability 
 to quickly call different plays utilizing the signature play calling, it is easy to develop a unique 
 style of play suited to your team's strengths.  

  Another new feature that is done well is the pick-and-roll control. By holding the left trigger, 
 your closest teammate will come over to provide a screen. After dribbling off the pick and releasing 
 the left trigger, your teammate will roll toward the basket, causing the defense to either switch 
 defenders or get caught behind the play. This technique leads to either a great low post shot or 
 an open jumper from the guard. It's an effective technique and one that doesn't feel cheap or unrealistic. 

  However, not all gameplay flaws have been addressed. The most frustrating gameplay issue is the 
 lack of control on both sides of the ball. On offense, the aforementioned quick-strike moves don't 
 work well, and often you'll find yourself stuck in an animation that prevents passing, shooting, 
 dribbling, or whatever you're trying to do at that moment. In addition, passing without the use 
 of icon passing is risky and unpredictable at best. For example, you might find yourself on a three-on-one 
 fast break, dribbling directly at the defender to force him to commit. Once the defense does commit 
 to the ball handler, you could find yourself stuck in an animation where you pick up your dribble, 
 delaying the fast break. Then, when trying to pass to your teammate breaking to the basket to the 
 right, you see the ball go in the other direction to your teammate that stopped five feet from 
 the basket. This forces you to use the direct-passing icons, which work well. However, often you 
 will find a slight delay in the ability to shoot the ball after performing a direct pass, leading 
 to frustrating missed opportunities.  

  Defensively, trying to play the passing lanes will make you want to pull your hair out. Your opponent 
 will be passing the ball around the perimeter, and even when you've timed your steal attempt perfectly, 
 the ball will often go right over your head. Or worse, the ball might go through your hands. Then, 
 for some reason, without hitting any buttons or even trying to play the passing lanes, you steal 
 the ball. It's all very frustrating.  

  Dynasty mode is largely unchanged and remains quite deep. You can pick a school and coaching tempo, 
 recruit players, schedule games, and allocate resources for training and game planning. However, 
 authentic schedules from this season and the ability to play only one season are absent. New is 
 the dynasty yearbook, which allows you to look back on previous seasons' top performers. For true 
 simulation gamers this might be frustrating because unless you're playing 10- to 15-minute halves, 
 the stats just won't match up to those of other teams in the country, making it hard to have a 
 player named All-American or break school records. But because dynasty mode is solid, this won't 
 be a major detraction for most gamers.  

           Real coaches add authenticity to this year's game.      

  The user interface of NCAA 
 Basketball 09 has been upgraded and is quite user friendly. In particular, the online menus are 
 much easier to navigate, and several game modes such as Game of the Week, NCAA Rivalries, and Classic 
 Matchups enhance the experience. In addition, the new Rival Challenge allows you to track other 
 users online who play as rival teams, teams in your conference, or who also use your team, and 
 challenge them to games quickly without the need to enter a lobby. The major letdown of the online 
 mode is the noticeable omission of online team play. With most other EA Sports titles going in 
 that direction, it was a bit surprising that NCAA Basketball 09 didn't add this option. At least 
 the online content that is here runs well and is lag free.  

  While there is no question that NCAA Basketball 09 still has some gameplay issues to correct, the 
 addition of game tempo control, custom playbooks, effective pick-and-roll mechanics, and easy-to-use 
 play calling options has made this game a viable alternative to the NBA titles for casual and hardcore 
 gamers alike.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (4 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: Mikeman1503
Rating: 6
Date: Feb 9, 2009 8:17 pm PT
Review:  NCAA Basketball is a good game for PlayStation 3. The online mode is highly addictive. So far i 
 have played 44 games online since i received the game about a month and a half ago. A few times 
 I have gotten disconnected from the server but fortunately these D/C dont give you a loss unless 
 you actually quit the game. 
  Overall gameplay is good. The tempo meter is a great addition to the game. Each team either has 
 a half court, balanced or fast paced style. If the player can keep his team in the range where 
 his team best performs then they will recieve a boost in skills. Most of the time this makes the 
 game a lot of fun but I have noticed that in some cases the tempo combined with home court advantage 
 can create a lopsided game. Sometimes this can be frustrating. 
  Finally, the game takes a downfall, in its lack of game modes. I simulated a franchise in a few 
 days and got bored of it because it felt like I was playing NCAA Basketball 05 again. There seemed 
 to be very few upgrades. Other than Franchise mode there really isn't anything else to do. You 
 can play a few random tourneys with friends but usually it is more exciting to create your own 
 round robin through "Play Now". 
  I suggest buying this game only if you don't own a college basketball game for ps3 yet and you 
 enjoy playing online. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: EC21E
Rating: 6.5
Date: Jan 3, 2009 6:37 pm PT
Review:  I had high hopes for NCAA 09. I knew that with all the new additions that the game would have to 
 improve, but i guess i was wrong. I was very impressed with the 08 version but the 09 version came 
 up just short.
  
  NCAA 09 built on many things that 08 presented; one of which was the graphics. The graphics in 
 this game are stunning, so I have say that they hit there. An example is after a game is over, 
 you can see the distcust on the losing teams face (for some reason that stood out to me) . Another 
 good aspect that i felt was improved on somewhat was the dynasty mode. The depth was extended. 
 There are more options than before to fine tune your roster, and the overall school you are coaching. 
 So I can say that 09 hits in some spots.
  
  BUT, it fell short in many more. One is the overall presentation of dynasty mode. Its set up to 
 be one big quick menu that you can control everything from, but in reality you can't. The most 
 iportant options are tucked away in side menus that you have to search for. Also, each time you 
 go back a menu it takes you back to the large quick menu, which can create very time consuming 
 roster changes.
  
  Another feature the game fell short on was the game tempo meter. The overall concepy was good, 
 but it almost ruins the gameplay. If you have two up-tempo teams playing each other, then everythings 
 fine but any other combonation and the gameplays horrible. If you face a balanced or half-court 
 tempo team, all they'll do is pass the ball and you'll only have a chane to score about 40 points, 
 which isn't even a game. They have a good idea, but it ruined the gameplay speed.
  
  So overall, NCAA Basketball 09 is a game that has great potential, but fell just short because 
 of drawn out games and inefficient gameplay menus. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mrsaito
Rating: 7.5
Date: Dec 1, 2008 2:57 pm PT
Review:  I like to play a season and get to the playoffs; this review focuses on offline gameplay as I don't 
 care about franchise or online features. 
  
  I really wanted to like this game and for the most part I do but there is something about it that 
 just seems a bit 'off'. Perhaps it's the camera angle; it's a bit further back than the NBA games 
 and makes the action feel a bit less immersive. The floors and arenas look fine and the animations 
 are good too. If you pay attention to the AI all the players seem to be acting in a reasonable 
 fashion on both offense and defense. (Note: I have applied the first patch, 1.02 I believe. Before 
 this the AI wasn't as sharp. An example was that loose balls would roll around until they went 
 out of bounds, this is no longer the case) . I've read some complaints that the player models are 
 too skinny but having attended division one games in person the guys don't look as big as they 
 do on TV so this is correctly realistic.
  
  You can play a franchise/season or go directly into a number of tournaments including the Big Dance. 
 This is a positive; I hate games that force you to sim a long season before you can get to the 
 playoffs (NHL09 developers please take note) .
  
  There are a responsive set of sliders so between those and the various difficulty levels you can 
 set things up for the appropriate level of challenge.
  
  The tempo feature is superficial at best, just set your team up as 'balanced' and you can play 
 the game any way you want w/o penalty. You will tire of hearing the announcers referring to tempo 
 incessantly.
  
  Another negative is that you cannot turn injuries off completely (there is low/medium/high) . This 
 is the only sports game that I own where this is the case. This may be more realistic but this 
 is a part of the sport I choose to ignore when gaming. 
  
  The play running system works reasonably well on both offense and defense.
  
  All in all it's 
 a good depiction of NCAA B-ball. But there is something about it that makes it feel like it's on 
 Playstation 2.5. Maybe it's the camera angle combined with the fact that all the players' long, 
 baggy shorts look like they have way too much starch in them. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: atl22neb
Rating: 5
Date: Nov 23, 2008 11:54 am PT
Review:  the game is not all bad as long as you haven't played 2K8. once you have played the smooth operation 
 of 2k sports this disaster is a train wreck. its very choppy and you get stuck in animations. i'm 
 trying to find something positive to say but i can't seem to find the right words. the tempo bar 
 is nice but doesn't really effect game as you would think. you won't miss as many lay-ups like 
 nba 2k8 . the coaches tip a worthless. they will say substitute after you just changed players. 
 Sometimes players cut towards hoop and you cant pass it to them and when it does get thru they 
 tend throw up some crazy reverse lay up and hit bottom of rim because the player is in a animation 
 and your not controlling him. With this being the only college hoop game available on playstation 
 three i would tread carefully. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
