-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: NCAA Football 08
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/ps3/sports/ncaafootball08/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Super sim is a great way to skip the boring stuff so you can do more of the cool stuff.
 The shrine, trophies, and highlights are nice new additions.
 Running the option is always fun.
 Controls offer a lot of depth but aren't overly complicated.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Way too many turnovers.
 College atmosphere is somewhat lacking.
 Recruiting and campus legend options are a nice start but lack depth.
 Frame rate is choppy and slow.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Jul 20, 2007
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 8
Critic Score: 7.7, 14 Review (s)
User Score: 7.9, 743 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: EA Sports
Genre: Football Sim
Date: Jul 17, 2007
ESRB: Everyone

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Even though a lot of what's new is a bit rough around the edges, NCAA Football 08 is a great game 
 with a lot to offer. 

  NCAA Football 07 was a great game but it suffered from many of the same problems that other series 
 experienced in their transition from one generation of consoles to the next, most notably a lack 
 of game modes and features. That's not a problem in NCAA Football 08. Even if the presentation 
 is largely unchanged, there's no shortage of ways to stay occupied. The new campus legend mode 
 and super sim are also nice additions to an already great-playing game.  

           Running the option never gets old.      

  Last year's relatively light list of game 
 modes is a thing of the past. You can play a quick game, hop online for an unranked or ranked game, 
 play a few minigames, take over a college program in dynasty mode, or try to become an all-time 
 great player in campus legend mode. NCAA 08's minigames are the same as 07's minigames. Tug-of-war, 
 bowling, and option dash are a lot of fun if you didn't play them to death last year, but it would 
 have been nice to have something new.  

  Online play is OK, but lag makes it consistently difficult to tackle and kick. Though online play 
 and minigames are underwhelming, the rest of the game modes make up for the underwhelming parts. 
 If you're online, you can use the new Weather Channel feature to play in the same weather as the 
 real stadium in which you're currently playing. You could always change the weather on your own 
 before, but this is a cool addition especially because playing in rain and snow really affects 
 how players move more than ever.  

  At first glance, dynasty mode isn't terribly different from last year's mode. You still pick a 
 school (you can't create your own) , set your lineup, adjust your schedule, and try to lead your 
 team to a national championship or win as many games as possible so you can earn offers from a 
 more prestigious school. To find success on the field, you'll need to work hard off the field recruiting, 
 and this is where you'll notice the biggest change to dynasty mode.  

  Recruiting now has a lot more of a hands-on feel to it. You select 35 players to focus your efforts 
 on, rank them, and then call them on the phone to establish a relationship. Once you've got them 
 on the phone, you choose from a variety of topics to discuss with your recruit. You can talk about 
 your school's fans, TV coverage, athletic facilities, tradition, and more. Your school is ranked 
 in each category, so you'll want to pick your program's strengths and hope they match the interests 
 of your player. If he's feeling your pitch, a football icon at the top of the screen will smile; 
 if you're not on the same wavelength, the icon will frown, and eventually, the player will hang 
 up on you.  

  Once you've garnered significant interest from the recruit, you can schedule a campus visit and 
 up to three activities during the visit. You'll want to pick the things the recruit is most interested 
 in, which is why you should find out what the player feels is important about his college experience 
 when you've got him on the phone. But you've only got 10 hours per week to talk, and each pitch 
 you select takes several minutes off the clock, so you'll need to budget your time wisely. You 
 can offer a scholarship at any time, which the player can accept right away, mull over, or reject 
 based on his interest level.  

  If you're having a hard time nailing down a commitment, you can make promises to the player. This 
 option is only available in the offseason and lets you promise playing time, personal accolades, 
 or even championships to the player. If you make good on a promise, your integrity rating goes 
 up and you're given access to more promises. If you fail to keep your promise, your integrity goes 
 down and your promises won't carry much weight. This new recruiting system is a lot of fun for 
 a while, and you really feel like your decisions are affecting each player's interest in your school. 
 But by the end of the first season, you'll start to notice that you're just doing the same thing 
 over with each player, and that yapping on the phone with 35 players is rather time consuming. 

           It takes a lot of work to build a college football dynasty.      

  If you're not in the mood to take the reins of an entire program, you can create a high school 
 player in campus legend mode. Once you've picked your position and school, you'll find yourself 
 in your state's playoffs. You've got extra incentive to win and play well because scouts are at 
 each game rating your performance. When the playoffs are over, you're presented with a list of 
 schools that are interested in your services, as well as where you rank on their depth chart. At 
 first, you're not going to be a starter at a top-25 school. To move up the depth chart, you'll 
 have to attend practice. Here, you're given 10 reps and you earn points for successful plays. When 
 you've got enough points, you'll move up on the depth chart.  

  This might sound like a lot of work, but even if you're the fifth-ranked player at a position, 
 you can take the starting spot in a matter of weeks, and once the job is yours, you can't lose 
 it. Not only will you have to attend practice, but you'll also have to make decisions on how to 
 spend your free time. These choices are presented in a "choose your own adventure" format. You 
 will have you decide what to eat, whether or not to play darts, how long to study, and when to 
 hang out with your friends. If you make a good decision, you'll often be rewarded with attribute 
 boosts, but if you choose poorly, you can find yourself with bad grades or even injured. This is 
 an interesting concept, but you never know what the "right" decision is, and many of the situations 
 are just plain goofy (like when you burn your hand frying pickles) .  

  Thankfully, actually playing in games makes up for the somewhat uninteresting time between them. 
 You'll only play when your player is on the field, which is nice because you can breeze through 
 games in no time at all. Because you're the player and not the coach, you might not get the ball 
 every time, but it's always fun to get it through a key block that springs another player for a 
 touchdown. The camera focuses on your player, and while it does a decent job of keeping up with 
 you, it often doesn't show enough of the field around you, which is frustrating when it causes 
 you to run into a defender just offscreen.     

  The game's action on the field during regular game modes, such as exhibition and dynasty, doesn't 
 feel much different from last year. For the most part, this is a good thing. The controls are tight, 
 and it's easy to quickly adjust your defense or call hot routes on offense thanks to clever use 
 of both analog sticks. The right analog stick is also used to nice effect during plays. On offense, 
 you can flick the stick to juke and use it to go high or low to deliver bone-crushing big hits. 
 The game moves at just the right speed; not too fast and not too slow. One of the best things about 
 playing college football games is running the option, and NCAA 08 does it well. However, quarterbacks 
 almost never make a bad pitch, even when they're being hit by two players and flinging the ball 
 backward over their shoulder.  

           Hold on tight to the ball because there are enough turnovers without you being careless. 

  But you'll come to appreciate this because there are so many other ways to turn the ball over. 
 Even with gameplay sliders changed to prevent them, there are an inordinate amount of fumbles and 
 interceptions -- sometimes as many as 10 per game with five minute quarters. Raising the difficulty 
 to Heisman alleviates this problem a bit, but most people aren't good enough to play on this setting, 
 so it's little consolation for the average Joe who's frustrated by turnovers.  

  The playbooks are deep, but because you can pick plays based on Lee Corso's recommendation, play 
 type, and formation, it's not too tough to navigate. It's not quite as easy on defense, but it's 
 still not bad. If you dig deep enough into the playbook, you'll find that trick plays have been 
 added this year. Like play action, these trick plays stand a decent chance of working against a 
 human opponent but are worthless against the CPU.  

  The biggest change to how the game plays actually has to do with how it lets you  not  play. At 
 any point during the game, you can choose the super sim option and skip a single play, an entire 
 possession, quarter, or game. If you choose to simulate more than one play, you can interrupt at 
 any time should things start to go poorly. This is a fantastic option for people who don't like 
 playing defense (or offense) , as well as those who want to skip the end of blowouts. It's also 
 great for people who enjoy playing multiple years of dynasty mode, but who don't necessarily want 
 to simulate an entire game or play every snap of every game either.  

  Visually, NCAA 08 doesn't look much different from last year, which includes the obnoxious sponsor 
 logos that stick out like sore thumbs. There are more stadiums included this time around. While 
 there are some inaccuracies here and there, the stadiums look great. The stands are packed with 
 rabid fans, and mascots still patrol the sidelines. But it's what's not here that makes NCAA 08 
 feel a lot like a pro game; namely referees, marching bands, fans with signs or painted faces, 
 and cheerleaders that detract from the college football feel.  

  Other than some nasty clipping issues, the players look great. There are a wide variety of body 
 types, so it's easy to tell the difference between a running back, offensive lineman, and tight 
 end. But even more impressive than how they look is how the players move. Player animation is outstanding, 
 and you'll be seeing moves for the first time a dozen games into your first season. Running backs 
 will slink through the grasp of would-be tacklers; defensive players will team up for vicious gang 
 tackles; and wide receivers will leap, snag the ball with one hand then crash to the ground. Thanks 
 to a faster, smoother frame rate and better-looking player shadows, the 360 version of the game 
 gets the nod over the PS3, which struggles to run smoothly even at half the frame rate.  

  The main menu screen is home to the biggest change in the game's presentation this year. The background 
 screen is your school's trophy room, complete with trophy cases, video screens, and banners. You 
 can fill this shrine by winning titles, individual player awards, and rivalry games. Each trophy 
 is re-created with a detailed 3D model that you can view from all angles while Chris Fowler gives 
 you a bit of history about the trophy. The main video screen shows in-game highlights that can 
 be saved at any point during a game, and the screens on either side show still photos that are 
 acquired the same way. The trophies and highlight reels are a cool way to remember great plays 
 from the past, as well as a welcome addition to the series.  

  Did you like how last year's game sounded? If you did, and you weren't sick of the commentary from 
 Lee Corso, Kirk Herbstreit, and Brad Nessler, you'll like how 08 sounds because it's pretty much 
 the same. The trio has nice chemistry and offers a bit of in-depth analysis, though they do get 
 behind from time to time, particularly during punts. Corso's goofiness has also been toned down 
 a bit. This means you're less likely to hear him repeat his goofy sayings, but his goofy sayings 
 are kind of his appeal, so it's a bit of a Catch 22. As usual, the fight songs in the game sound 
 great, though you might go insane by the time you hear your school's fight song for the 200th time. 

           The stadiums look great, but the game's atmosphere is still lacking.      

  Almost across the board, the new content EA added to NCAA Football 08 makes it a better game than 
 last year. The ability to sim all or portions of a game at any time is fantastic and feels like 
 such a no-brainer you may wonder why it didn't happen before 2007. Campus legend mode is fun, even 
 if it is a bit shallow, as is the recruiting, which could be great if it were fleshed out a little 
 more. It's also cool to be able to check out your highlights and trophies in your school's shrine. 

  While these additions are welcome, it feels like EA skimped a bit on the stuff that happens after 
 the kickoff. The in-game presentation doesn't have much of a college football feel to it, and the 
 amount of turnovers will likely frustrate many hardcore fans. But even with these issues, NCAA 
 Football 08 is a great game and another step in the right direction for the franchise.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (58 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: Lyricsborn
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 31, 2008 4:02 pm PT
Review:  Ncaa is great. There are some big changes to this year's game, most notable being the addition of 
 online play. In addition, this year's version includes an improved Superstar mode that includes 
 an option to play as some of the high-profile rookies from this year's draft class, as well as 
 a franchise mode. Rounding out the mix are an assortment of party-game options, from a Telestrator 
 mode to mini-game competitions and even trivThis is a football game where you can come pretty close 
 to feeling what it would be like on the field with the amazing athletes of the NFL. You'll hike 
 the ball with a flick of the wrist, lob passes while firmly gripping your remote and swinging your 
 arm, and stiff-arm defenders with a quick thrust of the controller. The appeal here is that you 
 get more of a sense of satisfaction for well-timed passes and running moves since you're utilizing 
 kinesthetic controlia. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: j5r9s2
Rating: 8
Date: Jul 2, 2008 2:17 pm PT
Review:  Ncaa '08 Football is my favorite football game up to date and if you look through my profile games 
 you can see that I buy the new version every year. 2008 features some new and exciting features. 
 It has All new skill Performances were you can increase your players ratings by getting user controlled 
 Sacks, interceptions, touch downs, and more as you motivate your team on the field,. The Dynasty 
 mode has a better search engine for when you recruite your players out of high school. In the Legend 
 mode you start out in the play offs in you senior year of high school. How you perform will determine 
 your attributes and which power house football programs or lack there of will want to recruite 
 you. You could play for a big time program or a small school where you could take the challange 
 of lifting them up to a national championship. you can share your trophies with your friends online 
 in your fancy showcase. there are more trick plays you can practice to use them into game play 
 against your friends. this game is a 2 player game. two at home or one vs one over internet. graphics 
 are brillent and smooth gameplay are a must that is why I recommend this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: allenn
Rating: 1
Date: Feb 26, 2008 12:31 pm PT
Review:  Wow. I have both the PS2 version and the PS3 version of NCAA 08 Football. I really enjoyed the 
 PS2 version. On the PS3 version, I enjoyed the super-sim option (which allows you to fast-forward 
 through a game play-by-play) , and the new recruiting system which mimics reality. Aside from those 
 two things, the PS3 version is far inferior to the PS2 version. The players all wear ridiculously 
 shiny uniforms (maybe NCAA is moving towards using vinyl for the uniforms?) , the players all look 
 like beefy carry-overs from Madden code, play calling is very annoying (on the PS2, you see 3 plays 
 at once, on the PS3, you can either see on play at once, or four at once but they're displayed 
 somewhat arbitrarily) , navigating the Dynasty menu is a major pain (the text is very jumbled and 
 you have to use weird combinations of buttons to go from menu to menu, as opposed to X to go forward 
 and Triangle to go back on the PS2 version) , there is annoying delay between when you press the 
 button on the controller and when the processor actually acknowledges it (you'll have to spin or 
 juke well before encountering a defender since the delay means acting in real time ensures that 
 the player won't perform the action it until it's too late) , the delay totally ruins the passing 
 game (in the PS2 version, if your QB tries to dump the ball off right as a defender is getting 
 to them, they'll wind up with a sack rather than the quick dump off. In the PS3 version, you have 
 to be a ridiculous fifteen yards away from a defender to be able to dump the ball off, something 
 that is practically impossible) , while there are many plays to choose from, many are play-action 
 passes (which could really be called "sack-action passes" in the PS3 version) , no FCS/Div IAA teams, 
 no alternate uniforms, on and on. 
  
  One thing added this year was the feature to allow you to download the weather real time via the 
 internet. On the PS2 version, I have to actually look out my window and press the X button a few 
 times to achieve the same result. You may telling yourself the automatic weather updates were a 
 waste on EA's part, but if you didn't have opposable thumbs, you'd probably appreciate what they've 
 accomplished. Another feature is to be able to record replays from your games. This is a great 
 feature if you're playing and you realize that your wife is asleep. You can just wake her up in 
 the morning and say "hey, look, I made a touchdown" while she's fixing waffles. 
  
  I don't know why EA went this way. Maybe they test marketed four year olds that were deprived of 
 their hyperactivity medication. Nevertheless, they chose something ridiculous for a normal college 
 football fan. if you like the realism and simulation of previous NCAA titles (from the PS2) , and 
 if you like the feel and atmosphere of college football, don't expect to be pleased by this game. 
 If you like cartoony, arcade-like graphics that will evoke nostalgic feelings for Tecmo Bowl, then 
 this is probably the game for you. Sadly, I'm in the former camp, so I'll have to wait to see if 
 EA will make a real college football game for the PS3 (the PS2 version is great, except for no 
 super-sim and the old, unrealistic recruiting system) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: stewartt46
Rating: 7
Date: Jan 28, 2008 8:48 pm PT
Review:  I was waiting for this game to come out to see how EA would "bring it" to the next gen platform. 
 Graphics are good, but could be better as evidenced by later released games in 2007 that put the 
 PS3 to work. I was bummed by all the great tools from 2007's version that were missing: no refs, 
 no 1-AA schools/rosters, no create teams. A long issue I have noticed is regarding creating schools. 
 I've loved the option to do so, but the choices of logos stink and look cartoonish. Also, I've 
 always liked taking a crappy 1-A school in a lower conference and turning them around. The problem 
 is if you take a C-USA school, for example SMU, and turn them around.... you'll be invited to join 
 a higher conference, i. e. The Big XII. However, the C-USA logo remains everywhere... on the field, 
 on the uniform. Maybe it's a licensing issue with the conferences and schools. Removing the 1-AA 
 schools was a big shock and a disappointment. Perhaps they could have left that in and not taken 
 the recruiting changes to such a needlessy exhaustive level. For pete's sake, I am all about having 
 these games made more realistic, but they really took it too far. It's almost a complete pain in 
 the butt and slows everything down. I liked it better when it was all post-season despite the fact 
 recruiting goes on year round in "real life". The additions to the recruiting aspect do not translate 
 well to smooth gameplay. Penalties seem missing too, specifically facemasks. I know you can turn 
 them up, but this just increases the odds of ridiculous calls. Seems like there are countless 15-yard 
 variety facemasks that never get called. Challenges are good, but do not really work. I don't know 
 how many times a receiver catches a ball with a foot on the line, I challenge it, it's clear they 
 are OB, but the play stands. Needs to have a better grasp of where OB is. I am really hoping they 
 learn from 2008 and put some more effort in for NCAA Football 2009. I am not big on Madden, so 
 NCAA is where I look for football gaming. As Big Black says, "Do work, son". 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Prez04
Rating: 7
Date: Jan 1, 2008 1:30 pm PT
Review:  This game isn't terrible, but I think I might have been better off waiting until next year or buying 
 this year's game for the PS2. EA left so many little things out that it's driven me insane. No 
 (formerly) Division 1-AA teams? I guess I can understand but I hope they come back, and SOON.
 
  
  Also, after finishing my four years as a Campus Legend I'm no longer able to become a coach and 
 start a dynasty as in 07 for PS2. I don't own Madden 08, and I don't plan on buying it so at the 
 end of my four years I feel as though I've just wasted my time. 
  
  Another thing that I would love to see come back is being able to create my own school. There are 
 so many little things that were left out of the game that take away from my gaming experience. 
 I am attributing it to being the series' first attempt at the PS3, but I REALLY hope that EA can 
 get most of these types of aspects of the game into 09!
  
  All that being said I still love the new recruiting, although it would be nice to have a seperate 
 difficulty slider that could control how hard it is to sign recruits; sometimes I just want to 
 be lazy in my dynasties. I also like the new main menu and the trophy room setup.
  
  Overall, it's a good game with some weaknesses that EA should be able to fix before next year. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: arrow15
Rating: 4.5
Date: Dec 27, 2007 3:59 am PT
Review:  I've enjoyed playing EA's NCAA series for years now, and they have always satisfied my football 
 needs. I gave them the benefit of the doubt on this game because of this, but I am totally disappointed 
 by the absolute trash they churned out this year. When I first started up the game and played a 
 quick match, I was wowed by the intro, great graphics, and surround sound, but my enjoyment ended 
 there.
  
  What's missing from previous versions?
  Create-a-team, create-a-player, actual referees (now you just get a fake coin at the initial toss, 
 and a listing of the penalties) , cheerleaders/cannons, my mascot, weaker NCAA teams (D1AA) and 
 historic teams, the momentum system, co-op play, and so on.
  
  This is not an insignificant list of omissions. Madden and especially NCAA have always been about 
 the little things. Recent versions have been so great, because of the attention to detail. There 
 were almost limitless possibilities to what you could create, think up, and do in the game. In 
 comparison, this year's version is much more basic. Yeah you've got your basic game play and a 
 few additions here and there to dynasty and campus legend, but the best parts of the game are all 
 gone.
  
  Any other problems with the game?
  In short, yes. I found the play selection screen in this version to be quite poorly designed. In 
 previous versions, finding the right play was always a breeze, but you now have to navigate a convoluted 
 maze. The rate of turnovers in this game is also a major problem. Way too often does a perfectly 
 good throw result in a pick, and too often does a running back with good hands fumble the ball 
 on a run. Don't even think about throwing bomb passes, they'll be picked. Also, the player movements 
 in this game are oddly jerky. In previous versions, movements were always fluid, now they are quite 
 strange.
  
  There are also some issues with sluggish menus and a general under-use of the PS3's processing 
 power. Basically, EA failed to properly design this game for the PS3, so to pump it out in time 
 for release, the video quality took a hit. What's with the kick meter and some of the play diagrams? 
 They look like they were drawn up in MS Paint. I mean seriously, come on EA.
  
  This is just a bad game; I feel cheated out of my money. The NCAA series has a great history of 
 terrific game play and rich features, but that all went away this year. EA always pumps out a version 
 every year, so to get this one out for the PS2, they severely cut corners, leaving out some of 
 the best aspects of the game, and releasing a generally unsatisfactory product. With other studios 
 releasing fantastic games for the PS3 now, this is a big reality check of what EA really is. Past 
 NCAAs were nothing more than year after year of recycled games with a few additional features each 
 year. By the end of the run on the PS2, the games were quite fantastic because of the sheer volume 
 of releases, but with this total redesign, we lost all of those features. EA better make serious 
 improvements in next year's game, or I will not purchase it. This is such a letdown to a longtime 
 NCAA fanatic. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RVD154
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 17, 2007 8:48 am PT
Review:  NCAA Football 08 is a great game of College Football. The first thing you will notice if you are 
 playing on an HD set are the graphics. Easily the best graphics ever seen on an NCAA game. The 
 stadiums seem very alive and are quite vibrant. The player models are very refined. There are plenty 
 of things to do when it comes down to it. You have your traditional play now mode, but what is 
 great is the Campus Legend mode. It's the same Campus Legend mode that you have come to either 
 love or hate, but now you can start in the high school playoffs and work your way up. The fact 
 that you can import your legend to Madden really helps this feature as well. The Dynasty mode is 
 also the same Dynasty as before, but the Recruiting has been revamped and boy is it addicting. 
 You may find yourself recruiting for a while, up until you realize it gets repetitive. The online 
 is the same as it was before and won't surprise anyone. The game play in NCAA Football 08 could 
 use some work. Their are two really nagging problems that I see with this years version. The first 
 is turnovers. There are way too many turnovers, sometimes when the game is on the line your top 
 tier running back may fumble when he never does. That can be upsetting. The other is the option. 
 Literally when your quarterback is on the ground, you can pitch the ball. This is ridiculous and 
 makes online players unstoppable if all they do is option you all the way down the field. Luckily, 
 both of these can be moderated. You can change the game play sliders to reduce turnovers and you 
 can call defenses based on stopping the option. Thank the lord. Overall, if you have been a fan 
 of NCAA Football games in the past then this one will be no different. It's the best NCAA Football 
 game ever and still has room for improvement. If you like College Football then you should at least 
 rent this game, as it brings a lot to the table. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Urlacher54
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 24, 2007 11:59 pm PT
Review:  The Glory Days of video game football are officially over in my opinion. This year's collection 
 of football games has solidified that opinion in my mind. The "next-gen" Madden has been out for 
 3 years now, so I expected a lot more from this game than what it delivers.
  
  The PS2 NCAA football games (particularly the 2003-05 games) were amazing football games that were 
 full of college football atmosphere and very balanced and fun gameplay. The football was fast, 
 fun, and exciting. The Dynasty mode was deep and involving, and being able to import a custom team 
 into a Dynasty gave the game a huge degree of personalization in that I always had a powerful emotional 
 atachement to my created team - much more so than any of the real college teams. Finding poor implementations 
 (or no implementation at all) of so many of my favorite features of this year's version of the 
 game on PS3 had me very dissapointed.
  
  The game starts out great, introducing you to the indisputeable cool "My Shrine" feature, which 
 acts as the main menu screen. The shrine displays all of your trophies and awards as well as displaying 
 saved photos and replays of your actual games! That's right, you can now save highlight footage 
 from any game and have it be permanently displayed on the main menu. The Shrine's menu music is 
 also a very stirring anthem that helps get the blood pumping right at start up - great soundtrack! 
 Awesome idea, EA - whoever thought up the Shrine deserves a raise! So this great initial presentation 
 really raised my hopes for the game, but unfortunately, I quickly discovered that other elements 
 of the presentation fell apart. First of all, the menus are extrememly slow and clunky, which is 
 just sad considering how poweful these next-gen consoles are. Commentary from Corso, Herbstreet 
 and Nesler has returned, but most of it sounds recycled from previous games. This is not a bad 
 thing, though, as their commentary is outstanding. Some more new lines might have been nice though. 
 However, the lack of college atmosphere in game really weakens the game experience for me. Sure, 
 there are still the fight songs being played by the bands after scores and big plays, and some 
 teams have mascots roaming the sidelines. But many of the teams do not have mascots. The cheerleaders 
 seem to be completely gone and with them went the occasional canon-firing, guys running around 
 waving big flags and other really prepy sort of things that are usually associated with college 
 football.
  
  Graphically, the game is a mixed afair. The onfield players and stadium models look great. I'm 
 a UNLV student, and Sam Boyd Stadium looks just like Sam Boyd Stadium. Except, you know, in the 
 game there are people in the stands, which looks just plain wrong. Which reminds me, it appears 
 that stadiums will no longer empty out during the later half of a blowout game or when the home 
 team is really sucky as it did in the PS2 games. That was a really subtle, but cool effect that 
 I miss from earlier games. Anyway, the stadiums and player models look great. They also are much 
 better scaled. Offensive linemen now actually look like the 300-pound monsters of men that they 
 are. The players also show a lot of emotion on the field. You'll know when a player is not happy 
 with the last play as they will hang their head or sometimes look as though they are throwing a 
 mild temper tantrum, and the guys on the other side of the ball will be jumping around, smiling 
 and showing off. It sucks that these sorts of things don't lead to Unsportsmanlike conduct penalties 
 like they should in college football, but it really helps to immerse you in the screen when your 
 players seem to emotionally respond to the onfield action. Although the players do look a little 
 plastic-like and their uniforms are unbelieveably reflective and shiny. they often look more like 
 new cars than football players, especially at night. The problem with the graphics though is the 
 little things that are missing from the game. For example, there are NO referees, no chain gang, 
 no ball-boys, no coaches on the sidelines, and (as mentioned earlier) no cheerleaders. WTF? I can 
 understand not having cheerleaders, but referees are an important part of football. You'll really 
 notice their dissapearance any time you run the no-huddle, as the ball will just magically appear 
 at the line of scrimage. This looks really bad. These companies are justifying the higher price 
 of 360 and PS3 games due to the "higher costs of producing life-like High-definition graphics." 
 Well, there really isn't a point in making your game look realistic and high-def if you are going 
 to leave out important details like referees! Especially since referees have been in football games 
 since the PlayStation generation (and probably even earlier, but I don't remember specifically) .
 
  
  Gameplay is also a mixed issue. The game is much more momentum-based than before, and the new animations 
 look really good. The gang-tackles are awesome! it is so nice to finally see two three or sometimes 
 even four defensive players actaully tackling the ball carrier. And the wrap-up-and-clean-up hits 
 look downright brutal! I just wish the game did a better job of stat-tracking, since it doesn't 
 count assisted tackles, so only one defensive player on any play will get credit for a tackle, 
 which will cause some frustration if you are trying to pile on stats for a campus legend defensive 
 player and the CPU keeps giving the tackles to another guy. Contorls feel very fluid and responsive, 
 although if you are still used to the old PS2-style controls, these new ones will take a bit of 
 getting used to. The inclusion of a lot of really cool trick plays also adds a new dimension to 
 the game, as these double reverses or WR option passes, flea flickers, and statue of liberty plays 
 can be a lot of fun to bust out on an unsuspecting opponent. Gameplay is still very fast and fluid 
 as well and is a lot of fun to play. The new juke animations work really well and and receiver 
 do a better job of dragging their feet and players will now fall on fumbled balls like they would 
 in real football (although they don't do it on onside kicks) . However, playing defense is often 
 very difficult especially since the computer doesn't give you any time to make adjustmenst with 
 audibles, coverage adjustments or line shifts before they snap the ball. On passing plays, the 
 ball seems to travel too fast and doesn't have any arc which leads to a lot of uneccesarily tipped 
 passes by linebackers and a lot of interceptions. 
  
  Which brings up the game's second biggest flaw: Too many turnovers. Interceptions will happen more 
 often than passing touchdowns and running backs and receivers are far too likely to fumble the 
 ball, even when you are pressing the "cover-up ball" button. I usually expect to see no less than 
 5 or 6 turnovers in a single game. It would be nice if they had given some kind of slider to adjust 
 the frequency of fumbles, but even turning the interception slider for both human and CPU defenders 
 to zero doesn't stop the INTs from piling up. Injuries often occur more frequently than I'm used 
 to, but they are usually minor injuries and the player is back on the field in a quarter or two.
 
  
  Dynasty mode has been revamped and includes some new interesting features such as in-season recruiting 
 and the ability to actually talk to prospects over the phone every week. This is cool, but can 
 be very tedius and is often unpredictable. The other main feature, Campus Legend is basically an 
 expansion of the Race for the Heisman mode and requires your player to earn his starting position 
 by doing well in practices every week and has you balancing football with your social and academic 
 lives. Also, you only have control of ONE player. And all plays are called by the coach (CPU) . 
 So if you are an offensive player, then the game will "Supersim" all defensive possesions, meaning 
 that plays will be simulated and a play-by-play synopsis will be displayed in a menu. However, 
 if you want to actually watch your defense perform, you have that option and it will be displayed 
 from a sideline view as if you were actually standing there on the sideline. Which is kinda cool, 
 except that I noticed that the camer was often positioned on the wrong sideline.
  
  The game's biggest flaw in my opinion though, has to be the complete removal of the Create-A-School 
 mode. Part of the appeal of the PS2 games for me was created my own football program and building 
 it from the ground up into a powerhouse based on my own offensive and defensive philosophies. But 
 now, you are stuck with the games built-in NCAA teams and their respective coaching philosophies, 
 as the customizeable playbooks are also nowhere to be found. This is especially irritating considering 
 all the cool new trick plays that are in the game, as you are stuck having to find a team that 
 has your desired trick play in their playbook, and you can't add trick plays that team doesn't 
 have.
  
  This is a pretty good game of football, and I do recommend it to college fans, but some really 
 questionable design decisions on the part of EA and some poor balancing really hold this one back 
 from becoming a true Heisman contender. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ndunnink
Rating: 7
Date: Oct 22, 2007 6:02 pm PT
Review:  I initially got into the NCAA series because I enjoy the college game and because I felt it controlled 
 better then Madden. It's been a pretty good series for the most part ( I own the last 4) but I've 
 noticed there continues to be more and more problems. Firstly from a graphics perspective, I don't 
 understand why NCAA needs to lag behind Madden and I'm a little disappointed in light of shelling 
 out all the money for a next gen system and then getting a game the looks far too similar to last 
 gen. The game also seems a bit rushed as at the beginning instead of getting the cool videos from 
 different school from around the country you get a generic tutorial to begin the game. I'm sure 
 many people don't care much for the videos but to me it just makes it more evident the game was 
 rushed.
  
  These things I can get over however the gameplay problems is a pill much more difficult to swallow. 
 Firstly, as mentioned, the frequency of fumbles is absolutely absurd. I played a game with Mike 
 Hart ( Michigan's running back who's fumbled the ball once in his 4 year career) and he fumbled 
 twice despite me covering the ball upon contact every time. Additionally if I get an interception 
 on defense I'm guaranteed to fumble the ball 50% of the time that I get tackled. There are also 
 far to many times that there are multiple turnovers within one play. I've also faced a problem 
 where the opposing team has a player that stands parallel to the ground and walks into the sky 
 until he makes an invisible tackle when I'm in the area with a ballcarrier. The controls are also 
 sometimes very unresponsive as I'll have an open receiver and be jamming the passing icon for several 
 seconds only to get sacked ( and no I'm not hitting the wrong button) . The game still manages to 
 be pretty entertaining but I feel that's much more the result of my enjoyment of the series rather 
 then this iteration. I'm hoping that for next year EA will take the time and we'll get the next 
 gen college football experience we deserve but until I've got to play the only on available on 
 PS3. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cyberhunt
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 19, 2007 6:02 pm PT
Review:  you people sicken me you dont give these games a very good rating at all man im giving this game 
 a good score beacuse i play college football on my ps3 not beacuse of good graphics or good gameplay 
 i play it beacuse i love it have it you just played a game without critics telling you this is 
 a good game to play or dont buy it, it sucks. If you like a game you should just go out and buy it 
 beacuse you like it dont judge it on the graphics or the gameplay or anything else. people should 
 really learn how to judge a game they dont look at games very well if they see it does it have 
 good graphics and it has good gameplay they might not buy it. i buy games beacuse i like to play 
 them not for there graphics or good gameplay 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Chien_Rouge
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 9, 2007 6:53 am PT
Review:  Perhaps I am not the connoisseur of football games that other gamers are but I do thoroughly enjoy 
 the sport, especially the college rendition. Two friends of mine recently played my copy and they 
 initially complained of two things. First was the controls. Why would you change controls from 
 the PS2 version to the PS3 version? It does not seem to make sense. Its not like the controllers 
 are different really. The nice thing is that the controllers are fully customizable, so after a 
 few minutes you can set it up like the PS2 version. The second issue was the gameplay speed. I 
 don't notice this while I play, but perhaps its because I have played the game and have become 
 acclimated to it. The complaint was that the game played slower than past editions and after playing 
 the ps2 game I agreed. However, I think this is for the best as it gives the game a more strategic 
 feel and less of an arcadey one. I think it makes the game speed feel more natural, especially 
 for the college game. Although the game is clearly slower paced it does not seem to detract from 
 the enjoyment value of the game. After two to three minutes of whining my friends really got into 
 the game. I think the biggest hurdle here is not quality but the fact it is slightly different 
 from previous games.
  One issue that is my own is the online arena. When I play it seems like the game plays at one speed 
 and my controller at a slower one. Every button press has to be slightly faster than normal for 
 it to register on time on the field. Perhaps this is a singular experience but I don't believe 
 it is. The game can still be enjoyable in that manner but it seriously detracts from the fun. On 
 the positive side this game has some nice features. For one it looks really nice. It is a clear 
 step ahead of the PS2, and other last gen, versions. The players look good, the fans look good, 
 the stadiums look good, and so does the weather. I really like the stadium haze they have implemented 
 when there is a pulled back view. The new legends mode is neat in that once you pick a position 
 that is the only position you will play. The game moves on around you and you have to make a difference 
 from your spot. It is nice to have a really different experience from the dynasty mode finally. 
 Honestly in the past the Heisman mode was dynasty mode with fewer management options. This year 
 is different and it gives the game a different feel and replay value. The weather channel addition 
 that allows you to play at the chosen stadiums present conditions is pretty cool. It allows for 
 some great simulations as you wait for your real game of choice to happen on Saturday. No doubt 
 there are other nice features that I am missing here.
  In the end, this is a fun game that actually tries to be different from past versions, and for 
 the most part it succeeds. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Crimsonblake
Rating: 4
Date: Sep 25, 2007 8:29 pm PT
Review:  After buying into the anticipation and hype of NCAA 2008 coming to the PS3, I expected to experience 
 the same freshness, awe, and graphical bliss that I did with the first incarnation of the PS2 version 
 of NCAA. To my dismay, I would be sorely disappointed. Sluggish is the best way to describe the 
 PS3 experience of NCAA 2008. EA had announced a few days prior to the release that the PS3 version 
 would come equipped with 30 frames per second, while the 360 users could experience 60 frames per 
 second. I brushed this information off thinking I couldn't possibly distinguish the difference 
 between 30 and 60 fps. I was completely wrong. I highly recommend skipping this incarnation of 
 the NCAA series for PS3 and wait for the 2009 series or if you are lucky to own a 360, buy the 
 360 version. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rodstock
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 19, 2007 10:47 am PT
Review:  I have bought every NCAA game released EA really game through on this gam this year. I can not 
 think of how EA can ever surpass this years. The Legend mode is better than last year. Last year 
 no matter how hard you tried you could never make it to a top ranked team. This year you try hard 
 you can make it to a top ranked team. Last year I tried over 30 times to make it to a top ranked 
 team and never made it. graphics are better with frame rates increasing significant. This game 
 no longer looks like a port over from a last gen system. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mprezzy
Rating: 6
Date: Aug 28, 2007 3:54 pm PT
Review:  Well, if you're a fan of NCAA football series from EA, then you won't be disappointed. If you're 
 a fan of the series but were expecting big things on the PS3, FORGET IT. It's choppy, collision 
 detection is STILL weak after all these years (I saw a football come out a guy's butt) , and there 
 are actually less teams to choose from than the NCAA series from 4 years ago on PS2. Pftt. What 
 a rip. Oh, you'll fumble or get intercepted only every other play seemingly. Otherwise, hey! It's 
 football and the graphics are (for the most part) pretty cool. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kpc
Rating: 1
Date: Aug 25, 2007 11:29 pm PT
Review:  You have to be kidding me, right? I just played a dynasty game, and after the game all the stats 
 came up as zeros??? What is the point of playing this game if you can't run up the score and destroy 
 poor Mizzou??? No wonder I cannot win the heisman if half the touchdowns for my star running back 
 simply disappear?? Hmmm....
  
  Also, the yard marker does not tell you which side of the field you are on. So, when you call a 
 play and want to know where you are, it displays the 45 yard line, but is that on your side of 
 the 50 or theirs??? Hmmm...
  
  Also, when calling plays, I cannot figure out which hashmark I am on. Am I on the left hashmark 
 or the right? You had better remember before you playbook comes up, because if not, the game is 
 not going to tell you. Hmmm...
  
  Also, I cannot direct my o-line to block in a particular direction. Hmmm...
  
  Also, how do 
 you show boat at the 25 yard line during a 90 yard interception return??? Hmmm...
  
  All of these items worked just fine last year.
  
  Do a brand new team of developers just come 
 in a destroy many years of refinement? Last year's game (and the year's before that) was much more 
 enjoyable. This year is a disaster which is a shame!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jonquavious
Rating: 6.5
Date: Aug 16, 2007 7:55 pm PT
Review:  When ESPN NFL 2K5 came out just a few short years ago, the bigwigs at EA Sports nearly had a heart 
 attack. How could this underdog series, upstarts to be sure, suddenly challenge the big dog at 
 what they had been doing best (at least in raw sales numbers) for nearly a decade? So of course 
 the reaction was what always happens when a newer, better, cheaper alternative comes along in corporate 
 America: buy off the right people, and keep the profits up. To hell with a quality product, we're 
 in it for the money. If we actually made a game that realistically simulated a sport, we're talking 
 to the best of our ability, pulling out all the stops, then there wouldn't be any reason for customers 
 to buy the next season's game. 
  ~Overheard EA Sports executive on why they crank out the same uninspired sequel every year
  
 
  As EA Sports walked away with fat sacks of cash from the exclusivity agreement with the National 
 Football League, so did the possibility of them ever being challenged in regards to a licensed 
 pigskin game over the next few years. Everyone was afraid (including myself) that EA Sports was 
 going to sit on the license, cranking out a $50 roster update every season, and indeed they have 
 for the last three seasons.
  
  Unfortunately for college fans, the same treatment has been given to the NCAA Football games as 
 well. Rather than take full advantage of the lone right to making the ultimate college football 
 game, EA Sports decided to add, functionally speaking, approximately one actual new feature each 
 year. Even worse in my mind, was adding the momentum feature in a previous iteration, NCAA 05 I 
 believe, taking it out one year, and then trying to suddenly reintroduce it again like a new feature 
 in 07. While I don't doubt that there are certainly some Madden and NCAA fans out there that will 
 buy whatever game EA Sports puts out, even if its just a nude picture show of John Madden walking 
 around his bus, EA should know better than to think that their consumer base has less than a 2-year 
 memory.
  
  Despite the constant raving about the gorgeous next-gen graphics and such, ESPN NFL 2K5 would still 
 beat any Madden game out to this very day in terms of presentation; that is, making playing the 
 game feel like a real interactive broadcast. It wasn't much to program, but the graphic overlays 
 on screen and the picture and season stat bios that ran between plays in ESPN 2K5 really made it 
 feel like you were watching a broadcast. And that's even with those annoying Sega announcers calling 
 the game.
  
  When I went out and forked over $500 of hard earned money for a PS3 and a copy of NCAA 08 a few 
 short weeks ago, I expected far more than just an upgrade in graphics. I expected the lingering 
 issues with defensive A. I., the shallow presentation, and the cheap habit of calling old features 
 new to be resolved. If the XBOX-360 and PS3 are such powerful consoles, why can't EA improve the 
 fundamental gameplay issues and beef up the presentation as well as overhauling the graphics?
 
  
  Although I have hardly played through a single season in the campus legend mode, I already have 
 a load of gripes with the game, including a number of carryovers from the old-gen consoles. How 
 about an utterly unrealistic number of fumbles (I averaged one approximately every 20 carries, 
 and that is covering up the ball almost every time I got hit) ? Or selecting the auto-name rosters 
 only to realize that it doesn't work at all? Who in quality control missed something as simple 
 as making sure that selecting an item from a menu actually worked? I was elated to see a number 
 of the I-AA teams make their way into the game over the last few years, only for them to be replaced 
 by the old generic I-AA West teams I hadn't seen since the old PlayStation days. Since when can 
 a company claim to put out an all-new revolutionary product, and then strip it down considerably 
 when it had been making strides in the right direction?
  
  Don't get me wrong, I think that generally speaking EA Sports makes a pretty good game, and I also 
 realize that they work under the unrelenting time constraints of having to put a new game out every 
 season, and then for different consoles that require different programming.
  
  But how about instead of patting themselves on the back for repackaging essentially the exact same 
 game with a roster update and one or two (in a good year) new game features, making all the little 
 changes that would put the game over the top?
  
  I suppose in EA's eyes, they would rather put out what in the PC world they call a patch each year, 
 charge $50-60 for it, and sit on the license to the most popular sport in America. I am willing 
 to bet that I am not the only person that has dozens upon dozens of great ideas to improve these 
 games, but so long as EA has the exclusive right to make them, we all better brace ourselves for 
 next year's gem, NCAA Roster Patch 09. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lycan8
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 16, 2007 12:21 pm PT
Review:  This is a great game, and plays similar to the 07 version, with a few added tweaks thrown in. Nothing 
 too flashy, gameplay and play calling seem to be sped up which is good in my opinion... Online 
 play is awesome..
  
  If your new to this game, dont expect to pick it up and start scoring at will against the AI.. 
 Can be a bit discouraging at first. Freshman level is too easy, Heisman level is borderline insane 
 unless you have extensive hours under your belt... Campus legend is alot of fun at first, can get 
 a little monotonous after you accomplish first string. All the plays are called for you which is 
 kind of a downer but realistic... Of course you can set your own audibles to call at the line tho! 
 :)
  
  Recruiting is alot of fun too! If you create a Blue Chip prospect, he doesnt necessarily have to 
 sign with your team, so watch out! Odds are if your trying to build up a dynasty from a one * team, 
 and you create a ***** player, he WONT be interested in your School... Overall, this game is Highly 
 addicting, and I enjoy it thoroughly!!
  
  If you can, play this game in HD!! Its incredible.. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: marclando
Rating: 2.8
Date: Aug 12, 2007 5:06 pm PT
Review:  I bought this gme at the midnight release. I was really hype up about this game till i got it home. I 
 thought once I got use to the control i'd like this gme. this is the worst ea football gme there 
 is on both next gen system. i wasted total of $138.00 the ps3 and xbox 360 version the gameply is 
 terrible way to many t. o. way to many injures and how u sub your men in out is useless on online 
 except if u play your friends you can't veiw peoples careers you can't intsant message on the ps3 
 version you cant see people on your friends list did ea bother testing this game. i eventually bought 
 ps2 version its better than the next gen version the xbox360 version runs faster but its the same 
 game as the ps3 version. i normally get madden every year but after this i'm hesitant up until this 
 i was a die hard ea sports fan. ea put out this game knowing people like me would buy it because 
 i buy it every year ..... thanks ea for giving your loyal football fans the middle finger 
::::::

::::::
UserName: king23_
Rating: 8.6
Date: Aug 13, 2007 10:11 am PT
Review:  College football season is about to start again and EA has a new game this year. Heres my review 
 of NCAA Football 08.
  
  The gameplay and the controls are great. They are everything that you want in a college football 
 game. The only gameplay fault that I found was the amount of turnovers present in the game. The 
 sheer quantity of turnovers is staggering. Many times a wonderful drive has been foiled by unrealistic 
 turnovers, especially fumbles and red zone interceptions. Overall the gameplay is great though.
 
  
  One of my favorite things in this game is Campus Legend Mode. You create a player, take him through 
 the High School State Playoffs and then off to college. During College you will have to Practice, 
 do after school activities, and then playing the games. This mode is very fun. The Dynasty mode 
 is also still here and there is still as fun as usual. Take a team through many years of college 
 football, recruit new players, and all of those things.
  
  Another new feature is SuperSim. This allows you to skip the plays you don't want to do. This is 
 also used in Campus Legend Mode for when you are not playing. This is a very nice option. I like 
 it a lot!
  
  That graphics are pretty good. They aren't the best graphics on PS3 but they are still great! The 
 only problem is players sometimes ghost (go through each other) after the play is over. This can 
 get kind of annoying. As for sound there is still a bunch of fight songs you listen to, with an 
 ocasional ESPN radio update. Also, don't bother with the online play, its not very good. The lag 
 time makes it very difficult and pretty much unplayable.
  This is definatley a great game if you want a football game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GlavinChris
Rating: 9.1
Date: Aug 10, 2007 7:18 am PT
Review:  Okay, this is my first typed review, so bear with me...
  
  NCAA '08 is a fantastic game. The new mechanics (motivation, sixaxis usage) all work great. The 
 gameplay is smooth, even with its 30 fps. The modes are fun, but some could use a little work.
 
  
  Let's start with the bear essentials. The visuals in NCAA '08 are good, not exactly 100% next gen 
 graphics, but they are still a steep incline from the PS2 version. I never really thought the visuals 
 on NCAA were good compared to the pro counterpart. The cinematics are good, and like gamespot said, 
 can use some work. I would love to see fans holding signs with the occasional @*&amp;# you WV! 
 (sorry for all you WV fans out there, but I am a terps :P) And the bands playing the marching songs. 
 Come to think of it, you dont see the student fans or the marching band at all, the stadium looks 
 NFL esque. I will mention that the mascots are wonderful to look at, doing their little jig or 
 raising their fists in the air never looked any better.
  
  I will move from visuals to audio. I am pleased somewhat with the audio. The announcers are back, 
 and can get annoying at times. The band plays at every score and the crowd gets loud when it needs 
 to, and quiet as well. I would have preferred a more opinionated crowd (louder) at big points. 
 Also, It would be cool to hear a person in the crowd yell random phrases every now and then to 
 make it seem like the crowd is filled with individuals (never done but it would be a neat inclusion)
 
  
  Moving on to the interface. The menu is fairly easy to use, every now and then it gets slow. The 
 music plays random fight songs, that not always support your team (i would prefer longer fight 
 songs of your team then random ones) But the interface, overall, does its job.
  
  The modes are good. Dynasty and Play now functions are good. As well as the campus legend (if you 
 do this, get Madden '08 as well, you can move him up.) The online mode is nice, has a ranking system 
 and can find players to play fairly quickly. To find players, you can either choose a play now 
 option, which will set you up against random players of close skill level, or you can go to the 
 lobby and pick one of your choosing. There is lag every now and then, in the beginning you notice 
 it most.
  
  The new features are great. I love the new motivation aspect of the game. Each player can get a 
 motivation boost throughout the game, making them do things better and more efficiently. If a star 
 player gets a large motivation boost, then they will increase the skill level of those around him.
 
  
  So in conclusion, NCAA '08 is a great step for the franchise. It is a fun game that can last a 
 long time (at least until '09 comes out) and I would definintly recommend buying it, especially 
 if you are a college fan. Feel free to comment.
  
  -The Glavin 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BBGUN06
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 9, 2007 9:02 pm PT
Review:  Listen to this, i bought the game, and i love it, it is unbelievable. It is by Far the Best NCAA 
 EVER!!!! the New Highlight reel, THAT IS THE COOLEST, being 16, im in to football, i love madden 
 and ncaa, but i never loved NCAA better than madden eva. so if u like football, get this, youll 
 love, it. I even bet the some non football lovers will love it, if u want to to only play Madden, 
 ok, but u know, i think that the NCAA 08 will revoluntiarize football and how it is played in games, 
 it runs smooth, 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gsus8091
Rating: 9.3
Date: Aug 1, 2007 12:53 pm PT
Review:  This game is a personal favorite. It has become the top game in my library of PS3 games. I've completely 
 stopped playing Rainbow, Resistance, Call of Duty and FEAR all in favor of putting 100% of my playing 
 time into NCAA 08. EA has really stepped up in their production of this game and it shows. The 
 game play is smooth despite only running at 30 FPS compared to XBOX 360's 60 FPS. To be honest 
 you wouldn't even realize the difference if you didn't stare at the TV and try to compare. The 
 animations are absolutely fantastic. The big hits, mid air collisions and gang tackles will have 
 you spending hours in the replay booth. The exciting big plays you pull off as an offensive player 
 is just as exciting. Spin moves, juke moves and hurdle moves will put a smile even on the most 
 stout defesive player. And when you make a huge play whether on offense or defense the My Highlights 
 option where you save big plays then post them on www. easportsworld. com is another great feature 
 you'll become addicted to. I've shown at least three different videos and I can't wait to show 
 more. The offline game mode is perfect for you and a buddy to sit there and talk smack to each 
 other especially if you both went to rival programs. EA has also implemented Taunt-O-Gram on their 
 NCAA 08 official website so that you can challenge a friend to a game via e-mail. On-line does 
 have a few lag problems but nothing to bad and the games are as fast paced and as fun as ever. 
 Dynasty mode and Legend Mode are incredibly deep. In dynasty mode recruiting is key. Just as in 
 real life college football your program only goes as far as your recruiting skills. Miss on a big 
 time prospect to a conference rival and that could open the flood gates to other high school recruits 
 in that area to that rival school. Snag him and you've just set up a pipe line where your school 
 will be among the favorite of that particular state. Recruiting is overhauled only the way EA can 
 do, and they did a terriic job. In Legend Mode you start out as all other high school prospects..... in 
 high school. Thats right, you play in a high school tournament to try to take your high school 
 program to the state championship and eventually be noticed by some big time colleges. Dominant 
 and watch the big boys come calling. You then decide and start out as a lowley freshman at a university 
 campus. New places and new faces as you start out on your journey to become a college legend.
 
  
  The game itself has improved in leaps and bounds. You may have heard that some NCAA 08 players 
 have been complaining of to many turnovers and the CPU defenses are just to unrealistic and to 
 tough. Well, they aren't, NCAA 08 is just the most real college football experience to have ever 
 been put together. No longer are the days of tard secondary, no longer are the days of players 
 being stuck in one place and not moving till it's to late, no longer are the days of having to 
 do everything yourself. The defense has become as real as ever. As for the offense, the QB now 
 has to be smart about where he throws. No longer can the QB throw into double coverage and expect 
 great results, no longer can he throw when the defense is in zone and the safety is playing high 
 and the CB is playing low while you try to squeaze a pass in between them. Finally you have to 
 study what your and your oppenents tendencies are, because if you go in dumb you'll come a looser. 
 EA has stepped it's game up and in turn has forced us, the gamer, to do the same. I mentioned just 
 a few of the amazing features in the new NCAA football, I'll let you figure out the rest. This 
 is a must have sports title. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gatorforlife07
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jul 31, 2007 10:55 am PT
Review:  NCAA football is back and now its better than ever. Well first of the new campus legend is one 
 of the best ever and to make it even more realistic depending on how you do in highschool influences 
 on how good of a college you go to. Also the dynasty mode is way better now and it makes scouting 
 way easier. The graphics are also good to and the players move very fast to. And the online play 
 is fun to. And because of this game madden 08 looks very good. so you should definatley pick up 
 this game if you are a fan 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kz1den
Rating: 6.5
Date: Jul 30, 2007 3:34 pm PT
Review:  With this being NCAA's first foray on the PS3, I expected a much better offering from EA. Instead 
 we are treated to countless number of turnovers, same superhuman covering abilities of the computer 
 controlled defensive backs from past EA football games, the computer-advantageous jump snap count 
 feature, horrible framerate - all ingredients of another stale offering from the overhyped EA brand 
 of sports. Between college and the pro's (Madden) , NCAA is usually the better of the two (though 
 that's really not saying much based upon the last three offerings) . I would expect Madden to be 
 twice as craptacular as this title. Yet another bad season of football videogaming (although highly 
 anticipated, All Pro 2K8 fell short as well) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tj432321
Rating: 2.9
Date: Jul 29, 2007 12:07 am PT
Review:  When I got this game I thought it was going to have it all but I was wrong. The players uniforms 
 look like they are painted on the control is a little to sensitive and the main thing I was hoping 
 for was two player co-op because EA left it out of the 360 edition last year but once again EA 
 left it out again this year again. I dont understand why the PS3 and the 360 editions dont have 
 it but the Xbox and PS2 editions do have it EA is upseting alot of people because co-op was left 
 out again this year on the PS3 and the 360. EA needs to have it back next year. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: buckeyeq
Rating: 2.3
Date: Jul 28, 2007 9:57 am PT
Review:  Let me start by saying that I am by no means an EA Sports hater, but rather a huge fan of the series 
 and this is my honest opinion. I'm not going to review the new recruiting additions, or the campus 
 legend mode. Why should I when the game is unplayable? First off, if you use the D-pad, save the 
 60 bucks for a rainy day. Secondly, even if you use the L-stick, the gameplay response time is 
 terribly slow. Thirdly, lag kills online play. You wanna talk about turnovers, holy hell, It's 
 practically laughable. If anyone still wants to give it a shot, shoot me an email and you can buy 
 my copy for 40, only played once. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: slimmatt
Rating: 6
Date: Jul 27, 2007 9:22 pm PT
Review:  The gameplay is way too slow and you cant switch guy quick enough to make a user pick... not saying 
 there wont be a million picks.. the computer will definately pick off a few hundred passes every 
 game... they added great new stuff but lost it for me when they took away the thing that matters 
 the most in this game... the gameplay sucks, which really pains me to say! Adding the new highlight 
 system is awesome, but the problem is.. say good bye to long passes unless you get unbelieveably 
 lucky. yeah you guessed it... picked off again... plus there are way too many fumbles also... well 
 i hate to beat a dead horse... but if you own the game you know exactly what i am talking about. 
 Another pet peeve is no new commentary... come on guys i've been listening to the sunshine scooter 
 phrase for five years now.... get something better or just cut it out completely, i'd rather hear 
 crowd noise! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jmhulet
Rating: 4.9
Date: Jul 27, 2007 12:28 pm PT
Review:  I waited to get the PS3 just for the NCAA Football 2008. Mistake #1. I bought the game the first 
 day it came out. Mistake #2. I have tried to figure out how to enjoy the game. Mistake #3.
  
  This is a great looking game that plays like crap. Someone wrote that it plays like a sports 
 game that is being designed by folks who have never played the game. I wonder where they get their 
 stats for the teams because they don't line up with any of the trade journals that I follow. The 
 final answer is the EASports has a monopoly on the genre and they don't care about making a decent 
 game because they don't have to. Until someone puts a game out there that eats into their Marketshare, 
 EA is going to continue to turn out a marginally improved product year after year. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: supra_samurai98
Rating: 6.5
Date: Jul 27, 2007 5:13 am PT
Review:  I've always been a fan of EA football whether it is Madden or NCAA. NCAA Football 08 for the PS3 
 has lost some of the things that made it a great college football sim. I miss the mascots running 
 around, and I miss the crazy shots of the fans in the stands. I definitely miss the pre-game show 
 and predictions. Those things set it apart from being Madden in a college skin. I can still have 
 fun in the various modes but the atmosphere is bland and lacking in the college feel. The last 
 NCAA I owned was 06 and I loved it. Not because of the graphics or big hits but because I could 
 take my alma mater through several seasons and see the fans dressed like I was when I was there. 
 I went to West Point so we always were in uniform and that was great to see digital representations 
 of ourselves.
  
  Overall the game is good and can keep you occupied, but it lacks the flavor and style of a true 
 college football game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rludeman44
Rating: 6.5
Date: Jul 26, 2007 3:20 pm PT
Review:  If you are thinking about buying this game, seriously reconsider. The game is a half point better 
 than lasts year, which was in fact.... horrible. The only thing on this game that is a cool feature 
 is the hit stick up or down. You can try to lay someone out up high or take there legs out. If 
 you don't time it they will go right threw the receiver or back. The defense is terrible, the running 
 game is sub par and the jump snap feature is a good idea but regardless of how good a team is and 
 if they do time the snap, the O-line also knows the snapcount and would not get blown out every 
 down. All in all this game is a half point better than it was last year and if you liked last years 
 game, you clearly don't like football. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: the_black_one
Rating: 5
Date: Jul 25, 2007 6:14 pm PT
Review:  Remember last year when I told you NCAA Football 2007 was probably the best game of 2006? So you're 
 probably thinking this game was even better? Not really. I have this for the ps3 so obviously the 
 graphics are outstanding. But this game has taken out some of the little things that made this 
 game great. For starters, what in the hell possessed EA to remove the Create a School option? That 
 was HANDS DOWN the best thing about this game. Creating your school and turning it into a dynasty 
 was one of the most rewarding things you could ever do in this game. And if this game had returned 
 back that option, I don't think I'd ever get bored of this game. But because it removed the ONE 
 sole thing I loved to do, this game gets a below-average score. The gameplay is still reasonably 
 solid, and the graphics are amazing. But this game lost any chance of even getting an average score 
 from me when it removed the Create A School option. This game is the definition of All Flash, No 
 Substance . You messed up with this one EA. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: himankz
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jul 25, 2007 3:51 pm PT
Review:  Outstanding game. From the very first snap, you'll notice this game runs a whole lot faster and 
 smoother than last year's edition, thanks to the necessary bump to 60 frames per second. This improved 
 framerate also has another interesting effect -- you're able to see many more of the subtle-yet-sweet 
 animations, such as ball carriers putting their hand on the ground to regain balance or juking 
 under a defender who's suddenly left hugging air. Aside from speeding things up, developer EA Tiburon 
 has smartly retooled many key facets of gameplay. Run blocking is vastly improved, as it's finally 
 possible to get some positive yardage on sweeps -- plus, those fatties on the offensive line now 
 open some actual running holes between the tackles. The defensive A. I. also steps it up, especially 
 in the secondary. In years past, the deep ball was always a defensive back's Achilles' heel. That's 
 not the case anymore -- unless you spot a breakdown in coverage or catch them offguard with a pump 
 fake, these defensive speed demons will stick to wideouts like stink on s***. Defenders are pretty 
 smart between the hash marks, too; toss an errant pass over the middle, and more often than not, 
 someone will step in to intercept it. But you won't always want to rely on the A. I. for making 
 plays, simply because the refined hit stick makes it much more fun to knock the snot out of the 
 opposition. Seriously, it's supremely satisfying sending a receiver head over feet with a perfectly 
 timed flick of the right analog stick. And now that 08 lets you save highlights, you can continually 
 relive these thrilling, heavy-hitting moments and even send the clips to your fellow sportos. 08 
 also excels away from the gridiron. The new recruiting system (which gives you 10 simulated hours 
 a week to call prospects, feel out their likes and dislikes, and then pitch them on stuff like 
 campus life and playing time) even had this documented Dynasty hater completely hooked. Unlike 
 in previous installments, the recruiting here never feels overwhelming, and 08's simple-yet-effective 
 feedback system (a smiling/frowning football -- yes, I know it sounds corny, but it works) lets 
 you know right away whether you should keep pursuing a blue-chipper or invest your time elsewhere. 
 The ego-driven Campus Legend mode finally finds its way into the 360 version, and unlike Madden 
 NFL 07's horrific Superstar mode, you can actually play using these position-specific camera angles. 
 This year's mode also comes with another neat twist, as you start your career competing in your 
 home state's high school playoffs (hmm, seems like some folks at EA are fans of Friday Night Lights) . 
 Obviously, the better you perform, the more schools will be beating down your door with scholarship 
 offers. While those two modes thrive in 08, it's somewhat disappointing that the developers didn't 
 add any new minigames (Bowling, Option Dash, and Tug-O-War return) to the mix. So does anything 
 taint this revitalized gridiron? Yep, and it starts online. Once again, the NCAA series (along 
 with EA's Madden 08, which we'll review next month) are severely slackin' in this area. Sure, the 
 online matchups run pretty much without a hitch -- but, man, what do we gotta do for an online 
 Dynasty mode across the Internet? C'mon, EA: It's about time you made it possible for a bunch of 
 online friends to join up and battle it out for the BCS crown and recruits. 08 sports some other 
 head-scratchers, including a play-call screen that covers up instant replays (lame) and an utter 
 lack of alternate uniforms (even lamer, especially since EA has said that it won't be offering 
 them via download) . These are small gripes for sure, but two that EA really needs to address in 
 next year's game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Derugs
Rating: 5.1
Date: Jul 25, 2007 10:40 am PT
Review:  i have owned a ps3 for a few months and i was really excited about the novelty of getting my first 
 ncaa game for the ps3. it wasn't because of hype or anything but i was extatic about the whole 
 online experience. i have both versions of the game for the 360 and the ps3. because i travel alot 
 my 360 is in one place and my ps3 the other.. anyhoo.... after playing it on both systems the xbox 
 360 version has completely blown the ps3 version out of the water. (this is the part i hope i don't 
 get into trouble for) the ps3 version is pure trash. the crowd looks like cut out pieces of paper. 
 the detail of the field is not even close to the 360's version. it looks like they used the ps2 
 engine to make this game. i was completely furious when i saw the difference when i made the comparison. 
 this isn't the first time that i was completely obliviated with EA sports. they did this with live 
 also. but thats another story. its not the ps3 i'm upset with its EA sports and their lazy attempt 
 at making this game for the ps3. those that own both systems. if you are able to try both versions. 
 really pay close attention to these games and make your assessment. its obvious which game is better 
 here. graphics on the ps3 version are horrible and the characters on the 360 are much more smoother 
 and the quality of detail is top notch. even the shadows on the xbox version are better. not a 
 fan boy of either system entirely. i like both. but the developers let me down on this one. I was 
 tempted to call them and express myself because i felt like i was ripped off. you guys have a nice 
 day.... b EZ 
::::::

::::::
UserName: machaveli7
Rating: 5.9
Date: Jul 24, 2007 5:46 am PT
Review:  ill be honest with you guys this game is not that good at all, it looks like i was playing madden 
 07 on ps 2 or xbox, it's really terrible, i was playing it with my friends last night and this 
 game have to many interception and turnovers it unbelaviable man, only cool thing about this game 
 is 'live weather thingy thats about it, graphics are nothing special same like last year, i cant 
 believe this game got better score then APF 2k8 you cant compare graphics and gamplay between two 
 2k is really nex-gen compare to this game, i suggest you to rent this game dont waste $60. PEACE 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 281538960
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jul 23, 2007 10:33 am PT
Review:  After playing the game all night long, trying out all the different modes and just generally getting 
 a feeling for the game, I have been pretty impressed. Im a pretty diehard NCAA fan, and played 
 07 to death. Coming from 07 to 08 may be a little hard for some people.
  
  08 looks great, dont get me wrong, but the players do look too bulky. Im not entirely sure what 
 does it, be it their shoulder pads or maybe just their torsos are too thick, something just looks 
 off. The animations themselves, from talking to diving catches look amazing, but disappointingly, 
 the regular run animation looks awkward. Its just not very good, it seems that everyone has a rigid 
 spine, and run very much too upright.
  
  Other than the few animation flaws, the game plays well; although it is very slow. For those of 
 us that are used to more hectic pace of 07, 08 will feel like you are playing in quicksand. Players 
 feel about 10 points slower than their counterparts did last year, ie: take a 98 speed HB in this 
 year's game and run a play with him. It will feel like a 88 speed back from last year.
  
  All that being said, as I have mentioned earlier, this year's game is still an upgrade in my opinion. 
 Graphics dont make games for me, so the animations and awkward looking players are forgivable when 
 compared with the huge leap forward that recruiting has taken. I was amazed with the fact that 
 though I always look forward to recruiting, I spent 45 minutes in one week's in-season recruiting 
 and had no idea it had been that long. Its just really damn fun.
  
  The Legend mode is much better now as well, although it is really easy to become a starter if you 
 are an good at the game at all. I took over Brian Brohm's starting possition at Louisville in two 
 weeks, and Brohm is arguably the best QB in the NCAA this year; I cant imagine a situation where 
 Brohm would get replaced in two weeks by a freshman (especially one recruited out of Idaho) . The 
 High School playoffs are incredibly fun as well, I ran through it four times before even taking 
 a snap in College, just to mess around with it. I highly reommend doing the same.
  
  The menu's are still sluggish like they were in the next-gen versions last year of both NCAA and 
 Madden, Im not sure why they cant make a menu that works speedily, but overall not that big of 
 a problem. The new trophy case is a nice feature, although the new setup makes it a pain to change 
 profiles and teams in a multi-team dynasty, think three button presses just to change between user 
 controlled teams. While that may not seem like much, make the button presses sluggish, and include 
 a screen in the middle that requires a small load time. Its annoying, especially because we are 
 running a five team dynasty right not, so lots of team and profile changing.
  
  The stadiums look amazing, and they have a surprising amount of obscure stadiums as well, I was 
 happy to see that Idaho State University's Holt Arena is now facing the correct way, there are 
 a staggering amount of little touches that really polish the game.
  
  The quarterback step system is pretty nice, although it can be taken to a point where it doesnt 
 really matter about timing, you just kind constantly flick the stick when you are being pressured 
 and the quarterback spazzes out, making him hard to tackle.
  
  The new playbooks are exceptional, although you will run out of all the nifty plays pretty quick, 
 they really arent that useful in the game, most of them take too long to setup, which is saying 
 something considering how slow the game is now.
  
  The game is still just as playable as last year in all the other areas, I highly suggest it to 
 anyone who likes football, though longtime players might have an adjustment period to transition. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KennYx7140
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jul 22, 2007 2:38 pm PT
Review:  Just picked up the game yesterday and I saw both it's up and downs. To start off, I found that 
 the main menu's were kinda glitchy (But who cares... it's just the main menu) . I really liked the 
 whole Trophy Case Feature etc. It was a nice little touch. The game play seemed pretty good. I 
 wasn't getting any lag in the response time like some other reviewers said. The running motion 
 still seemed kind of weird though but overall I have seen worse. The game was definitely lacking 
 the whole college atmosphere. I was playing in Neyland Stadium and I probably have heard High School 
 crowds get louder. The graphics were outstanding on the field, but they could have done better 
 with the sideline and the crowd... (I'm using a standard TV, so I didn't get the whole 1080p aspect) . 
 The first mode I did was Dynasty Mode and I thought it was great. The recruiting system was way 
 better than before and I liked the ESPN. COM thing they added although it was just like the Magazine 
 they had in all the other NCAA titles. The second mode I tried was Campus Legend and it also was 
 great. Being able to play during high school was a plus for me. Overall I thought the game was 
 great and was definitely around the 8.0 to 8.5 range. If your into college football like me, then 
 you should definitely pick this game up. But if your a Perfectionist , then maybe you should rent 
 it first. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mountain_duwe
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jul 21, 2007 8:05 am PT
Review:  For any college football fan, it's their dream to go back in time and suit up for their alma-mater, 
 or desired alma-mater. In my case, my wanna-be future alma-mater is Penn State. I'm going to a 
 New York State college this fall, so I won't be a Nittany Lion anytime soon, unless my GPA inflates 
 for some outrageous reason. So, my only true PSU experience is found in NCAA Football 08.
  
  The gameplay is fun. Dynasty mode is extremely addictive, taking a powerhouse like Texas and 
 running the table, or taking a lesser team like Illinois and recruiting a national championship 
 contender. Herein lies the bulk of the activity -- recruiting. The recruiting mode is deeper than 
 ever before, and takes some getting used to, and is not easy in any stretch unless you already 
 have an awesome program like Penn State's or USC's where top players line up to suit up for your 
 program in the fall.
  
  The Legend mode is cool, taking your high school star from the high school state playoffs all the 
 way to the Rose Bowl. This game is what you make it -- overall, it's great, but it's awesome if you're 
 a college football fan. Overall, graphics are good but not great for PS3's standards, and some 
 additions to Dynasty and Legend mode would put this game up to elite status, and out of Madden's 
 shadow. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wfootball32
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 21, 2007 5:52 am PT
Review:  I traded in my XBOX 360 a week before buying this game. After hearing about the whole fps issue 
 that would be coming with the ps3 version I was starting to regret my decision to get a ps3. After 
 playing both the ps3 version and the 360 version on a quality TV I think both games are great. 
 My preference to a Playstation controller overrode all minor differences from the 360 version. 
 I played the 360 version of NCAA last year and after playing both next gen versions I would say 
 that the game play is alot smoother. Offensive controls like spin and juke have greatly improved 
 and are closing in on what they were for past ps2 versions of this game. The campus legend mode 
 is great and alot of fun. I played as a linebacker and as a running back already. If you do decide 
 to play this mode I would recommend running back because of how often you get the ball and all 
 the chances to make big plays. This game was a great buy and I would recommend it to any college 
 football fan for both next gen systems. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: obiken
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 20, 2007 6:45 pm PT
Review:  First of all as I said last year, I was just about done with EAs lack of support for the 360, 
 when compared to versions on regular X-box. That is more than taken care of this year. The 360 
 was the development platform for the EA line this year. The PS3 will take over that role for next 
 year so we will see how 360 games play on the 360 then. However, that is then and this is the present 
 and the present it GREAT! I do not see how you could make a better football game; I remember in 
 89, 89, and 90 how sports games floundered on the PC. Those days are gone, these guys look so real, 
 and the game play is great. Game spot gave this game an 8.0, which is too low; I gave the game 
 a 9.5, which is probably too high. Never the less, I just dont see how you can rate this game 
 as less than average and live with your gaming soul. Do I think Madden will be better than NC2A 
 08? Yes. Do I think Madden should be better? Yes. Never the less, this is a game well worth the 
 money. The heart of the game is the Legend mode, which is back in 08 on 360. I love it, its just 
 so much fun to create a player and follow his career. The Dynasty mode took a hit; too much detail 
 on recruiting. If they would have combined last years DM and this years Legend mode it would have 
 been perfection IMHO&gt; Fumbles are problem there too many of them in any mode. All the honest 
 criticisms taken as a whole, I just think this is the best Football game to date. I cannot wait 
 till August!!
  
  9.5 ---Superb.
  
  obiken 
::::::

::::::
UserName: scottk29
Rating: 6.3
Date: Jul 20, 2007 9:57 am PT
Review:  NCAA Football is better on the Xbox 360 than the playstation 3. The colors are a little more vivid 
 on the PS3 than on the Xbox 360 but the gameplay is a no brainer. PS3 - First of all on the when 
 you try and run at any time whether on offense or defense you run in a very jerky manner, and you 
 look as though you are floating on top of the grass rather than running on it. If you are using 
 the D-pad forget about it. When you are trying to run to a slight angle towards the sideline or 
 trying to squeeze between two defenders on the line of scrimmage you will undoubtedly run into 
 one of them. I'm not sure why ea did this but they took out the ability to round your running. 
 For instance if you are running up field and you turn to run left you will make an immediate 90 
 degree turn with no delay. Which although convenient when playing against another player highly 
 unrealistic and really makes for bad presentation. The menus run slow. The games frame rate is 
 way lower than the 360. Complaints about both - What is up with changing the controls every year? 
 It is not a benefit to move buttons every year. It makes picking up the game and playing it highly 
 unenjoyable. The nice thing is that you can at least map the buttons differently. Where did the 
 cheerleaders go? Why do all the players on the sidelines look like they are 350 pound beer drinking 
 football fans instead of players? And who are all the goobers in the white shirts? The stadiums 
 look good. the crowd does not. Maybe you guys need to head over to the team that does the NHL series 
 and ask them what to do. they've got it figured out. Gameplay other than that is great. Receivers 
 drop a few too many balls. WHY CAN YOU NOT JUMP ON DEFENSE TO INTERCEPT BALLS? THIS IS VERY STUPID!!!! 
 I cannot seem to figure out why they would make that a computer controlled feature. Maybe the guys 
 at EA were mad that they created the game and when the would go online they couldn't win a game. 
 Face it, people are going to figure the game out. If they can't create a computer that is unbeatable 
 at chess then you have no hope. It's like the tides, let it be. I have been a long supporter for 
 EA and the NCAA Football series. In fact I have spent over $130 to buy the game for both the PS3 
 and Xbox 360. This product is lacking severely. NCAA 2006 for the Xbox was the model for a perfect 
 game. Go back to that, I do however like the new dynasty mode and the campus legend. I have been 
 defending the series for so long against everyone just hoping that it would get better the next 
 year. I have been pleased in some areas, larger playbooks, better graphics, more animations, revamped 
 dynasty and campus legend. But some core areas and features of the game have been sacrificed. If 
 EA's goal is to do this on purpose in order to take advantage of customer loyalty they will find 
 out that eventually people will stop buying until they now it is a product that will give them 
 everything they want. I think EA needs to look long and hard at what they are putting out. Hire 
 better staff, don't fire the good staff. Fire the SH***y ones. AND LISTEN TO THE CONSUMER!!! You 
 need to read these pages, scour the internet, open forums to discuss features and make your fan 
 base apart of the production process because only we can tell you how to make the perfect game. 
 And if you do, you will have customers for life!
  
  - That is all 
::::::

::::::
UserName: marcusjo12345
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jul 19, 2007 11:26 pm PT
Review:  this game has very good features, including campus legend and a very thought out dynasty mode. 
 Playing in the high school state playoffs to start out in campus legend is awesome, reliving the 
 high school days. Also, the dynasty mode is very intriguing b/c it allows the player to have full 
 control of their team, plus they finally did away with the discipline percentage, which i always 
 thought was inaccurate and a waste of time. There aren't any Division 1-AA teams, however, so people 
 that like playing with those teams will be dissapointed, but overall it is a great game that is 
 worth the money. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Barney3
Rating: 6.3
Date: Jul 19, 2007 4:50 pm PT
Review:  No, that's not a mistake, it says Madden NCAA 08 . It's visually amazing, but for the die-hard 
 ncaa football fan, it is disappointing. I've played 13 seasons of NCAA 06 and 20 seasons of NCAA 
 08 (for ps2) . It plays just like Madden, so if you're a Madden Fan, then welcome to paradise, otherwise 
 prepare for disappointment. Here's the Bad list:
  Plays Like Madden
  You can't edit your playbook
  You can't create signs
  The playbooks are significantly different 
 from 07
  I haven't checked but it seems to me that they have cut many formations
  
  Here's the Good List:
  To sum it up, a more realistic Dynasty Mode
  
  It's a good game, but 
 no more than that. (And they have so much to work with... I guess this is what happens when you 
 don't have a competitor.) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cometkd
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 19, 2007 11:19 am PT
Review:  Listen, I was a little nervous on buying this game without renting it first for the next gen considering 
 how it was going to be the first NCAA game on the new PS3 console. But I gave it a chance to just 
 to buy the game without renting it. And geezzz... no let down here I tell you!!! I like the new 
 intro to the game before you play, on what to expect that is a nice new feature. I also like the 
 new aspect of the weather channel the gives you live feed up to minute with the weather atmosphere 
 no matter what stadium your playing in, as long as ur connected to the internet. Only bad thing 
 is the fact that the game has a little slag at times when looking at the players when u try to 
 reorder them or look at different teams. So other than that I am really pleased with this game 
 for its first time being on the new PS3 i mean honestly the fun has not even started yet, just 
 wait till they really know how to use the systems engine. So overall and could not ask for more 
 though ----except to just fix the lag in the roster viewing segment and hope for it to get even 
 better next year!!! SO GREAT JOB EA ON THIS YEARS NEW NCAA 08! I am truly impressed!!! ~K2JR4U 
 (GO BROWNS!!!) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: d2001dstanley
Rating: 6.2
Date: Jul 19, 2007 10:49 am PT
Review:  I must say that I hoped that this game would turn out well, as I actually liked the Xbox 360 version 
 of NCAA Football 07, but this is worse than that game. For one, the gameplay is noticeably slow 
 and sluggish in the play selection aspects. On top of that, the game refuses to skip through the 
 statistical overlays, such as end of quarter and scoring summaries. The game implements its ESPN 
 license better with the addition of ESPN Radio SportsCenter updates, but then botches it with removing 
 the ESPN bottomline look found last year and not showing in progress scores. Add onto that an inept 
 depth chart system that inexplicably takes a player you are trying to reassign to be a backup elsewhere 
 on the depth chart and removes him from his regular job as a starter at his regular position, and 
 many will grow easily frustrated. On top of that the menu screen slows down when videos are saved 
 to the hard drive and are playing on the video screen in the shrine.
  
  Question to EA: Why can't you implement ESPN presentation when 2K was able to do it five years 
 ago? It doesn't make any sense to me that you would acquire a license and then use it for meaningless 
 additions that are more add-ons than essential to the game's design.
  
  Overall: I have a hard time recommending this game to anyone who likes a sim football game. There 
 are better games already on the market than this title, which tries to include more of the modes 
 from the previous/current generation games, but ends up making the game worse off for it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jeremyfurr
Rating: 3.9
Date: Jul 19, 2007 7:40 am PT
Review:  The controls are so slow that it is virtually unplayable. After you attempt to make a move with 
 a receiver or running back it takes 1/2 second or so for the player to respond to your movements. 
 Forget trying to make a play with a reciever down the field. The response to your movements are 
 just too slow.
  
  The graphics and audio are superb. There's no question on that one, but if the gameplay is that 
 bad then what's the point? They have also taken out a lot of the things I enjoyed about the previous 
 installments too such as momentum.
  
  This game is typical of a first try on a new system, but I would recommend that you stick with 
 the PS2 version at least for this year. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nstein
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jul 18, 2007 10:46 pm PT
Review:  I've never been a fan of Madden or the NFL in general. That being said the Madden games have always 
 generally disapointed me. Wait a year and you get the NCAA game based on the madden system of the 
 previous year.
  
  They've changed it this year. NCAA 08 runs so much more fluid and looks better than Madden 07. 
 Looks like EA finally realised this might be a series that can stand on it's own.
  
  I don't have too much time on the game yet but running is fun. Passing is much harder (no more 
 hail marys to score at will) but not unreasonable. The shrine feature is a great addition to the 
 game for both showing off and poking that open wound in your friends side. Campus legend is a ton 
 of fun even if you do have to go 4th or 5th string for your fav team. All the ESPN additions are 
 great. Can spend as much time reading about the pretend season as you could about the real season.
 
  
  The missing custom team is minimal in my opinion. Did anyone really buy the game to make their 
 own team or did they buy it to play as/for thier fav college team?
  
  Looks incredible, sounds pretty good and the animations are much better than in the past.
  
 
  Multiplayer.... normally I play against friends at the house. Nothing better than trash talking 
 and backing it up or having your rear handed to you. It's football. Haven't tried online yet. Hopefully 
 EA has fixed their disconnection issue but like I said, haven't played it and can't comment on 
 online.
  
  In summation, NCAA 08 is better than I had hoped for and an incredible foundation to build the 
 franchise up from on the nextgen systems. If you like college ball and have $60 sitting around 
 (or a slew of PS2 games that you can trade in) it's well worth the purchase. Best PS3 game yet 
 IMO.
  
  Lets hope to see the NCAA dynasty continue to improve.
  
  PS: GEAUX TIGERS!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: netsfan1206
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 18, 2007 12:16 pm PT
Review:  I have been a long fan of the NCAA Football series. I was expecting great things when i bought 
 this game for my ps3. I have to say all me expectations were fulfilled. First of all i love the 
 all new my shrine . It is a great feature that u see when u start up the game nd when u r on the 
 main menu. It is a beautiful display of all ure accomplishments. another addition that i liked 
 was the highlights that u can create. they r awesome nd u can also view these on ure shrine. i 
 first started playin wit the fighting irish of notre dame. they r not ranked but they r the BEST! 
 i played against #1 USC. the first thing i noticed was the beautiful graphics. the gameplay was 
 a little hard at first but i got used to it. it is so very fun. after i practiced a little i started 
 a campus legend mode. the addition of the high school tournament is great. so basically i love 
 this game. the crowd could be a bit better but all in all NCAA Football 08 is a must buy. Trust 
 me. GO IRISH! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hunter8man
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jul 18, 2007 9:13 am PT
Review:  Fans will be happy to know that NCAA 08 for PS3 plays and looks just as good as the 360 version. 
 No glaring frame-rate issues or lack of polish. I'll talk about the only negative that I've witnessed 
 so far. Even though the controls are customizable, some of the default controls are pretty pointless. 
 Whatever happened to the juke being on the left and right triggers? Why am I sprinting with the 
 R2 trigger, but jumping the snap with the L2 button? Another problem I have is with the opponents 
 offensive snaps. You'd better have your D-line and linebackers set in 2 seconds, or you won't get 
 a chance to audible, or shift. Overally, the graphics are really good, the stadiums look amazing, 
 online is as good as ever, booming audio is all there, and the campus legend mode is really fun. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zeke17us
Rating: 4.7
Date: Jul 18, 2007 6:37 am PT
Review:  As a long time supporter of the college football series, I must say it's very upsetting that a 
 game that's supposed to be an upgrade from the PS2 version is more of a downgrade. There are less 
 features on the PS3, (how can this be on a far more powerful system?!) the sidelines look almost 
 worse than the PS2, the players run goofy, there is no pre-game, halftime, post-game show, the 
 fight songs have got ten no overhaul, many still sound very generic or a poor rendition, ie. Michigan 
 State, what the heck is that?! It's sounded that way on PS2 for years and is no way shape or form 
 the fight song. To spend $60 of hard earned money for this is upsetting. EA should be absolutely 
 embarrassed with the product they released. Gameplay: If you throw a pass, you had better pray 
 it's nowhere near a defender or it's an int, unless it's tossed too high in the air then he catches 
 EVERYTHING! In the one game I played online, my receiver jumped up and caught at least 7 passes. 
 When your d-line approaches the line to prepare for the play, they have a very awkward motion when 
 they get in their 3 point stances. It's almost like some animations were left out.
  Running the ball is far too easy and weird. Your RB makes the strangest cuts back and forth and 
 can bust a huge run, barreling over numerous defenders far too easy. I didn't realize every team 
 has Earl Campbell.
  Passing as well. My QB couldn't seem to hit a receiver in stride. One time the ball went through 
 the back of my RB, WOW what a catch!
  Bottom line, the graphics are great of the players, referees are missing, create a school is missing, 
 sidelines look very generic, school fight songs need improvement, the crowd is ok, the ESPN features 
 and weather channel are a great addition, no pre-game half-time post game show, bad animations= 
 Unhappy and disappointed long time College Football supporter and fan. Rent it before you buy. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lils17
Rating: 6.7
Date: Jul 18, 2007 6:12 am PT
Review:  I've been waiting for this game to come out since I saw the first screen shot. After watching some 
 of the videos and reading the news from the EA Sports site. I found the game to be almost exactly 
 like Madden 07, except the gameplay was better.
  
  The 2 features that I love most about the NCAA franchise is the ability to play co-op with my buddies 
 and create my own school and coach. Can't do either of those things in NCAA 08 for the PS3. Graphically, 
 this game looked amazing... game-play was ok, but not great enough that I'm going to ever play it 
 again. Some of the new features looked cool, but not cool enough to justify paying $80. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GKinnel
Rating: 6.8
Date: Jul 25, 2007 4:55 pm PT
Review:  -\ Pros /- *The new Dynasty Mode is VERY deep, and addictive. *The mini-games are also a great 
 add on. *The Online has to be the coolest perk, being able to listen to live ESPN updates, and 
 watch video streams of the latest news. *The EA highlight feature is also a pretty nice feature, 
 you'll go into many instant replays to see if you can get a perfect shot for your main screen.
 
  
  *The new player models look great
  
  *The gameplay has stepped up atlittle, so it feels alittle closer to the Current-Gen games.
  
 
  -\ Cons /-
  *It is still way to easy to break a run, or get one broken on you. Yes, they have gang tackles 
 but it is more like a neccessity in order to take the ball-carrier down. Once you get maybe 2 steps 
 infront of a defender, more then likely, you're goin' to take it to the house, because defenders 
 seem like they fall rather than diving. And weather you spin, stiff arm, or do a highlight move, 
 8 times outta 10, you're going to make a guy miss, even if you're in a crowd. I can't count how 
 many times I've seen someone break through the line by themselves without being gang tackled *The 
 animations are upgraded, but those guys still run funny. Catch a replay and you'll see that its 
 more like they're scooting their feet across the feild, and this makes the game feel REAAAAAAAAAAAAALLLY 
 slow.
  
  *Throwing to the reciever has to be the worst experience in gameplay. The developers way of making 
 the DB's AI better was to make the QB less accurate, and reciever just plain dumb. If you are throwing 
 fly routes or any post corner routes, the reciever better be by himself, or that ball is getting 
 picked off. The ball HARDLY, I mean HARDLY goes over the reciever's shoulder, it goes in a straight 
 dart to his outside shoulder. Giving whatever DB a change to easily get their hands on it. And 
 when if the ball makes it to the reciever, instead of making an over-the-shoulder catch, he will 
 turn all the way around and make it look nice.. While it looks nice, he slows down, giving the 
 DB ample time to get to him. And you can't really float the ball downfeild anymore. It's either 
 a long bullet past the reciever, or the ball will float for a LONG time, then just drop, where 
 the defender will more then likely drop. Oh, and if someone is two feet infront of you, you're 
 good as sacked, the ball will leave your hands once every blue moon.
  
  *Playing as a defender isn't what it's cracked up to be either. You'll eventually get the hang 
 of it, but due to the bad ball swatting mechanics, it's easier to go for the pick. The QB's ball 
 is usually on point, and even though you can collide with the reciever, it's hardly any balls jarred 
 lose. And tryin to cover a reciever on an out route, or catch a running back in a flat is just 
 damn-near impossible due to not being able to catch up in pursuit. You'll find yourself running 
 at an angle up, instead of sideways or down to catch the ball-carrier. So if it's 4th and 7 til 
 the endzone, and its a 4 yard out, you lost that game buddy.
  
  *The Hitstick 2.0 doesn't work how it's suppose to. 7 out of 10 times, you're either not going 
 to go after his legs and the RB will shrug you off, or you're just going to miss completely.
  
  *The playbooks are mostly the same.
  
  *When creating a player, you still can't tweak their 
 hair, or see to much change in the face. And why are all the players without hair on their face?? 
 And what if you wanted to create the next Vince Young? Well it'd be the bootleg version because 
 this comes without the signature side-arm.
  
  *The Create-A-Legend mode is boring, plain and simple. The coach calls the worst plays imaginable. 
 (Play it, and you'll see what I mean.) And on defense, the ball-carrier rarely comes your way.
 
  
  *Its way to many injuries that go on, you'll hear the announcers talk about at least 3 injured 
 players on the feild a game.
  
  *Way to many fumbles on the human side of the ball.
  
  -\ VS the 360 Version /- *There is a difference between 60FPS and 30FPS. But it isn't much. The 
 60FPS you see all animations in full glory.. Full and SLOWER glory. And when playing the 360 version, 
 for some reason it's alot of stoppage between plays. I guess it's to much motion inbetween plays 
 which causes lags for some reason. But the PS3's crowd looks jaggie, while the 360's looks buttery 
 smooth. But there isn't much difference between the two.
  
  No D1-AA Teams, but they have their fight songs... W'sup with that? I know they aren't good, but 
 it appealed to alot of people.
  
  -\ Overview /- EA still has alot of work, and kinks to fix before it can match the gameplay of 
 the current-gen. If you are looking for better gameplay, its best to go with current and not next-gen. 
 But this game gets you addicted to the dynasty mode quickly. It's definately better than the last, 
 but it isn't close to the hype that was being said about this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ziembee
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 18, 2007 1:20 pm PT
Review:  Amazing. In every area. NCAA has it all and the animations, graphics, and gameplay are all close 
 to the best ever for a football game. I bought it for the PS3, and I have to say that this game 
 is beyond amazing.. like 3 times better then Madden 07 for the same PS3 last year. Bigger selection 
 of teams then Madden, Online is done well, and even though it was just released today, finding 
 an opponent quickly to match up against is a piece of cake. The animations of the players, the 
 blocking, the catching, the stiff arms are all extra ordinary. You WILL NOT be disappointed in 
 this game if you own a PS3 system! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kamikaze1919
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jul 17, 2007 6:55 pm PT
Review:  If you've liked previous NCAA games, then this one will be no different in keeping you interested 
 for awhile. There are tons of new tackling animations that will 'wow' you no matter how many times 
 you see it; and the tihng is, there are so many animations, you hardly see the same one twice in 
 a couple of games. The new gang tackling is great, it breaks through the old NCAA one person at 
 a time tackling, and allows multiple people to pile on and crush a guy. Gang tackling is cool when 
 you have a guy dragging the runner to slow him down and you get another guy to lay a huge hit right 
 in the runner's mouth. The new system of big hits also makes for hours and hours of jaw dropping 
 hits. Seriously. You can absolutely destroy people in this game, let's say they jump to catch a 
 pass and you go for a low big-hit... you'll jack their legs out from under them and they'll do 
 a flip and land on their face. If you like defense and just dominating the other team by slamming 
 them down after down, this is your game. There are only a few downsides. 1) The players run a little 
 goofy, and look like their going slow, but you get used to it. 2) The play choosing system is a 
 little more annoying then some previous versions. The biggest thing for me was how smooth it runs, 
 i was just hoping that it wasn't going to be the disaster that madden 07 was for the PS3, and it 
 isn't at all.
  
  Besides these though, this game is the step-up NCAA players have been waiting for. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: crazy4life54
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jul 17, 2007 6:42 pm PT
Review:  This game jam packs a ton of great features into the game. If your just the type of person who 
 likes playing games, it'll wet your whistle a little bit, but your better off waiting for Madden. 
 If your the gamer who enjoys all the indepth recruiting (much easier this year, I know **** about 
 NCAA football and I can do it) , snapshot photos, highlight videos, and a ton of other neat little 
 things, you'll absolutely love this game!
  
  Tons of fun right from the start. The game starts off with a tutorial (can click to leave it) showing 
 off all the new features. One of the simpler, yet cooler features, is the ability to choose certain 
 replay videos and snapshot pictures from the game to add to your Hall of Fame . It's basically 
 just the background for the game, but its neat cuz it's shows your saved videos up on the big screen. 
 Only bad part about this system, you don't get to take the photos, they're computer chosen and 
 taken. However all the videos and photos have a greatness rating . I usually keep the ones with 
 over a 1000 greatness points, but its good to look through them cuz some of the not so great shots 
 look really good too!
  
  Next up is the recruiting. Phenominal! I'm not a huge college football fan, I just enjoy the games, 
 so when the word recruitment comes up, I run for the hills. However in this years version the recruitment 
 is very well explained and super easy to understand. Enough so that I think it may be my favorite 
 part of the game. Better yet, you get the chance to create your own recruits and try to attract 
 them to your team!!! (I'm using Temple cuz I like to make ****ty teams good, so attracting my A+ 
 created recruit doesn't seem likely) . It's definitely a neat little system though.
  
  Onto the bits and pieces of glitchiness. I found that surfing through my depth chart, team roster 
 and statistics is very very very slow. The lagginess of Playstation is expected as its always been 
 laggy, but this is beyond slow. Not to mention, I switched out one Defensive Tackle and when I 
 went to switch out the second, my Defensive Tackle replacements were replaced with Offensive Guards 
 and Tackles. I had to leave the screen, then jump back in to get it to work. Very annoying. Other 
 than that I haven't had any real gameplay glitches.
  
  Like another poster said the players still run like theres a stick up their ass, and they still 
 look like roided up gorillas. It's nice to want to add a bit of graphical detail, but to make every 
 player look like Jose Conseco is just a bit ridiculous. I'm sure you can get around it though for 
 the other game features. If you liked the quickness of the ps2 version, go with that, if you like 
 graphical display, go with the ps3 or 360. That's about all I have to say about the game. Very 
 big thumbs up for making a very in depth NCAA football game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ou661
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jul 17, 2007 5:07 pm PT
Review:  NCAA Football 2008: first i will talk about the shrine which is what the main menu is i love the 
 new addition of the shrine it displays all the trophies you have one from campus legend mode and 
 dynasty and also displays pictures and videos you have saved. which is a nother thing i want 2 
 talk about you can save videos and pictures after a game 10 pictures can be saved at a time and 
 5 videos they appear on a screen in the shine.
  
  Gampelay: this is the best gameplay from a NCAA Football game i have seen ever their are a bunch 
 of animations and the game isnt 2 slow or 2 fast and it isnt as hard 2 find what diffuclty mode 
 is just right for you as it has been in the past
  
  Modes: The modes this year in NCAA 08 are Campus Legend, Dynasty, Minigames (tug of war, opition 
 dash, bowling the same from last years game on the 360) , and practice Campus Legend- in this mode 
 You make a High School player and finish out the playoffs you pick ur High School and you choose 
 a Deafult Jersey i really wish you could coustimise the Jerseys but u cant so anyways u play thru 
 the playoffs and when you when state u go 2 the Biggist College stadium in the state that you are 
 in and after that game you get to choose what college you go 2 but some colleges like USC you could 
 be all the way back to a 5th string but lower calliber schools such as Hawiaa you could be starting. 
 so you chose to go to USC a Calander is what you go by first you have class which you do nothing 
 then their is practice so say your in practice and ur 5th string you mayb need 30 points to become 
 4th string and mayb 50 points to become 3rd string you worke ur way up till u are 1st string how 
 do u get the points you might ask in practice you get points by scoring a TD, getting a first down, breaking 
 a takle, juking some1 etc. after practice is evening event you have diffrent oppitions like for 
 ex. your trainer wants you to lift but you already have plans with your gf you can either lift 
 which will raise up strength or have the nite with ur gf which will raise up your popularity and 
 occasionly you can lift then spend time with ur gf but u get nothing out of that becuz ur trainer 
 will keep you late. In games you are only allowed to play your possition so say if your QB you 
 will only throw the ball and after the WR catches you stay in controll of the QB. Overall Campus 
 legend if fun for your freshman year but after that it gets repatitive
  
  Dyasty Mode- This is ver diffrent from last year or any years dynasty mode with a new and inproved 
 recruting system that is amasing new with it is you can promise things to players if they come 
 to your school, you find what is good about your school and see what they like and talk on the 
 fone to them about it. The new espn. com on Dynasty mode if very awsome you have to look for your 
 self dont want to spoil it.
  
  so basicly this game should last till madden so for any football fans it is a must buy even if 
 u havnt played any of the other NCAA football games 
::::::

::::::
UserName: joebizkit
Rating: 4.6
Date: Jul 17, 2007 4:28 pm PT
Review:  People with walkers actually run faster than these funny looking unrealistic characters. I only 
 have one regret, last night at midnight, my gut kept saying buy the ps2 version, you know EA is 
 going to rook you like that did last year and the first gen version will smoke this one, I should 
 have listened, I may have to on madden. Is there anyone out there that actually loved the feel 
 of the controls and fluid like movement of the original ps2 or xbox versions. Yeah Yeah I know 
 the next gen graphics are the bomb, however if you think that make believe chiseled jaw roid freaks 
 are what college ball has like on this game, you are wrong, it was nice to see that finally put 
 a chunky guy with a gut at nose tackle. In all fairness, I may have to sell this one sense I was 
 not able to download the demo, ( Cheap company new it was a sorry product and refused to let me 
 see it) and resort back to the ps2 version, I am thankful it will run on my ps3, I feel bad for 
 xbox customers if there version is as bad as this one or last years. On a final note, is the gang 
 tackling all that is cracked up to be or more like a necessity because you can't tackle man to 
 man any more and who in the blue moon makes the menus annoying to navigate through? EA please fire 
 all of your programmers that worked on this game, and just port over the original console producers, 
 the world what be a better place. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Theevanman7
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jul 17, 2007 1:27 pm PT
Review:  When I bought this game, I had no idea how this game would be like. In fact, I thought it would 
 be the same as last year. But this game ended being a wonderful delight for any football fan. The 
 superstar mode in ncaa has gotten a lot better and the recruiting in the dynasty gives the game 
 a more realistic approach. But the real star of the show is the gameplay. The gameplay was a vast 
 improvement from last year. The A. I. is smarter than ever and the control over the player could 
 never be better. This game has proven the EA can finally beat 2K Sports if they just make games 
 like these. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: anderspn77
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jul 17, 2007 11:33 am PT
Review:  I love everything about this game. Yeah the crowds and sidelines could be better, but thats something 
 that has always needed improvement. Do you play the game for the crowd and sidelines... cause I 
 don't. Anyway I really like the campus legend features they added... you create your guy and then 
 go through high school playoffs to see what schools (colleges) will look at you. The new hit-stick 
 features are great. You can hit high or low and if your a db I hope you decided to hit low and 
 take the fb's legs out cause if not ... SMASH... yeah your looking up at the fb as he runs over 
 you and scores the winning TD. They added more hot route routes when you choose to audible your 
 play. So many more features and everything from the sound and graphics to the gameplay are phenomenal. 
 I would recommend this game to anyone who is a fan of this series. You shouldn't be disappointed. 
 This is the start of a great series for the next gen consoles. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
