-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Need for Speed Carbon
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/ps3/driving/needforspeedcarbon/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 More solid FMV sequences.
 loads of customization options.
 solid core gameplay.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Frustrating boss battles.
 underutilizes police chases.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Nov 21, 2006
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 7.4
Critic Score: 7.7, 34 Review (s)
User Score: 8.0, 1,383 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: EA Games
Developer: EA Canada
Genre: GT / Street Racing
Date: Nov 16, 2006
ESRB: Everyone 10+

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Even though the wingman mechanics and canyon races don't quite pan out, it's still a stylish and 
 enjoyable street racer. 

  After rebooting the franchise with Need for Speed Underground, EA has continued to produce some 
 solid street racers under the Need for Speed banner. Last year's Need for Speed Most Wanted, which 
 featured hilariously over-the-top live-action cutscenes and seriously tense police pursuits, proved 
 to be a high watermark for the franchise. Now it's being followed up by Need for Speed Carbon, 
 which downplays the role of the police chases, introduces some simple team-racing mechanics, and 
 occasionally takes the action off the city streets and into the outlying canyons. The new gameplay 
 doesn't always improve the experience, but the racing can still be quite intense and still has 
 a pronounced sense of style.  

          That guy from Battlestar Galactica isn't much of a Razor Callahan substitute.     

 
  Carbon continues the story where Most Wanted left off. For those just tuning in, Most Wanted ended 
 with you recovering your stolen car and bailing out of the city of Rockport while the overzealous, 
 anti-street-racing Sgt. Cross continued his pursuit. At the start of Carbon, you're making your 
 way to Palmont City when Cross, now a bounty hunter, catches up with you and totals your car during 
 the chase. Before he can collect his bounty on you, though, your old friend Darius steps in and 
 pays off Cross. You are then put to work, taking over the turf of the other rival street-racing 
 crews in Palmont City. It seems that you've got a history in this town that predates the events 
 in Most Wanted. During the course of the game, you'll learn more about that fateful night you skipped 
 town. Different characters will give their takes on the night you supposedly ran off with a big 
 red duffle bag full of cash. By the end of the game, you'll not only find out what really happened, 
 but you'll have taken over all of the street-racing territory in Palmont City.  

  Outside of the actual gameplay, one of the more endearing aspects of Most Wanted was the way it 
 used live actors in CG environments for its story sequences. These sequences invariably featured 
 plenty of actor/model types, trying a little too hard to talk tough and failing spectacularly at 
 it. The technique remains the same in Carbon, though there are more story sequences now and a slightly 
 more self-aware tone. The heavy use of flashbacks is an interesting idea, but the story ends up 
 being kind of muddled. None of the villains come off as particularly menacing. Although it's hard 
 to really qualify any of it as sincerely good, it's just over-the-top enough that folks who enjoy 
 stuff like The Fast and the Furious, ironically or otherwise, should get some enjoyment out of 
 it.  

  Most Wanted had you racing to raise your visibility with the police and take on the most notorious 
 street racers in Rockport. In Carbon, it's all about turf. Palmont City is divided into four major 
 territories, each of which is predominantly controlled by a different street-racing crew. Each 
 territory is then further divided into zones, and within each zone, you'll find starting points 
 for a variety of different race events. Winning at least two events in a zone will put it under 
 your control. And once you've taken over all the zones in a given territory, you can take on the 
 head of that crew. As you continue to extend your reach across Palmont City, rival crews will come 
 back and try to retake territory the same way you took it from them, forcing you to accept their 
 challenge if you want to maintain control. Having to go back and re-race events that you've already 
 won is kind of a pain, but the open world structure is nice and gives you plenty of options to 
 take on races at any given point.  

  However, you won't be taking on all of these crews by yourself because Carbon lets you bring along 
 a wingman into many of the races. These computer-controlled companions break down into three different 
 behavior types -- blockers, drafters, and scouts. Blockers will run interference for you, spinning 
 out opponents at your command. Drafters let you slipstream behind them, giving you some extra speed 
 from the reduced drag, and from there you can pull aside and slingshot your way past them. Scouts 
 have a knack for finding the many alternate routes and shortcuts that can be found in most races, 
 and they have short neon tracers that follow them, making it easier for you to take advantage. 
 You'll definitely find yourself in races where your wingman's influence is the difference between 
 winning and losing. But often, your wingman's presence is either unnecessary or an actual hindrance. 
 Blockers are only really effective in taking out competitors that are behind you, and even then, 
 they're not very reliable. Drafters work as advertised, but the lengthy straightaway needed to 
 set up a proper draft is rare in Palmont City, which limits their usefulness. Scouts are the least 
 useful of the three because the neon tracers don't seem to get longer as the cars you drive go 
 faster, and eventually, there's just not enough time for you to anticipate an alternate route. 
 If you didn't call on your wingman, you might expect him or her to just hang back. But we found 
 ourselves getting bumped into and boxed in by our wingman on several occasions. It's not ruinous 
 to the experience, but sometimes it makes you wish they would just go away.         Canyon duels 
 are challenging, but their repetitious structure can sometimes make them wearying.     

  The game relies on some pretty tried-and-true types of races, but it also throws some curves. You'll 
 find plenty of common stuff, such as lap-based circuit races, point-to-point sprints, and checkpoint 
 races. But there are also some unique races, such as the speed-trap race, where your standing is 
 determined by your cumulative MPH as you race through a series of speed traps. Most races take 
 place on the city streets of Palmont, but there are also drift events, which can take place either 
 on a closed race course or on the winding canyon roads that surround the city. The goal in the 
 drift events is to score points by making clean drifts around corners. The car handling changes 
 completely for the drift events and feels much more slippery than in the rest of the game, which 
 recalls the drift events found in Need for Speed Underground 2.  

  You'll also face off with the different crew bosses in the canyons, and these events may test your 
 patience. Once you've taken enough turf for a crew boss to challenge you, you'll first race against 
 him in a standard city-street event. If you beat him there, you'll advance to one of the game's 
 canyon courses, which are narrow and undulating. Here it's a two-part race, where you'll first 
 have to chase the boss through a point-to-point race, and then reverse roles for the second part. 
 Your score on the first half is based on how close you stay to your rival; then in the second half, 
 your rival tries to outdo you. These events can be quite challenging because the courses are technically 
 complicated, and the crew bosses tend to be better, more aggressive drivers than the average street 
 racers. There are also a number of ways in which you can instantly fail. If, during the second 
 race, your opponent manages to get ahead of you for more than 10 seconds, you automatically lose. 
 But on the flipside, if you can get ahead of your opponent for more than 10 seconds in the first 
 race, you automatically win both races. Also, each course is absolutely rife with cliffs. This 
 means that if you take a corner at the wrong angle or speed, you can launch your car off of a cliff, 
 immediately ending the race. All of these elements can make for a tough but fair race. However, 
 failure takes you back to the first half of the canyon duel, even if you failed during the second 
 half. It's kind of a minor point, but it's one that can turn a canyon duel into a real chore.  
    

  The structure of the canyon duels can be frustrating, but the way Carbon marginalizes the police 
 chases that were so instrumental to the success of Most Wanted is even more disappointing. The 
 cops still play a factor because each zone has its own heat rating that increases the more you 
 race there. The higher the heat, the more likely it is that cops will start coming after you. While 
 Most Wanted had you purposely baiting the cops, as well as attempting to wrack up huge property 
 damages and lengthy pursuits to advance the story, there's little reason in Carbon for you to attract 
 the attention of the law. With the ability to hop directly to any race event through the world 
 map, it's possible and quite easy for you to go through the entire story mode where you can count 
 the number of police encounters on one hand.  

          Carbon features an eclectic selection of more than 30 unique licensed cars.     

  Structural 
 imperfections aside, the core driving in Carbon is really solid. There's a great selection of licensed 
 real-world cars that you can purchase throughout the course of the game, which are sorted into 
 three different groups -- tuners, muscles, and exotics. And you'll find that each group handles differently. 
 In the tuner group, you'll find a lot of souped-up Japanese sports coups, like the Nissan Skyline, 
 Subaru Impreza WRX, and Toyota Supra. And the strength of these cars tends to be an ability to 
 slide around corners. Muscle cars are all Detroit steel, including new stuff like the Chrysler 
 300 and the Dodge Challenger Concept. They also include early 1970s classics, like a Chevy Camaro 
 SS and a Plymouth Barracuda. And though they've got great acceleration in a straightaway, they're 
 pretty loose in the corners. The exotics group is probably the most varied, with high-end offerings 
 from Mercedes, Porsche, Alfa Romero, Lamborghini, and more. These cars also tend to demand a higher 
 level of skill to use them correctly.  

  You can buy cars from dealerships or you can win them from crew bosses. And once you get them, 
 there are all kinds of upgrades that you can apply to them. There are tiered performance upgrades, 
 as well as a rainbow of paint colors, dozens of vinyl stickers, aftermarket rims, spoilers, and 
 body kits. You can also fabricate your own body parts with the game's autosculpt system, which 
 is oddly reminiscent of the Game Face feature in EA Sports' Tiger Woods PGA Tour games. It's a 
 novel idea and great for making some really physically impossible-looking parts. But it takes too 
 much incremental tweaking of settings to get something unique. And there's such a wide variety 
 of prefab aftermarket parts that don't require all that toil, which means only the truly obsessed 
 will get much out of the autosculpting.  

  If you keep your eye on the prize, you can see the credits roll in Carbon's career mode in well 
 under 10 hours. But if you want to beat every event, as well as unlock every last car and upgrade, 
 you can just as easily spend 20 hours. And there's even more racing to be done outside the career 
 mode. There are 36 increasingly difficult races to take on in the challenge series, and the quick-race 
 option lets you jump into something -- no strings attached. Like the Xbox 360 version, Carbon on 
 the PS3 provides a pretty solid online multiplayer component, where up to eight players can participate 
 in all of the race types found in the career mode, as well as multiplayer-exclusive modes, where 
 players get to play as both cops and street racers. The rules in some of these modes aren't explained 
 very well, which can make for some pretty confusing moments. But once you get past the learning 
 curve, you can have some good, team-based fun. We also experienced some minor but pervasive latency 
 issues, even when we were nowhere near the eight player limit, as well as an odd bug where all 
 in-game sound would drop out for the duration of a race. It's kind of flawed, but again, the actual 
 feel of the racing still translates pretty well online. And an online experience system where you 
 can unlock additional cars helps make it a little more interesting.  

  With Palmont City apparently living in eternal night, the game's feel recalls the Need for Speed 
 Underground games, though the scenery changes in Carbon are much more varied. There's a distinct 
 West Coast feel to Palmont City, and you'll find yourself in districts that recall the more posh 
 parts of Los Angeles and Las Vegas. As different as it feels from the city of Rockport in Need 
 for Speed Most Wanted, keen eyes and ears will notice a lot of recycled elements here. Vehicles, 
 environmental objects, textures, and a lot of the sound elements have been cut and pasted into 
 Carbon, making for some odd dj vu. In some cases, it's a good thing because the squeal of the 
 tires and the growl of various car engines still sound great. But hearing the same police radio 
 chatter in Palmont City that you did in Rockport is just weird. There's some familiar, dramatic 
 music in Carbon as well. Although it's odd how poorly the game uses what is actually an interesting 
 licensed soundtrack of rock, electro, hip-hop, and grime. You just won't hear much of it because 
 the game seems to prefer its own music most of the time.         The missing online component in 
 the PS2 and Xbox versions makes the 360 version an obvious favorite.     

  Need for Speed Carbon on the PlayStation 3 looks roughly comparable to its Xbox 360 counterpart -- which 
 is to say it looks really good, with some heavy-motion blur around the edges of the screen, lots 
 of good-looking bump mapping, and slick lighting and reflection effects. There are a few subtle 
 differences, most of which the PlayStation 3 version comes up on the short end of. The PS3 seems 
 to have more jagged, aliased edges, and a framerate that is a little more stuttery. The soft glow 
 and motion-blur effects do look better on the PS3 version, though there's times that it's laid 
 on a bit too thick.  

  Ultimately, Need for Speed Carbon doesn't make the best use of some of the strengths from Need 
 for Speed Most Wanted. Many of the changes made to the Most Wanted formula seem to be for the sake 
 of change, but it all still just comes back to the solid driving action, which Need for Speed Carbon 
 puts to good use.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (60 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: WWE4lyfe123
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 19, 2009 7:33 pm PT
Review:  Graphics: 8 out of 10
  While the graphics of Carbon are nicely done and the cars along with Palmont are nicely detailed 
 and all. It feels like you're playing another version in the Underground series but this time you 
 have to worry about cops in free roam and EA returned the nighttime unlike the daytime like Most 
 Wanted was. The cut scenes are more polished for this year's Need for Speed, in Most Wanted the 
 cut scenes seemed to be good but a little blurry. While playing this game you should see the nice 
 lighting effects as you roll under a streetlight seeing the light just illuminate over the car.
 
  
  Sound: 7.5 out of 10
  As you play throughout Carbon you'll notice the usual car sounds such as the engine revving, to 
 the NOS, even the squawking of the tires after you may have experienced a spin out. I feel that's 
 the best part of the sound department of Carbon while the music department of the game is where 
 I think it suffers the most in this game. All the Need for Speed games featured a stellar soundtrack 
 to them while Most Wanted had the best if not the best soundtrack featured in any racing game that 
 I have played in almost seven and a half years ago. The music in this year's game doesn't suit 
 this game whatsover and hopefully in the next Need for Speed game will have a better soundtrack 
 for the fans to listen to.
  
  Control: 8 out of 10
  The controls? What can I say about them other than that the controls for this game feel improved 
 for Carbon while at the same time can be frustrating to new players or even season veterans of 
 the Need for Speed franchise. I can say I had a hard time trying to adjust to these controls from 
 playing the previous titles such as Underground 2 or even Most Wanted. Underground 2 seemed to 
 have a better control scheme while EA had tried making each class of car feel almost like the real 
 thing. Some of the muscle cars feel like they don't handle all that well but wait 'til you get 
 them tuned up some then they feel better than they do. The control may not be the best to me but 
 they do fare very decent for this game.
  
  Gameplay: 8.5 out of 10
  Like the previous titles you want to become the best street racer out there in the street world. 
 Just like in Most Wanted you'll have to worry about the cops chasing you throughout the game but 
 while you got some challenges that you can do to help hone in your street racing skills to become 
 the best street racer in the game. For example when you start off you wonder what's with the car 
 from Most Wanted in this game but as you can see you'll have someone after you and wondering what 
 is he still doing after you. Even with Cross wanting to take you back to Rockport Department, you 
 may call one of your rival racers will show up and get Cross off of you. Remember in Most Wanted 
 it was all about you trying to get up to the top, this time you have to battle your way through 
 with other "crews" in order to have control over Palmont, but you can't do it all by yourself. 
 You're going to need some help in the form of a crew to help your journey to help get control of 
 the city, and the customization seems to be like that of Underground 2 making it feel more in depth 
 over Most Wanted.
  
  Replay Value: 8.0 out of 10
  With most racing games you wonder if this game is worth playing again. If you're like me a raceaholic 
 then you may want to give this game another play through but if you're one of those people that 
 just want to get through the game just once that's alright that's how you are. The challenge series 
 is where the replay value earns more of a place at cause like I said it'll help you out in the 
 racing feel of this game and make you a better racer in the game even if you have started career 
 or not at the moment. If you're familiar with EA's NASCAR games then the whole crew thing should 
 be a snap to you and it may get some getting used to but it's worth the getting used to feel.
 
  
  Overall: 8.0 out of 10
  While Carbon is some improvement if not better than Most Wanted but this game is still a solid 
 racing game overall. I believe that this game is worth trying out at least and if you think that 
 this game isn't better than Most Wanted that's your opinion not mine on the game. One of the problems 
 I seem to have is that the cops are more aggressive in this game compared to Most Wanted and like 
 hemorrhoids at most almost wants to make you pull your hair out while playing the game. If you 
 thought that the cops in Most Wanted were bad these cops are far worse in my opinion even when 
 the Feds come in they are more of a hassle than good in this game.
  
  Rent/Buy: I'd say buy, the game is really cheap on the PS3. Compared to the other new NFS (Pro 
 Street & Undercover) Carbon is a lot better than those titles 
::::::

::::::
UserName: II_AzzA_II
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 1, 2009 4:08 am PT
Review:  This is one of those games that will forever live in my collection simply because it's always fun 
 to go back start from scratch and conquer the city all of again. Of course it's a Need For Speed 
 game so it feels extremely arcade like when your racing. You can still bounce off the walls and 
 use them to get around the corners but hey that's not what you buy Need For Speed for. It's not 
 a driving simulator game. It's their to modify your cars, drive fast and drive hard. The modifications 
 that are available are great including the Auto sculpt system which allows you to modify the standard 
 parts to create your own style unlike anyone else's. One annoying part of the game is the system 
 that when you get arrested you gain a X on your car and when you get 3 X's your car gets taken 
 off you and crushed but there is no way to bribe your way out of it or even just reduce your X's 
 by paying cash. The online does has some lag issues which can harper your online play but if your 
 the host your in for a great online game and a lot of fun. It's so much fun even my girlfriend 
 plays it :P In a nut shell it's one of those games that if you see it in your local Game at a discounted 
 rate you definitely want to purchase it. It's fun quirky and has a lot of replay ability. A great 
 game for the genre and a must have for your collection. I suggest grabbing it if you can =] 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PSgeek
Rating: 6
Date: Dec 2, 2008 6:11 pm PT
Review:  Graphics:8.5/10
  Theme:9/10
  Gameplay:5/10
  Overall:6/10
  Let's just talk about the good: 
  -detailed cars
  -nice vinyl editor
  -good cars
  Now the 
 bad:
  -small number of cars
  -poor handling of cars
  -freakn' expensive cars
  -punishing difficulty
  -stupid canyon duels
  -can't ride Audi R8 after you one it offline
 
  -Darius is a witless theif
  -you play an unamed psycho who ran away after winning a race no matter how situational
  Is that 
 enough or am I overdoing it. Carbon may be a Need for Speed fans average, but for me its little 
 more than a reason to tear my hair out. I'm not saying I hate Neead for Speed or that I love it. 
 Carbon disappointed me more than anything so far. Carbon had a good start complete with a girl 
 and nerdy mullet kid, my favorite car was the Ford GT, but the end boss battle, with Darius, was 
 both long and hard but you had to no all of he shortcuts and can't afford to make a mistake. The 
 final canyon battle was even worse, Darius burned through it like childs play while we can barely 
 make a hairpin turn with making a mistake. Plain Bad 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gokunami
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 17, 2008 4:13 pm PT
Review:  Carbon was made for the real street racers with drift ability. If you're not a real driver then 
 take the bus. Ignition. I love the cop chases staged in this game. I thought it was funny how they 
 tried to box me in and send me into a trap. Was impressed that they thought enough of me to put 
 spikes in the road to take my tires out. The crew was a waste to me because I like to do things 
 on my own. After 2-4 cliff races I understood how to drift a whole lot better. The courses were 
 detailed to the point where one wrong move and you could be wiped out. Continue to upgrade your 
 car till it performs they way you like. If you cant keep up with the pace then you might want to 
 consider spending money to enhance your vehicle. I loved the quality of control where you specified 
 what kind of upgrade you wanted. This enabled me to be the kind of driver I am. But I'll see you 
 online to see if you're really ready. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Anayalator408
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 21, 2008 11:23 pm PT
Review:  I myself am a fanatic of the Need For Speed series, so forgive me if i sound a little biased.
 
  
  I have to say, its a really good try, but it just didnt have the intensity of Most Wanted. The 
 police were okay, but if you happen to be in a muscle car at the time of the chase, i certainly 
 hope your skilled in the class because if your trying to drift around a corner at 125 miles an 
 hour, you'll probably end up with about 35 or so and it will take you a while to get back up to 
 speed.
  
  For those, that don't know, Carbon was the sequal to most wanted, but the storyline just didnt 
 quite make you want to get out there as much as most wanted. Even the map itself made the story 
 seem even shorter. besides the cut scenes, ehh the story could have been better.
  
  buying cars was a bit of a responsibility. if you didnt notice, once you beat a race the purse 
 is basically worthless if you try to race again, so if you want to buy a car be sure its a car 
 you extremely need. so if you are on the final canyon race against darius, resist the urge to buy 
 that Lambo.
  
  I would say that besides the good customization and new classes of muscle, tuner and exotics, the 
 highlight of carbon was the online cababillities. Just the feeling of beating some punk in his 
 Shelby GT500 with your perfect Camaro, gives you that sudden rush of supperiority that all race 
 fans want!.
  
  overall, i would say that this game is certainly worth the buy for NFS fans and casual racers.
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: kartik24
Rating: 7.5
Date: Aug 18, 2008 10:12 am PT
Review:  honestly speaking its been the worst in the series
  i've played the whole series of nfs and id rather play nfs 3 than play this
  
  its been quite 
 a disappointment and they haven't put their heart and sole into the game
  
  nothing good from the previous series has been brought forward.
  the modification options have 
 been scaled down but not disastrous though.... but..... there are hardly an interesting tweaks except 
 for auto sculpt.. i got bored of it...
  the difficulty is just good enough and the friendly AI is pretty good.. the story is just okay not 
 very lively and the cop chases have been reduced not much importance give to it here... actually 
 it was one of my favorite features of the most wanted series.... it always pumped up the action...
 
  well the car models are satisfying enough
  
  the only thing that excited me was the boss races and the canyon racing.... its online is good enough 
 i still do play it.. i havent got boed of it must admit..
  
  well i suggest better rent... no don't rent and waste your money... go over to a friends who has 
 it.... its not very impressive so you'll be NAH!!!! forget it ....
  i've wasted my money buying it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mattdadragan
Rating: 7
Date: Apr 2, 2008 1:41 am PT
Review:  Need For Speed: Carbon, great graphics for a great racing series. Is this one as good as the others? 
 It has some good moments but it is just too short. I love this game but it needs some length to 
 it. I was really hoping for a really good racing game, it is but not the best. The graphics are 
 beautiful in this game. I believe they truly worked on the graphics more than anything thing because 
 when you look at this game the graphics just amaze you with how realistic they are. Go out, rent 
 it because it just a rent with the short length of the game but the short gameplay is fun and beautiful. 
 You have a lot of options on editing your ride, you truly can pimp your ride on this game. So it's 
 a def rent. Don't buy, rent!
  
  
  
  A review by me,
  Matt The Dragan
  
  MWCL
  Watch my video reviews at www. youtube. com/mattdadragan 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sony-tha-champ0
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 30, 2008 7:16 am PT
Review:  
  NFS carbon is a very fun game, pretty long and challenging ,one of the best need fopr speed games 
 upp to data .The greatest part of the game is to own the city its great fun , but it will get a 
 bit reppetive. They also returned the cops from MW which should be higher than MW in my oppinion.
 
  
  In Carbon there ar also wingman control, though they ar helpful ,but its still feels a bit of awkward. There 
 ar also Canyon races which ar really fun, and they added one more thing: BOSS RACES or canyon duels 
 . Boss races ar the best part of the game, its fun especciliy when you pass Ur oppnents and take 
 over them (NOTE: u win automaticaly ,and leaves u hab\ngin for a bit ) . The mulitplayer works pretty 
 sharp and pretty cool, and the online EA nation .
  
  Also there ar ALOT of customozation which makes NFS so popular and Fun. cuztomaziotn you can find 
 alot of there. so much that there some things that are not neccarily needded ,but still its pretty 
 rad.
  
  Carbon is defintly worth playing !
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: WonderBread88
Rating: 7
Date: Mar 29, 2008 10:00 pm PT
Review:  Storyline: 7.5 - Great carry-over of story. Typically secuals are not seen, story wise, in the 
 racing genre. Picks up where the other left off only with a bit more drama. 
  
  Graphics/Physics: 8.5 - Graphics live up to everything and more in the racing genre. Carbon has 
 a darker more shadowy touch than its previous game setting. Car damage still doesn't effect gameplay 
 much. Fantastic cut-scenes, very realistic people even with the cartoony touch added.
  
  Sound: 8.5 - Pretty good choice in the soundtrack, a few "ewws" and a few "ahhs". Great car and 
 racing sounds, very realistic.
  
  Environment/Maps: 5 - Maps all seem overly dark or shadowed. Racetracks are way to winding and 
 turny for my relaxed preference.
  
  Game Engine/Scripting: 7 - Police seem like their always on your tail and they don't ever seem 
 to stop. Bosses are indeed much to difficult and ends up being more annoying than rewarding. Car 
 handling and performance is top notch as usual.
  
  Interface: 9 - Need for Speeds typical interface is still around, never fails at being ultra easy 
 to learn and control. Tons of customizable upgrades and tuneups is always a huge plus. Good choice 
 of Makes and models to choose from.
  -----------------------------------------------
  
  Overall: 7 - Night time setting along with overly winding roads doesn't mix well. Tons of tuneups 
 and upgrades makes it enjoyable. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jasope
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 19, 2008 12:29 am PT
Review:  Awesome. I made my Need for Speed debut with Carbon.... what have I been missing. The game provides 
 plenty of options that suit a wide range of driving styles. Plenty of upgrades on offer as you 
 progress through Career mode. Do you spend your hard earned cash making our car faster or do you 
 save your pennies in pursuit of that Tier 3 speed machine? Or do you just blow your cash making 
 your ride look HOT!!! Heaps of different race types, personally struggling with Drift mode but 
 Circuit, Sprint and Speed Trap keep me happy. And of course the all important Canyon races, start 
 by chasing some hoon down a windy cliff face. Miss the corner and you'll disappear into the night 
 sky, time to try again. Make it through the first stage and it's on again.... this time the hunter 
 becomes the hunted. Points are accumulated based on the distance between the two cars. Finish with 
 your points in the black and you might even get their machine.
  
  On top of all this, watch out for the cops. At times you'll find your ahead of the pack being chased 
 by both street racers and the boys in blue. Finish your race, collect your cash and it's time to 
 split. Points are awarded for how many police cars are destroyed in pursuit mode, good fun until 
 the tyre spikes come out. Goodluck.
  
  I've only just touched on the online version but seems pretty sweet with a number of online specific 
 game modes. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sony-PS3-fan89
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 10, 2008 2:37 am PT
Review:  NFS carbon is a very fun game, pretty long and challenging ,one of the best need fopr speed games 
 upp to data .The greatest part of the game is to own the city its great fun , but it will get a 
 bit reppetive. They also returned the cops from MW which should be higher than MW in my oppinion.
 
  
  In Carbon there ar also wingman control though they ar helpful ,but its still feels a bit of awkward. There 
 ar also Canyon races which ar really fun, and they added one more thing: BOSS RACES or canyon duels 
 . Boss races ar the best part of the game, its fun especciliy when you pass Ur oppnents and take 
 over them. The mulitplayer works pretty sharp and pretty cool.
  
  Also there ar ALOT of customozation which makes NFS so popular and Fun. cuztomaziotn you can find 
 alot of there. so much that there some things that are not neccarily needded ,but still its [pretty 
 rad
  
  Carbon should be the greatest NFS game for now, defintly worth playing . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tyg_skye
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 3, 2008 5:39 pm PT
Review:  Need For Speed Carbon is one of the most amazing racing games, It is hardcore you could costumize 
 your own car, it is boring if your friend comes over and plays with you and he doesn't have his 
 own costumized car, which would take you extra time, and gets it boring and wait forever hahaha, stock 
 cars are boring hahah!, and this game has a great story, in my opinion, you should rent this game, 
 online play is Ok... actually... it is great, i like the fact that you would have to actually finish 
 the one player campaign and get a better car, which gets you better car... so the main point is 
 that, you just dont need skillz, but you need to finish the game first , i like how they have improved 
 on the canyon and stuff... great way to fight over territory ,graphics are great by the way, and 
 pick a great variety of designs for your car, the  and 
 everything else it is amazing, I like how they set it up, like you have to go to the car lot to buy 
 cars, yea I know this things happen on the previous ones, but still its great, i like the police 
 where they chase you and stuff, yes they didnt push the ps3 capabilities to the max 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jks22112
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 8, 2008 11:02 pm PT
Review:  The Good:
  +Great graphics
  +Cutscenes are AWESOME, still.
  +Racing is just as GOOD as it always was.
  +A load of real cars with pretty good diversity.
 
  +Lots of customization options
  +Cross is back!
  
  The Bad:
  -No need for cop chases
  -Canyon Duels are straight up annoying
  -Racing is just as good at 
 it ALWAYS was.
  
  The Ugly:
  *Who would build a city like this..
  *I'm glad digital Auto Zone will supply me with all these parts.
  *Cross has conrows.
  *Story 
 is cheesy (which isn't necessarily a bad thing)
  *That weird blue haired japanese girl..
  
  Need for Speed as been around for a WHILE now. The main premise has always remained the same. 
 Street racing, with expensive cars. 
  
  Need for Speed: Carbon leaves where the last game left off. You are escaping the last city, where 
 it is daytime, all the time, and coming back to the old city where it is night time, all the time. 
 The game starts off as just about all story based Need for Speed games started off. You start off 
 with an awesome car, something happens to it, you chose from a small selection of not awesome cars, 
 and start from the bottom. 
  
  Carbon has you taking on a few rival gangs, and taking over their turf, by racing them. You have 
 the typical Sprints, Circuits, Speedtraps, Time Trials, and Drifts. Missing is the Drag Racing 
 and knockout races, which they decided to take out. 
  
  New to Carbon is the ability to have a crew, though only one of them races with you. They can help 
 you out by knocking other cars out of the way, giving you a draft, telling you where shortcuts 
 are, ETC. And if they win, you win too. 
  
  Of course you can buy or win a bunch of different cars, ranging from fords, to toyotas, to Aston 
 Martins. Customize them any way you want, and upgrade them.
  
  As you progress you take on a few bosses, by doing what is called a canyon duel. Canyon duels aren't 
 really races at all. You gain points by following closer behind yoru opponent. the closer you are, 
 the more points you gain. Then your opponent has his/her turn to closely follow you and if their 
 points are higher than yours, you lose, and you have to start from the beginning. A little annoying, 
 and not as exciting as they could be. But certinly memorable. 
  
  Need For Speed: Carbon is a good enough title to warrent a purchase. Plainly, if you like Need 
 for Speed, you'll like this game. It's more of the same. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: char1968
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 29, 2007 11:51 am PT
Review:  ok i got this for x-mas the year of 06 (when it was 60$...) and i played it for a long time then 
 when i'm about 3/4 through the game it gets really old.
  but now its 30$ and by this time id either buy this and another 30$ game or just get pro street. 
 the graphics are pretty good but when your racing Kenji his teeth look nasty! ever herd of a tooth 
 brush? and when you crash into something or hit something the little screen pops up with him laughing 
 like its a very funny movie... whats with that?
  the cars look sweet! i love the rx-7 and when you defeat a boss you get to pick 3 cards and you 
 don't know what they are you can get cash new parts for your car and if your lucky you'll get the 
 bosses car (which are always nice)
  anyways the game is fun for a while but i would suggest getting pro street but if you've never 
 played a 'need for speed' game id start here. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CNS93
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 1, 2007 3:33 pm PT
Review:  This has to be the best NFS. The graphics are awesome and the gameplay is fun. The story kinda 
 sucks, but you don' t have to pay any attention to it anyway cuz the point is to win all the races. 
 Running from the cops is fun especially when you prolong it and stop them in their tracks using 
 the environment. The cop chases are the best in the game. Since you can roam the city you can do 
 almost whatever you want. The races are fun. The boss races are a little harder but its fun when 
 you pass them and keep your lead. With all of the customization and unlockables you can make your 
 car the best. Overall its a great game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PS3_Champ
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 3, 2007 6:35 am PT
Review:  NFS Carbon is the 1st Game on PS3 and it turns out to be a succes .The greatest part of the game 
 is to own the city its great fun , but it will get a bit reppetive. They also returned the cops 
 from MW which should be higher than MW
  
  In Carbon there ar also wingman control though they ar helpful its still feels a bit of awkward. There 
 ar also Canyon races which ar really fun, and they added one more thing: BOSS RACES. Boss races 
 ar the best part of the game, its fun especciliy when you pass Ur oppnents.
  
  Also there ar ALOT of customozation which makes NFS so popular and Fun.
  
  Carbon should be 
 the NFS game for now. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: spicy93
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 9, 2007 10:55 pm PT
Review:  I am a big fan of the need for speed games so i had to go and get need for speed carbon. At first 
 i was really impressed with the graphics which were amazing and really showed that you were moving 
 really fast. Then i saw all the cars and thought wow this game has it all and yes it allmost has 
 it all. The handling of the cars is tricky to begin with but once you get used to it you will have 
 no problem with it at all. All the upgrades you can do to the cars are truly amazing especially 
 the autosculpt option which you can use to create your own body kit. But i was dissapointed to 
 learn there was no drag races in this game which i had really enjoyed in the past few games. The 
 police chases are basically pointless unlike need for speed most wanted were you had to get away 
 from the cops to earn points to advance in the game. For the first time for me i have been dissapointed 
 with need for speed for making the story mode so short even though it has a great plot and story 
 it took me just 6 hours to complete it. But again i have to say that EA has done a fantastic job 
 on this game and i hope that they get the next game absolutely perfect 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AlanHD
Rating: 6.5
Date: Sep 17, 2007 3:45 am PT
Review:  .Need for speed Carbon is a fairly good game, that offers a solid storyline, that is hard to follow 
 if you didnt play most wanted in ps2.
  .Gameplay in Carbon is good, you can also control your crew by introducing a new system to the 
 series, and this makes the game fun. The autosculpt introduction is good, cause lots of customizations 
 are posible.
  .Need for Speed Carbon doesnt look like a next gen game due to week visuals, it is almost the same 
 as the ps2 version, but in high definition.
  .Need for Speed Carbon is very short, and doesnt stand at the level of Need for Speed Underground 
 2, or Need for Speed Underground. (These tittles were far better) .
  .Playing online is good and fun, and the connection is easy and simple.
  .In conclusion, Need 
 for Speed Carbon is a fairly good racer, that could have been better and graphicall strong. If you 
 are looking for a racer which is good online and single player, try it, if you are looking for 
 inmersive and great racer, with a large single player campaign, then avoid it. This tittle could 
 have been better. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: taskergameboy
Rating: 6
Date: Sep 3, 2007 11:03 am PT
Review:  this was a very disappointing game, from playing on carbon on the ps2 i expected the ps3 version 
 to be the same yet more fun, smoother with neat little extras, however the game remained exactly 
 the same! same AI on police pursuits and lack of cars and variety of cars on the streets. however 
 the graphics have had a re-vamp and some of the cg has improved, all in all a good switch to hd 
 and ps3 but not the dramatic change i had anticipated, specially for &pound;50! my advice would 
 be...... wait for the new need for speed! thankyou and bye for now 
::::::

::::::
UserName: umer_fawi
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 8, 2007 10:21 pm PT
Review:  In this installment of NFS ea has made many new things in it like canyon races new type of challenges, 
 very very highly details graphics.. and when talk about its music.. so guys the is very rock than 
 previous versions.. The cars shadows, reflection and car reflection details, road reflection, world 
 details is also very very highly updated ...
  
  GRAPHICS: i give it 10 out of for its graphics.
  .
  SOUND: The sound is also good. so i also 
 give it 10 out of 10 for its amazing music.
  .
  GAMEPLAY: the gameplay is also very superb i also give it 10 out of 10 for its gameplay.
  .
 
  STORY: I think this actually based on its amazing story .. thats why i also give it 10 out of 
 10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LUC_22xbx360
Rating: 8.2
Date: Jul 25, 2007 5:45 pm PT
Review:  Well, here am I reviewing NfS: C.
  
  The graphics are OK, the bad are the graphics. The physics are pointless, the cars are very fat 
 :S..
  
  The sound is very good, the music is very cool. And the sound effects are good.
  
  The gameplay is very funny, the partners in the game are very cool. Just press a button and 
 they are where are you. The on-line is very funny too.
  
  Make your own car is awesome, you can do whatever you want in the car...
  
  So, this game is 
 great if you haven't play the PS2 version.
  
  I recommend this game... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FaiThFul066
Rating: 7.7
Date: Jul 3, 2007 9:25 pm PT
Review:  Need For Speed Carbon is a good game overall. The Good: Really good graphics: people look amazing, 
 cars in high detail, environment is well detailed.
  Unlockables: Loads of cars to unlock, many car parts to unlock
  Driving: Driving in this game 
 is really good the cars handle realistic. You can tune your car the way you want it.
  Customization: Virtually unlimited customization. The Bad: Boss Battles: Some of the boss battles 
 are frustrating and annoying *After game activities: Not much to do after the game all the races 
 are small change $500 and $1000 dollar races and buying a new car takes many of these low price 
 races. This one is important.* 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Cheefyman
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jun 30, 2007 9:21 am PT
Review:  The graphics are not bad because the game came out last year but the graphics could be better. 
 The career mode in this game is very good but it is extremely short. If you are a casual game player 
 you can finish this game in three or four days.
  
  Defending your territory gets extremely annoying because they only give 500 bucks. But other than 
 that the cars and customization is great. My personal favorite is the porsche carrera gt but there 
 are a myriad of cars available to choose from. The colors and the autosculpting features are great 
 it only makes the personalization even better. Winning races is extremely easy, it just gets annoying 
 hear the bosses laugh like wolf and angie. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: terryjameboy
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jun 4, 2007 2:31 pm PT
Review:  I liked it.... except some drifting missions... but overall it was like any other need for speed 
 game.... but after a while you get bored because you doing the same thing over and over again.... it 
 lacks replay value... I wish they could add something different into the game... i like the fact 
 that you can have your own team... i wish you can have more members drive with you instead of just 
 one... that prolly would of made the game more exciting. or better yet co-op mode or something... but 
 i mean i dont know why people get soo dissapointed in these new upcomming games like spider man 
 3... i mean ofcourse its going to be like spider man 2... spider man swings around and help people... what 
 more can they do for another game ?? soo back on subject... this game has some new elements like 
 you being able to make your own car gang and have people help you win races.. but thats about it... 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: luke9113
Rating: 5.6
Date: Jun 1, 2007 3:21 am PT
Review:  I Love this game, But the only thing letting it down is that it is only compatible with 720p, as 
 it is only playable on 720p the graphics are not that impressive, the water is reflective but thats 
 the only amazing thing about the graphics.
  
  The gameplay on the other hand is brilliant, for those who have played need for speed on PS2 or 
 Xbox this will be incredible familiar as the gameplay is exactly the same. Customization is the 
 same also. an online play opetion is available but i would not reccomend it as hardly anybody uses 
 it as i try all the time to try and play somebidy but no rooms are there
  
  So overall i vote this game 'a good game' but not one for the hardcore gamers hoing for a highly 
 detailed gaming experience
  I would reccomend something like Ridge racer for those hard core gamers out there. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ice-vanilla
Rating: 7.4
Date: May 23, 2007 12:55 am PT
Review:  Ive always been a fan of the Need for Speed series of games and I had a lot of expectations for 
 carbon. NFS has always been one of my favorite games in the racing genre. Carbon though is just 
 a fairly good game despite its many new features. The new Autosculpt feature is god. It was great 
 the way it allowed you to create your very own body kit, rims, spoiler, hoods etc. Satisfying the 
 inner car designer in you!!! Though the canyon races were exciting they were frustrating at the 
 same time!! After completing the first round, which was quite hard when it came to the final bosses, 
 you progress to the next round. BUT if you lose this round you start all over again from round 
 one. This was so frustrating when it came to beating the final boss Darius. Getting past round 
 one on your first try would be a miracle!! Crew members were a reallycool addition to the series, 
 but despite the fact that they were helpful most of the time they tend to hinder your progress 
 at times. The irony was that the person blocking your way was none other than your own crews blocker!!! 
 However the A. I displayed by the other racers is impressive as theyve always been in fact they 
 are a tad better than Most Wanted. Police chases were extremely fun .They were my favorite part 
 in the game To be honest, I expected more from this game. Autosculpting, canyon races and crew 
 mebers were really cool features. But somehow the game just left you wanting more. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: UTIxxx50
Rating: 7.9
Date: May 20, 2007 6:02 am PT
Review:  Need for Speed Carbon is a good game but it also has some flaws. One of the new features in the 
 game are wingmen. You can have four of them and you can use one at a time. There are three types 
 of wingmen: blockers, drafters and scouts. Sometimes they are useful but there are times that they 
 are useless. You'll probably bump into them sometimes while you're playing the game. Another addition 
 to the game is the autosculpt. But sometimes it's just a waste of time because you can buy some 
 of the shapes you'll want to make in the aftermarket section. And there's the canyon duels. They're 
 boring and very frustrating. The drift races are also frustrating but hopefully, you can finish the 
 carreer mode without finishing all of them. Need for Speed Carbon has flaws but there are also good 
 things you can find in the game like the solid racing, the numerous choices when it comes to customizing, online 
 play that you can only find in the ps3 and xbox 360 versions, the amount of race types and the amount 
 of the things to unlock. Even if this game has some flaws, Need for Speed Carbon is still a good 
 game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: killer_cop
Rating: 4
Date: May 10, 2007 4:45 pm PT
Review:  Need For Speed: Carbon was the first game I got for my PS3. I was fan of Need For Speed: Most Wanted, 
 so I thought this might be good also. But I was deadly wrong. This game really... Sucks. The game 
 is unfinished, unbalanced and not properly written.
  
  The gameplay is very linear, the missions is the same all the time, or at least, that's how it 
 feels. The new wingman feature is also a flop, and irritating to listen to, but luckily you can 
 race without them. The police chasing is very lame, you easily get away from them, when they finally 
 is after you. I've completed the game, and I havn't got busted one single time.
  
  The race missions are many, but don't let that fool you. I completed the game in 2 days, or approximately 
 12 hours. And the boss's is even more lame than ever, and there are only 4 of them. The canyon 
 races is fair, but still unfinished.
  
  You can customize your car in every way you want, even sculpt some parts, which works okay, and 
 add a unique look to your ride. The FMV's are really boring, they lead you through the story which 
 is something about a bag that was important, then he police came and the bag got switched and... 
 Something like that, never cared about it, and you don't even get to know how it all ended. And 
 besides, everyone is wearing the same dull futuristic clothing, it's so ugly!
  
  Overall, an unfinished game, quickly completed, online play is laggy and confusing and lame. Go 
 buy Need For Speed: Most Wanted instead, it's much better and longer. Or Motorstorm. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jussimple
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 24, 2007 2:50 am PT
Review:  The game is a visually stunning display of texture mapping and motin capturing animation. It does 
 a great job at exhibiting the PS3's graphical power but it has a couple flaws;
  
  1. The save function was an issue for me. I'm accustom to saving seperate files without over writing 
 existing files so as to be able to play around with different avenues of approach to completing 
 the game. This preserves the integrity of the control file just in case what I decided to do wasn't 
 the smarted choice. The game will not allow you to do this and forces you to save over your file 
 or continue without saving. Not a big problem for some but for me it didn't allow me to use trial 
 and error tactics to finish the game.
  
  2. Online mode is fine and all but I would have liked to have seen a clan function where you could 
 build your own crews and take over zones or areas in a free roaming environment. A pink slip function 
 would be great in order to add some risk to online racing inwhich the car you created could be 
 won by another racer.
  
  All in all the detail of the streets and interactivity of the environments is great. I especially 
 love the AI of the police chases. I spent hours just antagonizing the police and had alot of Smokey 
 and the Bandit moments. This was actually my favorite part of the game. I'm a fan of the series 
 and this addition is worth owning. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vegaking
Rating: 5.3
Date: Apr 7, 2007 10:01 am PT
Review:  The graphics are pretty good. I like that they used R2 and L2 buttons for driving because you feel 
 you have control over the car. The series is losing the spark which NFSU and NFSU2 had. It is pretty 
 quick to find an online race which is good. Autosculpt is a nice feature though I found the rims 
 that the game provided as you progressed are better that what you could autosculopt. Drifting can 
 be hard as hell it will probaly take you more than 2 hours of nonstopdrifting to figure i still 
 have not got the hang of it. The canyon races are mediocre but you can drive off the rode and lose 
 the race which i feel is crappy because nothing happens to your car as you fall off the mountain 
 the game just stops and tells you you have lost, it does not fit in. Once again the BMW is the 
 last car of the and there are no cheats for to get. I personally think the highlight of this game 
 is how superb the car engines sound every upgrade makes a difference. For those of you like me 
 who want to see drag racing back the way it was in the underground series do not look here. E. A 
 needs to go back and make a underground three and bring back drag racing because ten people drag 
 racing online is better than ten people drifting online. After a week this game might just get 
 boring for as it did for me i stopped playin at 42%. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: frederikfrey
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 28, 2007 2:28 pm PT
Review:  One of the first things I noticed about this game was the graphics, even at 720p it dosen't look 
 awesome. Don't get me wrong they are good, but not great. Some of the lighting and the asphalt 
 looks really nice, but there are still some rough edges around the windows of the cars and in other 
 places. The Career mode isen't that long, which actually is a good thing. You don't do the same 
 races over and over again, and you really feel like you are moving forward. Another great thing 
 is the sound. I played it in Digital Surround and the roars from the engines was just amazing. 
 If you've played a NFS game before you'll feel right at home, this game is fairly the same as almost 
 all of the previous NFS games in the last 3-4 years. This dosen't mean that this isen't a good 
 game, full of fun racing, both off- and on-line
  
  Pluses:
  
  -Great Sound
  
  -Suitable Length
  
  -Auto Sculpt
  
  -Plain Fun Racing
  
  -Less Focus On The Police
 
  
  Minuses:
  
  -Only Fair Graphics
  
  -Not That Many Cars
  
  -Feels Like Other NFS Games
  
  -Wingman Feature Not Optimal
  
  -You Can Get Tired Of The 
 Canyon Boss Battles 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TAMKFan
Rating: 9.1
Date: Mar 21, 2007 1:40 am PT
Review:  With the PS3 I borrowed not too long ago, this was one of the games I got to play on it. I must 
 say that it's a great one.
  
  The gameplay is a lot like the gameplay found in Need for Speed: Most Wanted. The races, cops chases 
 and everything are as fun as ever. This time, you can pick a partner. That means if your partner 
 wins, you win. One thing I don't like is those drifting races. I feel that they're boring and everything. 
 The maps and everything is a little different from Most Wanted. Thankfully, those stupid drag races 
 from the last game are gone.
  
  The graphics are truly stunning! The cars all look so shiny and nice. Everything else from people 
 to buildings all look so great too. And let's not forget the air those cars leave behind. So realistic.
 
  
  I don't really have much to say about this game. It's just a great game. If you like racing games, 
 this is one game that you need to checkout. It's very cool. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: foxtrot89
Rating: 8.2
Date: Feb 26, 2007 4:45 pm PT
Review:  NEED FOR SPEED CARBON Well here I am again, reviewing yet another sport-game and/or sequel. However, 
 plenty has changed in this underground, street-racing franchise.
  
  Gameplay:
  This is a game that follows the style of racing that many racing games have brought on. Heres 
 whats new:
  &middot; Canyon Races/Boss Duels (racing in a canyon with unstable walls that if you crash into 
 one, you fall and lose) .
  &middot; Speedbreaker is back.
  &middot; Crew Members (you can bring a wingman into some of the races, who have their own functions 
 explained in the beginning of the game and can win races for you) .
  &middot; 3 kinds of cars with their own strengths and weaknesses (Muscle, Tuner, and Exotic) .
 
  &middot; Territory System (details are explained in game)
  &middot; Pursuits are also back.
  &middot; There are over 30 cars with over 100s of car customization 
 options, including paint, vinyl, performance parts, hoods, rims, spoilers and full body kits.
 
  &middot; Also, EA&Ograve; Autosculpt mode is here. Customize just about every aspect of body kits 
 and visual upgrades.
  &middot; Reward Cards are also new. By doing things in career and challenge series, you unlock 
 performance and visual updates and new cars.
  Story:
  The game picks up where Most Wanted left off. You are driving on the canyon escaping from Bounty 
 Hunter (not cop) Cross. After you reach the bottom, you meet up with Darius and he gets Cross away 
 from you. Then your car gets totaled on the way home. You meet up with some friends and you pick 
 a new car. Then the game starts.
  
  Multiplayer:
  Offline: 2 player races include every type of race in career mode.
  Online: Races for up to 8 
 people online with 2 exclusive online race modes. Also, the online component has an XP ranking 
 system.
  
  Graphic and Sound quality:
  The soundtrack features rap, rock and EA has composed custom music (most of the music in the game 
 is composed) , the cars are detailed and other graphics are smooth, shiny and the people look real. 
 The game also supports 720p HD video output.
  
  Overall:
  The game is a street racing game with lots of new stuff and features. It also is kinda more of 
 the same though.
  Its a good game with solid online though. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wireman32
Rating: 8.2
Date: Feb 23, 2007 11:47 am PT
Review:  Let me just say this one thing before I get started, Most Wanted was a close to perfect racing 
 game. The graphics weren't awesome and the abrupt ending sucked (No Video??) but the game was flat 
 out fun
  
  That said, Carbon takes on a completely different persona. It's always night and you're entire 
 goal is to gain territory. I don't mind that, it's a different game, so some things will change, 
 but right away I see things I dislike. You remember the green car, the doughnut shop, the tv van? 
 They are all back and didn't bring any friends with them. Make a few different cars to drive around, 
 change the colors at least! Nitro was my favorite thing in Most wanted, but it has been downplayed 
 and doesn't give the same feel of motion-blur. Instead of feeling like you're going fast, more 
 flames come from the exhaust- which is melodramatic. The cars handled a little differently this 
 time, but I think it is an improvement. They feel more like driving a real car, which is nice. 
 Once you get them tuned up, you'll be turning and burning again.
  
  What is missing the most is the rivalry. There are people to beat, but they aren't intimidating 
 or jerks like razor was. There is absolutely no progression like before- the goals like destroying 
 cop cars, getting speeding tickets, before you have to race the bosses, so it takes some fun away. 
 The canyon races are tough if you don't have a decent car. I used the SLR and still had to race 
 the last guy (... what's his name?) quite a few times before I figured out how to beat him. The 
 bosses are tough, they seem to be able to turn corners with ease, while you fly off the edge of 
 a cliff. What's worse is having to re-race them if you've already smoked them once. I suppose they 
 did this to get you more familiar with the course, but it is a bit aggravating.
  
  Cars are hard to come by, there isn't a lot of choice out there until you've practically beaten 
 the whole game. Most wanted you slowly moved up, and the progression from crappy car to awesome 
 just seemed to make more sense. Upgrading is kind of silly, and pre-race/in-race Perfomance Tuning 
 is gone!! aaah, I hate having to go back to the shop just to tune for a different race. (which 
 means really having to plan for the final races where you race 5 in a row) The new chevy camaro 
 is sweet. I drive it just to hear the engine- A+ on that little addition (too bad you can't get 
 it in career) The other dissapointment is unlocking upgrades through winning races. Most wanted 
 just seemed to have the whole system down better- which made it more fun.
  
  Cop chases are very easy, and unless you want to set records, there is no reason to get into them. 
 Drifting is a cool feature, but nothing more than something extra to do. The core gameplay is fun, 
 but the objectives don't allow you to get into the game, there aren't enough bosses, and not enough 
 logical progression to get the cars needed to beat them. Challenge series would be better if they 
 actually had good cars to unlock- most of the series is for unlocking parts.....
  
  Graphics are much improved, but as said before, same models are being used. Environments are awesome, 
 lots of good work there.
  
  Background Music is okay, cars and squealing sound great.
  
  I wouldn't buy this game for more than 20 bucks.- just not enough there yet.
  
  While the 
 game has additions, I would rather play most wanted. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: psychofoo007
Rating: 9.3
Date: Feb 16, 2007 9:28 am PT
Review:  This game is very similar to the last installment Need for Speed: Most wanted. This game however 
 does add some exciting new mechanics to truly make it a great game.
  
  Controls:
  Umm... Basic driving mechanics. R2 is your gas pedal and L2 being your brake. You steer with the 
 left thumb stick. Motion sensing would have been nice but I played the Wii version and the motion 
 sensing didn't work very well. Anyways ANY racering game players sould recognize the control scheme.
 
  
  Gameplay:
  This is basically like Need for Speed: Most wanted. You race people around the tracks to win. All 
 the basic race styles are here: circuit, sprint, Check point, etc. But you basic goal is to win 
 all the territory of Palmont City. You battle (race) other gangs to win all the territory and put 
 to shame the leader. The biggest edition to this game is definately the addition of wingmen. You 
 can hire people to do jobs during races. They can scout shortcut, or block cars , or even become 
 drafters to help you get some extra speed.
  
  Graphics:
  
  WOW!! the graphics are truly and amazing achievement. The cars look like street bullies and the 
 night time life (a la underground) look outstanding. This is easily the strongest part of the game. 
 Character models are just like in Most wanted. Real people play the characters It looks like they're 
 real people while being in a game.
  
  All in all this is an excellent edition to the franchise. Though it takes alot form Most wanted 
 that's good because that game was very successful. Carbon adds plenty of stuff to make it an independant 
 game. I highly recommend it to anyone whoi has a PS3. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jasonfinger
Rating: 8.8
Date: Feb 14, 2007 9:04 am PT
Review:  I couldn't wait for this game to come out! I popped it in and I was sucked in! (Though, I didn't 
 know if I was playing Fast and Furious: Tokyo Drift or not) I was impressed with this game. People 
 stomp on this game and it really is a fantastic game. The cars are great! There are 3 series: Tuner, 
 Exotic and my favorite MUSCLE!!! Upgrades are outstanding, you can do endless things to your cars 
 if your into that kind of stuff!!! (I am!) . The driving is great too! It looks like Need for Speed 
 Underground the arcade version. Its dark and your headlights are shining on the road ahead making 
 a pretty good impression on the graphics part! The drifting can be complicated but real! I actually 
 downshift and pop the E-brake and bingo i'm drifting!!!! Took me FOREVER!!!!!, but I finally got 
 the hang of it! The story is pretty cool, you got Cross again. The sound is INCREDIBLE!!!!! Every 
 motor sounds different and unbelievably real!!!!! One of the best parts of the game is the rev 
 of the engines. Money is hard to come by in the game so you have to spend it wisely, no going back 
 and doing that 1 race a millions times. You only get $500 for a repeat in ANY race!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tadurham
Rating: 8.3
Date: Feb 13, 2007 7:28 am PT
Review:  First, the graphics could be better for this game. I hope that the next installment comes in 1080 
 resolution. I am impressed with the graphics overall, but the framerate does lag and the game has 
 frozen on me a couple of times. I can tell that it was a rush to release this game on time for 
 the PS3's release. Second, the gameplay is very fun. I do not own any other NFS game, so everything 
 to me in the game was new and different. I would agree with the other reviewers though that, based 
 on looking into other games in the NFS series, this game offers little that the other titles do 
 not already. I personally dislike the canyon races, which are new to this title. The cop pursuits 
 are my favorite element to the game and I actually wish there was more emphasis on this than owning 
 particular zones by winning events. Speedtraps are my favorite event... after all, this is need 
 for SPEED. Overall, if you are a NFS fanatic, you will want this. If you are a casual gamer who 
 might have one other NFS title already, you may want to wait for the next installment or different 
 title (for example, Ridge Racer) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: caseypayne69
Rating: 7.3
Date: Feb 11, 2007 3:47 pm PT
Review:  I purchased this game to keep up with the story from Most Wanted. Little did I know that it would 
 suck more then its last installment to the series with my biggest complaint of the graphics. Lets 
 start with the good.
  
  It carries all similiar traits of racing physics (sorta) from NFS MW, but the hit detection of 
 cars seams way off. And since when do I hit a car head on and just keep going. I've hit a car head 
 on in my Mustang GT three years ago and you don't keep on running i'll tell ya that. The partner 
 feature is nice were you can call your buddy car to draft with you for speed, wreck other cars, 
 and find short cuts. This was nice and made races way to easy. The music was fun to listen to with 
 the tempo, but personally Rap doesn't go good with racing. The game needs alot more metal and rock 
 and roll. I can't race while hearing the beat, at the club, or homies gettin down with hoes. The 
 gear changing style using the analog is different and seams a bit easier but now I find my self 
 over reving more which sucks. All in all this is all great stuff. Now for the bad.
  
  Graphics: Can you say rush job or what? It appears no work was done to smooth out the frame rate 
 and the jaggie lines on the cars drives me nuts. You can have the camera in 3rd person down a busy 
 street on a long stretch and the buildings will skip toward you. Complete and utter trash, and 
 I know the PS3 can handle it so no blame on Sony. But EA wake up next time in the testing department. 
 Speaking of the Jaggie lines, its AWEFUL! My last version looked smoother. WHats up with that? 
 Is it because I'm not running the game on 720p? I mean it is utterly insanely sad looking. Nice 
 clean paint with reflections bordered by jagges. I should have gave graphics a 2. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hyofinkl
Rating: 6.7
Date: Feb 10, 2007 7:39 pm PT
Review:  I actually got this game because I wanted another game to play after beating R: FOM numerous times 
 and waiting for VF5 coming on 2/20. After playing it for a few days or so, I regret that decision. 
 Although Carbon does have nice customization features and a lot of cars to choose from, the gameplay 
 gets way too repetitive. The career mode is extremely repetitive. In the beginning stages of career 
 mode until probably the last parts, the races are too easy. The final few races are pretty challenging 
 but they're not that fun either, it's just the same thing over again. The game does have pretty 
 nice online modes though. Another good feature in the game worth mentioning is the cop chases, 
 it's pretty amusing. Other than that, I don't recommend this game to anyone other than fans of 
 driving simulations or the NFS series. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NooBAFIED
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 19, 2007 9:18 am PT
Review:  One of the best Car Racing Games! Has everything you like and need, Many features. Its a Fun and 
 Simple Game. If you like car Games i suggest you get this one no regrets. FUN NON-STOP. Cars are 
 so sexy haha. Nice video clips in it.
  If you dont have it GET IT if you have it add me ps3 id: InvisibleShadow, GREAT TUNER! favorite 
 car is LAMBORGHINI GALLARDO but theres so many nice cars and types AHH sick game, intense music 
 a MUST GET fot you car players!
  I just got it recently but im pretty good so watch out. NFS-CARBON ROCKS 
::::::

::::::
UserName: grand17
Rating: 8.3
Date: Feb 7, 2007 5:16 pm PT
Review:  this game was pretty cool. hard to say if its an improvement over the last one. the online gameplay 
 is a lot of fun but so far there arent too many people online. i am yet to see a full game of 8 
 players. come to think of it, the online mode might be the only addition since the last installment. 
 they took out the police helicopters which should make getting away from the cops easier. the career 
 mode is very very short, it took me exactly 7 days to 100% the career and i seriously didnt play 
 THAT much. being able to fully customize cars is fun. the online mode could use some tweaking and 
 the career should be doubled in length but other then that its a good game. maybe wait until you 
 find it on sale somewhere but ps3 doesnt have many options so thats why i bought it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: the_gunner91
Rating: 7.3
Date: Jan 31, 2007 1:25 pm PT
Review:  the game is not bad but still it is like the same story and style the way that these people were 
 taking that the game this and the game that it is not all the it is like the same thing so dont 
 get so hype like i did but still i like the canyon race and the drift that was like the only thing 
 i liked. but still i think they messed up the game kind of by taking out th drag race. that was 
 like the only reason i liked that game but still the game was not so new it was like the same game 
 but different story. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jake44
Rating: 6.8
Date: Jan 30, 2007 1:54 pm PT
Review:  This is a decent game, but lacks new content. It's not as good as Most Wanted and it's a lot shorter. 
 Most wanted had you doing races and made the cops have a point by getting bounty. Carbon took the 
 bounty away and didn't replace it with anything, making the cops pointless. To top it off, Carbon 
 is even shorter than Most Wanted. The graphics aren't very impressive either. You think they would 
 want to show off the graphics with the PS3, but they didn't even make an effort. Save your money 
 and wait for Carbon's prices to lower before purchasing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RyanDude13
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 20, 2007 6:56 pm PT
Review:  The first thing you notice is how the game is the exact same as the PS2 version, not that that's 
 bad or anything, just kinda boring. But unlike the PS2 the environments and lighting has been improved 
 and the newer controls feel more relaxed. The car graphics are slightly improved but the decals 
 look way better. Gameplay is still smooth as before in all modes. It seems to be a strong game. 
 The main reason this game is so fun is just getting cars. You work hard for cars and parts and 
 once you've assembled an arsenal of your favourite cars, tonnes to choose from by the way, and 
 customized them how you like em it feels great to race and sometimes just cruise. You pick to be 
 one of three classes - tuner, muscle, exotic - which influences which cars you unlock and also 
 makes your cars feel more like your own cars. Another cool part is the wingman. This driver will 
 do whatever you want them to, some find shortcuts, some speed you up and some ram other cars, and 
 all of these different drivers you come across have bonuses in the garage too. NFS Carbon is a 
 fun game that you'll probly find yourself sucked in by when you play it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GEARSpartan0415
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jan 10, 2007 4:29 am PT
Review:  i didnt like most wanted at all last year so I was expecting a lot out of this game, i liked the 
 new story, instead of the stupid blacklist last year, and it was cool how you would take over territory 
 and the canyon races are awesome, sometimes there hard, but they are awesome, i would suggest using 
 a tuner and not a muscle because i had a muscle and i had some trouble with it then i bought a 
 tuner and i destroyed my opponent, this game is the best in the series and I hope they can improve 
 it more next year 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Melt_ME
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jan 9, 2007 7:00 am PT
Review:  i love the great additions on the game which gives the player a great experience,, it brings u 
 to the real live action ! actuly this game makes me feel like satisfied ... and the new additions 
 are quite amazing.. u can feel feel the heat of the street ,,, and my problem is that i got really 
 into it and when play it my hole works stops for the game ! its more advanced than the previous 
 release... and its really a piece of work i love it.. the best racing game game ever !!! can't wait 
 t see what the next releases looks like but im sure that it will be the hottest.... btw i'v been 
 playing the NFS series since it was on the ps1!!! im a huge fan of it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Taylo234
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jan 5, 2007 10:20 pm PT
Review:  And that one thing, I dont know! Its a great storyline but it seems like the others. Anyway this 
 game has magnificent graphics but some of the people dont look as well as others but, other than 
 that great game play. But still disappointed that there is not tilt. It would be better w/ but 
 w/o isn't that bad either. Back to basics, the cars have amazing highly improved graphics as well 
 as people, cop cars, background textures, and the street. Although there are some glitches. Sometimes 
 while you are driving your car will just, stop. It gets annoying but only happened about twice. 
 Anyway this game is good in several ways. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ps3king1
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jan 1, 2007 11:08 pm PT
Review:  wow the graphics are awsome i mean like wow!!! and the sound ouch!!! its awsome i love it but one 
 thing i hate about this game is the anyoing crew and the frustration level the crew espacialy yumi 
 is very anyoining in races saying stupid words like ooo sorry i missed you in the shortcut in a 
 anyoining japaneese accient way and when you get infront of her shes like ooo your going down but 
 shes my crew she wins i win i win she wins anyways this game is great ooo the other thing those 
 canyon races piss me off like the last one agianst darius theres like a million turnes,. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wazzdan
Rating: 8.3
Date: Jan 1, 2007 2:03 am PT
Review:  Need For Speed Carbon for the PS3 is just another fun installment in the NFS series and while it 
 may do a couple nice new things its still solid game that doesn't deliver much new in total. This 
 doesn't mean it isn't good for it is actually fantastic with with the nice addition of muscle cars 
 and a very cool autosculpt feature that could have been a little more flushed out but is still 
 a very nice addition. One of the other nice features is that the multiplayer is improved vastly 
 compared to that of NFS Most Wanted but instead of the same great cop chases in Most Wanted you 
 get a more towned down less intense cop chase experience. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: butterlou
Rating: 8.2
Date: Dec 29, 2006 4:28 am PT
Review:  Need for Speed never really disappoints. I am only a smidgen through the game but I can tell that 
 this installment is almost as good as Hot Pursuit 2. I am not sure if there are day time races 
 but for now I don't even care. The controls are pretty fluid. The R2 trigger as the gas actually 
 feels good and doesn't cramp up your hand too badly. (depending on how long you play) The game 
 of course is as with all street racer games; cheesy storyline and you must race your way through 
 the game to become the ultimate racer. The cars look great; only I wish I could change my liscense 
 plate. Also, if the club logo could actually be placed on my crew then that would be cool as well. 
 This game is solid and a cool title for the PS3. $67 bones worth? Well, wait a little if you can 
 but it is definetly worth playing. Owning too down the line if you don't want to drop that much 
 cash on a racer. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: adamVH1984
Rating: 8.3
Date: Jan 7, 2007 12:28 pm PT
Review:  NFS: Carbon is the lastest installment in the popular series. It has some new features that, in 
 my opinion, add to the game. The draw back though, is that they made the game relatively short. 
 It still has a decent amount to do though.
  
  Gameplay-The campaign is a huge open city. The only problem with it is that there isn't much in 
 it. It is divided into 4 sections. Each of them are run by either exotics, muscles, tuners, or 
 a mixture of them all. Muscle cars are pretty fast, but they have loose handling. Exotics (my personal 
 favorite) are an all around car with solid stats in everything. Tuners have sharp turning, but 
 their cars suck in comparison. Once you beat all of the races in each of the major sections, you 
 have to fight the boss. They aren't too terribly hard, but you need your car upgraded to stand 
 a chance. You race them in canyons, which is very fun. The goal is to outrun your opponents car. 
 The farther away you are, the better, but there is a second part where you need to chase them. 
 For that, you need to get as close as possible. Other race modes include ones that have been in 
 the previous NFS: checkpoint, circut, sprint, drift and some others. The canyon races are brand 
 new. You manage everything in campaign at your safe house. There you can customize your car. The 
 customization isn't as deep as it has been but it balances that out by the new autosculpt feature 
 which is very fun to use. There are crew members in this game, which are brand new. There are three 
 types of members: Drafters, scouts, and blockers. They are pretty fun to use and very useful. I 
 like the new crew feature, and I hope they keep it for later installments. There are cops in this 
 one. They sometimes chase you while you race but mostly when you are just driving around. They 
 are moderately hard to outrun, but they're easy to kill. There is a story in the game, but you 
 will probably forget about it. The acting is pretty aweful in the cutscenes. Now for the online. 
 The online is fun, but there are only two game modes, and they both involve cops. This was a dissappointment. 
 You probably won't spend that much time in it also, since there aren't a lot of people on. Other 
 than that the game is a lot of fun. My only complaint with the gameplay is they don't incorporate 
 the city enough since you can just jump to races and there aren't a lot of secrets.
  
  Graphics-There are pretty much two kinds of graphics. The SD and HD. This game looks AWEFUL in 
 SD. It truly looks worse than NFSU2. The problem with it is that the lines are so jagged and there 
 are lots of pixels. What makes it worse is that you can't adjust the video at all. This is the 
 only game that I have that looks bad in SD. I have 3 other games. But I have heard that it looks 
 good in HD so I will give the graphics a solid 7. The lighting is great even in SD. The trees light 
 up has your headlights shine at them. There are lots of reflections off of your car too. The motion 
 blur is ok. Sound-The sound effects are top notch in this game. The engines sound incredible and 
 the music fits the game well, although it can get a little annoying. The only complaint I have 
 with the sound is the voice acting is pretty bad in the cutscenes. During the races it is actually 
 pretty good though. Value-The campaign length is the biggest downer. It is relatively short compared 
 to other NFS games. But you can still easily spend 20 hours on it. Plus you can replay it again 
 with different cars. The online won't last long though because of its limited use. There is split-screen 
 which is nice. Last but not least there is a challenge mode. Overall, this might be a buyer, but 
 at least a renter. It all depends on how much have liked these games.
  
  There are a lot of cool new things that have been added in Carbon. I think just about everyone 
 should be kept. With a little better online and some added length, this game could have been awesome. 
 It still didn't beat my liking of Underground 2 though. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jovocop_25
Rating: 8.4
Date: Dec 26, 2006 11:48 pm PT
Review:  Need for Speed Carbon is a great ps3 start off and has many fun things to do. Carbon has shown 
 off good sound and graphics for the ps3. This game has amazing sound with the car and other cars 
 near you and good quality music selection. The graphics are great up close especially when it shows 
 people, i had a hard time telling if they were real or not. The in game graphics (driving) are 
 good but can get a bit sloppy. The roads are sometimes unclear and it gets hard to see if you have 
 to turn or not. The gameplay i think is very good. There is online feature which is very good. 
 The career mode i think is excellent , I really like the free roam because you can go where you 
 want to go, you can challenge or get challenged to race and you can run from the cops which is 
 my favourite. The actual races, that if you win you make it your territory, are good but ther is 
 not much use of the cops. This game is definitly worth checking out and will not dissapoint you. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: solidsnakechamp
Rating: 8.4
Date: Dec 23, 2006 3:54 pm PT
Review:  this game is fun, i thought since the review was really low, it was gonna suck, but its not bad 
 at ll, the cutscenes are wat blew me away. i mean it seems so real, when they have the characters 
 in real life in the game it makes this game really show its power. another thing is how the game 
 goes. everythin is so graphical and everythin is so fast pace to. but for me the best thing is 
 the police chases. they are so cool. it feels so real and the song makes it een better. i personally 
 havent played most wanted so i know its almost the same thing from wat i heard, but this game is 
 the best racing game for the ps3 for me and its worth checking out 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nd4spdr
Rating: 9.3
Date: Dec 21, 2006 10:35 pm PT
Review:  I would have given it a 10 except it has the absolute worst online multiplayer of any game. Well, 
 actually it is a tad better than NFS Most Wanted. EA has the best multiplayer game of all time 
 in BF2 so why is Carbon's online play so terrible? The worst part is a countdaown to the race that 
 you can't stop so you have a limited time to pick your track and car which is very frustrating. 
 However, the singleplay and splt-screen action is very fun and intense which I have come to enjoy 
 since the very first NFS. If you are a fan of this series and don't care about the online play 
 much then you won't be disapointed with NFS: C. I would love for EA to go back to the old style 
 of NFS with only exotics and day and night races instead of only night. Where's the Bugatti or 
 Zonda or most of all what happened to Ferrari??!?! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Stammalamma
Rating: 8.8
Date: Dec 21, 2006 12:00 pm PT
Review:  All of the Need for Speed games have been pretty basic and constant throughout this long running 
 series. Cops have come and gone, tuners or exotics, neon lights or broad daylight, Need for Speed 
 has always tried to approve upon and differ from its predecessors. However, for the first time, 
 Need for Speed truly shines in its innovation. Nothing really has changed about the cops, but everything 
 else is perfect. The atmosphere of the area is perfect creating the best street-race effect. And 
 the customization is just right. Not way too ridiculously much like underground 2, the balance 
 of custom options is perfect, to the point where its not a million choices or billions of combinations, 
 YOU make it or just pick from a few. Also, the new car selections; rather than a focus on one type 
 of car, you can pick from an assortment of cars among tuners, muscles, and exotics. Also, you race 
 with teammates of your choice. Pick between a member who sling-shots you, someone who finds all 
 of the shortcuts, and the guy who goes and messes other people up. Its perfect, its fun. And the 
 canyon races are just awesome. Such a switch from the city. Aside from the abnormally crappy soundtrack 
 in the city, canyon races feature heart-pounding African-style congas and other instruments to 
 create the dangerous mood. Play it. It's immersive fun, and innovative. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: darkbengamer
Rating: 7.3
Date: Dec 16, 2006 4:24 am PT
Review:  When I first got Carbon I thought wow! this is fantastic but then you see your game completion 
 going up rapidly. This game is very very short. The plot is interesting and at times quite funny 
 but the ending is extremely dissapointing unlike the fantastic most wanted finish with the big 
 jump!
  
  The car selection is good but is presented poorly. With the tier system. There are 3 tiers which 
 you unlock thorugh the game. But you will only ever use 1 car from each tier. And it is unrealistic 
 that a Nissan 350Z is as good (in the game) as a Porsche Carrera GT or a Mercedes Mclaren SLR.
 
  
  The city is big but again poorely presented as well. There are very few interesting jumps no ring 
 road and unlocked in massive chunks when you beat a boss. However what is really good are the Pursuit 
 Breakers. returning from Most Wanted, the idea being to drop various objects on the cops or your 
 opponents. You can drop numerous hilarious things such as giant cement, Ice Cream Cones and donuts. 
 The cops return pretty much the same as well. The same cars and heat levels etc. The main differences 
 are the helicopter are no longer around and you can only build bounty by smashing cop cars. These 
 are 2 stupid changes. But other than that the cop chases are great fun and challenging at times 
 to.
  
  The best thing in carbon though is the graphics. You can see every crack in the road every dent 
 in the car and every wrinkle in the characters faces. And Im told the Xbox 360 and PS3 versions 
 are even better! And this really makes the Canyon Races very tense with canyon music and little 
 light they are fantastic. Sadly though there is a lack of canyon races. Only 6 0r 7 at most throughout 
 the entire career mode and then 3 more in he challenge series. They are a fantastic edition and 
 with more this game could match up to Most Wanted or other great racing games. But it doesnt because 
 its way to short crudely presented, easy, a lack of the games best features and a very dissapointing 
 ending. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GranTurism16
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 13, 2006 7:18 pm PT
Review:  This is total BS.... who ever writtes the reviews for any Sony Console in gamespot is got a serious 
 problem.... I get feedback from customers at Blockbuster...... I got two customers with really nice 
 HOME ENTERTAIMENT SYSTEMS........ Plasma 52' Surround sound......... They come to me and tell me 
 how the games look in their consoles and h=guess what the guy that hates sony and only bought the 
 PS3 to have it admit that Fight Night and Need for speed carbon do look better on PS3 also that 
 there is something about it that makes it better............ please contact me at 305 934 4356....... or 
 E-mail me at marmol26@hotmail. com 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jon_Griffith
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 11, 2006 5:56 pm PT
Review:  Spinning cars, using NOS, getting to #1 what more could a player want? How bout some new features. 
 We've seen all this before and we've been amazed the first time, bewildered the second, and pleased 
 the third but c'mon folks it's gettin old. Next gen is here so let's try to make a new name for 
 Need for Speed that will redefine the title in every way possible and blow gamers away. I'll admit 
 that this is very entertaining and fun and the graphics are amazing. However, it is hard not to 
 get bored with it after a while. Ridge Racer is a slightly better buy in my opinion. I would recommend 
 Resistance before this game. But mark my words I will come back to it... eventually. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jnightmare
Rating: 7
Date: Dec 10, 2006 4:01 pm PT
Review:  Need For Speed: Carbon is the sequel to Need For Speed: Most Wanted,
  which is a better game in my opinion. It's a really short game, I beat the game in 1 week. Your 
 objective of the game is to own all the territory of Palmont City. You can do this by winning races, after 
 you take all the territory of a gang, you will be challenged to 2 races by the gang leader. One 
 race is a city race and the other is a canyon race. In a canyon race, you have to try and pass, 
 knock off the canyon or stay as close to it as possible. Then you have to avoid making this happen 
 to you. There's also your Crew. You can give your Crew a name and a logo. There is always someone 
 racing with you in Need For Speed: Carbon, they are called Wingmen. There are three types of Wingmen. 
 There's the Scout, Scouts find shortcuts during a race.
  There's the Drafter, Drafters are speed demons, when you activate them stay behind them and only 
 hold the A Button because it will turn automatically. Last but not least there's the Blocker, Blockers 
 block opponents when you activate them. There are also car classes. There are three car classes. 
 There's the Muscle car class, which is focused on acceleration and the price range is medium. There's 
 the Exotic car class, which is focused on top speed and they are the most expensive type of car. There's 
 also the Tuner car class, which is focused on handling and they are the cheapest type of car. See 
 ya! Next review! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SkateboardJ
Rating: 8.6
Date: Nov 24, 2006 8:11 pm PT
Review:  Gamespot says Even though the wingman mechanics and canyon races don't quite pan out, it's still 
 a stylish and enjoyable street racer. I say i agree 73%
  
  need for speed is even better than the last as a matter of fact its the best in it's series raceing 
 raceing and more raceing i hope you are ready for raceing because you will be raceing down canyon 
 with rusty broken railing that is not going to save you from plummiting to a devistating drop of 
 death as your car go swirling down the side of a canyon.
  
  Need for Speed is just a fun game to play you will be suprised at the gameplay and Graphics provided 
 by the PS3. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
