-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Need for Speed Undercover
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/ps3/driving/needforspeedundercover/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Plenty of cop chases.
 Instantly join races with press of a button.
 Isn't long before you're driving a cool car.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Lots of quirks and nagging gameplay issues.
 Emulates Most Wanted, but doesn't necessarily improve upon it.
 Story isn't much to get excited about.
 Frame rate renders game nearly unplayable at times.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Nov 19, 2008
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 6.5
Critic Score: 6.5, 29 Review (s)
User Score: 7.2, 735 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Electronic Arts
Developer: EA Vancouver
Genre: GT / Street Racing
Date: Nov 17, 2008
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Need for Speed returns to its roots with hokey cutscenes, wild cop chases, and solid racing action. 
 

  For the most part, the reaction to the last few Need for Speed games was the same: "Why aren't 
 they more like Need for Speed Most Wanted?" "Where are the cheesy cutscenes and the over-the-top 
 cop chases?" It seems as if EA heard those cries, because for better or for worse, Need for Speed 
 Undercover feels like Most Wanted.  

  In Undercover you play the role of... wait for it... an undercover officer. Along with agent Chase 
 Linh, played by the attractive Maggie Q, your job is to take down a group of street racers that 
 have somehow become involved in an international smuggling ring. The story is told via campy cutscenes 
 that fail to capture the charm of Most Wanted thanks to uninteresting characters and a predictable 
 plot. Having a story provides incentive to make it through race after race, but the whole "this 
 is cheesy so it's cool" thing feels kind of forced this time around.  

           It won't be easy -- we'll have to use our powers of acting to take down the street racers. 

  Like many other Need for Speed games, all of your racing will take place on the streets of a fictitious 
 open-world city -- here it's the Tri-City Bay area. You'll start with a lousy vehicle, but it won't 
 be long before you're able to snag a pink slip to a nicer ride. As you progress you'll earn cash, 
 which can be used to unlock (50+) new vehicles from manufacturers such as Nissan, Dodge, Cadillac, 
 Ford, Porsche, Lamborghini, BMW, Aston Martin, Mitsubishi, and more. If you're into tuning individual 
 aspects of your ride or purchasing individual parts you can do that, but if you're not into tinkering 
 you can purchase an upgrade package and be on your way.  

  Not only will you earn money for winning an event, you'll earn driving points for dominating it -- basically 
 beating it really, really bad. You can power up a number of your driving attributes, but they don't 
 have a noticeable effect on how your car handles. As long as you drive fast you'll probably dominate, 
 but there are occasional races where you'll totally obliterate the time needed to dominate an event, 
 but you'll still lose to the CPU. The game also encourages you to drive with style and drift, draft, 
 and drive really close to other cars, but other than increasing your nitrous there's little to 
 gain from doing so. That said, the new J-Turn mechanic, which lets you bust quick 180s, is invaluable 
 when chasing down rivals or evading the cops. You'll use it because it's useful, though, not because 
 it gets you heroic driving points.  

  The cops are back in full effect in Undercover, and for the most part, their return is welcome. 
 The challenges in which you must ram and take out a certain number of police cars are great fun, 
 as are the challenges where you must cause a certain monetary sum of damage. Of course, you don't 
 always have to ram cars to take them down; you can also run into log trucks, electrical towers, 
 billboards, and more to leave a little surprise for your pursuers. It's too bad that some odd quirks 
 hamper the cop chases. The environmental hazards that you can unleash certainly look cool and are 
 effective, but quite often you won't see any police cars get hit by the objects, yet when the cutscene 
 ends the cars are trashed. Sometimes you won't have to do anything at all to evade police -- the 
 game says "go" and you stay still and nobody finds you. Cops are capable of laying down spikes, 
 but you can go the entire game without them ever doing so. The biggest problem, however, is that 
 the cops don't do much other than bang on the side of your car and yell at you, so if you last 
 long enough they sort of fade away on their own. This makes the chases less challenging than they 
 could have been and also makes them feel artificial, like you're just fulfilling some sort of time 
 requirement until the game decides you've done well enough to escape.  

  Undercover isn't just about messing with the Man. There are events where you need to maintain a 
 lead for a specific amount of time or get a certain distance ahead of your opponent. Sometimes 
 you'll have to shake the cops while trying to keep a stolen ride in pristine condition, and there 
 are checkpoint races and circuit races as well. There's not a whole lot that's original here and 
 the races are generally extremely easy -- you might not see another car for an entire race once you've 
 cleared the starting line. They're difficult on occasion, but this is usually because of the choppy 
 frame rate, which is often dreadful on the PlayStation 3. It's not as if Xbox 360 owners are getting 
 a smooth, fast frame rate, but it's significantly better than the PS3's slide show, which is often 
 so bad that it makes the otherwise great-handling vehicles a chore to drive. What's odd is that 
 there's really no obvious reason for the game's poor frame rate; the city doesn't look much different 
 than those in Carbon and Most Wanted, and the car models have aliasing issues.  

           You might not want to crash into a cop car in real life, but here, it's all good.     

  That said, the game does do a few things very well. The online cops and robbers mode, where the 
 robber tries to pick up money and take it to a drop-off point while another person plays the cop 
 and tries to ram them, is quite a bit of fun. But mostly what the game gets right is its pacing. 
 The races are short -- sometimes as short as 20 seconds, and almost never longer than five minutes. 
 Another cool thing the game does is it lets you instantly jump to the closest race by pressing 
 down on the D pad. If you want to find a specific event you can press up and you're taken to a 
 GPS map, where you can instantly go to the race of your choice. It'll save you a lot of needless 
 backtracking, and combined with the short races, makes sure that Undercover never gets boring. 

  If you're one of the many people who loved Need for Speed Most Wanted, flaws and all, you'll find 
 a lot to like in Undercover. It's not very original and there's no excuse for the often painfully 
 slow frame rate, but there's no denying that it's just good fun to run from the cops and wreak 
 havoc on a city in the process.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (40 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: Sylvestito
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 15, 2009 5:19 am PT
Review:  It's true, there are better race-games in store, but the setting, fun and ambiance of Need for 
 Speed Undercover is unique. Most Wanted was a better game with a bit more fun playing it, but Undercover 
 regains its NFS-name after the disappointing Pro Street. 
  
  The core business of NFS is racing and to pimp your car. The variety of different races holds its 
 standard. The difficulty is just right. If you don't have the goods you will not be able win. You 
 have to upgrade to win and that's partly the main fun of NFS. But if you don't win the race you 
 don't win the cash.
  
  The down part of the Undercover upgrade-part is that you have to buy entire packages in stead of 
 one part at a time which gives you more feeling with your car. However, the tuning of the individual 
 car characteristics remains. 
  
  The missions are a lot of fun. Particularly when the cops get involved. And driving a Bugatti Veyron 
 is a revelation (only when you're good enough) . Also you earn (necessary) driver-points upgrading 
 your skills and car after each race you win.
  Sure, Undercover isn't a very original game and the story is worth forgetting, but the fun of old 
 school NFS (creating Mayhem and the variety of challenging races) makes the game worth buying. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: HarrisDo
Rating: 7
Date: Mar 22, 2009 10:05 am PT
Review:  The 12th game in the Need for Speed series is unfortunately not as good as the others. It seems 
 big but it keeps a bad secret. Behind the huge map including 3 states, the encounter with the police 
 cars, and the car's horsepower which is bigger than one hundred stables, it is desparatingly trying 
 to gain your love. It is continously offering you gifts."Take some points"
  "Try those new tunning packs", "Why don't you take this car". All would be OK if they had been 
 offered after the introduction.
  
  At first this approach functions well. You think that it is all right if you lose the first 20 
 races. When every success offers you so much you start thinking like this and you can't find anything 
 bad in the game. But as you go on you see that the free roam map is in relity limited and not a 
 little! And the biggest problem in undercover is that with all the stuff you "gain" the success 
 loses its value. And in a while more problems appear.
  
  The funny thing is that despite the generousity of the game, the new Heroic Driving Engine of Need 
 for Speed is completely the opposite, especially with the framerates. If you speed up a lot the 
 visuals get so bad that you may not be able to see the road in front of you. And it's a pity because 
 the game is good designed.
  
  Then we have the Undercover's bad approach in the player's freedom. The map of the 3 states is huge 
 and amazing. If you complete all the missions you will be able to explore every place. But in comparison 
 with other games (burnout , midnight club) it is much more limited. And this happens because you 
 can't drive free in a race. Undercover limits you to the places that it consider suitable to play 
 and complete the mission.
  
  Fortunately in the getaway missions with the police you are completely free. Nevertheless these 
 events are sometimes limited by stone blocks, etc.
  
  But Undercover is not a WEAK game. There has been a big improvement from the last game (Prostreet) . 
 It comes back to the troubles with the "cops" and it is an original NFS game. The game offers a 
 very good experience especially for those who love chalenges. The variety of the cars is vast. It 
 includes "simple" cars like lotus elise to exotic and anbelievable cars like the forbiden Buggati 
 Veyron. The events are revolutionary and sometimes have a combination of objectives. So you don't 
 easily get bored.
  
  As for the multiplayer mode it includes a big variety of events. You can play getaway missions 
 except from single races. There is really a lot of fun!
  
  Now if the game is capable for your game list; the decision is yours. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: carbon07
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 18, 2009 11:08 am PT
Review:  Ok, after playing all the NFS games that have ever been made, I think I can give a good judgment 
 on this latest NFS game.
  
  I will review the game in a non biased way, but first lets get something out the way. All the negative 
 reviews about this game are from fan boys crying 'Oh Undercover is not like Most Wanted'..... don't 
 get me wrong, NFS Most Wanted was, and probably is, still the best NFS game, but I seriously don't 
 get what people are complaining about. They said this about NFS Carbon as well. Carbon, and Undercover 
 are almost identical to Most Wanted in terms of gameplay, so why such negative reviews? Sure, the 
 main problem seems to be Carbon and Undercover are too short compared to Most Wanted but thats 
 about it.... doesn't mean they are bad games. The bad reviews about NFS Pro Street I can understand, 
 as that game was a world away from Most Wanted and Carbon. Still it wasn't a bad game either once 
 you got into it. 
  
  So, I love the NFS series as much as anyone, but I'm not gonna hate every game that comes before 
 (or after) NFS greatest moment (Most Wanted) . No point complaining all the time is there when the 
 bottom line is Undercover is a decent game... so onto the review.
  
  Ok the story goes you are an Undercover cop posing as a street racer to find out about car smuggling. 
 It's pretty lame, but has a good twist at the end which will keep you playing.
  
  Gameplay wise the game is fun to play. Lot's of races, and above all, the most fun thing - cop 
 chases. Soo much fun, probably the best thing about the game. Nothing beats the feeling of smashing 
 through a cop road block in slow motion... makes you feel like the best driver in the world.
  
  So its a really fun game with lots of races and cop chases to keep you entertained. As I said 
 before, if you enjoyed Most Wanted / Carbon you WILL find alot to like about this game.
  
  One other thing I've heard about is that the game has a slow frame rate, atleast on the PS3 version. 
 Well yes this is true but you get used to it, it's not unplayable.
  
  Overall I enjoyed the game and I just don't think it deserves such negative reviews just because 
 it's still not quite as good as Most Wanted was. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lindseyiluvyou
Rating: 5
Date: Mar 11, 2009 8:37 pm PT
Review:  Okay i own Midnight club which i gave an 8/10 but my friend let me borrow this game for a week. 
 After two days i could see why it has a rating of 6.5. Its time and its becoming increasingly obvious. 
 After the newer games and better games have came out EA I'm sorry Need for Speed is no more. After 
 playing this game i realized no street racing game should have a storyline. Its basically need 
 for speed carbon but worse. Pro Street swung and miss and now NFS has struck out.. Its over EA 
 the reign of Need for speed is over unless you bring back a better game when NFS shift comes out. 
 The reputation of this was getting lower since Midnight Club first came out. And now whats happening? 
 Does anyone out there seriously want a game thats repetitive. Lets make this short and simple. 
 This game is horrible now if NFS shift gets a bad rating. EA needs to cancel need for speed. Dont 
 get this game whatever street racing game you buy don't get this game. This may be the end of the 
 reign... of need for speed. Its over people it was a good run while it lasted but now its over 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Zeller --
Rating: 6.5
Date: Mar 15, 2009 4:35 am PT
Review:  Need For Speed Undercover is the latest in the long running series which usually consists of appealing 
 vinyls, fast cars, intense driving and an alright gameplay. Undercover kind of half ticks these 
 boxes.
  
  Firstly the storyline is the notable flaw, a story of betrayal is more a story of pointless cutscenes, 
 little plot and bad screenplay.
  The cars, well they're still fast and furious, cars like the Audi R8 and Bugatti Veyron are ready 
 to roam the streets, whilst family cars like a Golf aren't really cut out for the police chases.
 
  The driving, the very start sees you trading paints with police cars in an intense and fairly 
 thrilling chase. After that the races begin where the first couple of races are easy but intriguingly 
 enjoyable until you get to select your car, then the racing becomes more subdued, slightly unimpressive 
 and lacking in intensity. The intensity of street racing is what can make a game such as Underground 
 stand out from for example Midnight Club LA, if the producers play their cards right, it can make 
 the gamer feel more engaged with the driving. Undercover doesn't quite manage it, the intensity 
 of the police chases are fairly high but the race by race intensity is a resounding LOW. 
  The flashy accessories of which I talked about in my NFS Underground review isn't really emphasised 
 in Undercover, the cars look no less flashy or appealing with or without.
  
  Overall NFS Undercover is reasonably good if you have played all it's NFS predecessors and have 
 been impressed by the outcomes but for those who haven't played it since Most Wanted or even Underground 
 2, you shouldn't really fork out 30-40 on a game which really depends on how much you liked games 
 like Carbon and Pro Street. It will be nice to find out how a Bugatti weighs up against a Ford 
 Mustang police car or how an Audi R8 runs rings round a rusty Volkswagen but these small satisfactions 
 are overshadowed with some of the flaws in both the gameplay and the plot. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: purpah-krayonzz
Rating: 3.5
Date: Feb 9, 2009 8:25 am PT
Review:  Sure, I was racing again and again to "just see the next cutscene", but that doesn't mean that 
 it didn't suck. I thought Chase Linh was a dude for half of the movie... I mean game. It kinda 
 seemed like a really bad version of Fast & the Furious to me. Worse than Carbon by many thousands 
 of times. It lacks... focus. I was on the edge of my seat for most of MW, It was that good. Now 
 I can sit normally the whole time. Prostreet was good. I don't know what the hell people are talking 
 about. That proves black box plays a part in all this. Anyway I'm a little off topic here. It did 
 have a decent selection of cars, but all f them were pretty much recycled from other games. lolz 
 Bring back the Peugeot 206!! And that experience system? Yuck. The best feature was probably beating 
 other cars to death. And, considering there's no actual damage system, that's pretty bad. The supercars 
 were too cheap, the gameplay was to shallow, and this porridge is too cold. Out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bigd575
Rating: 5.5
Date: Feb 5, 2009 1:21 pm PT
Review:  Need for Speed has been one of my favorite racing series for a long time, especially both of the 
 Underground game. But it seems that with the last few the game series has went down, not just a 
 little bit either but a lot.
  
  The Good: 
  Graphics seem to be good at times which graphics also don't really bother me either. So they ain't 
 the worse so you might find something good out of them.
  
  Undercover feels a lot like Most Wanted which is another good thing for me, because I really liked 
 Most Wanted a lot. But at the same time EA couldn't pull it off either.
  
  The Bad:
  The game just feels to old, and doesn't really bring anything new or anything that is really exciting 
 to the game. It's a shame they could of did so much with the game but they didn't.
  
  The frame rate is really bad, so bad that you can't enjoy the game one bit at times and makes it 
 where I don't want to play it either. When it does this I get so frustrated with it really brings 
 down the game.
  
  Overall Need for Speed: Undercover is simply bad I borrowed it off my cousin because I wasn't going 
 to waste my money on it. You'll be better off buying Midnight Club: Los Angeles than this game.
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: rambomambo7984
Rating: 6
Date: Jan 30, 2009 3:23 pm PT
Review:  I was really looking forward to this one; but what can i say ?! huge flaws, boring story and superficial 
 game play.
  
  1- Huge flaws: The graphics are no doubt good, but its not convenient most of the time. The lighting 
 is too bright and reflective on all the environment which makes it hard to identify obstacles at 
 high speeds. Also, the environment and all the surrounding seem to have similar colors and scheme, 
 which makes it even harder to distinguish objects at high speeds. 
  
  2- Superficial Game play:
  A- Same cars in Pro street no new cars and TBH not a huge variety 
 of them.
  B- The story, FFS, so superficial, doesn't indulge deep enough to relate the races and game play 
 to a story line. You end up feeling u r just playing a race after the other for no obvious reason.
 
  C- Customizations are very poor. Same as before but even a bit less than pro street and Carbon. 
 Look at Midnight club and the level of depth that it offers in the customizations and upgrades. 
 
  D- even the loading screen is a fail, nothing in it except a few circular lights !!!.
  
  
  This is just as good as a generic racing game. Shame on you to let down such a huge franchise 
 that dominated the lead for so long. 
  
  I felt like EA had to get it very quickly to fix what they did with pro-street. So they ended up 
 with a very superficial and generic racing game : (
  
  Please EA put some real effort in the next one, with depth to every aspect of the game such as 
 (story, customizations, variety of rides)
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: The_Solid
Rating: 3
Date: Jan 14, 2009 11:19 am PT
Review:  Go to you places of worship and pray for forgiveness, EA.
  Man, this is a bad game. Sure, the begining of the game is ok.
  So at the begining, its decent but 
 not breathtaking.
  This game has a strong sence of wannabe abt it, i mean like what the hell, this story is lame. The 
 game becomes like a call of duty game with a super-duper-guper-bad internet connection. A slideshow 
 as the GS review tells. The voice =acting is very bad. Maggie Q is irratating.
  
  Graphics 4\10
  Gameplay 2\10
  Story -1\10
  BOTTOM LINE=FAIL
  
 
  
  Most wanted was great becos it focused on speed, and defiance at the law, it was abt getting back 
 that title of yours. And most of all, it had a "Feel" i cant ut my finger on.
  Want a good racing game get "Grid","Burnout paradise","Midnightclub: LA". 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GameObserver
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jan 13, 2009 5:40 am PT
Review:  Electronic Arts is known for a lot of things: popular sports games, trendy production, gobbling 
 up smaller developers and being the root of all evil. The most consistent of all its labels has 
 to be EA's incessant milking of popular franchises (The Sims anyone?) . Need for Speed falls into 
 that category. Ever since Distinctive Software (EA Canada) first released the title in 1994 for 
 3DO, a slew of sequels followed. Last year's Need for Speed Pro Street took a break from the all-pervading 
 need to escape authorities while devastating innocent bus stops, much to the chagrin of many fans, 
 but for better or worse the franchise is back to its roots. 
  
  Need for Speed: Undercover continues in EA's shameless tradition of re-releasing virtually the 
 same game with a few tweaks. At this point, the franchise practically begs for something fresh 
 in the "cops vs. street racers" formula, but as it stands, this version is a no-nonsense, straight-to-the-action 
 experience without the metrosexual undertones of Need for Speed Carbon. This time, it's all about 
 gritty racing with fewer Barbies and Kens in plastic toy cars arguing over who is better "groomed". 
 The game seriously lacks in originality so beware; it's the same old NFS, albeit in a lighter package. 
 This new street racer is perfect for people dipping their toes in the world of Need for Speed for 
 the first time, but it may feel a bit exhausted for veterans of the franchise. 
  
  
  MEET THE NEW NEED FOR SPEED "LITE"
  
  The best way to describe Need for Speed: Undercover is 
 by comparing it to a new diet soda with cherry flavor and a zipping label... It's still the same 
 popular drink with an absurdly recognizable brand name and taste, but it's apparent that the makers 
 are too scared to try something new. Similarly this new NFS installment offers what its predecessor 
 had, though in a corporately diluted kind of way. Undercover is a good game, but the formula -- 
 right down to the way players find events -- has been used so much, EA is practically begging its 
 core fan base to stick with the old format, even though many would rather move on. 
  
  Nevertheless, it's a slimmer, improved package. Gone are the "wingmen" of Carbon. Also absent is 
 the testosterone and artificial "attitude" of previous NFS games. Players take on the role of an 
 undercover agent trying to infiltrate the world of street racing. Action is told through decent 
 cut-scenes with bearable acting. No Oscars here, but at least things aren't as bad as in Pro Street 
 and are less campy than in Carbon from an artistic point of view. 
  
  Everything is trimmed to accentuated action. Players are thrown into the thick of things at the 
 intro with a race through a Tri-City highway and an entire police precinct giving chase -- as clear 
 a disassociation from Pro Street's track racing as you can get. It's back to old business with 
 in a magnanimous police barricade collision at the very beginning.
  
  The tempo is what mainly sets Undercover from Carbon. The story is told through a series of MTV-paced 
 scenes depicting special agent Chase Linh (ya, clever) coordinating your undercover operation 
 from dimly lit sky rise offices. You are tasked with infiltrating the world of street racing. The 
 first missions revolve around getting the attention of potential gangs. Players must ransack public 
 property (bus stops) and other drivers to get the attention of the police. Once cops give chase, 
 you run like hell in an open-ended city 
  
  Missions eventually evolve into to more traditional street racing events. Circuit races, Sprints 
 and Checkpoints are back. Drift is gone and Duel no longer begs the issue, having been revamped 
 and rechristened Outrun and Highway Battle, both offering a few improvements while maintaining 
 the "duel" quality. No more "quickies" on the streets; no more annoying crew mates during events 
 and gimmicky skills, and no more turfs. Players are simply asked to burn rubber, and burn it good 
 and often. Controls are responsive and crisp, as usual.
  
  
  SOMETHING OLD, SOMETHING NEW, SOMETHING RED AND BLUE
  
  Police chases have a more pronounced 
 role than in Carbon, and unlike the latter, players will have a much easier time getting away from 
 the men in blue, at least while free roaming. Most chases will last a minute or two. This is mainly 
 due to shaky police AI and destructible objects available to slow cops down. Ramming destructible 
 items like construction material will always stop the law in its tracks, which is an improvement 
 from previous games, but unfortunately the effect needs some tweaking as squad cars that can clearly 
 pass or avoid debris are usually stopped dead in their tracks. The feature feels a bit unnatural. 
 
  
  The game features a variety of law-evading missions, the most common being Escape and Cost to State 
 and Cop Takedown. All three offer a variation of destruction and evasion and give more experience 
 points than the standard racing missions. Experience improves various skills -- tires, transmission, 
 engine, breaks, earning bonuses, parts discounts -- independent of physical car upgrades. Points 
 are given out after every race, depending on how well the player drives, but cop missions are specifically 
 designed for that. 
  
  A handful of complimentary "grand theft auto" Escape missions are injected into the plot on occasion, 
 breaking the monotony of roaming the Tri-City area in your personal ride. Said missions are preceded 
 by a cut scene of you leaving a parking lot with a stolen car, only to be chased by the law. Success 
 is measured by evading the police and reaching a mark on the map with the vehicle intact. A few 
 variations of the same game type exist, some of which don't have a "car damage" meter, but more 
 depth here could have done the game type some major good. I'm not asking EA to have an "on foot" 
 aspect similar to GTA, but the ability to pick your cars before stealing them, or the option to 
 buy the hot car or its parts at a discount at the end of the mission would have been sweet. Basically, 
 a million things could have been included, but weren't.
  
  
  AS LONG AS THE ROAD DOESN'T END
  
  Outrun events put players behind a single opponent with 
 the objective to pass and stay ahead for a certain amount of time. The concept is fun but needs 
 improving. The car in the lead can drive anywhere it pleases with the trailing adversary having 
 a limited amount of time to take the lead. Sounds good, but the free-roaming nature of the mission 
 can be head-bangingly infuriating. I personally experienced failing to pass an opponent despite 
 approaching at a speed that would normally put me in the lead, simply because the opponent decided 
 to turn at the last second on an intersection while I kept driving forward. The rule of the event 
 is to stay ahead but that rule is blurred when opponents are neck and neck and the leader simply 
 decides to take another route without the player's knowledge, since one can't glance to the sides, 
 only to the back. Who leads is also muddled when making u-turns. Doing so puts AI into a knot with 
 the computer always having to pass the incoming player before itself doing a 180 maneuver and attempting 
 to catch up. Computer controlled opponents will also get stuck trying to pass through solid objects 
 to catch up.
  
  Highway Battle resembles Outrun except players are asked to put a maximum distance between their 
 opponent. The game type is in first perspective. Unequivocally, it's not the easiest of modes, 
 because after driving around in 3rd perspective the switch to 1st perspective will leave more than 
 a few drivers disoriented, especially since action takes place in heavy traffic. Players will often 
 misjudge distance between passing vehicles and hit them, resulting in failed races. Such missions 
 can be a bit frustrating but they are often brisk and fun when things go well that is. Many later 
 Highway Battles produce strange results. I have had races where I was competitive throughout the 
 event and other instances (same race) where my opponent literally flew away at warp speed from 
 the start. The sight was downright comical, but it left me scratching my head, since I didn't do 
 anything different between attempts. Having said that, at later stages players will often rely 
 on their opponents making a mistake in order to win.
  
  A few missions will ask you to take down opponents or protect other drivers. Here players will 
 see icons above their aggressors and colleagues. Overall such events are fun, but the game's AI 
 again fails the test on a few points. Computer opponents, like their police counterparts, react 
 to who is in their line of sight, regardless of what is in front of them. I had an instance where 
 three "black" cars (bad guys) got stuck behind a concrete barrier around a building while trying 
 to get to me. All three idiots attempted to pass the solid object for a few minutes even though 
 the barrier was only a few feet wide.
  
  Like in previous Need for Speed games, cars accumulate "heat" points that draw unwanted police 
 attention. Players can no longer spend money to remove "heat" off their rides, which is a downer. 
 Money in Need for Speed: Undercover is only used to buy cars, upgrades and visual changes. 
  
  All of the aforementioned game types (except cop missions) give cash, though Tournament races 
 (the equivalent of circuit but more "important") offer cars as prizes. Esthetic customization has 
 been clearly toned down. Players are no longer able to place art on their rides anywhere they please, 
 or reshape them for that matter. This aspect clearly took a hit. 
  
  
  LADIES AND GENTLEMEN WE ARE SPOILED
  
  What can be said of the levels? Everything takes place 
 in rather impressive-looking cities and surrounding areas. They are on par with what has been released 
 in most driving games with open-ended elements. Clearly, such designs should wow and awe anybody 
 playing for the first time, but they won't impress all the spoiled gamers out there (and we're 
 all spoiled at this point) . It should be mentioned that unlike Carbon, everything takes place in 
 the day, which is disappointing because cities would have really looked nice in neon, or any other 
 weather effects for that matter. Furthermore, after playing for a few hours players will notice 
 many familiar-looking areas during races. The Tri-City bay only looks big on the surface.
  
  Graphically Need for Speed: Undercover tries a bit too much. High speeds cause blurring, like 
 the ones found in many 70's soft-core porn movies But in general, everything looks very realistic. 
 High speeds will sometimes confuse players with all the details, especially on sharp curves, but 
 in general the game looks great. Now if only Need for Speed would finally add some pedestrians.
 
  
  Sound and music are a mixed bag. Some tunes are memorable while most are downright forgettable. 
 The tack list also seems a bit leaner compared to previous racing titles. Players will notice the 
 same handful of tunes recycled countless times, maybe because few tracks stand out. The ambient 
 music in menus is quite good, though. As one would expect from an EA game, sound effects are topnotch 
 both in police chatter and car engine noises. Different engine pitches when glancing back or changing 
 the camera view should have been added.
  
  
  SUMMARY
  
  Overall, Need for Speed: Undercover is a decent game but it is disappointingly similar to its predecessors. 
 It doesn't try to break the mold, opting to trim things by focusing on racing rather than plot. 
 The story's pacing and mixture of plot-driven events is spread out evenly. They always come at 
 the right moment. This NFS is definitely not boring, but it is stale production-wise. Gameplay 
 is also in need of a major shift. EA should focus on adding pedestrians and life on the streets 
 in future Need for Speed games, as well as more customization options and all the elements leading 
 up to races. The world of street racing is complex from an underground point of view, and this 
 installment of the series does little to tap its full potential. 
  
  
  GRAPHICS 82
  Realistic city designs and nice cars, though a bit overdone in some effects. Locations become repetitive 
 with time. 
  
  GAMEPLAY 70
  Numerous issues with the new game modes, but racing is crisp and responsive. Stupid artificial 
 intelligence. 
  
  PRODUCTION 65
  Game definitely took a major cutback in production, offering fewer plot features. The underground 
 street racing world is barely skimmed. Meaningless plot.
  
  SOUND 84
  A few memorable tracks, but in general racing tunes are weak. Menu music is great. A colorful orchestra 
 of sound effects.
  
  LASTING APPEAL 73
  Plenty of racing events puts game time at around 15 hours in single player, with online play extending 
 the action somewhat, but the formula is getting old.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: RedHawk4
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 9, 2009 6:55 pm PT
Review:  I, like you probably are right now, was very skeptical about NFS: Undercover. "The storyline is 
 lame", "The framerate is terrible", etc. All of these criticisms were in my mind when I first popped 
 Undercover into my brand new PS3, but they didn't last too long. Despite the negative reactions 
 of other gamers, I really enjoyed playing Undercover all the way through the career. Many people 
 say that Undercover falls short of the greatness that was NFS: Most Wanted, and, well... they're 
 right, it does. But as I've just said, There's nothing wrong with Undercover, and here's why:
 
  
  Storyline: The storyline kept me hooked and coming back for more from the day I started it, just 
 like Most Wanted did. Basically, you are an undercover Police officer working for the feds who 
 are trying to take down an international car smuggling operation from the inside. Under supervision 
 from Inspector Chase Linh, you'll become involved in the doings of various gangs throughout the 
 massive city of Tri-City Bay until you collect enough evidence to take down the gang's members 
 via a Chasedown race (which I'll get into later) . Of course, being an Undercover officer means 
 that even the Police don't know who you are... which means that they'll be coming after you.
  
  Races and Race Types: The races in Undercover are your typical NFS races with a few new ons 
 thrown in. You have your Circuit, Sprint, and Checkpoint races, along with Outrun, Highway Battle 
 (similar to NFS: Carbon's Canyon Duels) and Chasedown (in which you'll have to total your opponent's 
 car before they escape... usually your opponent is your former gang boss or one of his thugs) . Fortunately, 
 the career mode's set-up allows you to pick and choose what races you'd like to participate in 
 as you go through your career. I personally only did one Circuit and one Outrun race in my whole 
 career because I didn't like them. One important thing I should mention: The game's difficulty 
 will alter based on what car you use. For example, use a faster car and your opponent will also 
 race faster, but use a slower car and, no matter what car your opponent is using, he'll drive slow 
 as well. This led to me using a slower car on purpose because it made driving and controlling it 
 easier.
  
  Police Pursuits: Yep, the Police are back and in many ways they're similar to Most Wanted's PD. 
 The helicopters, roadblocks, spike belts, and good old Rhino Units (which now give chase too) are 
 back, and behave almost exactly the same as they did in MW. Pursuit Breakers and Hiding Spots are 
 also back and are in heavy, thick supply all over Tri-City Bay. Also, even though cars in the game 
 take on damage (but don't seem to ever total outside of Highway Battle mode) , you can still smash 
 through a Police roadblock with relative ease, and you can still send the cars in the roadblock 
 flying if you use your Speedbreaker.
  
  The City: Big. Huge. MASSIVE. All of these words describe Tri-City Bay. It's a big place and it's 
 pretty fun to drive around in. Plus, driving around and pulling off stylish (a. k. a. "Heroic") driving 
 moves earns you Zone Points. Up your level of points high enough and you can up your Wheelman Level, 
 which unlocks new races, Police Pursuit-specific events (yes, there are specific "pursuit" events 
 in the game, they're called Escape, Cop Takeout, and Cost to State events... you can start them 
 just like you start a normal race event) , and ups your overall Heat Level with the Cops.
  
  The Cars: Undercover hosts some of the best cars out there, and lots of 'em. They include the Bugatti 
 Veyron, the newer Lamborghini Gallardo and Lamborghini Murcielago, the new Chevy Camero, the McLaren 
 F1, the Porsche 911 Turbo, and many, many more. The cars do take on damage, and windshields get 
 smashed, hoods fly off, trunks pop up, etc. And, you can even enter a secret code to enable a Cop 
 car for Quick Race mode (though sadly you can't drive a Cop car and bust some racers in career 
 or, for that matter, anywhere in the game outside of an online mode... major let-down) !
  
  Framerate: Before buying this game I read about many people having so-called "framerate problems", 
 in which the game would hitch or stall for a few seconds during a race or pursuit. In fact, I even 
 read about someone who had the entire screen go white on him for a fraction of a second! Now I 
 don't know about them, but I had no real problems with the framerate. Yes, it hitched and froze 
 on me many times throughout my career, and yes it's annoying, but it was never bad at all and never 
 caused me any trouble. The worst it ever did was when, in only one occasion, it froze when I was 
 speeding through a corner and it caused me to smash into the wall. I believe I still won the race 
 by a good margin.
  
  Sun Glare: Yeah, I heard this complaint as well, the one about the sun glaring at your car wherever 
 you go and making it hard to see. Well... it's bad and yet it's not. The sun will be bright, and 
 a whole lot of the time it's directly in front of you and on occasion it can make it a little bit 
 harder to see, but it never cause me much trouble. On the contrary, the incredibly dark tunnels 
 and driving below bridges caused me more trouble than the glaring sun on the reflective roads did.
 
  
  Controls: No, the controls are not fully customizable, but there are several very different control 
 schemes to choose from, including one that has you drive with the right analog stick. The default 
 control scheme maps square to Speedbreaker, X to handbrake, circle to Nitrous, L1 to lookback, 
 R2 to gas and L2 to brake. Triangle will change your view, D-Pad down will activate the nearest 
 event or your new job, and D-Pad up will bring up the GPS Map. Personally, I liked the default 
 controls well enough to use them and get used to them.
  
  Overall, I think that if you liked NFS: Most Wanted you'll like NFS: Undercover, being as they're 
 so similar and yet wonerfully different. The story is nice and, though it was pretty predictable, 
 had some very well done plot twists that may surprise you at the end. There was one instance where, 
 in both the name and lyrics of one particular song, God's name is taken in vain. I would like to 
 take this opportunity to make it very clear, EA, that I did not like that at all. This is backed 
 up further by the fact that you can't choose the songs that you'd like to hear. Poorly done, EA, 
 poorly done.
  
  Essentially though, what I'm saying is that for the most part I enjoyed playing Undercover a lot, 
 and I think you will too. Hope this helped your decision!
  
  Sincerely, RedHawk4. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LuongoRox1
Rating: 7.5
Date: Dec 26, 2008 6:27 pm PT
Review:  Need for Speed Undercover IS a disappointment. That doesn't make it a terrible game though. The 
 frame rate is horrendously inconsistent, but it runs beautifully at times. As you get farther and 
 strengthen your ride further, it becomes much easier to win, but I still come across the occasional 
 event I struggle with, even if it's slightly.
  
  Undercover goes back to the Most Wanted formula, one of the best in the series, with it's cheesy 
 cut scenes, bad acting and everyone's favourite, the cops. Hardcore NFSers will love this, and 
 regular gamers will like the return to a successful formula.
  
  EA and Black Box now has solid groundwork for another NFS game, but Undercover was missing too 
 many layers of polish to be meet expectations. The game improves considerably if a patch is released 
 to fix the frame rate (even if I have to sacrifice those random 5 seconds of beauty to remove the 
 5 second spurts of sh*t) and adds Trophy support to the PS3 version.
  
  Even if those issues aren't fixed, Undercover's closed circut races are a breath of fresh air after 
 dedicating 30 (and counting) hours to games like Burnout Paradise, where one wrong turn ruins your 
 chances of winning. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jericho9696
Rating: 4.5
Date: Dec 26, 2008 8:29 am PT
Review:  The Need for Speed franchise was usually good, games like Most Wanted or Carbon, which were great 
 games but Undercover is definitely the WORST from the series.
  
  First, I would like to talk about the story:
  The story is boring, it's nothing special and very 
 predicted.
  Though the cut scenes in the game look great, but the story itself sucks.
  
  Now, the gameplay:
  The racing in the game is not something new AT ALL, it's extremely EASY, 
 no challenge at all.
  There's a lot of technical problems with it too, like tons of pop-ups and I encountered like 6-8 
 glitches in the game.
  The cars that are in the game are ok, but there isn't a lot of room for customization, and when 
 you play online, there are no vinyls on your car, which is a big disappointment.
  
  In conclusion, the game sucks, and if you still want to buy, have a great time wasting your hard 
 earned money. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: klosrc
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 25, 2008 10:43 am PT
Review:  I have played this game for a very good time now, great graphics and good smoothly movements. I 
 don't regret the purchase.
  I can keep playing it for a long way in a row and I don't get tired of it.
  
  The online mode 
 with cops and robbers was a good addition to this game, even though is not as difficult as other 
 need for speed series, the online and career mode compensate that a little.
  
  The only thing I think is missing in the game is the multi player mode to play against somebody 
 next to you, thats why I rated it as 9.
  
  Another thing thats really interesting is the fact that they added more cars than before and that 
 you can upload pictures immediatly from the actual game to the needforspeed. com page.
  
  I would encourage you to try it and will see that even if its not reaching your expectations, its 
 always good to have a game where you can beat somebody's a$$ in a hot pursuit race.
  
  In general is great and entertaining. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pigsybum
Rating: 7
Date: Dec 15, 2008 6:04 am PT
Review:  Need For Speed: Undercover like most people knows, it not a racing simulator like prostreet was. 
 Perhaps it was due to bad remarks that they went back to illegal street racing.
  
  When you start to play Undercover, you will be terribly disappointed, both at the graphics and 
 also framerates. Whenever you take a turn, the framerate crawls to a standard where it's almost 
 unplayable, it even worth when u have a high speed car making a turn. The framerate, however occurs 
 worst on the first city, which is also the city with least landscape and worst looking, contradicting 
 isn't it? When you progress further the lag won't be that bad and surrounds are nicer too.
  
  Graphics:
  There is the part where i say "Oouch", despite all the initial impressions and 
 previews EA showed us, they're nothing but hype. The city has no day/night rotating, the sun and 
 roads are too shiny, and the surroundings isn't at all interesting.
  
  But the good part is that your vehicle do look good. But like i said, it looks too shiny due to 
 the sun and sometimes it's so bad the graphics looks like a total shine mess. 
  
  Gameplay:
  The basics is still there, the game is still fun thanks for it using most wanted's 
 engine. But however, there's little/no improvements made to the game. They gave you free roam, 
 but there's not much u could do and boils down to boredom. You activate quest/jobs with just the 
 down directional button, but then not every job u would have a interest in, you still have to open 
 up ur maps and choose.
  
  The only thing saving this game from bad is the cutscenes, i'm glad they got maggie Q to do the 
 acting. It's a refreshment to see the cutscenes and i always enticipate it in my 10-hour long single 
 player walkthrough. But then you feel thirsty for more cutscenes. Some of the cutscenes is very 
 short and makes no sense for itself.
  
  The controls in this game is good but not great, it's even more obvious when you try to drive like 
 a normal driver, it's pretty hard to keep up with the lane lines. This is when i compared it to 
 midnight club, there it's easy to both race and drive like a normal person.
  
  The police chase in this game is fun, even if you have a fast car the police are able to keep up 
 with you. When they get close enough to you, they likely gangbang you to a corner and have you 
 arrested. There's three types of police chase, one is run away from them, another is achieve an 
 amount of distruction $, the other is total an amount of cop car, the last two still requires you 
 get rid of the cops though after u completed the requirements.
  
  No more drifting in this game, there's circuit, sprint and takedown racing. Circuit and sprint 
 is pretty seld-explanatory, takedown is when you damage a car till it totals and police comes to 
 catch them. 
  
  Audio:
  This is perhaps the best section out of the three i'm reviewing. Engine sounds fantastic and bassy 
 enough. Dialogues are a tad soft but luckily you could tune them to your liking. 
  
  Throughout the police chase you do heard police dialogue on ur direction and also places of roadblocks. 
 The voice that leads your way is linh, which is also maggie Q, her voice is sweet and an incentive 
 to play the game.
  
  All in all, undercover is no doubt a poor efford from black box. Even more obvious with the framerate 
 issues despite medicore graphics. But hey, i've completed the game and i have had fun with it, 
 You probably won't go back again unless you want to heard the story again. If you're in north america 
 it will be worth a rent. As for what racer to play on the ps3? I recommand GRID and Midnight club. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lucas-0
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 11, 2008 1:25 pm PT
Review:  the game is good not enough going on to keep you going back for more but its fun while it lasts. 
 50 cars is a lot and the customisation is amazing. it took me 12 hours to complete the story but 
 their were still stuff to be done with no reall importance. ps3 frame rate is crap because when 
 you get further into the game the cars get quicker so the game has to speed up as well ps3 can't 
 handel it but still if you like nfs games your gonna love this one for the siple reason it's got 
 the bugatti veyron top speed 251mph. luke 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shoulars
Rating: 6
Date: Dec 9, 2008 8:15 pm PT
Review:  Once again, I got this game thinking that it was going to be just as good as its previous series. 
 I owned a Need for Speed for the PS2, but it does not really compare. When I first began to play, 
 it was exciting and fulfilling. I like the different type of races there were, but they became 
 old really fast. I hated to watch the short trailer just before the cop takeout, and cost to state. 
 It was basically the same every time before I began to play. I really enjoyed the highway battles, 
 and outrun on the other hand. This is one of the only parts of the game that took a little skill 
 in order to win. It was even better when you get to a harder level and have to go incredibly fast, 
 but yet dodge the slow and annoying traffic. The circuits and sprints are basically the same as 
 they've always been. One thing that I do not like about this game is how unrealistic it is. You 
 can crash into a brick wall, and fall 10sec behind, but it is very easy to get back into 1st place. 
 Even though you catch up so fast, it is not as easy to leave your opponent in your dust on the 
 harder level. That's just a little unbalanced to me. Some of the jobs were exciting, but they were 
 not the best I have seen. I thought that the storyline was creative since it was done by real, 
 good actors. I could really appreciate that about the game. The game just did not quite match the 
 intensity that the actors were giving me. I still enjoyed the online play of this game. Love playing 
 cops and robbers, and I like the competition that online gamers have to offer. The game is not 
 a total disappointment. I think I just had higher expectations. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Tetratrance_CK
Rating: 7.5
Date: Dec 7, 2008 9:59 am PT
Review:  Somewhat disappointing to find out this game is soooo easy. I for one always look forward to a 
 new NFS, I recall complaining how bad the series became after NFS Most Wanted, now I get a game 
 going back to the Most Wanted formula but something is missing, I just cant put my hand on it.
 
  If you ask me for a winning NFS formula I suggest the following:
  1-Cops as hard as NFS Most Wanted if not harder
  2-As many cars as possible (undercover seems 
 to do that right)
  3-Make tweaking and tuning the cars something you can actually feel affecting your driving, like 
 how important it was in NFS Underground 2
  4-bring back the cruiser races like the underground series
  5-take away the wiiiiiiiide open 
 roads of Most Wanted and Undercover and make them more challenging (but keep the ability to speed 
 there not too hard)
  6-Please o please o please give us the option to listen to our own music like Midnight club does. 
 (Yes you can hear your own music on midnight club)
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: joemerchant2006
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 3, 2008 4:22 pm PT
Review:  This has to be one of the better NFS games I've played since Most Wanted. Carbon dropped the cop 
 chases, it felt like anyway and Pro Street... in it's own right was a great game, but it should 
 NOT have been a Need for Speed Game. Undercover almost was Most Wanted, without the black list. 
 You're an undercover cop... hoho like we couldn't tell by the title. 
  
  The big problem I have with this game is the frame rate. I've lost races because of this problem 
 but from the grapevine, they're fixing the problem. That and the acting. NFS would be sooooooooooooooooooo 
 much better with out the cheesy acting. Bleh and Blah! Otherwise this game has a great cattlecave 
 of cars, lots of action to keep you on your toes and deep customiation. Not like Forza mind you, 
 but still.
  
  Over all, good game, had potintial but came short. But EA, PLEASE FOR THE LOVE OF GOD, CUT THE 
 DAMN CUT SCENES! ugh I feel like gouging out my eyes and replacing them with coconuts! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DominicanAG
Rating: 5
Date: Dec 3, 2008 8:29 am PT
Review:  The Need for Speed the series hasn't been the same since Most Wanted. The previous release before 
 Undercover were so different that this time is gone back to Most wanted but with problems. This 
 is how I feel when I play Undercover today. 
  
  I'm surprised that being that this is the 3rd installment on PS3 and the 4th installment overall 
 on the new systems. I'm a little disappointed with the performance of the game overall. It's like 
 EA as taken a step backwards. The game does go back to it's good roots and how it used to be in 
 Most Wanted which was one of the best of the series after Underground. But being that the framerate 
 is so bad in this game it makes it really hard to enjoy the game at times. I knew this before purchasing 
 the game. Being the fact that it was so much like Most wanted I decided to check it out for myself. 
 
  
  Regardless of the issues the game looks good at times when the framerate is steady, but is not 
 the best looking out of the bunch either. I think the previous release had great graphics but the 
 gameplay mechanics weren't that fun like in Most wanted. It's pretty hard to recommend this game 
 with the issues it comes with. If you can get pass these issues I would recommend a rent I would 
 definitely not purchase this game. It's hard to say this being that I'm a big fan of the Need for 
 Speed series. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: waltdog72080
Rating: 1
Date: Nov 30, 2008 7:49 pm PT
Review:  I haven't played this game long at all and beat it already. Worse Need For Speed I've ever played 
 - they could have done better on this, Game play sucks. It's very easy to get away from the cops 
 in this game. I don't know why they have them in it. I would love to get my money back. Graphics 
 could have been a lot better, I know that Sony and EA can do better. I don't have anything else 
 to say, Just don't waste $60.00 on this game. Get a better game. I'm sure you can still find Need 
 For Speed Pro Street for $50.00. That game was a lot better. Easy Easy Easy, Why do they have it, 
 that your review must be 800 Characters, What's the point in that. I don't like that game so I 
 don't have much to say about it. I wish I could say something about this website. I don't get on 
 this website much and now I remember why. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zxssded
Rating: 5.5
Date: Nov 30, 2008 3:21 am PT
Review:  Need for speed one of the best racing game franchises. feels, like the title says, a mix of pro 
 street and most wanted.
  
  Good: graphics are great sometimes. all the good from pro street. the vast amount of car surpases 
 most of the other predesurses. its feels alot like most wanted, in terms of the over the top acting 
 and coppers. Cops dude, cops. i can vaguley see your chracter now.... yeah..... a few new moves 
 are helpful.
  
  Bad: the frame rate drops like the stock market. it makes gameplay almost unplayable. the driving 
 in the game is stupid, the new moves are a crappy editon to the game. the driving in most wanted 
 was reletivley relistic, the aston martin could barley move when going over 120kh\h, but now you 
 can turn any car 360 degrees at any speed. the drift is crap. story is still boarderline for you 
 to race.
  
  Graphics: 5
  Sound: 8
  Gameplay: 6
  Story: 4
  
  Undercover had great potential. if they could improve the graphics frame rate, could scratch the 
 sad excuse of car moves and crappy story, the game could beat underground 2, i really think of 
 EA just stuck to teh formula that worked, and tuned it bit by bit, it would be great 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DarylJ100
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 29, 2008 9:12 am PT
Review:  ok i must say this is the best need for speed and diserves lot better that a rating of 6.5 the 
 graphics is unbelievable but i play hd tv with a hd cable and its very good graphics the story 
 is great ive only came out of one island there are a lot of cars in the game more cars than they 
 had in the past need for speed's. The map is quite big bout carbon is bigger but what the hell 
 its a racing game aslong there is enough races what the point of expecting a huge map. The story 
 is good because you get a lot of different kind of jobs like stealing a big car like bugatti voroni 
 and other like taking down crew mambers and makeing your heat bigger so other racers know who you 
 are besiclly the game is about rep. There is a big thing missing about tis game and i just dont 
 know what it is but there is a one huge let down like i said i dont know what it is. Anyways this 
 game is good and if you like racing game you must give this one a try thanks  
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ElectroFilmsCom
Rating: 5
Date: Nov 27, 2008 2:33 am PT
Review:  give the developers some credit, everyones been complaining about the past 2 need 4 speeds, carbon 
 and pro street, so they've tried to bring back a most wanted feel. the problem is, most wanted 
 was an amazing game, and it'd take something extra special to top it. undercover isn't a bad game, 
 its just need 4 speed, and the series has always been about driving fast and hard. the tracks are 
 banal, the graphics are acceptable, the car selection is good and the controls are tight. EA is 
 a business and need for speed is a yearly product. if EA turns a yearly profit on every need 4 
 speed game, they'll keep producing them till doomsday. so accept need for speed for what it is, 
 not what it once was. if you love most wanted, play it again, undercover doesn't compare. if you 
 want a quality arcade racer get midnight club LA. if your bored and wanna blow $60 on a mediocre 
 racer, try undercover. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bad-2
Rating: 1
Date: Nov 25, 2008 9:11 am PT
Review:  Just like the title impliesUndercover", a game that looks good on paper but badly implemented.
 
  
  THE GOOD:
  Graphics, are okay almost everything are shimmering to the point that your head starts to spin 
 from the lights that reflect on every single surface.
  
  Cars, are greatly modeled, customization doesn't go as deep as NFS: underground.
  
  Driving 
 Mechanics, makes you turn your car 180 or power slide and not loose momentum.
  
  THE BAD:
  Gps System, whats the point when you can easily press down on D-pad and already your 
 on a racing event!!!!, there is not even the need to drive around.
  
  Traffic, what is this a baron wasteland? you see no cars on the road.
  
  Nitrous, do you even 
 need it? AI are slow enough that no matter how under performance your car is you always win.
  
  Story, ? (who cares)
  
  THE UGLY:
  I guess buying the game is not enough money, they 
 want more by having you buy some cars through your online account.... a total SCAM.....................
 
  
  PURSUIT, you don't even have to do anything because cops in Undercover are stupid as hell. You 
 don't even have to use those corny pursuit breakers, you just keep on driving and sooner or later 
 the police cruisers will break down. Same with hiding spots because as soon as you disabled 8-15 
 cops by just ramming on them up until you're down by one cop, that will eventually give up and 
 no one will come bother and looking for you. I personally disabled 16 cops by just ramming on them 
 like bump cars because your car is "indestructible", sure you'll see broken bumpers, hoods, trash 
 your car and all but it doesn't affect your car's performance, you can keep on driving the same 
 pace as if its still new. I was able to raise my heat level to 6 and not even got BUSTED not even 
 once!!!.
  
  ROAD BLOCK, they aren't as scary as before, its more of a speed bump than a road block, hell road 
 block just work in your advantage by increasing your number of disabled cops by plowing into them.
 
  
  Bring back the OLD NFS: HOT PURSUIT, i miss all the helicopters that drops spikes on the road, 
 exploding barrels to disable your car to the point that it wont run, road block to really block 
 the road, smart cops that will actually corner you and actually stop you.
  All more reason to really get away from them.
  
  Suggestion, spend your money somewhere else.
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: hootskah
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 23, 2008 6:52 am PT
Review:  This game is really good! Alot better than prostreet and most of the other racing game! i really 
 like it and i hope that players will buy this game in order to appreciate it`s worth. The cop chases 
 are off the hook, the graphix is really good, you really feel your in the game and kinda feels 
 realistic. damage detail is also good and dont forget the PHOTO MODE, pause the game and choose 
 photo mode anytym and take a snap shot of the situation your in... upload it and POOF! it is uploaded 
 on you needforspeed. com account and ready for download and become you wallpaper! ofcourse this 
 game is not perfect but i dont think that the gamespot review is fare, i dont know how long they 
 played it but it is really unfair, i hope they did better because before i buy a game i tend to 
 check the reviews first in order to have my basis if a buy or not because todays console game's 
 price is not a joke. all in all, unfair review, great game, thank you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lauryn2000
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 22, 2008 8:20 pm PT
Review:  I really didn't like the past two Need For Speed games and drifting was one of the main reasons. I 
 totally sucked at it and second I was in love with the Need For Speed: Most Wanted game. Chase me 
 and try to catch me if you can.
  
  I loved it, so when I saw the trailer for "Undercover" I was in heaven.
  Back to ole school-cops 
 chasing-me- running and ducking.
  
  Ok, so you go  the need for speed and here's where this 
 game kinda gets it all screwed up.
  
  The frame rate is terrible, I've noticed when going over a certain speed and especially when "airborne" 
 the vehicle freezes for half a second. Which is annoying especially when your being chased by the 
 police or in the lead.
  
  The graphics are decent and the car selection is not bad.
  The cut scenes are to be desired, I think in Need For Speed: Most Wanted
  the cutscenes had fit 
 well into the game. Where in "Undercover" it feels out of place.
  
  Need For Speed: Undercover is going back to it's roots but needs some serious detailing..... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nitrous_boy
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 22, 2008 2:30 am PT
Review:  Need For Speed had always been about street racing illegally, on countryside roads or in the city. 
 Sadly EA had ruined that formula a little when creating ProStreet. Now that they had learnt their 
 lesson, they created a new game called 'UnderCover.' But does it still revive NFS's true spirit?
 
  
  For starters, it kinda does. Going back to the city, modding your car, dealing with street racing 
 gangs and trying to loose the police. You start off with your little 'ol 240SX S13... with a spoiler. 
 It may not look like much, but looking at the games difficulty, you can go through the first few 
 races. But don't worry, it doesn't take long to get into a good car. Once you beat some guy, he'll 
 give you a choice of a few cars from a pink slip race. I haven't got so far in the game to tell 
 you how the storyline is like, but I'm pretty sure it should be quite interesting. the Music is 
 ok too. Not the type of music you'll remember, but it is set to get you into a 'racing' mood.
 
  
  there is ONE major problem holding this game back 2.0 points: it feels incomplete. The framerate 
 goes up and down. sometimes it feels like it is going at a slideshow pace! The graphics are good, 
 but no real improvement over last year and the sun flying across the sky can be funny, but annoying.
 
  
  But I think if EA was to release a more complete patch of the game, almost everyone's gripes based 
 on the game would almost be over. It's like the perfect car, with the engine that won't start! 
 But still, don't dispare, this game has lots of fun put into it. Just at a slideshow's pace. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: matty7628
Rating: 1.5
Date: Nov 21, 2008 10:13 am PT
Review:  I have looked forward to this for so long and when i got home with it, i was SO disappointed with 
 it, the first thing you notice when you play it is (you can't miss it) the frame rate is so slow 
 it puts you of your driving most of the time. The menu isn't much better either i found it very 
 basic and when you are customizing your car you are not able to rotate the camera to look at the 
 perfect paint and vinyl job you just spent the last hour doing. All in all i was very let down 
 with it and someone should tell EA that using actors is all well and good to make the game look 
 as real as possible but then forgets to spend time on making the game play at least half playable. 
 The story of your career is'nt that great either i found it to be very weak at points, i would 
 of expected it to be alot more engrossing given that real actors where used but it still lets you 
 down. On a good point the selection of cars is quite impressive and i was very very pleased to 
 see the Bugatti veyron in the selection (wow what a car!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!) there were also a few 
 other good selection of cars but you could use the car you started with and still finish the game 
 quite easily. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Abdulla_123
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 21, 2008 2:07 am PT
Review:  It is almost the same as need for speed most wanted but this time your are the cop. you go racing 
 with the most wanted people and be their friends and earn their trust. in the right time when they 
 are happy with you. you have to take them down Ha Ha Ha.
  
  It is amazing i wonderd how did they bring in such an idea it is amazing.
  
  although you are 
 a cop you still beaing chasen by cops following you all around the city's and beleav me the Game 
 Map is realy big it took me about 10 min to go from one place to another.
  
  the driving is prity inprooved in the begining when you drive a slow car you can feel that it is 
 slow but later on when you get a good car and upgread it..... ohhhh the feeling is amazing i cant 
 describe what it feels when driving on a high way its almost real.
  
  some people compare this game with midnight club and i say that midnight club LA is way below this 
 game . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: WeeBles69
Rating: 4.5
Date: Nov 20, 2008 5:00 pm PT
Review:  The game starts of very nice, pretty graphics, nice cars, great scenery. That's about as good as 
 it gets.
  
  The races are very simple, the story mode is way too short. Customization of the cars lacks in 
 almost every way. The view, the parts, the whole idea. I thought with the advancement in technology 
 would give us so much more. Its such a let down.
  
  The streets seem very empty when you're just driving around, you might be in another part of the 
 map, but just everything looks the same. Dynamic weather would help so much, there is only one 
 time of day, 730 am looks the same as 1030 pm, which is seriously disappointing.
  
  I am a huge fan of NFS series, even Pro Street I found something good in. This on the other hand, 
 I am satisfied with, I wouldn't give my money for. The whole game feels like a demo, always thinking 
 that is going to get better when you get the full game.
  
  With the newer consoles and updates that are provided by the manufacturer, I truly hope that EA 
 comes up with some sort of an update that will make this game better, and I mean BETTER.
  
  If I wasn't a fan of the NFS series I don't think I would have picked up the game in the first 
 place. So much disappointment in so little time.
  
  So in final words, you will enjoy this game if you like other NFS series, but if you're looking 
 for a totally new game I would recommend Midnight Club, might be tough as hell in some parts but 
 you'll get the feeling of "WOW, damn that was close" when you finish a race, instead of "Seriously, 
 they're 10 seconds behind me?"
  
  Enjoy :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sdkingsht
Rating: 6
Date: Dec 8, 2008 9:45 am PT
Review:  Need for Speed Undercover is best summed up as an ATTEMPT at making Most Wanted 2. the racing on 
 courses with annoying @$$ announcers is gone. cops are back but not really challenging this time 
 around. the exciting chases from Most Wanted aren't anywhere to be found. these cops can pretty 
 much just be run away from if you get enough distance. that and several other faults like an annoying 
 camera thanks to a failed attempt at realistic sun light (which ends up coming across as a glare 
 you can't get rid of) that ends up giving most of the game a bland orange wash over.
  
  the game makes a statement with the opening sequence throwing you into a quick (but relatively 
 safe since it's only an opening sequence) police chase before the opening credits have finished 
 popping up.
  
  the corny cut scenes and bad acting are back but to be honest i even missed that. i mean... this 
 is a videogame... it doesn't need to be oscar worthy or have a compelling story like Final Fantasy 
 or Metal Gear. it's Need for Speed... all i need from the story is an excuse to drive fast... a reason 
 to not like the person i'm racing and taking pink slips from and i don't really even need a reason 
 to run from the cops and blow through roadblocks at 160mph other than the sheer fun of it. oh wait... you 
 can't do that. because if you then your car will actually total out and you'll get busted. so yeah... there 
 goes another highlight from Most Wanted that's been taken out : ( 
  
  the last two games got a lot of us saying we just wanted Undeground 2 or Most Wanted back. well... we 
 didn't quite get it this time either. there are still a few little slow down issues in framerate 
 and the game isn't perfect or really even fun to play for more than 30 minutes. if Most Wanted 
 or Underground 2 were games you absolutely loved then you MIGHT love this but i wouldn't bet on 
 it. my advice would be to skip this one and pick up Midnight Club LA or The Dark Knight on bluray. 
 you'll enjoy either of those longer and more than this. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ckboy221
Rating: 6
Date: Nov 19, 2008 4:47 pm PT
Review:  i bought this game because i was a huuuuge mose wanted fan. i love customizing cars especially 
 exotics and all but this game wasnt what i expected. first of all the graphics are OK and the frame 
 rate skips sometimes. i thought it was just me til i read another review that said the same thing. 
 the saving takes forever and picking a race is really dumb. all u do is press down on the D-pad 
 and ur automatically placed at the starting line of that race with a 5 second cut scene. the acting 
 is horrible, i dont believe anything i'm seeing. i still havent played online yet so i hope that 
 will save this game. the difficulty at the start is reallllly easy but for some reason, i have 
 a class 3 car... which is the 3rd lowest out of 4.... and they're putting me up against lambos 
 and porches and its almost impossible to win cuz they're faster and have way better handling than 
 you do. i was in 1st and got KILLED on a straightaway when 4 cars passed me and it said i was 6 
 seconds behind a guy that i was just 2 seconds ahead of. dont know what that was all about. NFS 
 kicked ass with hot pursuit 2 and most wanted but this game is a serious letdown. oh btw, i played 
 for about 5 hours and im 50% through the story already. must be a really short game cuz most wanted 
 took FOREVER to beat. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: luke_siddik
Rating: 5
Date: Nov 19, 2008 4:22 am PT
Review:  Need For Speed Undercover.... really a let down for NFS fans, the trailer and the story line is 
 quite nice, but the main problem is its too easy, and the game-play has not been improved since 
 Pro-street. And there is not any open world, all you have to do is pressed the down button on the 
 d-pad to join a race, AND you cannot race to the event. NFS Carbon and Most Wanted was such a nice 
 game, Pro-street and Undercover was such a total let down for the NFS fans. They should make an 
 upgrade patch or this game will be a very disappointing. The cars selections is pretty wide though. 
 but the performance parts is not licensed anymore. 
  The Highway Battle is nice, and the graphic is still the same compare with Carbon does not have 
 a lot of improvement on the graphic side.
  Last of all is that rent it before you buy it, do not waste $60 based on the hype. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: absjazz
Rating: 2.5
Date: Nov 18, 2008 10:27 pm PT
Review:  As a [former] fan of the NFS series, I was looking forward to a return to the open world street 
 racing scene that we saw in Most Wanted, and Carbon. I eagerly picked up my copy, popped it into 
 my PS3 and was initially impressed with the intro movie and cutscenes. After the first 2 races, 
 however, I realized that the open world was utterly useless. To enter into a race, all you must 
 do is press down on the d-pad or select it from the GPS map. You can't even drive to the event. 
 Once in the race, a stock 240SX can EASILY overtake Audi TT's, turbo RX-7's and other cars (of 
 much more performance) . Even with major crashes, you will have plenty of time and no trouble regaining 
 1st place. The game is simply too easy and not realistic at all. Additionally, the 720P graphics 
 are not impressive in the least. The over-saturated and over-exposed environment feels as if it 
 was ported from a Wii or PS2 game, and the frame rate is sporadic, making gameplay extremely frustrating. 
 Granted, the selection of cars is vast, and the city in which the game takes place is massive, 
 but neither is utilized well or effectively. Overall, NFS Undercover is a massive blunder on EA's 
 part. All the hype and intriguing trailers show a game that offers true street racing with addicting 
 gameplay and a big-budget- movie-like story line, but in reality, all you do is drive a car to 
 a finish line over and over again. No excitement or impressive features at all. This game is unfortunately 
 among the worst I've ever played. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: dacowboys
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 18, 2008 3:07 pm PT
Review:  ok i have played about three hours so far, with that said there are a few things that bug me. for 
 one the framerate is inconsistant, it doesnt really ruin the game but it is annoying. like you 
 will be playing and all the sudden for a quick second the screen will jump its wierd. anyway i 
 also agree with people when they say it is like most wanted only difference would be framerate 
 and city activity, in undercover the city just seems like its not really that alive. police chases 
 are sweet though. it is pretty easy so far i really do hope it gets harder here in the next few 
 hours of play as i progress.
  overall im happy with it so far but i am happy it only cost me 30 bucks because i had some trade 
 in credit at the game store. i would rent it first.
  i have some mixed feelings about it but i thinks its a cool game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xfactor674
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 18, 2008 4:31 am PT
Review:  In need for speed undercover they have new cars, more graphics, and the police looks more aggreesice 
 and hard to evade. the new cars that they have is nissan 370z and they have some japanese cars 
 and i think some from europe and some of their cars are faster than the amereican cars. there graphics 
 look better than need for speed most wanted, need for speed prostreet, need for speed carbon, and 
 need for speed underground 1 and 2. the graphics look like real life because the cars get damaged 
 now, but the police is hard to flip because of their roadblocks and probably because of the heat 
 level. the higher your heat lvl is like lvl 3 then the state police cops and police suv's will 
 ram you and make u flip if you dont dogde them. tthen you might get busted. if your on lvl 4 and 
 lvl 5 the police cars more aggresive, they box your car, the helicopter looks for and sometimes 
 hit your car, suv's are hard to flip in the roadblocks, and they set up spike strips and someimes 
 they put the spike strips right on the side of the car and you dont see your tires get flat. the 
 boss challenges are sometimes harder though. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ElevenX
Rating: 2
Date: Nov 19, 2008 4:11 am PT
Review:  Story = Predictable/Completed in 10+hrs
  Gameplay = Framerate issues on a High speed racing game=FAIL!
  K9 SUV Overtaking you in your 
 Zonda F at 225mph=FAIL!
  Modifications = HUGE Disappointment, tiny spoilers, no windows tint, wth were they thinking?
 
  Decals = you'll spend longer time trying to apply 20 decals then completing the game.
  Physics = Car wobbles like on hydraulics when moving on sand/pavement.
  Damage visible but does 
 not affect anything. Car totals only on high speed, head-on impact into walls.
  Camera = no left/right view.
  Minimap = impossible to see on white shiny road.
  DLC = Desperate 
 move to generate revenue+ruining game itself=Fail!
  Same lame few cutscenes before every race= Ultra repetitive & annoying.
  Loading screen = Sack 
 the staff involved!
  
  Cannot backup save games.
  Cannot turn off the painfully long autosave.
  No Subaru.
  Freeroam = lose 30k in 5mins
  Get 
 caught 3 times in same = car impounded forever.
  Replaying the same race wins u $200-$3000 = ZERO replay value. This will take u 125races to win 
 back the Bugatti Veyron (w/o mods) = 125x5mins=10.4hours They are just forcing u to buy things in 
 game with real cash.
  Pursuit breaker = Cutscene showing debris falling over the road to block the cops behind u but 
 u cannot see where you are going. Yes your car is still moving when the cutscene is playing. 
 
  A kiss on the back of your car you'll Spinout and get stuck on their bonnet sideways. I was in 
 that position for 60secs on the highway race but won cos i was infront.
  
  Gave this game a 2.0 because of 2 things
  1. I bought it for the R35, 370Z, Evo X, which looks 
 pretty.
  2. Easy to finish so I can sell it on the 2nd day of purchase.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: arvinth1
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 17, 2008 2:26 pm PT
Review:  NFS undercover i think is the best NFS going to be out because of its drifting, crazy tricks like 
 the 360 180 etc, and sick cars
  
  The best graphics ever and the modes are so great. I can't wait until i get it. I think the The 
 Nissan 350z 2009 model is in it and the the Nissan GTR is one of the cop cars. I wish they had 
 made a demo even though i know the game is going to be great. I know this because one of the companies 
 messages was there is not going to be any demo.
  
  2008 Porsche 911 Turbo is going to be a great car to. this game is going to be in the top 10 for 
 a long time after the game comes out on November 19th 2008 which is in Canada.
  
  I wish they have a Ferrari in this game but usually if a game has a lambo it doesn't have a Ferrari. 
 
  
  2008 Lamborghini Murcielago LP640 Roadster is probably going to be the best car in the game when 
 looking at the top speeds.
  
  The huge map is going to be great. It is going to be like your actually in a real city roaming 
 around. i heard it takes 8 mintues to get from one end to the other on top speed
  
  THIS GAME IS GOING TO OWN! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Devilzblood
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 17, 2008 9:56 am PT
Review:  I got this game, and let me tell you it is awesome, if you liked MW then you will love Undercover, 
 great handling, great graphics, intense story line, amazing cop chases, and awesome highway battles, 
 and most all Maggie Q has done a great job
  
  When ProStreet was released, i had honestly lost hope in NFS as it was my Fav racing franchise, 
 but Undercover beats ProStreet, it is uncomparable. Bring back the streets and the cops with a 
 whole new driving machanics is awesome.
  
  The highway is also awesome, specially when getting chased by the cops, trust me it is worth the 
 money. If you were greatly disappointed with ProStreet, Undercover will make your disappointment 
 into a worth while game that you can play and play and not get tired of it.
  
  One of the downfalls i personally find is the split screen feature that they took out, like the 
 old NFS i loved to play with friends together at someone's place but online feature makes up for 
 it. Dunt make this hold you back, this is an awesome game.
  
  i give it 10/10 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
