-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Need for Speed ProStreet
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/ps3/driving/needforspeed/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Nice online options.
 Car damage looks nice and makes totaling your ride fun.
 Solid, albeit unspectacular racing.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Ads, sponsored achievements, and the ability to purchase cars using real cash.
 Missing much of the stuff that made the last few games fun.
 Races start to feel the same after a while.
 Announcers will make your ears bleed.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Nov 16, 2007
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 7
Critic Score: 7.3, 26 Review (s)
User Score: 7.4, 1,258 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: EA Games
Developer: EA Black Box
Genre: GT / Street Racing
Date: Nov 13, 2007
ESRB: Everyone 10+

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
ProStreet is a solid racing game, but it's missing most of what made the previous games in the series 
 interesting. 

  It can't be easy to be a game developer in charge of releasing a new game in a series every year. 
 People don't want the same game over and over, yet they're unhappy if the game strays too far from 
 the established formula. EA deserves credit for trying something different with Need for Speed 
 ProStreet, but the new direction of the series fails to live up to the level of the previous games. 
 There's still a solid racing experience here, and the online component of the PlayStation 3 is 
 quite good; but the game's premise is uninteresting and the in-game advertising is over the top. 
 In the end, ProStreet is just another decent but uninspired racing game.  

           The racing is solid, but it's nothing special.      

  Unlike the last two Need for 
 Speed games, which told the story of an underground street racer through campy yet entertaining 
 cutscenes, ProStreet follows the legal street racing career of Ryan Cooper. The game still uses 
 cutscenes to try to instill some story into the proceedings -- something about Ryan getting dissed 
 by a big-time street racer -- but it's uninteresting thanks to terrible voice acting and unlikable 
 characters. Ignoring the story, it's your goal to head to different events, dominate them, challenge 
 the best of the best, and then take on Ryo, the man who disrespected you after your first race. 

  Thanks to the sheer number of race days you'll need to win, it will take a long time to get to 
 Ryo. Each race day consists of a number of different events. Most of these will be familiar to 
 anyone who's played previous Need for Speed games. Grip races are standard races with eight cars 
 on the track, and your goal is to finish first. Other events have you trying to get the fastest 
 time or highest speed through checkpoints, or the best time out of your class of cars. Drift racing 
 is back, but has been revamped and is actually fun this time around since you don't lose all your 
 points for going off the track. You'll also be doing a lot of drag racing. It's fun for a bit, 
 but gets old quickly thanks in no small part to the preceding minigame in which you have to heat 
 up your tires -- it's lame, and you have to do it before each of the three rounds. While there's 
 no shortage of events, there isn't a whole lot of variety. Many of them feel the same -- you just 
 want to go fast. This makes the game grow old quickly, a problem when there are so many events 
 to slog through before you reach the end.  

  The game also grows tiresome because the action on the track just isn't that exciting. Some of 
 the later cars you unlock, like the Lamborghini and Zonda, are superfast, but for the first 50 
 races you'll be racing some rather pedestrian vehicles. Since you're on a track there are no shortcuts, 
 so many of the courses end up feeling the same, especially since a "new" course is just an old 
 one with a few different turns. Most importantly, there are no cops. Getting chased by the five-0 
 was easily the best part of the last few games, so its omission here is huge. Damage plays a more 
 pronounced role this time around; you'll have to repair damaged cars, but you always have enough 
 damage-repair markers to take care of things. You won't even need these markers on the Wii and 
 PlayStation 2-- you really have to slam into something incredibly hard to register even a slight 
 amount of damage. This is understandable on the Wii because the default controls aren't very good. 
 Holding the Wii Remote flat in your hands and tilting it up and down to steer works OK most of 
 the time, but sometimes, particularly on tight turns, the game doesn't recognize your movement, 
 so your car will straighten out and usually end up in a wall.  

           Now that everything's on the up and up, there are no cops to be found.      

  While 
 you always want to win a race day, that's not your only goal. You'll need to dominate as many race 
 days as possible to unlock new events. After each race you're awarded points based on where you 
 placed, how fast you finished, and how much damage you took. If your combined score for all the 
 events breaks the old record, you've dominated the race day and you're awarded with a prize like 
 cash or parts for your ride. You don't always have to race perfectly, but you'll have to win most 
 of the events to dominate. This is made difficult because you can bring only a few cars into each 
 race day -- one for each event -- so if your car can't hang with the other rides, you're in trouble. 
 All is not lost, though. Like in other NFS games, you can purchase new cars or upgrade your ride 
 to improve performance. And like in the last game, you can sculpt certain aspects of your cars' 
 bodies to make them more aerodynamic. This time you even get to use a wind tunnel. It looks cool, 
 but it's not that useful. Nor are all the visual customization options, because it seems that you 
 can't use your rides online. The tool for putting on decals and vinyls is similar to what is found 
 in Forza 2, but not quite as deep.  

  PlayStation 2 and Wii owners are missing out on ProStreet's best feature: its online component. 
 On the PS3 you can create your own race day by picking a location, race types, and even what cars 
 can participate. You can then play these race days online in ranked and unranked matches. There 
 was some lag and the racing was a bit choppy, but it was still fun -- you can really build up some 
 good rivalries by racing the same people in multiple events during an online race day.  

  Though not everyone gets in on the online fun, all four consoles get a piece of the avalanche of 
 advertising that permeates the game. Sure, races in real life are heavily sponsored, but ProStreet 
 takes it too far -- there's nary a stretch of track where there's not some sort of advertisement 
 for motor oil or car insurance. It doesn't seem possible, but 360 and PC owners get to enjoy even 
 more advertising thanks to dynamic ads that will be downloaded when you start the game up for the 
 first time. Even better, some of the achievements are sponsored by a car insurance company. It's 
 too bad that the cost of the game and the ridiculous amount of advertising isn't making EA enough 
 money -- on the Xbox 360 (and according to EA, soon on the PS3) you can use real cash to unlock cars 
 and upgrades. Every single time you go to buy a car, you're asked if you want to use in-game cash 
 or real money. You don't even need to have unlocked a car to be able to purchase it with real cash, 
 which is really unfair since you can use that unlocked car to zoom right to the top of the leaderboards 
 on the early courses.  

  It shouldn't be surprising that PlayStation 2 and Wii owners also come up on the short end of the 
 stick with regards to the visuals; it isn't a good-looking game on either system, though the Wii 
 does support progressive scan. The cars look OK, but there's a lot of aliasing, particularly on 
 the tracks, which are so jaggy that it's tough to see where you're going when you're driving at 
 high speeds. The PS3 and 360 versions look very nice -- particularly their cars, which look fantastic. 
 They look great when they're shiny and new, but they look even better when they're all smashed 
 up. It hurts your wallet when you total a car, but it sure is entertaining to watch the windshield 
 shatter, the bumper fall to the ground, and the hood peel away like a sardine can lid. As mentioned 
 earlier, the game doesn't give off a tremendous sense of speed most of the time. This is partially 
 because you'll spend a lot of time driving slower cars, but also because the frame rate isn't very 
 fast and is frequently choppy. Everyone gets in on the terrible career menu, which is ugly and 
 difficult to navigate.  

           Most of the cars here are the same cars from the last few games.      

  ProStreet's 
 audio isn't very good. This is mostly the fault of the game's announcers, who are poorly voiced, 
 have a terrible script, yell into the microphone, insist on calling you by your full name every 
 time they refer to you (which is hundreds of times over the course of the game) , and basically 
 do everything they can to get on your nerves. The cars sound OK, but there's not a whole lot of 
 variety to the engine noise. The music isn't anything exciting, either, and you'll hear the same 
 songs dozens and dozens of times over the course of the fairly lengthy career.  

  What it all boils down to is that without the story, cop chases, and open world of the last two 
 Need for Speed games, ProStreet is just another racing game. Other than a nice online mode on the 
 360 and PS3, its only truly distinguishing feature is its amount of advertising, which makes an 
 already uninspired game feel even more soulless.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (77 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: NFS-KING47698
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 21, 2009 11:49 am PT
Review:  This game has so much to offer. There is so many different race events like speed, grip, drag and 
 drift races. All of these events feel so different. In the speed events you can feel the sense of 
 speed SO well and it becomes more difficult to control your ride. There are so many race days which 
 include about 4-8 races each. You can customize your car in so many different ways such as vinyls, 
 body kits and parts, wheels and a lot of performance parts. The cars handle so realistically and 
 the damage effects are so detailed. The soundtrack is also pretty good, but not the best. The controls 
 are easy to work with as well. There is a huge selection of cars, ranging from the Honda Civic to 
 the Pagani Zonda F. One car can only be used for one race type, though. Different cars are better 
 for different races but some can't even compete in certain events. These are the reasons why I think 
 that this game is AMAZING! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dragoonmaster18
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 26, 2009 11:47 pm PT
Review:  I can't believe how fun this game is. The graphics are okay, could be better, but graphics don't 
 always make the game, do they? The cars are amazing, a lot more fun then Gran Turismo in my opinion, 
 graphics aren't as shabby Gran Turismo, but I love the grind and drag races. If you enjoy the Need 
 for Speed: Underground (1 and 2) , Most Wanted, and Carbon. Then you're gonna wanna get this game. 
 Its fun and is only $20 at Walmart. This game is available for the Xbox 360, PS3, and I think the 
 Wii. Theres a few good songs from some known bands. You can also play online, with your friends 
 on Live, PSN, or Wii Network. Hope this review was helpful in making your choice in a game. Thank 
 you and good night (, or good morning.) Oh, If you would like to add me to your PSN, my ID is Arminas 
 1781, please tell me where u got it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dreadedsniper
Rating: 7.5
Date: Feb 26, 2009 6:18 pm PT
Review:  The good: 
  Great graphics. 
  Fairly deep customization. 
  Lots of cars. 
  Very long game. 
  
  
  This definitely isn't the best nfs game but it has its moments, and 
 quite a bit of them because its one of the longest racing games besides forza 2. This is more of 
 a simulation racer than arcade so if your looking for a arcade racer go for a different nfs game.
 
  
  
  The Bad: 
  Horrible acting, the announcer is extremely annoying. Totally insane amount of in stupid in game 
 advertisements. The drag racing mode can be frustrating and extremely repetitive especially the 
 ridiculous tire warm up before the race. Driving control is easily the worst of all the nfs games 
 yet. 
  
  
  Bottom line: 
  Its not the best racer out there but for $20 its worth a look. But with so many other good racers 
 out there like burnout for the same price i'd recommend buying burnout instead its a much better 
 game trust me. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: joemerchant2006
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 11, 2008 3:22 pm PT
Review:  I remember when this game came out, and I was phyced so freakin' much. About 4 hours into the game 
 and it felt like I had accomplished anything and hardly gotten anywhere. This type of game is sort 
 of retro-style track-age mixed in with the modern-day modifications seen on previous NFS games. 
 But this is no where NEAR as disappointing as Carbon was. At least in this game you could re-do 
 races and earn the exact same ammount of money as you did the first time you won it. 
  
  But, like I said earlier, this is a different style of racing game so you have to judge it by different 
 standards. I agree it's sort of a let down, but it wants to be different so it is. For the ammount 
 of cars you get, it's astounding. Graphics, beautiful (like PS3 games should have) difficulty hard 
 but not hard enough to make you want to eat your own poo. What I would have loved to see is the 
 exclusion of the piss-poor acting you usually find in NFS games. 
  
  If you REALLY want to look into this deeply, GRID did that same exact thing, but with no customization 
 whatsoever, and people LOVED it. So what the crap is wrong with this game? Besides the fact that 
 sometimes the AI has a better car than your sorry buttocks and you get so frustraited that you 
 smash the controler into billions of peices... _ ;; Overall, it is a farily good game, you just 
 might acctually... well... be good at a racing game instead of picking your nose.
  
  Oh, before I forget and on a final note, What the hell is with EA? I hate the freakin product placement 
 ads. No scratch that, it just isn't EA, it's more like EVERYT GAME DEVELOPER IS IN ON THIS CRAP! 
 STOP IT! Its' not like I'm going to look at the sign for Geico and go, "OMG! I NEED THAT! I BETTER 
 CALL THEM!! HOLY CRAP WHERE HAVE I BEEN, IN MY MAN CAVE FOR TOO LONG? JESUS CHRIST ON A POGO-STICK!" 
 It's not going to happen. No way, no how no when. Unless your a lonely reject that wants to feel 
 normal, and even then they'll ask where did you hear about them. Almost garenteed they will tell 
 this moron, "... Um... you need to call 1-800-get-alife...*click*" So my suggestion to any game developer 
 out there that may happen to look at this... take my suggestion. It'll let you have more... dignity. 
 More so than Terminator 3. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: coolguyff7
Rating: 2
Date: Nov 26, 2008 3:59 pm PT
Review:  need for speed a great game from the ps1 versions and the underground street racing version and 
 they put the street racing going for 3 other games up to carbon and then came pro street which 
 i think was a little similar to grand torismo which was all so a good game but the story was a 
 bit bland and tasteless but the one thing i did in joy was the way you can customise your car some 
 we have seen in the past games and in my own personal opinion of you ant to big on races you can 
 sit back and customise your car i got my mate to race i did the car to be honest this game had 
 some good points but a few more bad in my opinion i thought that most wanted was there best one 
 but everyone has there own opinion on what they think was a good version of need for speed thanks 
 for reading my review if you can call it that and have a good one 
::::::

::::::
UserName: travis73005
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 30, 2008 10:37 am PT
Review:  I enjoy the change of pace in being able to go to weekend and do some 'underground' even though 
 it is at convention type settings, races but it gets repetitive and lacks the ability to replay. 
 i wasn't even able to finish the game before i had to get rid of it. 
  
  now i honestly liked the game, but it didn't do enough to get me to keep it. i get the whole deal 
 of setting up cars for your team, and it sucks because you can only have that specific car classified 
 as 1 type, if you wish to change, you must undo everything in order to accomplish this. that is 
 extremely frustrating, not to mention the major suckability of totalling a car, it is expensive. 
 they crackdown on this game and make you pay out of pocket in order to even repair your vehicle. 
 it entices you to race 'cleaner'. there are no NFS invisible walls. now this is cool and a nice 
 change, but irritating. i found it extremely easy to be able to advance through the career, and 
 money was easy to come by, it just got boring. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kartik24
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 22, 2008 3:32 am PT
Review:  look man let me come up straight
  one of the man reasons i've noted that ppl don't like this game because the the handling of the 
 cars are to realistic!!!!!?? W#$!#$
  wat kinda of crappy excuse is that
  
  in the previous games everyone said.. oh the car feels so fake its handling isn't good, but now 
 that the handling is good everyone says ohhh its too realistic?? make up ur mind!! everyone seems 
 to give up so easily. it takes some time to get used to it.
  the concepts of race days are great and its a good idea instead of the free room its a really good 
 idea.
  there's great selection of cars and all of them feel feel right. the difficulty is just enough, 
 not to easy or not to tough to bug u.
  
  the concepts of drag, drift, grip and speed runs are good, they've made it more realistic this time. the 
 only thing that irritated me was those public announcers (they speak crap dont they!!)
  
  lets hope undercover gets all ur attention back to the need for speed series
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: minimme
Rating: 1.5
Date: Oct 19, 2008 9:51 pm PT
Review:  Music: 5.0
  Pretty repetitive annoying gay music...
  
  Sounds: 4.0
  Bad
  
  Gameplay: 1.0
  This is the worst, you crash slowly and it says some 'Light Damage' crap that 
 pops up. Then you crash into a telegraph pole and it says 'Total Damage'. This, as you can see, 
 is incredibly annoying. Then when your driving the wheels don't always automatically straighten 
 up. This is the gayest thing ever. If your ever thinking about buying this game. STOP! DON'T BUY 
 IT! IT SUCKS!
  
  Graphics: 6.0
  The graphics of the cars are all around pretty good, and everything else is AT THE START!!! You 
 start racing and everything around you is pretty crappy graphics.
  
  Value: 0.0
  Worst value ever. I can review this game and i only played it for LITERALLY 30sec at my friends. 
 He hates it, I hate it, IT SUCKS!!!!! !!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! !!!!!!!!!!!! !!!!!!!!!!!! !!!!!!!!!!!!!!!
 
  
  PROS:
  Graphics at the start
  
  CONS:
  Everything else 
::::::

::::::
UserName: drunknmunky3
Rating: 7.5
Date: Oct 6, 2008 11:03 pm PT
Review:  ProStreet would have been taken better by the gamers of today if EA hadn't spent 4 games setting 
 up a street racing style to the NFS series. Sadly this is not the case, and the result is that 
 ProStreet is underappreciated by NFS fans all-round.
  
  Personally I don't think it's the best NFS game, but I do think that other gamers are giving it 
 a particularly hard time. EA are being responsible in creating a game that focuses on legal racing 
 rather than running from the cops, although I must admit the loss of the cops was a big loss to 
 the gameplay...
  
  NFS ProStreet has a racing style that's blurred between simulation and arcade racing, this means 
 that some aspcets of gameplay seem out of place. Like when you're driving along at 400 kph (around 
 250 mph) and suddenly from a small bump the car starts bouncing around absolutely madly until you 
 crash and burn. This is annoying and could have been improved on with some simple DLC, but i guess 
 not enough people play this game for it to matter.
  
  All-in-all, ProStreet is an underapreciated game by NFS fans and a concept from EA that looked 
 like a good idea but was eventually neglected. I would recommend renting this game over a week, 
 finishing it and moving on (Undercover looks much more promising :-P ) .
  
  By the way... Anyone want a secondhand copy of NFS ProStreet? :P 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xanxxx
Rating: 5.5
Date: Dec 8, 2008 4:04 am PT
Review:  What the F is wrong with EA anyway? I was expecting to play free roaming in this game and explore 
 Nevada by driving in these huge highways that I watched on the first footage of need for speed 
 pro street. I was very excited about the whole game before its release. I never expected that there 
 would be no city to explore by car and that all the game is to beat this stupid gay emo loser with 
 a sorry ass hood, Rio Watanabe or whatever his name was! I never expected that the whole game would 
 be based on a few circuits and drag strips that you would select from a menu in order to race and 
 nothing else beyond that! I mean it reminds me the need for speed hot pursuit 2 in a way except 
 from the fact that need for speed hot pursuit 2 is WAY better than pro street; the circuits were 
 more exotic Cops were chasing you the multiplayer had more fun, it was a better game. The only 
 thing that I liked in pro street is that they improved the car physics; crashes are more realistic 
 and driving is better than the previous need for speed. Car Lot has a huge collection of cars which 
 is good. Also graphics are very nice but they are useless with everything else being terrible! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: neil_2468
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 3, 2009 8:33 pm PT
Review:  Yes, I know what your thinking: "You've gotta be EFFING kidding me!", I know EA decided to go legal 
 racing and take off free roam and cops... But think of it this way: EA wanted a change, because 
 their idea of the last few NFS games were kinda being overused. So to buy some time, they made 
 a completely different NFS game that had nothing to do with the series whatsoever. HOWEVER, some 
 of the new features in the game are actually not bad. The driving feels a little more realistic, 
 since EA tried to make it look more like a racing simulator rather then almost all the arcade types 
 of NFS, but it still has a hint of arcade in it (just like NFS Porsche Unleashed) .
  
  One thing you should consider is that ProStreet is on more than one console, unlike Forza 2 or 
 PGR 4 (only for the Xbox 360) , or Gran Turismo 5 (only for the PS3) . And yet those games are one 
 of the reasons NFS ProStreet got a lower score, apparently it just wasn't wanted. But say those 
 racing games I mentioned didn't exist at all. If that was the case, would you still give NFS ProStreet 
 the same score?
  
  Ok, on to more of the gameplay. What I like are the three levels you can choose from. I don't remember 
 the names, but I did choose the highest level right at the start. Why? Let's just say I'm really 
 into racing games and have a pretty damn good experience with them. And since I had the feeling 
 that ProStreet would have a mix of simulation and arcade driving feeling, it wouldn't be very hard 
 to drive cars in this game. The highest level is driving the cars at their raw power, without any 
 assistance like braking, handling, etc. The driving, in my opinion, is great! It has that mix of 
 simulistic driving with that hint of arcade, like NFS Porsche Unleashed. I haven't tried drifting 
 yet, but it certainly looks MUCH more realistic. I even chose this feature that I was REALLY fond 
 of, manual transmission... WITH clutch. Now unlike any other racing game where I almost always 
 use manual transmission, NONE of them had clutch. Basically when shifting with clutch, you just 
 let go of the accelerator, hit/hold the clutch button while hitting the other button to shift, 
 then hit the gas again... All that in a fraction of a second. At first it took me just a little 
 time getting used to, but thanks to just doing practice races (I think that's what they were, otherwise 
 something that didn't count in career mode) , I was showing off to my friend how good I was as a 
 beginner in ProStreet with the highest level and manual/clutch transmission, when he was using 
 the first level at an automatic transmission! XD Anyway, the actual races are really good, especially 
 drags. They're simple but way more realistic. That's where manual/clutch transmission really comes 
 in handy. Apart from that, the races can get more and more intense along the way. At least you 
 actually have nitrous in this game, although it's limited (hey, that's realistic, since nitrous 
 doesn't really MAGICALLY recharge, which NFS Underground 1 had right) and you use it in shots (i. e. 
 Just tap the nitrous button, but not hold it, and a full shot of it goes out, I think the number 
 of shots vary) . And watch out not to flip over or that will total your car. Oh yeah, car damage 
 exists (even to the point of totalling your car) in this game, unlike the indestructible cars from 
 the other NFS games. The visuals for that are pretty sweet, though I know you probably don't wanna 
 wreck your ride during a race, but feel free to try it while practicing! :P
  
  The graphics are pretty good, NOT the BEST around, but satisfying enough for ProStreet. The sound 
 effects are really good. The music... random (a lot of Junkie XL I think) , but good anyway. The 
 voice of Ryan Cooper is ok, he isn't too irritating for me. If he is to you, I think you can turn 
 off his voice in the audio options or something. 
  
  So for me, NFS ProStreet deserves a solid 8.5. Hopefully this LONG@$$ review gives you the same 
 thought. Thanks for taking the time to read all this! :D 
::::::

::::::
UserName: badger_mk2
Rating: 7.5
Date: Aug 7, 2008 4:03 am PT
Review:  So I have just bought this game off E-Bay as there was no way i would pay full pop for it as other 
 reviews said it wasnt the greatest, but i needed a new game for the holidays and i have every other 
 NFS from Underground onwards. So all the modifying, street racing games.
  You play the part of Ryan Cooper an ex-street racer trying to crack it into the legal racing world.
 
  ProStreet takes racing of the streets and puts it onto the track and gives you some legal racing 
 fun. Well i say fun but it becomes any other racing game. In the street racing games it has traffic 
 to dodge and it took more skill to avoid them.
  However EA have made some great tracks with tight corners, chicanes, full throttle bends and nitrous 
 firing straights. The tracks are decorated with massive inflatables floating around, bright blocks 
 and all the usual scenery. There are also many drag strips to burn down.
  So you have your character and the tracks but now all you need are the cars, and hell there are 
 a lot to choose from, Dodge, Nissan, Mitsubishi, the list goes on bringing you all the best new 
 Jap racers including the Evo X and new Skyline R35, and all the old but ageless Yank muscle, Chargers 
 and Chevys. So theres something for everyone.
  Next the main part MODIFICATION! For performance you can choose to do an auto upgrade were a whole 
 kit is thrown on for you or you can choose your parts yourself, which is what i suggest. You have 
 the usual engine, nos, tires etc. to choose from in 4 tiers and a selection of manafacturers for 
 each. then the best bit, the body kits. Unfortunately you dont have much choice, you have to buy 
 a whole body kit. No more choosing bumpers and skirts and mixing and matching for your favourite 
 look. But you do have the Autosculpt feature from Carbon, (is that the first one it appeared in?) 
 so you can change the look but hardly. You just widen the air intakes or make the front splitter 
 stick out a couple of feet. However the kits do look quite good so its not all bad. Then you have 
 to choice of spoliers, wheels, paint and vinyls & decals. Trust me the vinyl choice is Amazing. 
 You can have 20 layers to design a unique and amazing design, there are hundreds of vinyls to chose 
 from and even after you select it the fun doesnt stop. You can edit the vinyl not only the colour 
 but the position, angle, size and slant. Leaving you with infinite design choices!
  I kinda suck at designing cars but i have a sweet Evo and i just sold my Chevy that looked like 
 the muscle of the Gods, well not really it was kinda bland, kinda like my Viper.
  But anyway enough about my crappy cars.
  
  So, WHAT IS THE STORYLINE?? i hear you scream, as 
 i said you play the part of Ryan Cooper, and you have to work your way through race days to reach 
 the Kings, there is a king for the 4 different race modes, (speed, drag, grip (straight up circuit 
 race pretty much) and drift) there is then the overall king Ryo. So you have to race your way to 
 being King and thats it, no dramatic storyline twists here.
  
  A word of warning the cars handling all suck, they are not at all anything like the real things 
 and the gameplay gets V. repetative.
  
  Come on EA we want Underground 3!!! Bring back the Chavy modifications! They were the best! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ian_armstrong
Rating: 7
Date: Jul 19, 2008 6:21 am PT
Review:  Need for Speed Prostreet is the latest in the series and it fails to live up the the anticipation. 
 The Gameplay is fine in race but nothing special and the cars can sometimes be unpredictable and 
 annoying - especially the ones you pay alot of money for. There are four race modes, my favourite 
 being drag - the tyre heating mini-game at the start of a drag race is particularly innovative. 
 There is a wide range of custimisation avaliable to do on your car and there are a good selection 
 of vehicles such as the Dodge viper and the the Pagini Zonda. The online mode is OK but can be 
 a little complicated and the multiplayer is very basic and predictable. But the thing that really 
 lets this game down is its lack of free-roam. I feel the franchise has taken a backward step by 
 removing this feature as i think the free-roam was what made the need for speed games so much fun. 
 All said, Prostreet is a OK racing game but a bit of a disappointment. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Rollite
Rating: 1
Date: Jul 13, 2008 9:26 am PT
Review:  This honestly has to be the worst Need For Speed Game I have ever played, the advertising is ridiculous 
 and the game modes themselves aren't anything special. Also, the fact that many of the game modes 
 are completely unfair makes it a game I find impossible to enjoy, oh and unless you hadn't realise 
 there is no more free roaming of a city anyore with other drivers, there is no city just tracks! 
 I personally have not attempted the multiplayer online and therefore I am unable to comment however 
 I have to say the multiplayer would need to be absolutely amazing to make this game worth buying, 
 something I seriously doubt. This has to be by far the worst driving game I have had the displeasure 
 of playing in many many years. All this together with the feeling you have no actual control over 
 the handling of the car due to the 'numb' controls means you should avoid this game at all costs! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: snake2215449
Rating: 8
Date: Jun 25, 2008 10:48 am PT
Review:  NFS Prostreet on PS3 I played at Target shopping mart and it was so much better than the PS2 version 
 and PC version which I have. I don't know about the Xbox 360 version but this is the best version 
 of NFS Prostreet. Still not that great it still does have a lot of interesting twists. This is 
 legal racing not illegal, it does sound boring with no cops and no traffic but soon you will get 
 used to it and it becomes a lot of fun. The story is almost the same as every NFS game, you get 
 dissed by another racer who never lost since 5 years and now your out to get him and his stooges. 
 There are four races you can play grip, speed challenge, drag and drift. Speed challenge and grip 
 are the most fun as they involve fast racing but speed challenge is incredibly hard, one mistake 
 you'll get totalled. Another twist in the frachise is that damage is present and you will have 
 to pay for damage or you can just get your car insursed. The insurance expires also so be sure 
 to keep buying it if your clumsy. The NFS soundtrack has always been awesome and this time it is 
 just better, the music keeps you thrilled while racing and is something that lets you cling onto 
 the game. The worst part of NFS is the annoying DJ who makes cheeky comments all the time but also 
 does chant your name RYAN COOPER!!! You can't use you own name, you have to be called Ryan Cooper 
 which is kinda dumb. My favorite car is probably Lamborghini and I hope in the new NFS they will 
 have the new Lamborghini 2008 Reventon. A new Need For Speed 2008 is coming out soon which is said 
 to be beating GRID. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sublimejmh
Rating: 1
Date: Jun 8, 2008 11:43 pm PT
Review:  Easily the worst Need For Speed game in years. Which sucks because they finally included the Nissan 
 Silvia and the Skyline R35, the problem is that the game is so terrible you won't even care to 
 play it long enough to unlock them. So avoid this game like the plague. You're better off playing 
 NFS Carbon (if you haven't already) , Juiced 2, Burnout Paradise, or Grid. All are better than this 
 underwhelming pile of **** The circuit races are boring. The drifting control is all wrong (doesn't 
 require downshifting or oversteer like it should) . The drag racing warm up was a good idea but 
 gets annoying almost immediateley. The top speed races are retarded. Perhaps if EA were to take 
 everything from NFS Underground 2, add the Police chases from Most Wanted, and the Canyon Drift 
 runs from Carbon they might have the makings of a decent game. In the mean time. DO NOT BUY THIS 
 GAME!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sonic0491
Rating: 3.5
Date: Jun 5, 2008 8:23 pm PT
Review:  Hello and welcome to my first ever game review posted on gamespot.
  
  Need For Speed: Prostreet Playstation 3
  
  Introduction:
  Prostreet is quite a different 
 game from previous Need For Speed installments. For what I imagine is the first time, you race 
 in legal racing circuits/ tracks instead of the illegal 'gangster' racing in neon lit cities. You 
 begin as a rookie driver named Ryan Cooper (who you will never get to know as he's just a boring 
 alias) , and begin the racing segment facing an up-himself enemy driver named Ryo. The story may 
 be one of the most boring parts of this game... the story is pretty much non existant as you do 
 what you did in all the last games, race to beat someone who is a better crack-wise racer than 
 you. In this game he is just a jerk, he doesnt steal your car or anything, he just tries to humiliate 
 your driving style. Task no 1= beat other blatent races, Task 2= beat Ryo. our mission is to race 
 all the circuit, drift, drag and so forth races until you beat the guy. Done this all before have 
 we not?
  
  Control:
  I dont know what it is about this game or if its just me, but the cars feel very very floaty compared 
 to other installments. You will pull or push the left analogue to the right and a second later 
 (thats right, lag) the car will start to float that way. I believe the makers tried to make up 
 for this by giving you driving lines, which constanly annoy you. Just be thankful you dont have 
 the psp version, which are HUGE green arrows which abstruct your view.
  
  
  
  Graphics:
  On standard definition the game looks good.... only at blistering speeds. This is 
 because if you start to slow down you take in how ugly the world really is. Spectators faces are 
 horribly muddled making them look like theyve run into brick walls. The tracks are quite nice but 
 even burnout 3 on the ps2 had better looking roads. Smoke effects are quite nice until say... the 
 car stops a burnout, then the smoke will not drift away, but rather, slowly dissapear. The cars 
 themselves looks quite nice but if you take a close look at the interiors on the car viewer (in 
 the grarge, editing the car in blueprints) the interior looks absolutely horrible. Everything inside 
 the car is pixelated. I was actually ashamed for a second that this was a playstation 3 game. 
 
  
  Gameplay:
  In prostreet you play different races inside 'race days'. You can gain money for comming in certain 
 places, but to overall win the day, you need to place atleast 3rd in each title. In this game you 
 cannot simply go to a garage and pick your parts, you need to choose from a confusing menu and 
 use 'blueprints' to update your car. Commonly you will find you have not got enough money to upgrade 
 your cars, making winning race impossible when you have to have about 3 different cars to use for 
 each event!
  During races you will have a VERY annoying spectator mode which shows times of each car, it clutters 
 up the top left side of the screen and is almost like an internet pop-up, very distracting. Ontop 
 of that you have colour co-ordinated arrows on the road displaying how fast to go around corners, 
 as i stated before, this could the editors fix to bad/floaty controls. On a plus side multiplayer 
 is quite fun as you can create your own race days for you and your friends to race on which is 
 reletively lag free, but it doesnt make up for the 'campaign'. The racing and menus also frustrate 
 because the annoying announcer is always calling out "Ill be back in a minute, im getting some 
 food", "Dude down the front there, chill out dawg" = VERY ANNOYING!
  
  Soundtrack:
  Finally heres a strong point!
  Deriving from the annoying hip hop and rap beats of previous titles, 
 Prostreet has many great songs ranging from the latest rock form avenged to electronic greats of 
 digitalism. It may be the only thing driving the game, so before this game, im making sure to download 
 the soundtrack :)
  
  Fun Factor:
  Unless your friends love this game (the idiots) and you give in pretty easily to peer pressure. 
 I dont recommend this game at all Carbon (basically a night time version of Most Wanted, a highly 
 reguarded Need For Speed) is also avaliable on the Playstation 3, Pick this up immediatly if you 
 want to play some good NFS racing, not this. I bought this game for $40 australian from ebay, which 
 is half the price of the shops if on sale. DO NOT BUY THIS GAME! you will be throughly dissapointed.
 
  
  Final Word:
  The games blatent been-there-done-that gameplay will not stand anymore. The only good things about 
 this game are the soundtrack and the great idea to host it as circuit racing in 'real' racing tracks. 
 Unfortunatly they screwed this up by a unbearable announcer, sloppy controls for which they needed 
 to add a driving guide and a bad menu and car editor design.
  If you want some Need For Speed action get Carbon on PS3 or Most Wanted on Xbox360/pc. However 
 I do recommend that you get GRID over anything else. Now thats a superb racing game. Not this rushed 
 trash. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vufor
Rating: 5
Date: May 25, 2008 7:51 pm PT
Review:  Advertising of this game made such an impression that I thought this is the best NFS game ever 
 made. So built machine and tested it yesterday.... absolutelly broken... did not even come closer 
 to any of NFS series so far.
  
  Very dispapoininting, I understan possible they tried to make legal racing game telling poeple 
 that do not race in streets but do it in racing tracks, but man all juice of NFS series was in 
 that, be a street racer and smash everything up.... story is the key point here... in previous games 
 it all was th same.. race take over oponents earn points and tune your car... or take over the area 
 of city and keep control over it.
  
  In general it looks good, nice car damage scene, bit tought to control car once cutting the corners... more 
 response from controller. Very time consuming and none sense inter-game announcements. 
  
  The only thing I really liked is the menu of carrer option... well designed and thought vintage 
 or what ever it called.
  
  Overal mediocre game.... this is once again prooves that the est NFS is Most Wanted!! Still plating 
 it. :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bjschmid222
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 25, 2008 10:58 pm PT
Review:  Need For Speed: ProStreet may have lost the free roaming gameplay found in previous nfs games, 
 but the game doesn't suffer as greatly as some people are saying. For one, there are soooo many 
 races in this game, it seems to go on forever. There is also an update out that gives you four 
 more free race days, which adds about 32 extra races! The speed challenges are enough to keep anyone 
 on their feet. Now, I don't have a wheel so that could affect my gameplay experience, but I am 
 very happy with this game. The cars are amazing; the GTR is Amazing! The racing physics are also 
 very realistic. It is by the far the most realistic driving experience on the Need For Speed series 
 so far. However, the gameplay does not slow down during races, the game balances out realism and 
 arcade style racing well. I agree that the game does need to have the free roam driving and go 
 back to the streets. However, I do love the amount and quality of gameplay in ProStreet. On a side 
 note, you might want to mute the anouncer. He gets annoying Damn quick! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: _EXCON_
Rating: 7
Date: Apr 19, 2008 7:03 am PT
Review:  Prostreet uses the same value as Burnout Domiator and Juiced 2, Which isnt such a good Idea, But 
 its still a fun entartaing game.
  
  The story in Prostreet Is not intrestin, u just go to a racin stadium and meet a show of Rio, who 
 sucks .The gameplay is NOTHIN but DRUG racin, it may be fun, but thats all u do in the main story. O 
 ya , the story is so short u beat it in 5-6 hrs. The drug racin and chicks were the same as Juice 
 2 , Dont know why but it effected the games look. All that stuff may be quite Dissapointing , but 
 there is a really good Multiplayer, u can modif ur car, set location , select the track and etc.
 
  
  
  Luckily NFS Prostreet hav Burnout in it, The crash scenes ar fantastic , and the car damage is well 
 made. The worse part of the game that there ar NO COP CHASES. The gameplay is really nice, though 
 it couldeve last more .
  
  
  So instead of Burnout dominator and Juiced2, couldnt they putted the previuos NFS games, instead 
 they putted Juiced 2 , which SUCKS like hell. If it wasnt Burnout, this game would suck, But u can 
 pass the time with it. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: jae1217
Rating: 7.5
Date: Apr 12, 2008 5:26 am PT
Review:  So So game.... not my favorite of the collection 
  
  I've Seen betterI've Seen betterI've Seen betterI've Seen betterI've Seen betterI've Seen betterI've 
 Seen betterI've Seen betterI've Seen betterI've Seen betterI've Seen betterI've Seen betterI've 
 Seen betterI've Seen betterI've Seen betterI've Seen betterI've Seen betterI've Seen betterI've 
 Seen betterI've Seen betterI've Seen betterI've Seen betterI've Seen betterI've Seen betterI've 
 Seen betterI've Seen betterI've Seen betterI've Seen betterI've Seen betterI've Seen betterI've 
 Seen betterI've Seen betterI've Seen betterI've Seen betterI've Seen betterI've Seen betterI've 
 Seen betterI've Seen betterI've Seen betterI've Seen betterI've Seen betterI've Seen betterI've 
 Seen betterI've Seen betterI've Seen betterI've Seen betterI've Seen betterI've Seen betterI've 
 Seen betterI've Seen betterI've Seen betterI've Seen better 
::::::

::::::
UserName: travular_17
Rating: 4.5
Date: Apr 10, 2008 10:11 am PT
Review:  NFSPS is a different game in comparison to other NFS games. The graphics are very smooth, the gameplay 
 is alright, the cars are decent. You can actually damage your car, which adds some spice to how 
 the game is played. So what's wrong with it?
  
  BORING...
  
  One race, two race, three race, four race... same race, same race, same thing, same stuff over 
 and over and over. For some reason, I still think NFSUG was more fun even though it used the same 
 track over and over and just reversed it or changed a turn here and there. There was more more 
 motivation and incentive in UG.
  
  PS has a faulty storyline, an unclear selection for car modifications, and it's just not that motivating. 
 I expected a lot more on the first PS3 release; however, I still prefer my GameCube version of 
 Underground. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MagicPhil
Rating: 6.5
Date: Apr 10, 2008 6:20 am PT
Review:  After having played the NFS franchise back in the early days on the PC, with a Ferrari or Porsche 
 racing to lose the cops, I was quite enthusiastic for this new game in the franchise.
  To bad it doesn't fulfill his promises and the marketing around this game!!
  Yes, the story is 
 quite OK! Yes, it's addictive to be able to buy cars, tune them, give them the colors and logo's 
 you like! Yes, the single player campaign is long! 
  No, the racing is just bad, the cars steer like big boats, the roads are not very realistic (sometimes 
 very small) ! 
  No, the competing cars are racing like lunatics, at straights they sometimes race by, while I am 
 at top speed and have outrunned them before ;-) !
  
  As a conclusion, allthough the looks and feels and the mkt around the game are OK, the game itself 
 is disappointing. It feels like the most important element, the racing, is neglected in favor of 
 all around it.
  I am now at about 35% of the game, but will probably sell the game again, certainly because I have 
 bought GT5 Prologue now.
  
  EA, stick to real sport games and let the real racing studios do their gamework!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pigsybum
Rating: 7.5
Date: Apr 5, 2008 10:23 am PT
Review:  A change in direction is what the Next-Gen NFS had gone, from illegal street racing to Legal Circuit 
 racing.
  Yet the biggest change is the physics, from arcady to realism. No longer do you drive in a pace 
 of your own, u now need to follows lines if ur new and avoid collusion due to the newly implemented 
 Damage models.
  Being one who had play most Simulation driving game, NFS prostreet into the new direct is good 
 and welcomed, but the storyline makes you do event repetitively and it seems to last too long to 
 enjoy.
  
  Gameplay:
  Change direction from arcady to simulation, some of you sees it as bad whilst some as good. Fact 
 is, the physics is well done. 
  The controls are tight and great, you will feel the customisation you've made to ur machine, like 
 the handling. Most likely, you'll need racing lines as well to win races, if not you would need 
 tons of practices.
  One bad thing that turned most ppl down is the lenghty and uninteresting storyline. You don't really 
 get to unlock cars even if you've earn money, unlocking another event seems more like a chore. 
 You'll probably be repeating racings to a point ur bored and put it down.
  I bear with it until i completed 11% before putting it down if u wanna know.
  
  Drag races 
 and driving are different now, sometimes it do load a lot for these two game mode which i dislike. 
 The difficulty for these two mode has gone up as well, with Grip races being easy if u follow the 
 lines.
  
  Graphics:
  GreaT! I don't see it falling behind the GT5P. GT5P looks great but you'll realise lots of texture 
 glitches when u look carefully.
  As always be EA, their graphics department never fails!
  The downside here is the occasional Framerate drops during some circuit. After advancing into the 
 7% of storyline, i don't see anymore drops.
  
  Sound:
  DTS format, probably the best u can find in a PS3 game. It's base is very good, engines sounds 
 very realistic and some variety, just tune up ur engine sound to 100% cause by default it's 50%.
 
  The commentary in the game is full of praise which isn't realistic nor necessary, it's a good 
 if u ask me since i often hear negatives about the commentary.
  
  OVerall, ur a NFS fan and have the extra bucks to spent, get it, but expect to see a 180 degrees 
 change from arcade to simulation. 
  But it isn't as realistic as GT5P, so you'll get used to it. It's more of a mix of some Arcade 
 taste in a simulation game, nothing too serious yet give a good amt. of fun at the same time.
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sony-tha-champ0
Rating: 7.5
Date: Mar 30, 2008 7:24 am PT
Review:  NFS prostreet is prertty disappointing in a lot of ways, It just an ordinary NFS game ,and doesnt 
 really stand out too be great, and alo of parts of the game is still a bit dull.
  
  The story in Prostreet Is not intrestin, u just go to a racin stadium, have a first race , and meet 
 a show of Ryo, who sucks .The gameplay is NOTHIN but DRUG racin, it may be fun, but the there`s 
 not enough varitety in it. O ya , the story is short, thawt may bore you out too quickly. All that 
 stuff may be quite Dissapointing , but there is a really good Multiplayer and a good online play 
 with a decent co-op, u can modif ur car, set location , select the track and etc.
  
  
  The crash scenes ar fantastic , and the car damage is well made. The worse part of the game that 
 there ar NO COP CHASES. The gameplay is really nice, though it couldeve last more .
  
  
  So the game might not be the bestBut u can pass the time with it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: supersonikk
Rating: 6.5
Date: Mar 17, 2008 11:08 am PT
Review:  There is only one question I always ask when I play this game. Why? Why have they replaced the 
 open world race tracks with oncoming traffic with fixed circuits and no Sunday drivers? Why have 
 they got rid of the chasing cops that were so fun to trash? Why have they tried to copy Gran Turismo 
 by creating a racing simulator, but failed in the process because they NFS'd it up by having bad 
 attitude crowd and announcer and advertising at every possible opportunity?
  
  When I heard that Need For Speed were making a new racing game with crash simulating and changing 
 from illegal to legal, I almost broke down and cried. When I managed to get my hands on it and 
 played it, it was as bad as I thought it would be. It is definitely the worst game in the series 
 since the PlayStation 1 game NFS: Porsche Unleashed. I thought Carbon was pretty bad, but Need 
 For Speed Prostreet is a new low for the franchise.
  
  I hate the fact that in career mode, they have chosen your identity for you. You are Ryan Cooper, 
 that's final. Why couldn't they have let you name yourself? The only reason I can find as to why 
 they have given you that name is so that the obnoxious announcer can scream it every other second. 
 After you realise that this is who you are, they throw you straight into the crappiest car and 
 you race a very easy race and win. As you progress, you unlock more and more 'race days' on the 
 career map and unlock more cars when you win and dominate these race days. Once you have completed 
 a certain amount of these race days, you unlock branches of the career tree that lead to the bosses 
 or 'kings' of their certain race type which are grip, speed, drift and drag. When you defeat the 
 bosses, you have a chance to get their car and you are one step closer to facing the showdown king, 
 Ryo. When I was playing, I didn't feel that there was much to race for. Ryan Cooper doesn't have 
 any possessions other than his cars and he doesn't have anyone to support him, who is always there 
 to look out for him, like in all the previous NFS games. There are only two real must have cars 
 - The Pagani Zonda and the Lamborghini Murcielago LP640, and that gave me even less motivation 
 to complete the game.
  
  I'm not sure what NFS has to offer on online mode, can anyone tell me? I have not been able to 
 connect to other users over the Internet, are you only allowed to race friends? I have heard, however, 
 that this is a very good game for challenging other racers online.
  
  There is a slight sense of speed, but nothing compared to NFS: Most Wanted or Hot Pursuit 2, which 
 are my favourite two NFS games. Also, the big talk point, the crash simulator, is surprisingly 
 alright - the big difference over Gran Turismo. It is quite realistic in terms of looks, but you 
 do have to really thrash it to get tagged with 'heavy damage' or to wipe yourself out. One thing 
 I do like about the gameplay, though, is the control/handling of the cars. All the cars are unique 
 in the way that they move and when you get a corner just right, it is very satisfying. The new 
 use of the R2 button to accelerate and the L2 to brake works very well and I am used to it now. 
 Despite this though, they have taken away the cops and free roaming that made this series special 
 and one of my favourites.
  
  The graphics of the game are much more polished than the last four Need For Speed games on a PlayStation 
 console. There are no more jagged lines on the tracks or car and the game kind of shows off with 
 the amount of nicely worked people and the reflections that come off of the cars. There are virtually 
 no problems in this department, but there are definitely some other car games coming out that will 
 show up Prostreet.
  
  The sound that the cars give out is okay, but nothing distinguishes it from any other car racing 
 game. The music is really horrible - I don't know anyone who would want the soundtrack to this 
 game on their iPod. I think that EA could have done more to give you complete value for your money 
 - something like a battle mode would have done nicely, rather than just serious racing all the 
 way through. The replay value of this game is not quite bad, considering that there are a decent 
 amount of cars to get and try out online.
  
  Overall, Need For Speed Prostreet was an average game, nothing really special. It does kind of 
 feel like a next gen game, but they could have done this with another high speed pursuit game that 
 everyone enjoys. I think that the only reason people would buy this is because of the name. If 
 this wasn't a Need For Speed game, I would definitely not have bought it and waited for Gran Turismo 
 5 to come along. Yes, I could have waited that long, as long as I get a proper challenging racing 
 simulator.
  
  Add me as a friend on the PS3 if you liked this review! My PS3 ID is supersonikk, and I will kick 
 your ass =) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FOXracing416
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 8, 2008 7:05 pm PT
Review:  hmmm... this game was kinda fun actually it has some great cars in it and i love the way it lets 
 you customize your car... but every great game has a atleast one bad part (unless its call of duty 
 4... lol) . the bad part about this game it that when you hit a canyon going 200+ mph you dont just 
 knock off your front and back bumper.... your going to die and your cars going to be in peices. 
 this game has the bumper deal like every other racing game except burnout.... but other then that 
 the racing is fun and it has pretty good graphics. just rent it first and see if youl ike it. most 
 people would probobly buy it. just give it a try. the graphics look almost like the videos and 
 trailers for the game.... the online play is kinda hard to access idk if its just me or if its NFS. 
 but like i said just rent it and you might like it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cbmurphy2489
Rating: 6.5
Date: Jun 30, 2008 1:45 pm PT
Review:  Here are the NFS games I've played so far:
  
  Need For Speed: High Stakes
  Need For Speed Underground
  Need For Speed Underground 2
  Need For Speed Most Wanted
  Need 
 For Speed Carbon
  Need For Speed Pro Street
  
  Out of all the NFS series, 'Most Wanted' is definitely the best one I've ever played! It had everything 
 that a racing fan could ask for: fast rides, police units, over the top action, and a well-put 
 BUT cheesy storyline. I'm kind of disappointed they didn't put the Nissan Skyline on there, but 
 it was still a good game. As for 'Carbon'? Well, I praised the number of vehicles & graphics, but 
 I didn't like the difficulty on there. Plus, the story on there seemed a bit overrated. What do 
 I have to say about Pro Street? I give it a big thumbs DOWN! Why? Because it's a Gran Turismo wannabe! 
 If some of you don't know what I mean, then I might as well tell you.
  
  Here is the GOOD about ProStreet: the best selection of vehicles (the Bugatti Veyron, the Dodge 
 Challenger, the Ford GT, the Mitsubishi Eclipse, and the Nissan GT-R) . Now here is the BAD: the 
 gameplay, the controls, the advertising, and the lousy announcer! Thank god I didn't BUY the game. 
 I only rented it just to see what the beef was about. But it turned out that even the announcer 
 on the TV makes something this worse seem like the most experienced racing game ever made possible. 
 Plus, who would ever want to hear some loudmouth scream out a name that you've never chose for 
 your driver? That's another thing. Why would EA cut off the "name-putting" option all of a sudden? 
 Plus, they decided to not have police units and free roaming on there, assuming that they were 
 changing it from "illegal" to "legal". They have got to do better than this.
  
  Overall, this game is nowhere close to being "the ride of your life." As for those of you who have 
 NEVER played ProStreet, I recommend you DO NOT buy this game. It would only be a complete waste 
 of your time and your money. I say stick with GT5 Prologue and Most Wanted. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: grall23
Rating: 3
Date: Feb 25, 2008 6:22 am PT
Review:  new games should have more features, improved controls, better graphics and more. but nfs prostreet 
 is worse than the others, i really didnt expect such a bad game from such a good series. the cars 
 may look nice with all the graffiti on it. but thats the only nice part. the control is horrible, 
 beginners will surely get frustrated easily. controls are also not well laid out so that it is 
 actually difficult to control cars on tight turns. in past nfs games, if you wanted to play with 
 a friend on split screen, you can select a course, a car and race. but in prostreet, you have to 
 create a whole series of at least 8 different events and play them all to get a final score. why 
 cant you just choose a course and race, like the normal way? why make it so difficult? why make 
 the controls so crappy? hence, nfs prostreet gets a 3 for being a deprovement in the series. what 
 a rip-off... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: buccfan
Rating: 4
Date: Feb 24, 2008 1:35 pm PT
Review:  I do not know how this game got a good rating, I went out and rented it before I thought about 
 buying it and I am glad I did. This game does not compare to the previous games in this series. 
 The designers need to go back to the drawing board and start over again!!! The controller layout 
 was horrible with no classic setup available to switch to, and the game play left alot to be desired 
 . I will agree with the reveiw that the acting was horrible and the gameplay felt slow, extremely 
 slow. I will leave this game at the strore where it belongs, with the other could have beens and 
 never were. My rating is a very generous 4.0, and hope that any future offerings will not be this 
 dissapointing. 
  I am waiting for God of War, G T A, and Grand Tourismo to hit the scene, with any luck these games 
 will be alot more than just a weak offering made to just make a couple bucks. So far the PS3 has 
 been slightly disappointing with only a couple games worth while. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ChoCNillA
Rating: 7.5
Date: Feb 12, 2008 5:25 am PT
Review:  Well having gotten to grips with the new instalment in the NFS series am not all that impressed 
 anymore!
  
  This game has some making up do compared to the NFS's that have come before shall start of with 
 the good points first before i zoom of into the bad the crashes the best i have seen on any racer 
 for sometime! And an over all good racer nice cars a few good mods and some great detailing can 
 be done to the cars if you have the time or rather can be botherd. Well thats all i got for the 
 good!
  
  So heres the bad in my opinion lacking of course the infamous police pursuits we all know and have 
 come to luv dare i say it! That and the fast amount of mods we used to ba able to do in the likes 
 of the underground games i mean the discs for blue ray can store more why not do so with more cars 
 more mods, police pursuits, so on and so forth why cut the game down when EA should be expanding 
 something we have all in common is the need for more bigger and better something in which EA has 
 gone wrong with over the years o so much so! 
  
  Anyways am going to conclude with my review there an pursue a letter to EA asking what s going 
 all than x for reading somewhat a rant than a review! 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sony-PS3-fan89
Rating: 7.5
Date: Feb 10, 2008 12:39 am PT
Review:  Prostreet uses the same value as Burnout Domiator and Juiced 2, Which isnt such a good Idea, But 
 its still a fun entartaing game, for a while. and even if your playing with a friend doesnt still 
 changes the fact ,that this game is still a bit dull ,
  
  The story in Prostreet Is not intrestin, u just go to a racin stadium and meet a show of Rio, who 
 sucks .The gameplay is NOTHIN but DRUG racin, it may be fun, but thats all u do in the main story. O 
 ya , the story is so short u beat it in 8 hrs. The drug racin and chicks were the same as Juice 
 2 , Dont know why but it effected the games look. All that stuff may be quite Dissapointing , but 
 there is a really good Multiplayer, u can modif ur car, set location , select the track and etc.
 
  
  
  Luckily NFS Prostreet hav Burnout in it, The crash scenes ar fantastic , and the car damage is well 
 made. The worse part of the game that there ar NO COP CHASES. The gameplay is really nice, though 
 it couldeve last more .
  
  
  So instead of Burnout dominator and Juiced2, couldnt they putted the previuos NFS games, instead 
 they putted Juiced 2 , which SUCKS like hell. If it wasnt Burnout, this game would suck, But u can 
 pass the time with it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: starfoxmania
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 5, 2008 6:52 pm PT
Review:  OK, first things first. This game is a simulator. A SIMULATOR. To find in here idiots that would 
 not comprehend the difference between a simulator and a previous Need For Speed game, saddens me, 
 but to get the same complaint from the gamespot editor, really, really sickens me. It literally 
 makes my stomach sick, you know, just like when for no reason at all you want to throw up? I mean 
 this Aaron Thomas person should never ever ever be allowed to write reviews for racing games at 
 least. I don't know how he rates other genres but to write a "professional" review of a racing 
 game that was done after the year 2000, without testing it with a steering wheel is beyond me. 
 Because at the end of the day, the most important factor of a racer is tight realistic controls. 
 Why do you think the Rfactor, GT series and EA Sports F1 series are praised in the racer communities?
 
  
  Good things were said about Dirt and the support for the Logitech G25 wheel was mentioned, but 
 the editor here forgets to say anything about the beautiful support of NFS Pro Street for this 
 wheel. How many games so far support the clutch pedal and especially six-speed H-pattern shifter 
 for a console? How many? Even though I'm not exactly sure I can almost guarantee you that NFS PS 
 is one of the very few, if not the only one.
  
  I completed the career 100% and I used the hardest difficulty settings (except for having an automatic 
 clutch on drag mode) , and the responsiveness of the G25 steering wheel and pedals is out of this 
 world amazing. As a realistic racing game, NFS PS gives more fun to someone who knows how to appreciate 
 a good racing game, kids on the other hand get bored if they don't see cops on the circuit or street. 
 But since when did Gamespot start to hire kids as game reviewers?
  
  Very unhappy with the servers of the game and the confusing online menus. Cannot say that the online 
 game was as solid as the offline. One game that really shone in this regard was Ridge Racer 7, 
 which had exactly the same frame rate online and offline. Makes me laugh to think now that on RR7 
 you could drift in tight corners in speeds of over 300 km/h and that game a got a better score 
 than NFS - What a joke!
  
  P. S This is isn't the 1st time for me to see that gamespot should improve a lot in giving people 
 who haven't played a game yet a fair review. When PS3 came out and I was playing Genji I was blown 
 away by the graphics of that game, and at the same time I was playing Legend of Zelda the twilight 
 princess. Gamespot gave a score of 9 for the graphics for Zelda and a score of 8 for Genji. Unreal. 
 Unbe-freaking-lievable... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thewiseplayer
Rating: 4
Date: Feb 5, 2008 3:43 pm PT
Review:  the game needs way more fixing and it would be better IF YOU DO NOT HAVE TO PAY FOR DAMAGE i warn 
 every person with the game. do not race a zonda or any supercar if you take alot of damage. it 
 will cost alot of money too fix a zonda or f1 with heavy damage (possibly 20,000-200,000 bucks) 
 for some reason the ranked servers never work. it is very laggy. if your analog is busted up then 
 dont play the game the steering is super sensitive to the analog. the drag minigame should be optional. 
 the game wanted to feel real but dont put all that boring paying for damage thing on. and for some 
 reason the slow cars can actually beat a fast zonda for some reason. i had a skyline pass my zonda 
 and win while i was at 200+mph. they have tis thing called sector shootout it is basically get 
 to a checkpoint before time runs out. my recomendation is just dont buy it (please im talking from 
 experience here) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: splodge200
Rating: 7
Date: Feb 5, 2008 1:01 am PT
Review:  need for speed didnt realy break any much ground since the second need for speed i found, but this 
 one takes it in a completly new direction. long gone is the arcade style racing and replaced with 
 a simulation style racing. the graphics? amazing!!! the racing? took a lil while getting used to 
 but also quite great!!! sence of speed? **** WOW! while the other nfs games did a sense of speed 
 very well this one blows it out of the water! specialy with its more realistic aproach u cant help 
 but get an adrenilin kick when u do the fast tracks.
  
  some bad things? the dj! SHOOT HIM! when u move to another event u think "yay stupid dj gone" but 
 to be replaced with another equaly stupid dj with a dif accent complaining bout his sandwich??? 
 well maybe not sandwich... but u get the point.
  
  all in all its a great game but i do find the older games mroe entertaining? sure its fast... very 
 fast and sure the graphics are amazing but its just not that fun? i dont know why... maybe coz 
 it just gets boring all the tracks look the same the djs get annoying and with the green line that 
 u follow in circuit races gets also annoying? kinda like the game wants to baby sit u all the way 
 though.
  
  all in all a goood game but not gonna set the world on fire but gets extra points for trying somin 
 new! not quite gt? not like the other nfs? but in a league of its own.... did that make sense? 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mariogalaxyfan
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 24, 2008 8:47 am PT
Review:  The need for speed pro street its a very cool game that have pretty graphics
  ,excelent soundtrack, and a lots of hours of fun.
  In the game you need to beat Ryo watanabe ,the 
 showdown king, and the others kings of drift, speed, grip and drag.
  This game is very diferent then the other because in this nfs the races are in tracks isnt in 
 the streets. the damage sistem is very cool if you have your car totaled the race is over for you.
 
  In the split screen mode have a lot of bugs like objects disapearing.
  The cars are the same of the series in the excusion of some cars like the nissan gt-r proto or 
 the pagani zonda.
  In the online mode you race with other people, share you cars and your race days.
  Ahhhh talking 
 about the graphics the people in this game are very detailed
  (the girls are very hotttt !!!!!) .
  if you have money to buy this game go to the store now!!!! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mythicfiredark
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 16, 2008 4:48 pm PT
Review:  This game is very good and it's unappreciated, very unappriaciated. This is offcial racing and 
 it's trying it cut down on illegial street racers in the real world. This game is actually the 
 best in the series yet not the worst yet and it's shouldn't be ridiculed by people who are addicted 
 to the illegial Street racing part of need for speed. It is a decent game which will sit in front 
 of juiced 2 for the entire race. It is memoriable Need for Speed would you rather play Need for 
 Speed Highway Stakes or this. I would play Prostreet it is the future of Need for Speed. It has 
 great races circuts, drifts, drags, speed traps, 1 lap challenges and securt shootout. The graphics 
 are great and so is the sound. Need for speed is going down hill you just can't see the light in 
 the tunnel for the future.
  gamplay: 9.5/10
  sound: 8/10
  graphics:10/10
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: weddlecm
Rating: 6.5
Date: Jan 12, 2008 6:48 pm PT
Review:  Not again, another boring old Need for Speed. They have been making these things like candy, I 
 swear there's a new game every month for this series. Anyways, the only reason I bought this was 
 because it was thirty dollars. Overall, its pretty gay The turning is terrible and the controls, 
 but the things I do like is the mutiplayer and the car selection. You can choose anything from 
 a viper to a corvette. You can drag race, cutomize your car, its pretty cool in that part. I was 
 just really dissapointed with the controls and all, unless you really love Need for Speed I would 
 not reccamend this game. Probably, If your looking for the next great "car" game wait for the new 
 Burnout Paradise, that's the way to go. Anyway's enless you can not wait another month or something, 
 get this game for the heck of it. It's a good game if you have online and like to play with other 
 people. Thanks for reading, add me too your friends. 6.5/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheMach_5
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 31, 2007 4:25 pm PT
Review:  Pro Street is based upon race days, which have a variety of events, which include wheelie competitions, 
 drags, top speed challenge, drift, grip, and sector shootouts, which are all fun and unique. After 
 dominating and winning you get to pick a card which has a surprise behind it. 
  Customizing is really in depth, you can alter your car's aerodynamics in a wind tunnel, fine tune 
 your suspension, engine, transmission, and basically every aspect of your car including adjusting 
 tire pressure. Visuals like paint and vinyls are free and extremely in depth, like you can color 
 your body panels different colors.
  Online is really good too, you can create your own race day or share blueprints with friends. it 
 also tracks all your statsistics, and if your really good you can get on a leader board. There 
 is also a Split screen.
  Damage is realistic and actually effects your cars performance. You actually have to pay for your 
 damage which is a first, and gives the game a really good and realistic feel.
  There is no free roam or police though, but the game is stil really good, and free roam and police 
 would have messed the whole game up anyway, so it's better without it. The game is also a lot longer, 
 which makes the game a lot better value than pat ones.
  The music on pro strret is pretty good too, which includes Junkie XL mostly.
  Everything in the 
 game fits together and gives it a really good feel. All the other games in the Need for speed series 
 were good, but it was ready for a change and I think they made the right change.
  if you don't like fine tuning cars and doing real racing, then you probably won't like the game, 
 because it's not arcadey anymore, and you have to fine tune your car if you want to do good, which 
 is like real life.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: coffey85
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 31, 2007 4:44 am PT
Review:  The game has changed from the previous need for speeds, the new style of racing is race days instead 
 of free roam and looking for races. Thats propbaly the only bad thing about the game, its missing 
 the parts which made the last games great like free roam and police chases. But this has been made 
 up for by the new race modes. 
  For each different race mode you will now need to customize a specific car for that specific event 
 so instead of having 1 car you now need to have atleast 4, for the 4 modes drift, drag, speed, 
 grip. All the cars can be customized to the max and you can unlock unique parts like in most wanted. 
 Also if you get sick of the selection of cars, you can download more from the psn store. Drag racing 
 no longer has traffic to get in the way and to make up for this perfect shifts are need and timing 
 of nos has to be spot on to win the race, they have also added a wheelie moed in drag racing which 
 basically means the person who wheelies there car the furthest wins, this mode is really awesome 
 it always reminds me of the end of fast and furious before the rail way crossing. Grip mode is 
 basically circuit racing, some of the events you are entered to get the best time others your fighting 
 for the best sector record etc. Speed chalenge is a whole new event that the racer has to get the 
 best postion or top speed to win it is, you have to get the right car for it or racing will be 
 made a hell of alot harder, the cars stababilty is the key to winning because totalling usually 
 happens on these races. Drifting is also improved it seems alot more realistic, horse power and 
 torque is everything for these events keep a drift lasting the whoile race and the points will 
 pour in, they have also lost the whole multiplyer thing instead its angle and speed that gives 
 points. 
  Online you can make your own race day which features the tracks you wont and the cars and the aim 
 is to stay at the top of the learder board and win. 
  
  overall the game is great it is missing some of the great stuff from the last games like free roam 
 and police but all this is made up for by the new style of racing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Rapid_Fire_360
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 30, 2007 1:37 pm PT
Review:  This is a very good racing game for the Playstation 3, The graphics and sound are great, but the 
 game is very complicated, you have to choose all sorts of cars for different races, then after 
 choosing your cars there is a tricky menu before your races, to be honest i'm not too sure which 
 type of race i select for the car i wan't to use etc. Shame that this version of the need for speed 
 series dose not feature free roam as i found free roam fun.
  Altogether this game is very good, the racing on the track is fun and the online racing is great 
 fun as well!
  I think that this game is one of the best racing games available at the moment on the Playstation 
 3, i would give the graphics 9/10 sound 9/10 and the gameplay 7/10 because there is no Free Roam 
 option and it's quite complicated.
  The difficulty on this game is just right as you can choose from 3 difficulty options, casual, 
 pro and king. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: goalieguy314
Rating: 2
Date: Dec 28, 2007 8:33 pm PT
Review:  This game is a disgrace to everything that is motorsport. I don't even know where to begin. I guess 
 I can begin with the little big that is good about this game. The graphics are good and up to date, 
 there are some noticeable jaggies though. And that's.. about it really. 
  Now comes the bad; and there's a lot of it. First off, from a driving simulation standpoint, this 
 game is barely even at the arcade level. The driving dynamics are nowhere near true to real life 
 (apparently grip increases when you enter a slide? Try and figure that) . It feels like you're driving 
 on ice. Then comes the sound. Every car in this game sounds like it has a ridiculous ricer muffler 
 stuck on it. Every car's sound is way too raspy. And turbos.. every car that has one, and try to 
 find one that doesn't, sounds like it has a jet turbine (or a massive turbo) stuck on it. And don't 
 even get me started on the stupid announcer guy that will not shut up. The camera is bad too. It 
 will start lagging behind the car (in trail view) and shaking madly when even though you're only 
 going 90mph, it looks like you're going mach 1. It's nauseating. The gameplay is your standard 
 street racer game: Lame.
  
  Honestly, I could go on and on about how bad this game is, but I won't waste my time. If you know 
 anything about cars, you probably won't like this game. For anyone else, it's a rental at best. 
 Another EA game bites the dust. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Stalemate99
Rating: 6.5
Date: Mar 29, 2008 5:39 am PT
Review:  
  Visually a good game, not when compared to Gran Turismo however. Im sorry to bring GT into this 
 but I will say that Gran Turismo owns this in every single way.
  
  Vehicle customization is the best part about this game, its very diverse, you really can customize 
 almost anything. It lets you put your car in a wind tunnel and sculpt the body which is neat.
 
  
  The different types of race are fun (Drag/Drift/Grip/Speed Challenge) and more, stops the game 
 from getting boring. Drag race is my fave, you have to warm up the tires by doing a burn out and 
 shift the gears yourself.
  
  There isnt a great deal of cars in this game but there are some good ones, its fun to buy a car 
 and do it up. Im dissapointed that there wasnt a bigger selection.
  
  2 player is can be a blast.
  
  A short review but basically this game is alright, can be fun, 
 its just "not quite there" 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PS3Champ
Rating: 6
Date: Dec 27, 2007 9:42 pm PT
Review:  I've played all previous Need for Speed games down to Need for Speed Underground 1. I love them 
 all, and when Need for Speed Most Wanted came out the series became even more appealing to me. 
 I was looking forward to getting this one but when I popped it in my PlayStation 3 I couldn't belive 
 it. This game is a total disappointment. In previous titles the games were more focused on fun 
 and customization. They were always very simple games but left your cars with an awesome look. 
 Need for Speed Pro Street is different however. This game it more focused on tuning your vehicle 
 so it performs well on a track. There are a good amount of visual options but nothing compared 
 to the previous titles. The physics also make it very hard to control your car. And the worst part 
 is that if you crash once your vehicle will get totaled and you'll have to start all over! This 
 ruins the races too. Overall this game is a true disappointment for me. As a long time Need For 
 Speed fame, trust me, don't buy this game unless you want to spend more time tuning your car than 
 you do racing. If you can even find out how to the garage. The menus are just as bad as the rest 
 of the game. And theres no free rome or cops. Nothing in this game is fun like previous games. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ger14
Rating: 7
Date: Dec 22, 2007 10:58 pm PT
Review:  Here quickly is the good stuff, great car selection, graphics are ok but not crazy like GT5......... bah 
 all i can think of is bad stuff so here ill get it off my chest.
  
  Ok so here we go! When you miss a shift point on a real car, lets say your supposed to shift at 
 6000rpm for optimal torque but you shift at 5900rpm instead, does your car bog and almost stall??? 
 Hell NO!!!! and they call this a Sim. And when i change the assist levels to king, why the hell 
 does the computer go faster! all im doing is changing it from casual to king which removes the 
 break and turning assists......... but nooooooo, they make the computer go faster so whats the point. 
 When putting the assist on racer and im doing a top speed race ill be driving on a straight away 
 hitting my NOS for the check point ill get up to a nice 250mph and then right before the check 
 point (on a straight away) the assist hits my breaks and takes me down to 175mph WTF!!!!!!!! BS!!!!!!!!! 
 
  
  I still think that they did a great job on NFSU 2, probably the best game in the series. This game 
 is good but needs many tweaks to make it more fun. I would say its worth buying but you gotta be 
 patient and also mess with the settings to get the right feel for you. Changing the engine tuning 
 setting also doesnt really do much, why would you get more HP if you put the boost all down!!! 
 STUPID!!!!! Also instead of putting 2 bars to tune the boosts torque point, just put one bar and 
 call it PSI boost controller....... but no, i think ea is tooo smart for that. Gran Turismo and 
 Forza are the Kings of race Sims, and always will be. And by the way EA, you know how you looked 
 at burnout to see what kinda damage they use in the game and you decided not to use that style 
 of damage, well the new Burnout game is sick and the damage makes NFSPS's damage look like a hot 
 wheels toy car with they panels falling off ( i think if i drive my car into a pole head on at 
 250 mph the whole front of the car should cave in instead of just the hood and panels flying off) 
 the sounds are ok (integra should sound like the civic, not like a lawn mower) 
  bah!! F this, im outt here!
  
  all in all, its worth buying and playing, just dont expect the 
 world from it. maybe rent it first 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ps394
Rating: 7
Date: Dec 21, 2007 5:16 am PT
Review:  Choice of cars and having modifications from real companies is good, though I would like neons 
 and modifications for lights, like NFS Underground and Underground 2. Though the the racing has 
 moved away from being street racing, and is now legal racing it's still about the same quality. 
 There are a few downsides and a few upsides, and with the graphics and physics engines getting 
 better every Need For Speed game, this is just right for carrying on the legendary racing series. 
 The game does get repetative, further on though, but still a pretty good game.
  
  
  
  
  My score: 85% for the first 50% of the game then 65% nearer the end. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pablich
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 20, 2007 8:10 pm PT
Review:  This need for speed game is really fun, it's really different than the other ones, but it doesn't 
 affect it very much.
  
  Ok it does get old quickly, but I never found it boring at all, you have to take good care of your 
 cars because if you don't you smash them and have to pay to get them repaired.
  
  Well I'm really tired and sleepy hehe so I'll just say: if you like racing games and have a ps3 
 buy this one, it has a lot of great cars and you can buy the collectors edtion upgrade which gives 
 you 4 race events more and 5 cars which include an acura integra 2001 and an audi rs4 2006 (my favorite 
 of this upgrade) .
  
  In addition to all the new features, all the online things taht you can do are really amazing, 
 you can create your race day and upload it for people to play it and try to beat your score in 
 it or you can play in it with other people online also which makes it really fun and much more 
 challenging than playing the game offline 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Solidesnake2004
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 17, 2007 6:40 pm PT
Review:  I like it, im not going to lie, but i like Prostreet, yeah it may not have freeroam or cop chases, 
 but i have seen what the racing world does go through it the racer themselves do have some heat 
 on them. This is a good portrayl of what some racers do to get into the procircuits to upgrade 
 their ride, and maybe team (if team is needed) ..... now too the review.... hahaha
  
  Need for Speed ProStreed is a step up from what people call a step down on Carbon, I would like 
 to say (Car Selection is VERY WELL DONE!!! except the fact that there was Skyline proto and the 
 actual R35 Skyline... plus i don't know about this but.... Ford Focus????. Heck they could have just 
 placed back the 08 Challenger Concept and the Gallardo on the list and it would have been fine.
 
  Controls are done well i think, when you get to fast speeds everyone and their mom knows that 
 it will be a little difficult to control a vehicle at speeds above 120, or at least 110.
  The Menu on the game is well done, not too cold, but after a race you just get back onto the menu??? 
 couldn't they just give you the choice of either racing another race or go back to the menu for 
 repairs and such, Speaking of repairs.... HOLY MOLEY!!!!! the damages on the cars look authentic, 
 and spoilers fall off other cars you hit or damage your own ride., Yes, that is the answer if your 
 question was if the Body kits work this time around... and yes they do, they effect your driving, 
 how fast you go, and how you take the turns.
  
  I recommend this game to anyone who has never played a NEED FOR SPEED GAME IN THEIR LIFE!!!! it 
 is a good one, and i think it is not underated as it is on this site. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kevman22
Rating: 4.5
Date: Dec 17, 2007 4:33 am PT
Review:  I am in love with Pony cars of the 60's and 70's. This game has a few of the great classics everyone 
 knows, Challenger, Camaro, Shelby GT500, Charger, newer mustangs, and newer GT500. But I highly 
 doubt that a Honda Civic with a 4 cylinder Vtech Could keep up with a 700 horsepower Big Block 
 Challenger. It's just unseen. Some physics really need to be balanced, the smaller the engine, 
 the more it should cost to hop it up. V8 parts are cheaper, and add more power, since you don't 
 have to worry about computer chips and whatnot. I'm just saying, if the racing scene really involves 
 large amounts of Vinyl stickers, shiny paint jobs, big wheels, and fart cans then every teenage 
 white kid would be doing it every weekend. Just my opinion..
  
  On another note, why is it that 70% of the races feel the same as the previous? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gamer2424
Rating: 7.5
Date: Dec 15, 2007 2:45 am PT
Review:  Ok I love the need for speed series, but this one was kinda bad but also really good.
  
  The Good thing about this game would have to be grapics, ea did a good job there as well as the 
 online mode, but it is a little choppy but still good. The cars are really good, glad to see they 
 put more musle cars in the game. Plus the customization is good. The Bad about this game is that 
 ea went too far away from what the game started as and what it became with have cop chases and 
 free roam. Plus the big thing is when has street racing been legal, when people say street racing 
 the first thing you think of is illegal, and a bunch of cars racing on the street.
  
  Conclusion: I would have to say that ea did a good job with pro street, but they could have stuck 
 to their roots with the illegal side of street racing, free roam and cops. They could have improved 
 on it and made it better. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: speedjunkie4
Rating: 6.5
Date: Dec 14, 2007 9:23 am PT
Review:  Prostreet takes NFS in a change of atsmophere. But ultimietly, it just dosen't feel right. One 
 of the first things you will see is those cool cars on the main menu. Well, those are the cars 
 that belong to the Kings, which are divided up into race mode kings, amd the Showdown King, who 
 is Ryo. But, it seems like Ryo is the only one that isen't wearing a helmet. Also, there are a 
 few race modes, including Speed Challenge, which is basically Speedtrap from Carbon and Most Wanted, 
 Sector Shootouts, which is were you get points for getting to the sector checkpoint in the shortest 
 amount of time, Drifting, which is self-explanatory, Drag, which is also self-explantory, Wheele 
 Competition, which is were you have top pop the longest wheele, Time Trials, and standard circuit 
 racing. The cars, on the other hand, have some of the best variety in the seirs alone (If you have 
 a crappy Civic, you can now make one and make it cool!) , but it just dosent feel right to drive 
 a Nissan Skyline R34 GTR on the drag strip. But, with the good comes the bad. EA focused waaaaaaay 
 too much on the online modes, and EA took out free-roam and cops. Noooooooooo! But still, there 
 is a bright spot in this game. The customization is very well done, and it is one of the games 
 strong points. All in all, NFS Prostreet is good, but i just dosen't feel right from NFS true atmoshpere, 
 the street. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ILOVETHEENOT
Rating: 6.5
Date: Dec 11, 2007 7:29 pm PT
Review:  It's a fun game but it feels weak it doesn't really feel like your going fast, the AI is impossible 
 to smash around it's like their made of bricks. Car handling is ok could be better. However the 
 graphics and the sound is very well done, music towards the weaker side but that's ok. Over all 
 Need For Speed Pro Street is a fun, yet very average game. If you like racing then check this game 
 out, if not then stay away from this game. Also if you like drag racing then this game isn't for 
 you as it's very weak and it feels like it's just tacked on for the sake of being there. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KengoK
Rating: 6.5
Date: Dec 9, 2007 2:15 pm PT
Review:  Um... I'm not sure if this is what I've been waiting for at all! When I firs heard about the crash 
 system and the thought about making you car a more realistic I was very exited and I was looking 
 forward to it. Waited for this game for about 3 months after I heard about everything just to know 
 that this game is nothing like the old NFS. I will not lie I am a big fan of NFS underground and 
 so on until this last NFS pro... to me NFS was a racing game where you can speed out to the MAX 
 and make a turn in a 90 degrees.
  The drag racing system is very weak and annoying. I didn't see the point in burning the tires or 
 whatever it is called. The AI is nothing they promised like. When I bump someone they don't bump 
 back  it's like they don't even know you are in the race.... New girl... probably the worst one... no 
 emotions or what so ever... the tuning system could have been much more deeper... All in all NFS 
 pro street is   anything but NFS
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: moej88
Rating: 4.5
Date: Dec 22, 2007 10:31 pm PT
Review:  This NFS is amazing. Love the graphics on the new system. A wider collection of cars which gives 
 it a positive point. 
  BUT! 
  The tracks and the ads all over the place are horrible!!!!
  It feels like I'm playing Gran Turismo and I really wana play NFS.
  Crashes are nothing in the 
 game, people should go and see the new Burnout if they wana see crashes. The only thing is there 
 was so much hype for this game before it game out and honestly it was worth nothing. 
  What happened to Street Racing and Open wide Cities?? 
  What's with the limited tracks and ads 
 and the professional racing stuff? People have demands when they want to get a racing game and 
 NFS didn't stick to what a gamer wants. We want speed, cool crashes, open and amazing tracks to 
 allow us to innovate when driving a car like Short cuts, or thinking quick about something like 
 COPS. Cops were amazing in the last 2 games. The Ai in the last 2 games for Cops was awesome! Why 
 did they take the good stuff out and throw in the bad stuff? 
  Drifting is cool, which is good, but really is there something else? A great car collection again 
 something good. 
  I believe that if someone wants to buy this game then they should go and rent it first. 
  Over 
 all, NFS didn't really come up to my expectations. I loved the older NFS editions better.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: darkwolf1982
Rating: 7
Date: Dec 15, 2007 6:23 pm PT
Review:  It's funny how Need For Speed made strides up until NFS6 Hot Pursuit 2 with the realist physics 
 and Gradually breaking away from a racing game which felt Purely Arcadey then took a jump back 
 with the introduction of NFS7 Underground, personally I thought NFS was the crappiest installment 
 of the series. Then Open Environments were introduced to NFS along with bigger better ways to deck 
 out your beast. Then brought back cops (with a Vengeance ) making NFS a bloody good racing game. 
 The thing I loved about the new series was that you had a Story-Driven single player career mode 
 to all the Underground Chapters. Now NFS XI: ProStreet...
  A game's first impression comes from the Demo...
  And I tell you what, ProStreet's Demo made 
 a good first impression!
  This is what caught my eye...
  The Reality-Factor has been Re-Injected back into Need For Speed better than it ever has been before!
 
  With the Missing Damage physics put into this game... ProStreet surprisingly gives Papyrus' NASCAR 
 Racing series a run for their money (half-way down the quarter mile and that's all she wrote) when 
 I was expecting that from EA's NASCAR 08!
  The controls when played in manual feel less Arcadey when you actually have to SHIFT into Reverse 
 rather than holding break.
  Other than impressive sight 'n' sound and online multiplayer for nexgenners, that's about all NFS 
 XI has got running for it. Having watched the official GameSpot review...
  If a crappy-looking SSX On-Tour styled flowchart campaign is what awaits me...
  
  I gotta agree 
 with the critics on this one... It's soulless
  
  Here's a follow up for ya'z...
  
  Renting the Retail Version now, it's good but lacks great deal...
  
  The Reality Factor is 
 the best it's ever been throughout the entirety of the NFS Series. The damage physics and probably 
 the control Mechanics (Manual Clutch Mode especially) .
  The Sight 'N' Sound on HD... Again, the best yada yada yada...
  Other than that there is no Real 
 story to the career mode like the Underground / Most Wanted series. Basically the career mode is 
 arena where one can sharpen their teeth and acquire stuff for real arena of the game... Online.
 
  Need For Speed (XI / 11) : ProStreet is nothing more than a game simulating The Olympic Games for 
 Hoons .
  But for those looking for a game by EA that even comes close to rivaling Papyrus' Legendary NASCAR 
 Racing series.
  On the Quarter and Half Mile Drags... ProStreet would leave EA's NASCAR 08 on the starting line 
 with a blown engine. In say... ProStreet does a better job than NASCAR 08 in offering a game that 
 is remotely capable of giving the NASCAR Racing Game Series A run for it's money .
  Now how would NFS: ProStreet stack up against NASCAR Racing's best installment (NR2003) ?
  On 
 the Quarter Mile ProStreet would more or less be on par.
  Half Mile is a different story...
  ProStreet would make it half-way keeping level with NR2003, 
 but it's gonna blow after half-way and be left for dead by NR2003.
  
  To make the awesome Need For Speed game would be to take The Best of Everything throughout the 
 Entire series (from NFS of '96 to 2007's ProStreet) .
  
  It could have been better...
  
  From what I here Burnout Paradise leaves Need For Speed for dead! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DrDobalina
Rating: 1
Date: Dec 2, 2007 9:13 am PT
Review:  
  
  First let me say I've bought all of the NFS series, and still enjoy the odd bit of Most Wanted 
 or Carbon. The cop chases and street racing are great.
  
  Pro Street was the first NFS title I've bought for my PS3, and it's absolutely abysmal! Firstly, 
 it has ridiculously long loading times, "saving" for no apparent reason (after a practice run?!) 
 It has maybe the worst navigation/menu system I've ever seen in any game; clunky and unresponsive, 
 all this along with the banal waffling "commentator" running through the same sample loops at events. 
 Oh yes, and blatant product placement and advertisements all over the place.
  
  By far the worst problem though, is that the actual driving experience is terrible. In "grip" events 
 the cars are unresponsive and sluggish to change direction. The game doesn't seem to make much 
 use of the analogue joypad's fine control (in NFS PS, doesn't matter how far you steer in a direction, 
 the cars front wheels only seem able to turn about 1 degree, so even sweeping bends see you heading 
 for walls more often than not.)
  
  In the drag events, EA appear to have come up with a novel concept whereby adding tuning parts 
 to your car actually makes it slower! In the first event I was running low 13's, however, after 
 winning that car, and tuning the engine, adding nitrous etc, it now runs 14 to 15 seconds at best, 
 with perfect shifts. A friend of mine who has the game noticed the exact same problem.
  
  I literally dropped this rubbish in the bin where it belongs after playing for 2 hours tops - a 
 lot of hype for maybe the worst racing game I've had the misfortune to play. How on earth this 
 managed to get 7/10 is beyond me.
  
  Avoid at all costs. Gran turismo will appear soon, and the physics of that game were ahead of this, 
 even 3 years ago!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: lolo7070gs
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 27, 2007 7:15 pm PT
Review:  Aside from missing the free roam element and the difference in tracks there are many qualities 
 that make this game worth a purchase. The speed challenge is tough, the grip tracks are well laid 
 out, the drfit competition is a little tougher and the drag races are way better than the previous 
 titles. I say it is a good title that holds much in the way of graphics and user interface. Customizing 
 is a good, there could have been more options and better preview methods. The ability to tweak 
 all the items purchased is great. I do have to admit that the dyno tune would have been cool to 
 check out after customizing your ride. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: K-E-C
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 27, 2007 12:39 pm PT
Review:  need for speed pro street is truly a let down with the cops and no free roam. But the graphics 
 are truly awesome. Well the good thing is that Drag! is back! and the raphics off course. Also 
 in this game there is included of totalling your ride, beautiful detailed crashing, i can say. Ok 
 the races are sponsored and in the game you only tune your ride and choose races. Well but its 
 kinda fun, for awhile... The ones who hated the thing of riding in the city on night, this game 
 will be awesome for them, but for those who liked free roaming, this will be a dissapointment. but 
 those who are fans of the game they like it. best of in the game is the new cars they arent all 
 the same fron the preivous nfs games. theres over 60 cars which is alot. need for speed is a great 
 game for awhile until you finish half of the game then it just gets boring. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: haesuse
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 26, 2007 4:35 pm PT
Review:  NFS: Pro Street is a legal street racing entry in the franchise. It is a far cry from either the 
 underground style racing or the pure bred racing from the originals entries. With this came quite 
 a few problems. 1st things 1st the game took on the simulation style racing and with all the other 
 racers out there it is a stiff competition and there is not a lot of room for mistakes. This is 
 evident as soon as u start racing as the game feel like a bit of a cheap GT copy. 
  But before we get to the game itself i have to mention the menus. Presentation style is flashy 
 and good looking as always with EA, however navigating the menus is a nightmare. They are clunky 
 and very confusing at times. Once you get over that you'll be probably at the garage screen playing 
 with some customization options. This time around you have to preset your cars for specific race 
 modes such as drift, grip and drag. This may appear to be annoying at first but eventually you'll 
 get used to it as you make some money and start unlocking more cars. However inability to customize 
 the pre-made blueprints as u go can be aggravating and will make you spend a whole lot more time 
 on customizing your car than you want. On the other hand if you are a trick out aficionado you'll 
 be in heaven. You can wind tunnel test your car, you can go from color, to decals, to vinyls, to 
 dyno testing to test driving, to interior customization and than some more. It really is up to 
 you if you wanna play as a grease monkey or play as a racer.
  
  Real quick touch on the online play. Modes of play are aplenty and they are fun. You can share 
 race days, or u can make em and play them with friends or just enjoyed making new rivals online. 
 Gameplay is a bit choppy which has been a problem with all of the EA games online, but in all of 
 them, the amount of extremelly cool game modes compensates somewhat.
  
  Racing itself is pretty solid. It feels very GT-ish but the speed feel that has been a staple of 
 of NFS series is still there. To me, the addition of the damage and ability to total the car is 
 definitely a plus and will make you a better drive but in the long run. First you gotta grow some 
 grays while trashing your car, sometimes a bit beyond logic. Total of 70-ish cars is not bad at 
 all, as they do offer some really good stuff and combine some good pure breeds with some muscle 
 and than some japanese street racing legends. Add to this massive customization and there is plenty 
 to keep you going. Also car models as well as the tracks are amazingly detailed and fully fit into 
 next gen look. 
  
  Soundtrack is decent. There is an overload of junkie-xl tracks but most of them are pretty good. 
 The rest is a good mix of FIFA tracks and a few rotten apples. Overall the soundtrack is passable. 
 However the voice acting and the local DJ's are beyond annoying and will actually eventually lessen 
 your driving skills i think. mute if possible.
  
  In the end the game is a good filler if you need a racer while waiting for GT. Not really a rental 
 as it offer a TON of racing and a lot of replayability, so if you got nothing to play and got some 
 xtra cash, you might wanna pick this one up! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chainvector
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 26, 2007 2:47 am PT
Review:  Yes the game has great graphics, but graphics alone don't make the game a big success. This installment 
 of NFS is not as great as is predecessors. It lacks true innovation and great game play which its 
 predecessors had and kinda seems like a remix of the old ones. The game play is simple a cross 
 between NFS most wanted and NFS underground. In truth the game play kinda leaves you thinking, 
 "didn't do this in NFS-MW or NFSU?". With all that being said the game is worth playing if you 
 are a NFS fan or a newbie. Or you could wait for the next NFS game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: The_Rick_14
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 25, 2007 11:21 am PT
Review:  Need for Speed ProStreet changes up the formula from what most fans of the series will remember 
 taking away Free Roam and Cop Chases. As someone who enjoyed those two elements at first but eventually 
 became bored with them, it was a refreshing change to see them focus on something else.
  
  ProStreet brings you heart-pounding racing with quite a few changes in it. The physics engine is 
 now somewhat more realistic. If you're planning on never braking, you're in for a frustrating time. 
 The damage system encourages clean racing (and even rewards you slightly) but also keeps you on 
 the edge of your seat in Speed races where one misjudgment ends your race for good. 
  
  The career mode is quite long compared to past games and with 4 different main race types and and 
 most of those having variations to them keep it from getting overly repetitive. 
  
  Car customization goes far deeper than visuals this year as body kits actually add to the aerodynamics 
 of your car and can be tweaked to produce more or less drag. It's not extremely deep but is a cool 
 feature. Car tuning is where ProStreet really shines in my opinion. Don't like the gear ratio, 
 you can switch it up. Getting too much understeer or oversteer, you can tweak it to exactly how 
 you like it. 
  
  All in all while it's a change from the usual Need for Speed formula, a fan of hardcore racing 
 will not be disappointed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cubelover38
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 24, 2007 12:39 pm PT
Review:  i've been a fan of nfs since the very first and have never walked away disappointed. although i 
 like prostreet it does'nt feel like nfs it feels a little like grand turismo the damage also makes 
 the game a little harder. i own it for ps3 and it looks real good but it seems to have a few bugs 
 like one of my cars had a damaged front half from something else i had to delete it i could'nt 
 repair it off line it gets monotnous and online right now is a mixed bag i was not able to use 
 my own cars online which was what i was looking forward to most. but maybe it's something i'm doing 
 wrong .i'm glad they got rid of that trail your car would leave from the last 2 nfs. a good racing 
 game but not what i was expecting i guess 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PS360Fanboy
Rating: 6.5
Date: Nov 24, 2007 7:12 am PT
Review:  Now, this isn't my type of game, though i liked Carbon enough that i thought i should at least 
 rent it and here is my thoughts...
  I was hoping after the processors that this new NFS would bring back the good days of just tuning 
 your car and doing stupidly impossible things which is one of many reasons its so popular. Now 
 it has lost the free roaming (not the most annoying thing in the world but don't understand why 
 they did it as it was a great feature, apart from being lazy) , Graphics are ok, but still not as 
 good as some might expect from the game previews and trailers. 
  The career mode makes me irritated, they cover the entire page with graffiti and still after many 
 hours playing it dislike it and think its confusing and waste of time... 
  Damage, its a hate or love type of thing, personally i do not mind it. However, they have gone 
 to the next level you have silly damage things where if you touch the other car your car will be 
 damaged and may lose performance. I used to like the fact that you would smash into each other 
 to get them out the way, now if you do you will lose the race, I could go on for hours, however 
 if you decide to buy this you will find your own... 
  
  Yes it does have some, the race days are great idea and the way its shown is a great idea, im trying 
 not to spoil it here. The feeling of speed is the best i've felt, recently some of the racing games 
 have no real sense that you're going 150 mph, but in this one you could be doing 80 mph and it 
 will seem like your car is going to take off or engine blow up. 
  
  This game has lost its entire street racing image that it once had. It has gone to far with super 
 realistic control and damage settings which make it fit in the leagues of PGR4 and Forza 2. I so 
 wanted Pro Street to be a addictive and as good as PGR and Forza. But it seems to me it prefers 
 to be a realistic cannot turn into corners at more than 20 mph or you will risk losing the race 
 type of game... 
  
  So when will we get a proper street racing/tuning game instead of all these ultra realistic simulation? 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PS3_Champ
Rating: 7.5
Date: Dec 27, 2007 1:55 pm PT
Review:  Prostreet uses the same value as Burnout Domiator and Juiced 2, Which isnt such a good Idea, But 
 its still a fun entartaing game.
  
  The story in Prostreet Is not intrestin, u just go to a racin stadium and meet a show of Rio, who 
 sucks .The gameplay is NOTHIN but DRUG racin, it may be fun, but thats all u do in the main story. O 
 ya , the story is so short u beat it in 5-6 hrs. The drug racin and chicks were the same as Juice 
 2 , Dont know why but it effected the games look. All that stuff may be quite Dissapointing , but 
 there is a really good Multiplayer, u can modif ur car, set location , select the track and etc.
 
  
  
  Luckily NFS Prostreet hav Burnout in it, The crash scenes ar fantastic , and the car damage is well 
 made. The worse part of the game that there ar NO COP CHASES. The gameplay is really nice, though 
 it couldeve last more .
  
  
  So instead of Burnout dominator and Juiced2, couldnt they putted the previuos NFS games, instead 
 they putted Juiced 2 , which SUCKS like hell. If it wasnt Burnout, this game would suck, But u can 
 pass the time with it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: prtuc2
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 23, 2007 8:35 pm PT
Review:  Pros: Graphics is a lot better than carbon, somewhat have to do with the console platform. More 
 realistic than other NFS series due to the visual effects. More challenging than other NFS, controlling 
 is harder. New tracks.
  Online gameplay is a cool feature.
  
  Cons: No cops chasing anymore. Running at high speed crash is literally game over and the worse 
 part is to pay for repairing the car. Personally I love the older series with ferrari, the recent 
 series don't include any ferrari. 
  
  Overall it is a great game if you love the previous NFS series you will like this one. Does required 
 a lot more time to beat, however already beaten this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Twinturbo120
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 22, 2007 5:37 pm PT
Review:  Graphics:
  Very amazing smoke affects and reflections. Some tracks can get sorta blurry or not in place they 
 have more attention to the cars then the tracks do which is kinda dumb cause u race in a track 
 ALL THE TIME its not like ur lookin at ur car while racing then u'll crash (DUH) 
  
  Gameplay:
  crap.... crap.... crap. Thats all i gotta say u can only pick 2 controller config's which 
 is pretty dumb and u cant even customize the controller control's. DRAG is retarded i've never 
 seen a RX-7 pop a wheelie in real life but its a game right? then in every single drag u have sorta 
 of a mini-game where u do a burnout. It's kool in the beginning but god.... it gets boring. DRIFT 
 feels new and weird but once u get the hang of it its pretty DUMB u feel like there's somethin 
 else pushing u and u dont even have control over the car that much. 
  
  INTERFACE: 
  ONLINE IS SOOOO DUMB i personally love how in NFSU:2 u can pick which settings of race u want and 
 how u have a messenger and u could just invite ur friends to come join u in a race. BUT NO here 
 u have a messenger but u cant invite ur friends. HOW DUMB IS THAT?!?!?!?
  
  Overall:
  if ur looking for somethin new that has nothing to do with any NFS (like they've always done) u 
 should get this game. Im still playing cuz i wanna beat the career and some fun online but after 
 that im getin COD4 
::::::

::::::
UserName: quad_a1
Rating: 6.5
Date: Nov 21, 2007 7:35 pm PT
Review:  PERKS:
  Although many people would say the EA has stolen the very essence of Street Racing and Hot Pursuits 
 from this game, Pro Street is all-in-all a good game.
  
  The scenery, road textures with thread marks on them, lighting, reflection and shadows and specially 
 the volumetric smoke effects are the best I've ever seen in a racing game. The game looks especially 
 good on a HDTV. EA has finally included damage too, although the crumple effects of each body panel 
 is the same no matter how hard you hit the car.
  
  I've never been past 115 mph in my semi-busted 92' Civic, but the speed to scale ratio of Pro Street 
 looks almost real. Although I do wish that EA had put in a level 4 gear train for my 822 bhp Challenger 
 which can never make it past 185 mph. Drag Racing is at its best in Pro Street with the tire heating 
 sessions and all. Although I do feel that they overdid the wheelie thing a bit (Specially for the 
 lousy Shelby GT500)
  
  So all-in-all NFS Pro Street offers a real life Race Day experience.
  
  
  FLAWS: (2 Many)
 
  (I haven't complained about what's not there, I have complained about what is)
  The Menu Interface "Totally Sucks"... I feel that Underground 2 had the best user friendly and 
 easy to navigate menus of any NFS Series. So the menus of this game... suck. If you want to save 
 time... please turn off the Auto-Save feature.
  
  (Tip: If you earned a lot of money and are heading to buy a new car... save your career in multiple 
 slots) . 
  
  This game also doesn't feature the 'My Cars' option where you can create your own blueprints for 
 fun and test them in Arcade mode. So buying, upgrading, tuning and testing a car is a real time-consuming 
 and costly affair. (This is where the Tip comes in handy) . I ACCIDENTLY saved a fully upgraded 
 yet surprising weak 67' Shelby GT500 which cost me 290,000 bucks.
  
  You can auto sculpt virtually any part of the car... right down to the tire threads. But due to 
 the lighting and shadow effects, you sometimes can't figure out what you're sculpting, cause the 
 parts being sculpted are not highlighted as in NFS Carbon (example: - Side Skirts) . Also, auto 
 sculpting the spoiler Surprisingly / Shockingly has no major effect on aerodynamics.
  
  The Drift Mode sucks.... It's like the 'co-efficient of friction' of the road has totally changed... 
 It's like driving a car with bald snow radials on a road covered entirely with an oil slick. But 
 when you turn the wheel, the car surprisingly takes grip. You get the feeling of an external supernatural 
 force assisting the car through the bends (Use the Force Ryan, uuuuse the Force) So even though 
 the drift looks awesome... you don't feel involved at all. Dear EA, please take drifting lessons 
 from Gran Turismo 5 and please don't make drifting physics of your own.
  
  With over 12 years of racing (Game) experience, EA still hasn't learned that 'Carbon Fiber doesn't 
 bend, it shatters like glass'.
  
  You also don't feel the pinch when your BENT carbon fiber bonnet flies off due to air resistance, 
 that's cause there are too many free to earn repair markers around. So the urge to drive carefully 
 and subsequently manage repair expenditures is not relative at all. (It was the best in NFS 5 Porsche 
 Unleashed.. another one of my favorites)
  
  Good Morning EA. Welcome to third generation gaming. I really expected a detailed cockpit view 
 for every car by this time. Guess you guys are just plain LAZY.
  
  Controls: -
  No matter how good a game is I'd down rate it by 50 % if it doesn't feature customizable controls. 
 Unlike Gran Turismo, Pro Street doesn't employ the pressure sensitive buttons and joysticks of 
 the beautiful PS3 SIXAXIS gamepad. Tell me EA, how the hell does a person hit NOS when he is driving 
 in Configuration 2. (btw: there are just 2 stupid gamepad configurations)
  
  Soundtrack:-
  Only one word to describe it "SUCKS" however I am compelled to write more.
 
  I guess the stupid Race Day host/DJ got a really stupid script from the even more stupid script 
 writers down at EA. He also insists on mentioning your full name 50 times a day. (So I turned down 
 the speech volume to zero) . And just as Hip Hop has taken over the world by storm, I guess Techno 
 has taken over all the guys down at EA. Come on guys what happened to all the Rock and Rap.
  
  Bugs and other irritants
  Tuning the engine just doesn't help. I bought and fully upgraded 
 a Dodge Charger to Level 3 for Drag Racing. The Dyno tests showed 857 bhp and after tuning the 
 engine, the tests showed 879 bhp, but after I saved the blueprint, it just didn't register... so 
 now even after tuning... the tests still show 857 bhp and not 879 bhp. 
  
  The driver assists like Traction and Stability Control come alive even after turning them off from 
 both the main menu and the in-game menu. It's really irritating for people who like to drift in 
 Grip Races.
  
  I am really hoping that EA will come up with an update patch to fix all these things.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nicolas00-0g
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 21, 2007 11:51 am PT
Review:  Everybody know that NFS is a roller coaster: Up and Down, now the series is focusing in closed 
 tracks racing or better, going to a more simulation side.
  
  Graphics: The best thing in the game, photo realist graphics, great smokes
  And the damage: Perfect 
 !!!!
  
  Sound: Good but car sounds are too similiar. The Soundtrack is O. K. but only techno music don't 
 have much fun. EA should put a option to listen your own music.
  
  Gameplay::Good. The drift gameplay is a lot of better than the past NFS titles and in the other 
 modes it still ok, so don't worrry with the car's physics.
  
  Tilt: Great.
  
  Value: Good.
  
  So if you are a NFS fan you shoud buy this game and if you're you have to buy 
 too because you will have hours of fun. It still not the best in series but don't worry about that.
 
  
  P. S.: enter in this link on NFSCars. Yes, we are thinking already in NFS 12:
  http://www. nfscars. net/forum/showthread. php? t=20776 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jhighballa82690
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 20, 2007 4:19 pm PT
Review:  Well I've read alot of reviews of this game. And about every 9 out of 10 people say the game "Absolutely" 
 Sucks". In my honest opinion, this game really ROCKS! And yes at first the handling can get on 
 your nerves with the weak, rear-wheel drive cars, but it gets waaay better the longer you play 
 the game. Oh yea, the announcer is very annoying at times, but I just turned the announcer volume 
 down on Him. The engine sounds are freakin' awesome and the graphics will amaze you. I'd say this 
 game is definately worth the money! But if you don't like PURE racing, then this game isn't for 
 you. I've spent about 12 hours playing time on it and am still at only 34% complete. (Very Long 
 Game) I could care less about the Free Roam and the Cops in the previous versions. Since the cops 
 can really frustrate you at times! (Especially when you're trying to get somewhere) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gokxxx
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 20, 2007 12:34 am PT
Review:  Well as i said the game isn't what i waited for. But the graphics are truly awesome, the minus of 
 the game is that there are no city driving, i mean free roaming. Well the good thing is that Drag! 
 is back! and the raphics offcourse. Also in this game there is included of totalling your ride, beautiful 
 detailed crashing, i can say. Ok the races are sponsored and in the game you only tune your ride 
 and choose races. Well but its kinda fun, for awhile... The ones who hated the thing of riding 
 in the city on night, this game will be awesome for them, but for those who liked free roaming, this 
 will be a dissapointment. but those who are fans of the game they like it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nerkle01
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 19, 2007 2:46 pm PT
Review:  THIS GAME IS ALOT LONGER THAN IT LOOKS. YOU HAVE TO CLIMB UP A RANK CHAIN FIRST TO GET ACCESS TO 
 THE CROWN WHICH IS WHERE THE BOSS RACE ARE. THERE ARE 5 BOSSES TOTAL. THERE ARE 4 BOSSES WHO ARE 
 THE DRAG KING, DRIFT KING, GRIP KING AND SPEED TRAP KING. THE LAST BOSS IS THE KING OF EVERYTHING. 
 THE GAME FEATURES MUSCLE CARS SUCH AS THE DODGE CHALLENGER (MY PERSONAL FAVORITE) , THE BARACUDA 
 AND OTHER VARIOUS MUSCLE CARS. YOU START OFF WITH A NISSAN 240SX HARDTOP. YOU CAN GET A VIPER, COBALT 
 SS, CHEVELLE , 35OZ (NISSAN) AND MANY OTHER CARS. THE GAME IS AWESOME AND CAN WELL LAST YOU 15 
 PLUS HOURS. YOU HAVE TO DO CERTAIN RACES TO PROGRESS FURTHER IN THE GAME. YOU UNLOCK A CAR LOT 
 LATER IN THE GAME , JUST RIGHT BEFORE YOU GET TO BATTLE EACH OF THE KINGS (AT THE CROWN) . THIS 
 GAME IS AWESOME AND YOU SHOULD BUY OR RENT IT. BACK TO PLAYINF NFS PROSTREET!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mitch2129
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 18, 2007 9:49 pm PT
Review:  EA did a really good job with NFS ProStreet the cars handle so realistically and there are so many 
 modification that you can make most of them helping with the performance of your car.
  If you were a fan of the last few NFS games this one might not be for you but if you are the type 
 of person who enjoys games like Gran turismo or Forza you might wanna go check this game out.
 
  
  
  Here is how i'd score this game:
  
  Graphics: 9.0
  Gameplay: 9.0
  Sound: 7.5
  Value: 8.5
  Mechanics: 9.0
  
  The Graphics Are Amazing.
  The Gameplay Is 
 Addictive.
  The Cars Sound Good But Too Many Of Them Sound The Same.
  Cars Handle Really Realistically. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chickenhead4123
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 18, 2007 12:51 pm PT
Review:  This game is addictive and really fun. This game has the deepest customization ever. They added 
 Aero to the specs of the cars, so body kits do something besides look cool. You can change the 
 handling a lot. I like how they brought back drag racing. The speed challenge is cool too, just 
 go as fast as you can. The one thing that SUCKS about this game is damage. You have to pay for 
 damage or use a marker. When your car totals, it looks really fake. My car flipped over once and 
 looked fine, but the game said it was totalled. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lilmikemike155
Rating: 6
Date: Nov 17, 2007 2:49 am PT
Review:  I thought this game was gonna be the best need for speed but when i played i found out is the worst 
 need for speed ever. Free Roaming is no longer available . The races are now legal so u dont have 
 the cops chasing after which was the best part of the previous need for speed. All the tracks look 
 the same it looks like ea just took one course and put different turn in it. At the beginning of 
 the drag it gets tired and frustrating cause they make you do a burnout after every round so when 
 you have played alot you just wish burnouts never existed. The music sucks cause there is an annoying 
 announcer just going blah blah blah in the background. The game has a lame story. If you play it 
 for ps2 the car doesn't get destroy (though you could get totaled if you crash very hard into an 
 object) only the paint comes of a little. I think it should've had more cars. 
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  I HOPE NEXT NEED FOR SPEED HAS FREE ROAMING AND COPS CHASING AFTER YOU 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DominicanAG
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 18, 2007 9:51 am PT
Review:  Yeah it's another year and it's another Need for Speed with a different title. This year it's called 
 Prostreet and it's a little different from the previous installment of the game. This time you'll 
 be playing a faceless character in career mode trying to get to the top to be the King of street 
 racing. 
  
  One of the things that has change from the last two need for speed games there's no free roaming 
 in a big city. Now you'll be racing in closed tracks and you'll be racing for cash and unlocking 
 new rides. There three different types of racing which are drag racing, speed challenge, and drifting. 
 There are 4 different types of organizations in career mode and you'll be creating your own to 
 be number one. Also the choice of customizing your car how it was in carbon is back. 
  
  The graphics in the game look good but the not best of the series. I personally think is a step 
 back from Carbon and Most Wanted. Besides that the game still has tight controls and is pretty 
 fun to play. EA has also added the helpful track arrows that are in Froza 2 has made their way 
 to Prostreet. Also the cars now have damage. Which also affects the way you race in the game which 
 becomes a challenge as well. 
  
  Prostreet is a still a pretty decent game and if you're a fan of the series you would have no problem 
 buying this game. But if you're someone that hasn't played the Need for Speed is a pretty good 
 game to pick up and play. Also Multiplayer is available like in the previous series and you can 
 bring your trick out rides from career mode online. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sdkingsht
Rating: 6.5
Date: Nov 16, 2007 2:40 pm PT
Review:  What? No police chases? They could of called this game "Need for Speed: What's Missing."
  
  Need for Speed Pro Street is not all bad... it's just not that good either. What is there is great. 
 The problem is there isn't a lot there. The driving is solid, good sense of speed, races are fun 
 for a while but once you get past that the game is shallow and a bit annoying. 
  
  I think it's the same announcer from Skate (which worked for Skate but does NOT work for this game) . 
 It sounds like oder out of touch people trying to write "hip and now" script which NEVER works 
 out. 
  
  The multiplayer is fun, being able to race online is cool. A flat out race for pink slip mode would 
 have been kind of cool. But after you get the little enjoyment from racing online you start wondering 
 how fun and crazy online police chases could of been. An all out jailbreak! Imagine... you and several 
 friends are racing then out of nowhere the police show up in hot pursuit. You guys all speed off 
 to try and get away to regroup at a later time or to laugh at how you got away but your friend 
 didn't. Add in mic support and that alone would have been more fun than anything this game has 
 to offer. 
  
  The game looks good, has solid gameplay but it's just not that fun at the end of the day. There's 
 just not enough there. 
  
  Plus... Need for Speed without police chases just isn't need for speed. All it does is make me miss 
 smashing through roadblocks and dodging spike strips more than i already did. 
  
  If you absolutely have to have a racing game this one is ok. But if you're a need for speed fan 
 it will disappoint you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lord_tanner
Rating: 5.5
Date: Nov 16, 2007 1:12 pm PT
Review:  this is for me one of the best series of games ever, games like the fantastic most wanted, or hot 
 persuits make my gamer life better, but now, since the boring carbono, this series became just 
 another marketing serie in what the guys believe they are cools with is new cell phones and ipods, 
 is just badd attitude, if i saw something like that in real life i punch they in the face, they 
 are stupids, but well , this game, is a half solid racer game, but get repetitive after a while, 
 and the new style of racer is great but repetitive, and boring about 10 racers after, i cannot 
 belive,, im start to hate electronics arts, they just gave borings games and make greats series 
 get boring,,
  
  
  let the force be with you young padawan 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
