-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: NFL Head Coach 09
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/ps3/sports/nflheadcoach09/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 General management tools are deep and realistic.
 Menus direct player tasks well.
 Teams play like real-life counterparts.
 Free-agent bidding and negotiations are innovative and fast.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Gameplay uses outdated Madden engine with poor frame rate.
 AI trade logic is flawed.
 Lack of audibles make no-huddle offenses impossible to stop.
 Online play is disappointing.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Sep  2, 2008
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 7
Critic Score: 6.6, 8 Review (s)
User Score: 6.5, 86 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Electronic Arts
Developer: EA Tiburon
Genre: Football Management
Date: Sep 3, 2008
ESRB: Everyone

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
NFL Head Coach 09 delivers a deep and immersive coaching experience, provided you can overlook the 
 outdated gameplay engine and lackluster presentation. 

  Simulation sports games face a difficult burden. They must offer a fun and engaging gaming experience 
 while remaining as authentic as reasonably possible. In this regard, EA's NFL Head Coach 09 manages 
 to strike an effective balance. Although the game lacks the slick presentation of longer-tenured 
 sports franchises, Head Coach brings a strategic depth that one would expect from managing a sports 
 franchise and offers a rewarding experience to those willing to endure hours of menu navigation. 

           Custom schemes can confuse even the elite NFL signal callers.      

  NFL Head Coach 09 places you in command of an NFL franchise. You have the ability to sign and trade 
 players, scout draft prospects, call plays, and perform just about every other task that you can 
 imagine a coach/GM being responsible for. However, unlike EA's Madden franchise, you won't have 
 direct control of your players on the field. As a result, the game is a test of preparation and 
 strategy rather than of your prowess with an analog stick.  

  Head Coach gives you the option to continue the career of an existing NFL head coach or create 
 your own. As your career progresses, you will learn additional skills, which will, in turn, aid 
 your players on the field. This lets you customize your repertoire to suit a particular style of 
 play. Your performance as coach is tracked via an approval rating. Many factors impact your approval 
 rating, including the completion of designated goals and defining moments during a game, both of 
 which are timely and appropriate. Although winning games consistently is the most effective way 
 to boost your approval, these other factors allow coaches of lesser-skilled teams to placate critics 
 until they turn their franchise around.  

  The game's interface, though far from perfect, is vastly improved from the previous NFL Head Coach. 
 You are no longer restricted to scheduling specific events or running tedious practices. Instead, 
 the game's tab-oriented menu system provides access to various player and team information, and 
 most actions can be performed at any time. Menus update to keep you apprised of important events 
 requiring your attention to help you manage your time as coach. Although the scope of options is 
 impressive, it can also be overwhelming. Many menu items, such as the roster and depth chart, could 
 have been combined to make navigation easier and, though you can adjust the progression of time, 
 finding the appropriate menu item can still feel like a race against the clock. Even worse, it's 
 easy to overlook critical events (denoted by a small caution sign) while dismissing the constant 
 free-agent auctions. A tutorial tab is provided to explain various aspects of the game, but it 
 still assumes that you have a good understanding of various football-related terms and may be difficult 
 for newcomers to pick up. Even the one-second lag after selecting a menu item can become frustrating 
 because menu navigation constitutes a large proportion of the game.  

           OK. Lemme get a number 5 with a Sprite.      

  Despite the navigational woes, Head 
 Coach does introduce many franchise innovations that will almost certainly become staples of the 
 genre. Free-agent bidding allows for all interested teams to participate in a one-minute auction 
 for the right to negotiate with the player. Not only is the process fast, but it also provides 
 every team with an equal opportunity to bid on a player. The interface for trades and contract 
 negotiations has been improved as well. Instead of having you jump back and forth between menus 
 or adjust sliders, Head Coach provides you with a list of preset offer combinations sorted by asking 
 price. Given that the negotiations are limited to two minutes, the pressure is on to quickly evaluate 
 each offer and come to an agreement on terms. Head Coach even includes realistic elements such 
 as restricted free agents, contract holdouts, and the ability to trade future draft picks, all 
 of which add to the game's realism. Although the trading interface has been streamlined, it is 
 not without its share of flaws. Only one-for-one or one-for-many trades are possible, and even 
 then the exact proposal that you are searching for may not be an option. Trades involving more 
 than two teams are also not available and, though the trading AI has been improved from the Madden 
 series, its logic is still flawed. (We got Adrian Peterson via a trade for three scrubs.)  

  The gameplay in Head Coach uses what appears to be an older Madden engine. Though you have the 
 option to rotate between various camera angles, the graphics simply aren't on par with what you 
 will find in any recent version of Madden. Player textures lack detail, and there are noticeable 
 drops in the frame rate. The action isn't difficult to follow, but the noticeable graphical drop-off 
 from the current Madden will make you wonder how much better the game could have been if the same 
 engine had been used. The in-game audio ranges from something out of an NFL Films broadcast during 
 menu navigation to the in-game berating of players by your coordinators. Although neither is great, 
 the game's audio is functional and doesn't detract from the experience.  

  Despite the graphical shortcomings, the gameplay in Head Coach can be a rewarding experience. The 
 play-call screen offers numerous ways to select your plays, and you can even defer to your coordinators 
 to make the call. Metrics are displayed to show you the success that each play has had thus far, 
 and they even provide a glimpse into what your opponent has been calling. Penalties are called 
 with realistic frequency, players will occasionally blow assignments, and teams seem to call plays 
 consistently with their real-life counterparts. It is unfortunate that, though many preplay adjustments 
 are available in Head Coach, the ability to audible to another play is surprisingly missing. Despite 
 this, the gameplay feels very authentic.  

  Head Coach also offers a robust collection of tools to create custom plays and playbooks. Although 
 the concept is nice and the plays are indeed effective, the play creator could have been stronger. 
 The menus in the play creator are unnecessarily cumbersome and, seeing as how the only way to create 
 a play is to modify an existing one, it can be a chore to simply find the formation that you want. 
 Although many receiver routes are included, it would have been nice to be able to actually draw 
 your own routes.  

           While you can create money plays, it's still up to your players to execute.      

 
  Head Coach also offers online play, but the experience is disappointing. Instead of using the 
 same gameplay engine used in the single-player career, online play consists only of calling plays 
 and instantly receiving the result in an overhead-view drive chart. Although this does speed up 
 the game (games last 20 to 25 minutes) , the result is an unrewarding experience that could have 
 been better with some visual representation.  

  NFL Head Coach features many innovations that are uncommon in sports games and offers an engaging 
 coaching/GM experience. The depth and authenticity with regard to team management are impressive, 
 and there are moments during a game when you actually feel like a head coach. Provided that you 
 are a hardcore football fan and can look past its flaws, Head Coach is an enjoyable game with rich 
 replay possibilities.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (2 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: bagobonez
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 21, 2009 9:21 pm PT
Review:  I've always enjoyed franchise mode on Madden, and when the original NFL head coach was released, 
 I was ecstatic, only to be let down by a complete lack of polish and boring repetition.
  
  NFL Head Coach 09 fixes many of the problems of it's predecessor, but still isn't quite perfect.
 
  
  I'll start with the bad and end with the good. My biggest complaints are actually a lack of control 
 in a few key areas. Don't get me wrong, this game gives you ten times as many options as any other 
 football sim has dreamed of, but a couple of problems hold the game back from it's true potential. 
 Chief among them is the inability to negotiate contracts on YOUR terms. You can negotiate with 
 players on their contracts, but the negotiation is stuck into a limited window. For example, players 
 decide how many years their contract will be, and a rough estimate on how much money it will cost 
 you. So if you want to sign a player for 7 years instead of 3, you're out of luck, even if you 
 want to give them extra money to do 7 years, you still can't. That makes planning the future of 
 your franchise a little harder to deal with because it can wreak havoc on your salary cap which 
 is the next gripe I have. 
  
  It is extremely hard to stay under the salary cap in this game if you want to have any star players 
 on your roster. If you draft a stud rookie, you can afford him until his contract runs out, and 
 then you pretty much have to break the bank in order to keep him, subsequently crippling your ability 
 to retain other key players, or sign new free agents. And god forbid you ever find yourself over 
 the salary cap, because the game doesn't give you the option to re-negotiate a player's contract 
 to free up cap space. In fact, the game won't even allow you to cut some players if the cap penalty 
 will put you in the negative. So if you find yourself over the cap, a lot of times the only way 
 to proceed is to go into the season with less players than you need to field a complete roster, 
 and hope that some of your overpaid vets retire in the off-season. 
  
  My next complaint is the inability to negotiate specific trades. You can propose trades to teams, 
 but the CPU gives you a list of pre-determined packages to offer to that team. There is no option 
 to trade draft picks for draft picks unless you're actually in the middle of the draft itself, 
 and even then you're limited to certain packages that the computer has pre-determined. Want to 
 trade a 1st round pick and a 2nd round pick for a stud player? You can't do it unless that happens 
 to be one of the packages that the computer decides to allow you to offer. And in general teams 
 are very stingy to deal with in trading, demanding more than they should on nearly every trade 
 scenario. So if you want to trade up to grab a certain player in the draft, they're really going 
 to take advantage of you to do so. Trades are rarely fair in your favor, which makes them not worth 
 the trouble 95% of the time. 
  
  A few years into your career you'll also notice other teams start to get into salary cap trouble 
 and they'll end up outright cutting star players. Many times those players are so unaffordable 
 that no other team in the league can sign them. This can work in your favor as that player then 
 will pretty much be forced to accept a 1 year deal for 900k, and then you'll have the rights to 
 negotiate a new contract with him after that season. While it's helpful, its unrealistic. The programmers 
 should have polished the computer A. I. a little more so that teams are cutting Pro Bowl players 
 that are still in their 20's. 
  
  My last major complaint is the coach hiring system. If you pick a team that starts out with crappy 
 coaches, it's going to take you a while to get good coaches to replace them. 95% of the "free agent" 
 coaches are horrible, so if you have a good defensive coordinator or offensive line coach, and 
 they decide to retire, you're pretty much screwed for a few years. They should have given you more 
 options on hiring coaches. 
  
  Those are my major concerns with the game. A couple of smaller gripes would be that if the owner 
 suggests you do something and you don't do it, you have a drop in your "Approval Rating" even if 
 the move makes no sense whatsoever. For example the owner may suggest you draft a certain player, 
 and if you decide to draft someone else, you will have a drop in your approval rating even if you 
 end up drafting a better player. The owner will often suggest you cut certain players on your team, 
 and if you don't it's another drop in your approval rating, even if that player is a key part of 
 your roster. But in the end, as long as you're winning games, your approval rating will stay good, 
 so it's not a huge issue, just an annoying one. 
  
  Now onto the good things. My favorite aspect of the game is the Coaches Skills tree. As you play 
 games your coaches will earn experience points that they can spend to buy certain skills. For example 
 your defensive backs coach can buy a skill that will improve your secondary's ability to intercept 
 the ball. It's fun to earn those points and start turning your coaches into geniuses that can really 
 help your team. The unfortunate thing is that you can spend a few years building a coach and have 
 nearly all of his skills purchased, and then out of nowhere he can decide to retire, and then you're 
 stuck with a crappy slew of free agent coaches to replace him. 
  
  I can't really go on too much longer about the other good things about this game, but you can probably 
 read more about them in the Gamespot reviews. It's a very deep and innovative football simulator, 
 and if you can get past the negative things I mentioned, this can be a highly addictive game that 
 will eat up hours and hours of your time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CADMAN_3
Rating: 6
Date: Sep 3, 2008 7:49 pm PT
Review:  After playing the first game I had some (little) hope that this game would be better.
  First the graphics on this game are better than the 1st one and being able to change your view 
 during game is a big plus.
  You can create your own coach but even that is limited. You can only choose what type of face your 
 coach will have and must of them are old fat white guys. You can't decide if you want your coach 
 to wear shirt and tie ala John Madden or maybe you like the Bill Belichick look. Something along 
 these lines would have been nice. The game play still needs a lot of work. Sometimes your players 
 are pretty good but a lot of times they're just dumb. Speaking of the players they all seem like 
 little girls. If you have a player make a pick and you're pumped up about it there rating drops 
 and it's like this with every player. Run a punt back for a touch down you better not show any 
 emotion. But if you don't say anything the rating goes up. What!? That makes no sence what so ever. 
 Also if you play this game and then play Madden 09 you'll notice a big change with overall player 
 ratings. They're not the same. They are way off. 
  How can a player on Madden have an overall rating of say 68, but on Head Coach he's only a 45.
 
  Signing free agents is a pain cause you can't choose what kind of contract you want to offer them. 
 It's either 1 or 2 years. You can't re-sign your star players the CPU does it for you. I could 
 keep going on what needs fixed on this game, but I'll stop right there.
  This game could be so much better if they just make the right changes to it.
  There are some 
 good things to this game but they're not enough to make this a really good game let alone a great 
 one. The one strong point for this game, it's easy to pick up and play cause the CPU does everything 
 else for you.
  Maybe 3rd times a charm for this game, but I don't think so. It's going to take a lot of work to 
 make this something that more people would like to play. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
