-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: NFL Tour
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/ps3/sports/nfltour/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Simple controls are easy to pick up and play.
 Someone was smart enough to not charge the standard $60 for what is essentially an arcade game.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Trey Wingo's repetitive jokes about repetitive announcers stink.
 Trey Wingo's repetitive jokes about repetitive announcers stink.
 Not many game modes and too few customization options.
 Defense is pretty pointless.
 Trey Wingo's repetitive jokes about repetitive announcers stink.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Jan 14, 2008
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 5
Critic Score: 4.8, 22 Review (s)
User Score: 5.6, 122 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Electronic Arts
Developer: EA Tiburon
Genre: Football
Date: Jan 8, 2008
ESRB: Everyone

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
NFL Tour would have made a great arcade game, but as a console game, it's simply too shallow to 
 hold your interest for long. 

  When EA unveiled NFL Tour, the question many people found themselves asking was "What's the difference 
 between NFL Tour and NFL Street?" After spending a lot of the time with the game, we can finally 
 reveal the answer: NFL Tour isn't played on the street. There's also a little less "attitude" and 
 fewer customization options in NFL Tour. If this sounds like a significant step backward -- it is. 
 You'll probably be able to squeeze out a few hours of enjoyment from the game, but there's nothing 
 to keep you coming back for more.  

           There are plenty of plays available, but you can win by running the same few again and 
 again.      

  For starters, NFL Tour is light on game modes -- really  light. You can play an exhibition game, 
 online game, two minigames, or tour mode. The two minigames are Smash &amp; Dash and Redzone Rush. 
 Smash &amp; Dash is essentially keep-away in a small arena, whereas Redzone Rush has players taking 
 turns going one-on-one in an effort to score from the 20-yard line. Both games are ultrasimple 
 and fun for a few minutes, but there's very little reason to revisit them once you've played them 
 a few times. Online play is limited to ranked and unranked play, which is about what you'd expect 
 for an arcade-style football game -- it's better than nothing, but nothing special.  

  If there's any depth to be found in NFL Tour, it is in the tour mode. Here, you pick a team, create 
 a player, and then take on all the other NFL teams in ladder-style tournament. The mode is similar 
 to what was found in NFL Street, but more straightforward (read: stripped-down) . Your goal is always 
 to win, but there's often more to it than just being ahead when time expires -- sometimes you'll 
 have to hit a certain score to win, but other times, you have to come from behind. It's a fine 
 format for an arcade game that you're going to drop a few quarters in to kill some time with, but 
 there's no stat-tracking or real customization -- just beat a team and move on.  

  Tour's lone bright spot is its gameplay. That's not to say it's amazing or anything -- it's not -- but 
 the game is fun to play. The action takes place in what is essentially an outdoor Arena League 
 field, complete with walls. Teams consist of seven offense players and seven defensive players. 
 Other than your quarterback playing special teams because he's the person who throws the ball off, 
 players don't have to pull double-duty on offense and defense. You can pick from a small number 
 of passing and running plays. There are a few trick and option plays to choose from as well. Like 
 real football, you get four downs to gain 10 yards for a first down. There are no field goals or 
 punts, and after a touchdown, you must run a normal play for either one or two points.  

  The play on the field is fast, and the controls are easy to learn. There's a button for turbo, 
 one for juking, and one to power through tackles. You can avoid tackles or make them with well-timed 
 presses of the a button. The only button mashing you'll need to do is to pound a button to break 
 certain tackles or overpower a blocker. On the PS3, this is done by shaking the controller -- a mechanic 
 that is not only uninteresting but also curiously not covered in the instruction manual. For the 
 first hour or so, it's quite satisfying to break off huge plays, blow up would-be tacklers, pound 
 ball carriers into the wall, and decimate quarterbacks with huge sacks.  

  After the first few hours, you'll realize that there's not much of anything to the gameplay. You 
  can  run up walls to avoid a tackle, but the mechanic doesn't work very often. Slants are particularly 
 unstoppable, and it's possible to successfully run the same few plays repeatedly. Heck, the Xbox 
 360 version even rewards you with an achievement for running the same play four times in a row. 
 Eventually, you'll learn a few tricks to play a bit of defense against the CPU, but stopping a 
 real person who can adapt to cheesy tactics is nearly impossible. It doesn't help that it only 
 takes 10 yards to get a first down and that your players tend to knock the ball carrier toward 
 the first-down marker, giving just about any play that gains one yard a few more bonus yards at 
 the end. It's nice that there aren't a whole lot of cheap turnovers, but this -- combined with how 
 difficult it is to stop someone -- makes it so that most games end up being won by the last person 
 to score. In fact, there's such little emphasis on defense that in some of the tour modes (such 
 as first to score 24 points) you'll find that you win faster by letting the CPU score in one quick 
 play rather than spending time trying to slow it down.  

  Tour's visuals show off some decent-looking player models that are nicely animated, but the overall 
 presentation leaves a lot to be desired. There are several different arenas, but other than slightly 
 different-looking cityscapes, they all look the same and don't play any differently from one another. 
 It really feels like the "No Fun League" had a lot of input on how over-the-top to make the game, 
 which has a negative impact on the overall experience. The tackles aren't all that nasty-looking, 
 and players convey very little personality before, during, or after the play. The only bit of visual 
 flair is a bit of blurring on a player when he's using turbo, a trail on the ball, and some really 
 ugly fireworks after lead changes.  

           How is this different from NFL Street? It's totally different! They play on a field now! 

  NFL Tour is the worst-sounding sports game since video games made the leap from cartridge to disc. 
 All the other aspects -- the graphics, the gameplay, the game modes -- seem like the best things ever 
 when compared to the unbearable play-by-play of ESPN's Trey Wingo. His entire performance centers 
 around the notion that announcers in sports games tend to repeat themselves too often, so he has 
 about a dozen "jokes" like, "You ever notice how video game announcers repeat themselves too often? 
 You ever notice how video game announcers repeat themselves too often?" He repeats these jokes 
 over and over again. He'll also make the same stupid quips about repetition multiple times  on 
 the same drive . Whoever sold the development team on this idea has a future selling snake oil 
 because it's absolutely astounding that commentary this terrible could have even made it past the 
 idea phase. It will not only annoy you, but also anyone in the immediate vicinity. You're better 
 off turning the commentary off and asking an ex to yell the things he or she dislikes about you 
 into your ear for the duration of the game.  

  Outside of the fact that there are no NFL Street games available for the PS3 or 360, it's puzzling 
 why NFL Tour even exists. If you're cool with spending $40 on a few hours of entertainment -- go 
 to town, but don't say you weren't warned. However, if you don't like wasting money, take a pass 
 on this one altogether and pick up an old copy of Street (or even Blitz) if you need an arcade 
 football fix.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (10 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: Koi-Neon-X
Rating: 1
Date: Apr 7, 2009 5:29 pm PT
Review:  I shop at Gamestop quite often and it came as a suprise to see NFL Tour (had no idea it was out 
 at the time) with Shawne Merriman (I'm a San Diego Charger fan!) on the cover! I have not read 
 a review but, it was given a promising preview in the pages of EGM and it was only $40.00 so I 
 thought this is a must buy. How wrong could I have been?
  
  Very wrong. The game is a broken mess! it does play like an arcade game but, I thought NFL Blitz 
 (ANY) played much better than this trash. I also want to know who's idea it was to have a "throw 
 off" instead of a kickoff?! what the heck was that about?
  
  The game in mind-numbing. You go through the same motions game after game with no interesting points, 
 no storyline, hall of fame mode, no season. Something called a tour mode which is as bad as the 
 announcing. It's just so repetitive!
  
  
  The game is probably dirt cheap by now but, even if you do love NFL football like I do don't make 
 the same mistake I made. I was expecting alot more from EA BIG and this game but, was really let 
 down with this rush job. Whatever opportunity they had for a maybe another shot is GONE! they killed 
 this series from the jump and those of you who liked NFL Street: stay with THOSE games because 
 they're probably alot better than this piece of junk. Avoid at all costs regardless of how much 
 it is! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bojan08
Rating: 4.5
Date: Jul 19, 2008 10:14 am PT
Review:  I dont know what they were thinking when they were making this game? honestly were they on crack 
 or some other harsh drug when they were making this game. It's a total waste of time and a waste 
 of disk. Probably the only good thing in this game is that you can create a player, which barley 
 even has an features to pick from which plain out sucks. The commentators are plain out boring 
 and repeat the same things over and over, and hes jokes coulldn't have been even more boring then 
 the game already is. Playing the story mode is very easy comparing to how much you know football 
 and enjoy playing football. Thats all i have to say this game was a joke! and me writing this rewiew 
 was a joke  
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gatorforlife07
Rating: 6
Date: Feb 23, 2008 6:42 pm PT
Review:  NFL tour is a game somewhat like NFL street but it has a new tour mode and a reversal systom. The 
 tour is a game mode where you travel across the country and going to different cities to play different 
 teams with different twists to the game like the first one to 24 points wins or a game where you 
 can only throw the ball and instead of first and ten it is first and 30. Another new thing is the 
 reversal moves which makes braking tackels look easy by just pressing a button but it should be 
 made harder so someone doesnt brake 11 tackels in a row. One of the bad parts of this game is the 
 announcing by Trey Wingo, I like Trey Wingo but his jokes about repetitive video game announcers 
 are not funny at all. One more bad about this game are the fields, they all look the same and the 
 fields should look a little different from each other. NFl Tour is a decent start to what could 
 be a new football game franchise but you should skip this game or at least rent it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CasinoOutlaw247
Rating: 2
Date: Jan 27, 2008 5:49 pm PT
Review:  NFL Tour (PS3) you are a piece of $*** I am a San Diego Charger fan and to see Shawn Merriman on 
 the cover is what brought the game to my attention. Not to mention the fact that the cashier said 
 "oh yeah, its the last one" well, it was only $40 bucks and it is football. At first I thought 
 hey this is going to be pretty good. NFL Street is a good series so how could I lose? PLENTY! as 
 soon as I had to THROW-OFF the ball I knew I was in trouble. This game lacks attitude (NO FUN LEAGUE) 
 the controls were so-so and the uninspired settings where the games take place really ticked me 
 off. You go from same stadium to same stadium. The announcing was H O R R I B L E! thank goodness 
 you can turn it off. I can honestly say I did have high hopes for this game but, the minute I started 
 playing I KNEW it was a rush job. I really hope ALOT is fixed before another comes out but, I can 
 honestly say I ll wait until the reviews come out next time before I purchase. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bognman420
Rating: 6.5
Date: Jan 22, 2008 9:36 am PT
Review:  ok if u like smash em up nfl streets style football this is your game. I think it is much better 
 than blitz or streets the hits r great and the the reversals the game is only 40$ so you should 
 know that ur not buying a game with alot of etras. create you own player mode is fun and online 
 its a blast with ur buds s i say if u like football and a fast paced no rules style football with 
 cray latterals this is you game if not look for another game. Overall i would give it a 6.5 fun 
 but some people might gt bored of the game fairly quickly but overall its a fun game to play with 
 your friends or online if u get the game thinking it will suck like i did you will be pleaseantly 
 surprised oh yea anyone who is ookin to get time shift that is the worst game i have ever played 
 alon with lair gundam warriors and that horrible sonic game thanks 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DominicanAG
Rating: 6
Date: Jan 18, 2008 6:58 pm PT
Review:  If you're looking for the next gen NFL Street this isn't the game. I think EA was aiming at the 
 very easy pick up and play type game than to make a game for the hardcore sports fanatic like myself. 
 The game is pretty easy to play if you've played any of the previous madden games than you'll know 
 the controls already. 
  
  The graphics in the game are not the best but there are not bad either. But if you're looking to 
 showcase the PS3 potential you will not see it be displayed on this game. NFL Tour is not as fun 
 as I hoped It would be and I wouldn't recommend it to someone that's looking for an arcade type 
 of football game because is not here. If you're interested in buying this game and are expecting 
 NFL Street I suggest you rent this game first before you purchase it. I was glad that I got it 
 as a gift and I didn't pay $39.99 for this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Vendetta58
Rating: 4
Date: Jan 16, 2008 1:20 pm PT
Review:  Wow. I played this game for about ten minutes, and the first Arena Football game on PS2 had a better 
 engine than this game does! They didn't put much imagination in this game at all. It's a good thing 
 I didn't actually pay money to play this game. It's not even worth the $39.99 local strores are 
 selling this game for.
  
  The commentary, HORRIBLE! The only way they could have made it worse is if the substituted Trey 
 Wingo with some oother jamoke like Keith Olberman from Countdown (to no ratings) on MSLSD. Wingo 
 is just obnoxious and more repetitve than daytime television. EA would have been the wiser if they 
 stayed with the NFL Street format. EA had a lot of sucsess with it. With a game like this getting 
 bad scores from all sides, maybe now they'll go back to it.
  
  When does baseball start? This game annoyed me. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nemerson00
Rating: 6.5
Date: Jan 15, 2008 3:55 pm PT
Review:  you know what this game isn't as that bad would i buy no but download demo yeah. you can tell its 
 ea's big division because the announcer doesn't go with the flow of the game and he really gets 
 on my last nerve but i see what they were trying to do and it didn't work. i like the way you can 
 break a tackle or tackle better, but for you hard heads madden heads you wont like it. i would 
 rather play ncaa football more of my game, but this is more blitzs themed game. another thing about 
 this game too easy to score if you get one stop you win because the defense cant stop nothing all 
 in all i didn't hate it but i didn't pay for it either. so wait a year from now to buy it on blow 
 out at game stop or you mite be mad with your self boom boom boom boom boom boom boom boom boom 
 boom boom boom boom boo boom bah bah bah bah bah bah haha 
::::::

::::::
UserName: The_Tron
Rating: 4
Date: Jan 15, 2008 10:14 am PT
Review:  I'm actually very disappointed with ea big's latest sports games. I mean I liked NFL street one, 
 but it went downhill after that. NBA street is still decent and FIFA street was unbearable. I was 
 really hoping Tour would be like NFL street one but with an updated roster and more features, as 
 I am a pats fan and wanted to see them in their perfect season form in a video game. Yah and the 
 last time I seen a football game bullet passes were a pretty integral of the passing game, whoever 
 decided to leave them out should get a point blank bullet pass between the eyes from Tom Brady 
 or Brett Favre. Ea get your **** together and start putting some decent games on the market, I 
 sear if burnout paradise lets me down I'm going to crap in it's case and deliver it to your CEO. 
 Anyway this game is a rent at best and a skip if you have more than half a brain. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cometkd
Rating: 6
Date: Jan 20, 2008 1:28 pm PT
Review:  Okay where to start game play is good. I am not sure why EA is having trouble making ps3 games 
 in 1080. I am getting tired of the thing hard to program. The Ps3 has been out for two years now 
 it is time to use the next gen console like it should be. I think it has a lot to do with whoever 
 left Xbox to come to EA not wanting Ps3 to do well for Ea in my opinion. So the game is fair I 
 think. They should added more plays to choose from, as well as more arenas that you play in depending 
 on what city ur playing in change the structure on the arena design. I think most importantly they 
 should have taken the top 14 players on a team and let you choose who u want to play! Overall the 
 game play is okay worth $40.00 as sold not a $60.00 game because I know I would not have paid $60.00 
 after I played the demo. Just need to use next gen graphics looks like ps2/ graphics. I give EA 
 Big a E for Effort. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
