-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: NHL 09
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/ps3/sports/nhl09/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Skill stick gives you great control on both sides of the puck.
 AI forces you to play realistic brand of hockey.
 Be a Pro mode is incredibly immersive.
 EA Sports Hockey League is a great innovation in online play.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Online connection issues will hamper your dreams of glory.
 Poor frame rate in cutscenes and replays.
 Online interface is far from user-friendly.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Sep 17, 2008
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 9
Critic Score: 8.8, 16 Review (s)
User Score: 9.0, 694 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Electronic Arts
Developer: EA Canada
Genre: Ice Hockey
Date: Sep 9, 2008
ESRB: Everyone

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
The latest entry in EA's venerable hockey franchise is the best yet. 

  There are few moments in any sports video game more satisfying than scoring a goal in NHL 09. It's 
 more than aiming top-shelf and pressing a button before the goalie gets into position. No, you 
 have to outmaneuver the defense with quick skating and smart passing, work your way into scoring 
 position, and then manually put the puck where the goalie isn't. But if you played EA Sports hockey 
 in the past two years and experienced the stellar control mechanic known as the skill stick, you 
 already knew all this. In NHL 09, EA expands on its already outstanding gameplay with a host of 
 addictive game modes that make this, quite simply, one of the best sports games of all time.   
 

           A variety of game modes and outstanding gameplay will keep you coming back for more NHL 
 09. Group hug.      

  With skill-stick control, your right analog acts as your hockey stick. Move it left or right to 
 deke, press up for a snap shot, down then up for a slap shot, and to the side then up for a wrist 
 shot. On defense, you have 360-degree control to clog passing lanes, deliver poke checks, and pull 
 your opponent's skates right out from beneath him (two minutes for tripping.) There's also a dedicated 
 stick-lift button that, when used in proper position, will whack an attacker's stick away from 
 the puck. When not in proper position, you're likely to be whistled for high-sticking or slashing, 
 but this aggressive defensive move adds another risk/reward element to the action.  

  If anything, the new skill-stick additions transform NHL 09 into a defensive-focused game, forcing 
 you to use actual hockey strategy to get past the blue line. Indeed, flip-dumping the puck into 
 the offensive zone -- another new maneuver this year -- will allow speedy wingers to get behind aggressive 
 defenders sliding in for the pinch. You'll have to take what the excellent defensive AI gives you; 
 working passes into the slot or behind the net and cycling the puck to create scoring opportunities. 
 Simply zigzagging past defenders on the breakout isn't going to work, especially on higher difficulty 
 settings. Rest assured, there are fewer scoring opportunities than in years past, and NHL 09 is 
 a much better overall hockey experience because of it.  

  But in large part, the overall gameplay on the ice remains very faithful to last year's game. Checking 
 is mapped to the right analog stick, and the physics have been improved so big hits can only be 
 delivered at direct angles (provided the defender has a full head of steam) . A stationary defenseman 
 is more likely to harmlessly shove an attacker than knock him off his skates. This eliminates arcade-style 
 hit fests and forces you to play more conservative defense. If you pull defensemen out of position 
 to deliver a big hit, you'll open up the slot, and skilled opponents will take advantage. Hockey 
 purists won't like all the off-the-puck hits that could easily be whistled as interference, but 
 these concessions to video game fun are balanced well against the game's dedication to realism. 

           Theres nothing quite like that first moment on the ice as a professional.       

 
  Because this simulation approach forces you to play real hockey, casual players that loved the 
 old arcade style may feel lost. Fortunately, several tutorials are included that introduce player 
 controls and some basic strategy tips. And if you still hate the skill stick, you can opt for the 
 two-button NHL-94-style controls.  

  Most of the development time on NHL 09 appears to have been spent off the ice on two new modes: 
 Be a Pro and the EA Sports Hockey League. When you first pop in the game, you're asked to create 
 and customize your own Be-a-Pro character, from the length of his mullet to the flexibility of 
 his hockey stick. You can then plug him into the AHL affiliate of your favorite NHL team and try 
 to take him from a wet-behind-the-ears rookie to an NHL legend. This Be-a-Pro mode is similar to 
 Superstar mode in Madden NFL 09. A third-person camera follows your character on the ice, and experience 
 points earned in-game can be used to upgrade your attributes. The first time you find yourself 
 alone on a breakaway, you'll be absolutely hooked. As satisfying as scoring is in the normal game, 
 a Be-a-Pro goal will have you jumping out of your seat because you're so much more attached to 
 the player scoring it. There are some occasional camera issues as you move behind the opponent's 
 net or transition from offense to defense, but overall this mode stands head and shoulders above 
 similar modes in other sports games.  

  The EA Sports Hockey League lets you take your Be-a-Pro character online and join friends for six-on-six 
 matches, expanding on the three-on-three online matches of NHL 08. If you choose to create your 
 own team, you can select your jersey from any of the NHL teams, international teams, AHL teams, 
 or European league teams. Then, you can select a team name and motto before commencing your assault 
 on the leaderboard. It's an engaging online mode for sure, but it's not without its problems. We 
 suffered significant connection issues, and the interface is confusing. Game invites are terribly 
 frustrating because accessing your friends list isn't intuitive in the slightest. Even though you 
 play as your Be-a-Pro character, your skill attributes do not carry over from one mode to the next, 
 which is a shame because it takes several games to earn enough experience points to gain just  
 one  attribute point in a category. On the ice, there's also a strange bug where a computer-controlled 
 defenseman will rip a slap shot into the stands if he receives the face-off. Despite its foibles, 
 though, the EASHL is a mode you just have to play for yourself. Forget scoring goals. Simply playing 
 good team hockey is an addictive thrill that will have you coming back for much, much more -- if 
 you manage to connect to a game.  

  If you love playing head coach and GM, the deep Dynasty mode makes a welcome return. The create-a-play 
 feature has been expanded to include breakout and sideboard plays, which are perfect for triggering 
 dump-and-chase plays for those who can't dance around defenders at will. With the AHL license, 
 you can call up hotshots from your minor-league team and send down aging veterans or simply place 
 them on waivers. If you don't care to participate in any of the hardcore management, you can play 
 your way through the schedule and let the computer handle those decisions for you. A Tournament 
 mode rounds out the game modes, letting you play through the SM Liiga of Finland or Elitserien 
 of Sweden -- there are five European leagues featured in all.  

           No experience? No problem. Several skill-stick tutorials will have you deking the defense 
 in no time.      

  Where NHL 09 does not fall behind is with its slick player models and excellent animations. There 
 are hundreds of new player animations, including some bone-crushing checks into the boards. The 
 frame rate holds at a smooth 60 frames per second on both the Xbox 360 and PlayStation 3, although 
 you will notice some slowdown during replays and cutscenes. In the booth, the former ESPN play-by-play 
 tandem of Gary Thorne and Bill Clement is arguably the finest duo in sports video game commentary. 
 Gary Thorne's voice alone can carry the action of a little league baseball game, and Clement continually 
 drops insightful hockey knowledge, even if some it is recycled from last year's game. Regardless 
 of the fact that ESPN no longer broadcasts NHL games, Thorne and Clement add even more color and 
 authority to NHL 09.  

  If you even have a passing interest in hockey, you owe it to yourself to play NHL 09. EA has raised 
 the bar yet again for its hockey franchise with engaging gameplay, excellent presentation, and 
 enough game modes to tide you over until Christmas. Move over Blades of Steel, NHL 09 has earned 
 its place among the greatest sports games of all time.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (33 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: Shabbath
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 18, 2009 2:07 pm PT
Review:  Like icehockey? This is a must buy. Many different modes you can play such as the good old dynasty 
 mode (now with an AHL team too) , world cup and so on... then we have the new "Be-a-pro" mode, which 
 lets you play as yourself in the NHL. Depending on how good you are, you can be moved from a team 
 to another team and so on. You are like a real player. Sounds good, but I didn't like it that much. 
 I was more for the Dynasty mode. Created an own team with friends as players. It's somehow really 
 fun. You should try it. :)
  
  Then we have the multiplayer which is actually the best mode if you own an internet. I like playing 
 as one player with a match with 5-on-5 or 6-on-6. It really makes you feel you are a part of the 
 team. I've found that sometimes it feels a little laggy if there are matches with max players in.
 
  
  The controllers are very good. We have the new defensive skill stick which lets you poke manually. 
 The right stick shooting method is brilliant, but if you don't like it, you still can play the 
 old school style. I had a little trouble in the beginning with the new controllers, but I got used 
 to it. Shooting and tackling felt difficult. But they are more realistic than the old ones.
  
  Who would I recommend this game to?
  If you like icehockey (games) . It's simple. If you don't 
 like it, leave it. But often if people don't like the icehockey on television, they don't like 
 the games either.
  
  + Controllers
  + Team Multiplayer matches
  + AHL in Dynasty
  + Be-a-pro
  
  - Lags sometimes in the multiplayer 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chshawks07
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 11, 2009 6:51 pm PT
Review:  This game is awesome, even better than '08. I loved last year's game and so I was eager to pick 
 this one up and I love it. Everything is still here including the dekes, shot controls, international 
 teams etc. Added this year is a stick raise, you are now able to dump the puck in high in the air, 
 new one-handed dekes, and online tournaments and teams, and create a pro. Everything about this 
 game is enjoyable from exhibitions, to online play, to creating a pro. With create a pro, the game 
 allows you to create your own person, and play as them in games as you rise up through AHL hockey 
 to the NHL. This game mode is very fun and immersive and won't let you down. I'm the biggest fan 
 of online play. You can either find a quick game, ranked or unranked, a shootout match, or set 
 up online tournaments with your created teams with your friends. This is a lotta fun when you get 
 a bunch of people together and are able to play tournament games and have brackets. This is a game 
 not only for hockey lovers, but for those who love sports and who love a great game. Don't pass 
 this game up as you will regret it. All game modes and everything about this game is great, fun, 
 and innovative. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: HarrisDo
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 31, 2009 10:53 am PT
Review:  For a sport that is played mainly from big Canadian guys with broken noses hitting violently each 
 other in an ice field NHL 09 is doing well. This attemt of EA seems to be surprisingly good and 
 it is one of the BEST sport games in PS3. 
  
  NHL 09 puts the player into the action with a lot of details that make the difference. The players 
 react almost in everything they move well they take glances and they seem dissapointed when the 
 opposite team has scored a goal. On the contrary when they score one they get furious. They run 
 and celebrate they yell and their face changes.
  
  In addition the ice is well designed with a lot of cracks. The supporters are 3D and they seem 
 real. They have details and are not all the same. For a sport game the graphics realy look fantastic!
 
  
  The best in the game apart from the wonderful graphics is the gameplay which is almost perfect. 
 It is very deep from tactics to controls. You can make your system as you want. The customazition 
 is also very good. Another advantage is that the game is very realistic. 
  
  The movement is wonderful and opposite with other games it is very appealing. The players move 
 their legs and when they want to choose the direction they are moving the don't simply stop but 
 you can see the attempt to do this. On the whole the player feels he is in an ice rink.
  
  The controls are not complicated but simple. It is also well balanced. The left stick moves the 
 player whereas the right one controls the player's stick. Besides the ball's hit and the passes 
 have been transfered to L1 and R1 buttons. As a result you won't hace to move your hands continously 
 but it will take a liitle time to get used to it. Nevertheless you can adjust the controls as you 
 want.
  
  Another positive thing in NHL 09 is the Be A Pro mode (like in fifa 09) . For those who aren't aware 
 of this it is a mode in which you controll only one player in the matches and he is the one to 
 develop. This mode is also available in the online mode (5 against 5 players) .
  
  To sum up NHL 09 is a complete success and it's sure you will get on well with it. If you are a 
 fan of the sport this game is for you! It can addict you.
  
  Graphics:9
  Gameplay:9
  Sound:8
  Controls:8
  Lasting appeal:8.5 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Chillingson
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 24, 2009 4:50 am PT
Review:  All in balance! AI is perfect scorrer, playmaker and defender what is crazy my mind! Iv never saw 
 that smart playing AI, its great attempted, and its realize as 99% .... Now I have almost All-Star 
 rating, and playing second season in my career, even not one a game I played I have disappointed.... 
 All nice, smashing, injuring, sniper shooting, deflection shooting, goaltending, fighting, standing, 
 roster updating, coach management, online play (so hard at first time) , increase you skills, take 
 a awards, win a cup, be All-Star it is great feeling and you want to be him... bcz its real time 
 strategy, teammate playing, role play game!!! It is all of it ! I love this game !!!... I love this 
 game !!!... I love this game !!!... I love this game !!!... I love this game !!!... I love this game 
 !!!... I love this game !!!... I love this game !!!... I love this game !!!... I love this game !!!... I 
 love this game !!!... I love this game !!!... I love this game !!!... I love this game !!!... I love 
 this game !!!... I love this game !!!... I love this game !!!... I love this game !!!... I love this 
 game !!!... I love this game !!!... I love this game !!!... I love this game !!!... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ten_Out_Of_Ten
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 17, 2009 9:16 am PT
Review:  "NHL 09"
  ::::::::::Quick 
  
  Note {Just because my name is Ten_Out_Of_Ten, does not mean that every game I review will get that 
 score.}
  
  The Good
  ************
  - Fluid gameplay
  - Returning game modes are fun.
  - "Be a Pro" mode is interesting
  - Online roster updates 
 are much appreciated
  - Graphics are the better than any other hockey game
  - Love the addition of minor league teams in dynasty mode.
  - A full, 6-on-6 online game is very 
 fun.
  - Overall great presentation
  
  The Bad
  **********
  - Online has its bugs, and could be improved
  - Faster load times would have been nice
  - Can 
 be VERY difficult to score on goalies.
  - Computer player is sometimes too good.
  
  9.5/10
  :::::::::: This game is the best hockey game around, and is funnest when playing with 
 friends or online with loads of people. Well, if you can figure out how to score on the goalies. 
 GO SENS SO!!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: parkaar
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 1, 2009 9:51 am PT
Review:  If you like hockey and own the Playstation 3, you are very lucky. Guess why?
  Because nhl 09 has arrived!! This game alone has enough reasons alone to get the Playstation 3. 
 The graphics are stunning even for a Playstation 3 game. The gameplay is really good too. You can 
 choose from a meny diffirent controls and if you dont like the new controls you can play with the 
 classical controls. The sound is great. The commentators are basicly talking the same stuff they 
 said last year with a few new stuff. The new mode be a pro is the funniest thing in hockey games 
 ever. You can play be a pro without getting bored for many many many hours. The music is also pretty 
 good. This is a big improve from nhl 08. The game features all the same modes that nhl 08 had.
 
  If you like hockey and own the Playstation 3 there are no reasons why you shouldnt get Nhl 09. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jcdrag
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 20, 2009 4:57 pm PT
Review:  This game is amazing. Gameplay is bang-on, with few bugs. Physics are amazing. The CPU AI is realistic, 
 if you want it to be so. 
  
  All-in-all this is the best hockey game in a long list of amazing hockey games.
  
  It is not 
 perfect, however...
  
  One mulit-phased criticism is the lack of attention paid to the creation zone. You still can't 
 delete created players without reseting rosters. The "Create a Team" feature still has stupid team 
 names without matching logos, and no ability to use NHL/AHL/International jerseys (they have the 
 NHL logos, but you have to try to recreate the jersey yourself) and team names (past or present) . 
 It would be nice to see a "Create an Arena" feature to go with your custom team, as well as the 
 ability to upload and/or create your own logo that would appear at centre ice. The CHL (major junior) 
 rosters, teams and jerseys are not available, neither are any prospects who are not in the AHL. 
 Still cannot move a franchise to a different city. It would be nice to be able to port an entire 
 team from city to city and keep their jerseys, rosters, logos, rink, everything (example: move 
 the Carolina Hurricanes back to Hartford and have them be the Hartford Hurricanes) . Also, you should 
 be able to add your logo to the mask of your goalie, and have much deeper customization for gear, 
 faces, hair, facial hair, physical appearance (the player's body shape) , etc. Customized goal celebrations 
 would be nice to have as well.
  
  Another criticism is the inability to name a team rival in Dynasty or Season, and (mostly for BaP 
 mode) to be able to select a player/player rivalry. It would add depth to the game if certain teams/players 
 played harder against each other because they are rivals. The crowd could get into it more. The 
 effect of goals, fights and big hits would be more in rivalry games. Also, fights should not be 
 limited to 3 per game. It would be nice to have 5 or 6 per game, if you wanted (likely in rivalry 
 games) .
  
  Again, this is the best hockey game ever made, but it would be nice to have more of the above criticisms 
 addressed! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DarthMaximus
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jan 6, 2009 11:27 pm PT
Review:  The Good:
  Fast pace, great graphics, good music and good commentary.
  
  The Bad:
  Skill Stick, AI, Learning curve, documentation, same old 3rd period shenanigans.
  
  As many 
 have already said, the skill stick took a step backward, unfortunately this leads to bad gameplay 
 and this is a game so no matter the be a pro or dynasty or anything else that might be cool it 
 cannot over come that, add to this horrible AI and well you are left with a so-so game that can 
 be fun. Many try to taunt this game as a sim, well try starting a game at any difficulty level 
 but especially pro and above and play defense on the blue line only, after 1 period when the opponent 
 has scored somewhere between 4 and 8 points you will see why calling this a sim is a joke... and 
 AHL team has better goalies and defense. Also expect the computer goalie to be superman most of 
 the time none of this make this a sim, it's a cheap way for the developers to have to write code 
 for a decent AI.
  
  I thought I would be able to get friends and family to play this game as we usually do (they all 
 play madden and previous NHL games) , but they all hate this one, especially the newbies to hockey 
 games, that hurts the genre and unfortunately things could have been done to prevent this either 
 through difficulty levels or customizable control schemes or other means many other sports games 
 have and any game that would turn away many users is not a good game. None of this is to say it 
 is not a decent game, but the 9's and 10's you will see is alot of hype, the problems this game 
 has had on the 360 alone is reason enough to knock this title down to at least an 7 (at least for 
 those of us who expect a working product when we open our wallents) . To top it off the documentation 
 stinks, there are some tutorials in the game that are so-so but there are many settings and other 
 things in the menu's with no explanation at all... documentation is a joke... again this turns 
 off people new to the genre and that is always a bad thing.
  
  I have spoke with several seasoned hockey gamers who initially loved this title, but later admitted 
 that scoring was more luck than anything to do with skill, like real hockey position is a key in 
 this game, but most admitted scoring was more number of chances and pure dumb luck than skill at 
 the playing the game. Some of the suggestions I have heard sound good to me which would be make 
 the aiming of the shot take over only when the left trigger is pushed down, then it becomes aim, 
 other wise it stays skating, automatically switch to player closest to the puck on defense setting 
 and play as only 1 player setting regardless of who has the puck, of course far, far better AI 
 from almost everyone because the AI in this game most of the time should loose the "I".
  
  Also Gamespot should look at it's own previous reviews of games because this game has one of the 
 flaws that previous games have had which is 3rd period foolery, if you are in the lead plan on 
 the computer scoring especially in the last minute or 2 just about 100% of the time no matter what 
 you do, the same goes for you if you are trailing in the 3rd, just shoot from where ever at the 
 goal and you will almost certainly score in time to the tie the game. In an actual hockey game 
 there is certainly more pressure in the last minutes by the trailing team, but NHL 09 like previous 
 versions works way to hard to make dramiatic endings and O. T. games, so much so that it becomes 
 boring and it is real easy to spot this flaw, they should have a 3rd period only mode because this 
 flaw is so consistent.
  
  Now for some of the good... The graphics are great, it is almost like watching an actual game in 
 HD, the commentary can be suprisingly detailed and is professional although after playing awhile 
 it gets stale, music scores picked for the game are great and on the xbox custom music from your 
 xbox, usb stick or networked drive is a great feature (not available on the PS3) . Create a play 
 is a great feature as is be a pro mode and the 25 year dynasty.
  
  In the end the game is awesome if you can get 2 full teams together online to play so AI is not 
 an issue and it is somewhat fun to play against the computer for awhile but the AI gets annoying 
 after some time, in the rookie setting the pop up tips you cannot turn off become anoying withing 
 the 1st game, this is a big turn off to new comers and this should have a setting to turn it off. 
 
  
  Most of those who really just have to have the latest hockey game or are huge fans of the genre 
 will probably find the game ok to good, I really did not set out to rip this game, but offer and 
 honest review and as much good as this game has, all that has been covered a billion times. I wanted 
 to point out especially to new comers they should beware the learning curve and points mentioned 
 as you will probably wind up frustrated and not liking the game and get turned off by the genre, 
 if EA listens to all the complaints on AI and the new stick, perhaps NHL 2010 will be worthy of 
 all the hype and bring new people to the genre of all skill and interest levels. Most of us who 
 have played hockey games for awhile though will quickly become less excited once the flash and 
 hype cools down. This game is a solid 7.5, with all the positives this game has I wish I could 
 give it more, but it is what it is. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ILOVETHEENOT
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 4, 2008 4:13 pm PT
Review:  NHL 09 is quite possibly the strongest NHL video game ever released, while there are some little 
 quirks that need to get ironed out in NHL 2010, NHL 09 is a big step up from the already solid 
 NHL 08. In the past, EAs NHL franchise has been arcadey and meant for the casual crowd, EA however 
 has stepped it up for the past two years in creating the ultimate hockey simulation. This year 
 NHL 09 is doing something that has never been done in an NHL game before; it's called Be A Pro 
 Mode or BAP for short. In BAP you can either take control of an existing players career, or you 
 can create your own player from scratch, if you go for the latter of the two, you start out as 
 an AHL 3rd liner, and work your way up to the top line and than the NHL, once you reach the NHL 
 you again start on the 3rd line and work your way to the top line. BAP is really fun, however there 
 needs to be some tweaks and polish done to this mode for NHL 2010, such as getting the frame rate 
 more consistent, and also they need to improve AI teammate positioning, as you sometimes have to 
 place yourself where your AI teammate should be.
  
  One thing I found that needs to be improved is the offside function, it functions ok for now, but 
 I'm noticing that sometimes your teammates, weather they be from BAP or Dynasty or quick play, 
 they sometimes go offside at inopportune times, and while this happens in the real AHL and NHL, 
 it shouldn't happen at this regularity. Hitting has also been improved from previous releases in 
 the NHL series, it's now less of a hitting feast and now more along the boards and scrums, a definite 
 improvement that could use a little tweaking, like 3+ players digging for the puck along the boards. 
 Though one problem I have is, that sometimes hit detection can be rather lousy and big hitters 
 such as Mike Komisarek or Dion Phaneuf won't deliver the big open ice hits they are known for, 
 now this isn't a huge issue, it's more of a little nagging annoyance for me. Overall EA has tightened 
 up gameplay, made improvements everywhere and delivered a hockey experience I have longed for since 
 1999's NHL 2000. Only some little things are needed to improve this game gameplay wise.
  
  
  However, I am now going to talk about an area of the game that I feel is still rather lacking, 
 and that 2K Sports has always had the upper hand in, and that is Dynasty/franchise mode. Some things 
 that I feel would improve Dynasty is, contract negotiations throughout the year, just like NHL 
 2K8. All 7 rounds of the draft, not just the first 5 rounds, deeper contract negotiations, ESPN 
 broadcasts of what's going on in the Dynasty, this would really be fun in my opinion as it would 
 serve as a way for you as the GM to find out about potential trades so you can get in on the deals 
 if it's a player you want. Deeper scouting reports, and not just for players in the draft but players 
 around the NHL, the ability to hire and fire your coaching staff, scouting staff etc.
  
  And finally, one last thing that I would love to see in this near to perfect game is custom soundtracks 
 and trophies for the PS3.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: ggguun
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 3, 2008 2:42 pm PT
Review:  Year after year, NHL hockey games come out usually the same with a slight modification and a couple 
 new features to keep the buyer interested in the franchise. Last year NHL 08 came out with its 
 interesting new feature known as "skill-stick" which allows you to have total control over the 
 way you choose to use the stick of the player you are controlling. 
  
  NHL 09 was released about a year after 08, and it sure exceeded expectations turning out to be 
 an all new original hockey game by the electronic arts sport company. This game is exactly what 
 a true hockey fan would look for with its "Be a Pro" mode which lets you create your own character 
 to your style, then from there you play as your character starting in the AHL and working your 
 way up to be an NHL superstar. The other game modes like dynasty are also cleaned up and the controls 
 are improved using the same aspect as 08.
  
  This game in my opinion is the best of the franchise, with the awesome be a pro mode to the immerse 
 skill stick. Two thumbs way up 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Wiibro
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 1, 2008 9:06 pm PT
Review:  I play video games really for the sports games becuase they are my favourite. Although I can be 
 very picky when it comes to games, I have absolutley no problem with this one. NHL 09 offers amazing 
 gameplay, really competitive multiplayer online and with friends, and with an all new be a pro 
 mode it just keeps getting better and better. In last years edition of NHL (NHL08) the defense 
 was very unbalanced with the offense because when you got into the offensive zone the defense of 
 the other team was always able to check you. Now hitting power has been reduced more organic feeling 
 to it, and a lot of additions make this game a hole lot better then the last. I am disappointed 
 with the fighting in the game becuase usualy it consists of 2-3 punches thrown all the time becuase 
 it really depends on who throws the first one. NHL 09 is not only the best hockey game but also 
 the best sports game of the year. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: seannyboy357
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 23, 2008 6:35 pm PT
Review:  NHl 09 vs. NHL 2K8
  
  NHL 09, okay if you have played an NHL game before you probably think that it is okay but still 
 better than and NHL 2K8 games. Well, your right. NHL 09 is your standard hockey game. But, with 
 power stick control, or using the right analog stick to shoot, the game gets a little more fun. 
 The Power Stick puts you in the game, controlling weather its a plain wrist shot or a more powerful 
 slap shot. The farther you pull back and the quicker you flick the analog stick forward, the harder 
 the shot. That's not only good thing about NHL 09. The graphics on the PS3 are amazing! The Customize 
 Zone is still the same looks better and is easier to use. Unlike the stiff moves on some of hockey 
 games, this one out does itself. It is like watching a real hockey game. Although I have only played 
 the game a couple of times, i deffinatley recommend it. If you like hockey and have the PS3 i would 
 say that this is one of the games to get.
  
  -Seannyboy357 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pokinman
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 20, 2008 1:07 pm PT
Review:  I've been playing hockey games since the early Genesis days of NHL 94 and have been disappointed 
 in recent years with the experience EA and 2K have offered me. NHL 09 has made me forget about 
 those games and offer a game that plays, looks, sounds, and feels like hockey is supposed to.
 
  
  EA has done a nice job of adding the ProStick feature without making it something that you can 
 use to easily defeat your opponent time and time again. While this feature seems to have been there 
 for the offensively minded player, it also works beautifully for those that want to defend your 
 goal. Swipe that puck away from a charging defender and start your charge the other way.
  
  The Be a Pro Mode lets you jump into the action with your own unique player. Start off in the minor 
 leagues and work your way up to the first line in the pros. Earn points by doing the correct thing 
 and be punished for making the bonehead play that costs your team the game. It's great molding 
 your player into the type of player you want him to be. Add more points to shooting to make him 
 a sniper, or make him someone to be feared by adding points into hitting and toughness.
  
  The only thing that seems to be iffy about this game is the online play. When you can actually 
 play it is very enjoyable, but the problem is staying connected to the rest of players in the game. 
 I'm sure they are working on making this better in the future, but it's a bit of a disappointment 
 to get going in a game and then have half of the people drop, or having yourself drop.
  
  The play by play is done very well. Clement and Thorne show there knowledge of the sport with tidbits 
 about certain players throughout the game. It's awesome turning up the surround sound and hearing 
 the organ playing all around you. Gives you the sense of realism you expect.
  
  The game is just a joy to play. It's realistic, exciting, feature filled and just plan old fun. 
 For those of you looking for a sports game this holiday season, look no further than NHL 09. You 
 won't be disappointed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hillelslovak
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 14, 2008 9:34 pm PT
Review:  I'm no hockey fan, but I needed a change of pace game to break my time with all the shooters I 
 play. I had heard all the good reviews, and I liked playing NHL 2k5 a few years ago, so I figured 
 what the hell. NHL 09 delivers on so many levels and has got to be considered to be one of the 
 greatest sports games of all time.
  
  Gameplay- Gameplay is awesome. The Skill stick works superbly on offense and defense, allowing 
 you to do so many real life moves. It really puts you in control of the player. Faking out the 
 goalie 1 on 1 with clever use of the skill stick is an amazing moment each time. 
  Be A Pro mode is awesome. You get to create your own skater, and take him up the ranks from the 
 AHL to the NHL. You get graded on your play and get promoted or demoted by your coach depending 
 on your recent play. The Dynasty mode is excellent as well, with a great amount of depth. Signing 
 free agents is harder, and they actually consider many options before choosing on a team, which 
 I think makes it mean something when you get a key free agent.
  
  Sound/Visual- The Sound is awesome. All the sound effects were done top notch. The music in the 
 game is above average as well. Where it really shines is with the commentary. Clement and Thorne 
 work so well together and make the game seem so much more realistic with their knowledge of hockey. 
 The visuals are good too. Pretty good for a sports game.
  
  If you want a fun, deep, realistic and exciting hockey game, get NHL 09, period. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fxh8706
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 8, 2008 12:49 pm PT
Review:  Hey.
  
  I want to tell you about the most amazing hockey game I have every played. Look no further than 
 NHL 09.
  
  The hits, the goals, defense, it has it all. Most entertaining hockey game I have ever played.
 
  
  I bought the PS2 version and then returned it for the PS3 version of the game. The PS2 game does 
 not have online play. But just in the presentation, you can tell the difference between the two 
 games. Buy the PS3 version if you can. 
  
  One more thing I would like to say about the game. The Be a Pro mode is awesome. Never before will 
 you learn the game of hockey like you would with this mode (of course, unless you have played hockey 
 in real life) . I just started my Be a Pro as an offensive defensemen. Wow, I never knew how hard 
 it is to be on defense. Positioning, poke checking, intercepting passes, shooting from the point 
 and more are necessary for you to learn in order to advance to the NHL from the minor league. 
 
  
  felikun23 is my PS3 name. Look me up so we can play.
  I have an online team called Hardcore Hockey as well.
  
  Thanks! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Hyper477
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 7, 2008 8:39 pm PT
Review:  For some reason I can not here my play by play announcer, I turned the volume up & down and still 
 no luck. Is anyone else having the same problems? And they have the good announcers from ESPN when 
 they use to broad cast the games. Also WHY can't you change your lines using the classic or 94 
 controls??? In the old games you were able to change them, but not in this years game!!! I want 
 to use the old controls until I get use to the new ones and it is annoying that you have to have 
 them on auto change... What's up with that EA??? But I still think the is the best hockey game 
 out there!! I just hope EA comes out with a patch to fix these minor problems.. And what's up with 
 this review you have to have 800 words in order to post this.. So to fill in the rest, BLAH BLAH 
 BLAH BLAH BLAH BLAH BLAH BLAH BLAH BLAH BLAH BLAH BLAH BLAH BLAH BLAH BLAH BLAH BLAH BLAH! Sorry 
 for all the BLAH!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tellthetruth
Rating: 7.5
Date: Dec 14, 2008 4:01 am PT
Review:  I could not wait for this game to be released and i was not disappointed at first. The gameplay 
 is perfect, the graphics i think is the best that i've seen in any game out there. The new feature (be 
 a pro) was a great bonus and alot of fun to play around with. Any way the game was very pleasing 
 to look at and play. Now the other thing i need to mention is the thing that makes this game a disappointment. The 
 game causes my ps3 to restart when i press the ps button to quit the gameplay, at first i thought 
 it was just a freaky thing that would not happen again, but it did, many times. No other game i own 
 ever did this only nhl 09. So i decided to look on the EA website to see if any one else was experiencing 
 the problem i was having, and there was a whole bunch of complaints there on the same topic and 
 many other complaints on other problems as well, like in game flickering, weird glitches where players 
 were stuck on the ice and couldnt get off, goalies hugging members of the other team that just beat 
 them etc... the list goes on and on. The most serious problem people were talking about was the restarting 
 problem i stopped playing the game because of this, and i did a little web searching on this issue 
 to find out from a number of different sources that this problem can cause damage to your playstation 
 3. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ruiner000
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 24, 2008 6:41 pm PT
Review:  I haven't owned a hockey game in a few years, I'm only a 'sportscenter' hockey fan, catch the updates. 
 But I love video games, I love sports games.
  
  And well, if you're here, you love video games to. The fun to be found in this game transcends 
 sports. As a faithful Madden fun, I haven't been wow'd in a sports game in quite a few years, but 
 this game is amazing
  
  Right off the bat the Graphics are definitly next generation, it completely outdos the competition. 
 Every mode of this game has been great to explore.
  
  The Be a Pro mode is great, you control yourself (or whoever you created) and take them from a 
 minor leager trying to make the 1st line to becoming a go to guy in the NHL, and even though you 
 control only one man on the ice, the only way to success is being a team player, you'll have emotional 
 investment in your man, every hit that you take will make you want revenge.
  
  and.... so in todays age playing solo isn't fun...
  
  online created player leagues
  
  you 
 and a few friends can create a club of your created players, and you can play against other user 
 created/controlled players in leagues.
  
  while sometimes using the online features can be a be daunting (the directions don't exist, and 
 it can be a bit confusing joining leagues/finding matching and what not) it creates an entirely 
 new aspect to video games and is done better then any sports game before it.
  
  And i'm a huge fan of the ability to instantly upload highlighted videos to your easportsworld. com 
 user accounts, so u can keep up with your stats and share highlights online through your pc.
  
  This is one of the best sports games EVER released. 
  
  So.... you're not a hockey fan?
 
  
  You will be. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Stickyfingers87
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 23, 2008 6:36 pm PT
Review:  I thought NHL 08 was a masterpiece. It couldn't get any better. Well, I was wrong. This game blew 
 me away the moment I picked it up. I popped it in and (obviously) went to the new Be A Pro mode 
 to check it out. I was astonished by how real it was. It was like I was "Feeling the wind". Although 
 I wish they could simulate a real draft so you wouldn't be able to choose what team, just because 
 it gives me a little surprise. They should also add more facial structures (Heads) . A big issue 
 was the FA Goalie Sabrina Ladha. It was nice of EA to do that but come on 98 OVR. But all in all 
 the game was outstanding. Very real. Great online play. The Addition of The EASHL just completed 
 this game. Very easy to play. I haven't tried out the NHL 94 controls because I prefer the realism 
 of the Default Skill Stick controls. But I'm sure it's very useful to beginners. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zidley
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 22, 2008 2:31 am PT
Review:  I have been a long time fan of EA's NHL series. I still remember playing NHL 98 on my PC, it was 
 my first one. Well, the game has come a little way since then, and has been nearly perfected along 
 the way.
  
  First of all, who wouldn't want to be themselves in the NHL? Well in Be A Pro mode, you can do 
 just that. It is amazingly fun, and hard to get bored of, especially when you can take that created 
 skater online in the most intense online sports game you can play to date.
  
  If you thought the game was hard hitting, then stick to offline, cause the online will blow you 
 away. Six on Six hockey may possibly the best online gaming invention ever... ever! You need to 
 bring more than your best dangling and sniping abilities to that rink.
  
  If you haven't tried the new controls, don't worry, they are the exact opposite of being complex. 
 You may here about how 2K9 has really simple controls, but we're talking about fun games here, 
 that have graphics that will blow you away. In NHL 09, the left stick controls your skater, the 
 right controls your hockey stick, one button to pass, one button to stick check, what more do you 
 need to know? Did i mention that the game with the really simple controls uses more buttons than 
 the one that uses the sticks?
  
  All in all, if you have ever liked a hockey game, or just hockey in general, then you are missing 
 out by not picking up a copy of NHL 09 right now! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ROLLTIDE06
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 16, 2008 11:56 pm PT
Review:  I returned my 360 copy (freezing up) of this game in exchange for the PS3 version and I can finally 
 enjoy this entertaining game. 
  
  I'm currently hooked on "Be A Pro" mode. I made it to the NHL rather quickly but I guess that's 
 okay. Being in the minor leagues was fun while it lasted.
  
  The action is fast paced and strategic. It's really satisfying to have a long possession in the 
 offensive zone capped off by a goal created by excellent puck movement. 
  
  There are plenty of big hits to be had as well. The hit stick is a beautiful thing. Defense is 
 a lot of fun to play on this game. My "Be a Pro" was a defenseman. It's fun to take pucks in the 
 chest and be that annoying pest poking the puck away from the offensive player. Not to mention, 
 playing the role of the enforcer -- dropping punishing hits.
  
  I've always loved the sound on this game and the commentary is great. The sound of this game provides 
 an authentic atmosphere and really adds depth to the gameplay. Excellent work.
  
  This game is a blast to play and I'm sure it will keep me hooked for a while. I strongly recommend 
 this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ramansingh3
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 7, 2008 8:51 am PT
Review:  The games takes the foundation of last years game and makes some big improvements on them. For 
 instance this years game is a lot smother than last years and the shot stick is more functional 
 and more easily adaptive. The realism is there, for instance if you make a break and get a break 
 away with someone like Alexander Ovechkin you're putting that thing in the back of the net most 
 of the time, with keeping in mind that you need to get use to the control scheme if you've never 
 played NHL 07 or NHL 08. The other thing the game is packed with features from online play, dynasty 
 mode, foreign europeon teams, and the new ''Be a Pro'' mode where you can create a player and control 
 him from the minors all the way to the NHL. The feature also allows you to pick a current NHL player 
 and play with them in their situation. The mode works on when you are playing the coach will tell 
 you what you did good on and things you need to work on during the game and after every so games 
 you get points to upgrade your players attributes.
  
  Overall this is the best NHL game I have played on the next-gen and is one of the best sports games 
 I have ever played. I strongly recommend to take a look at this game if you are a hockey fan.
 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: alex_ovechkin
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 4, 2008 3:44 am PT
Review:  So I live in Hong Kong. I know. I'm from Vancouver though. Anyways, every year I get the new EA 
 NHL game for PS3. I always look for the things that are new and good, and the thing that are not 
 so good.
  
  Fighting
  
  Okay. I have to say it is pretty awesome how the punching is cool and the guy when he goes down. 
 Although the fighting is like a whole new generation compered to 08, it sort of sucks. I mean punch, 
 dodge, punch. He is basically knocked out. Unless you grab him, there is almost no fight to it. 
 
  
  Hitting
  
  I know the hitting is a huge improvement from ever. It seriously is awesome. Everything about it 
 is cool. One thing about it though, is where you hit the person, and how he hit turns out. You 
 will be just standing there beside the other guy and then you hit him... BOOM! He goes flying. 
 It looks awesome but, it isn't really real.
  
  Shooting
  
  Shooting is same old same old. Nothing that EA can really do about it. Flex is flex everything 
 is real about all the shots except the slap shot. If you have noticed, when you go up for a slap 
 shot, it is actually at a weird angle. I don't think that would be hard to change in the future.
 
  
  Passing
  
  When you pass it, well it is a pass. Nothing interesting or anything to do with that.
  
  Goalkeeping
 
  
  The goalies look pretty real. They move like goalies, make saves goalies would make... EA has done 
 a good job with that. One thing that they could improve on though is the goalies movement is sort 
 of strange. They just basically glide over and don't make the save.
  
  Common Glitches
  
  Every year the same things! This year all the time the hit is not really a hit, it is more 
 like a whole bunch of air pushing the guy you are trying to hit. On the replays you can see that. 
 When you hit a guy against the boards, there must be an invisible sheet of glass the guy hits first. 
 Other things like sticks and body parts going into the boards. Just same old stuff.
  
  If there is anything you think I missed, please say so. Any Thing you think NHL 2010 just say so.
 
  
  alex_ovechkin 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RangersRock30
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 29, 2008 6:43 pm PT
Review:  First of all, THANK GOD the framerate is alright this year. Even though its still there in cutscenes 
 and replays it doesnt play as big as a factor as when it did during gameplay. This game is a lot 
 better nhl 09.
  BAP- Incredibly amazing for a 1st try in hockey games. Changing lines as a skater works out perfectly 
 and fatigue is top notch. Goalie mode is back and thats surprisingly fun to play in BAP. You'll 
 feel the victory burning inside of you when you get your 1st shutout or getting a huge milestone 
 like 500 saves. 
  Presentation-To put it in one word-.. outstanding. The 1st time you play this game and watch the 
 intro the game your jaw will drop watching the players in the tunnels, and you will be smiling 
 when you hear the arena music muffle in the tunnels and come at full volume when coming onto the 
 ice.
  Graphics- Graphics are great just like usual but have improved a bit. They will be very recognizable. 
 Thats pretty much all there is to say.
  Gameplay-Great! Most people or some people.. think the stick shooting is too senstive and thought 
 EA was out of their minds. The stick shooting gives the gameplay a 10 in my opinion. It just feels 
 so authentic and natural..
  Online- Online is incredibly fun and online leagues are a great addiction that will keep you playing 
 for 100's of hours. Shootouts and VS play are back, and another new mode is team play, just like 
 online leagues but the camera is not like it is in BAP or EASHL.
  
  WHY THIS DID NOT GET A 10!- Online has way too many connection problems. Sometimes when starting 
 up a game you wont even make it up to the intro to the game and you will have to restart your ps3 
 or quit the game. Disconnections during gameplay are also common. Luckily, you still get the win 
 if someone on the other team quits purposely. On the other hand.. if youre winning 6-0 and you have 
 a hat trick.. theres just a possiblity a person on your team will disconnect and you will get a 
 loss. Pretty upsetting. Lagging is pretty bad if players dont have great connection but this isnt 
 a huge problem. Aside from online problems, this game is amazing and is def. worth the wait. If 
 your a hockey fan you will be speechless, if you arent, you will still think this game is amazing. 
 Be sure to pick up this game.
  
  PS-Dont get 2k9.. just dont.. its pretty embarrassing.
  Thanks for reading! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Off_The_Record
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 20, 2008 11:08 am PT
Review:  One of the best sports games I've ever played. Only reason it doesnt get a ten is because the online 
 play is confusing at first. It is to hard to find friends or invite them and its difficult to join 
 a club if u are a beginner. but other then that, every other aspect of this game is top notch. 
 The be a pro mode is extremely addicting but also very gratifying. I reccommend this game to anyone 
 who loves hockey but also anyone who loves sports in general. Definetly worth the money. The skill 
 stick is improved and the new ability to play better defense for once if a great plus. I would 
 consider this an easy game to play but and extremely hard game to get good at. It helps a lot to 
 actually have hockey sense and expereince while playing this game. I actually have a friend who 
 has never played ice hockey in real life before and he is using this game to help him get the jist 
 of it lol. I hope to see you guys out on the ice soon. 
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  Anyone Add me if u want. my PSN ID is Off_The_Record 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MiltaJay
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 19, 2008 5:48 pm PT
Review:  Ok, let's cut to the chase, NHL08 was an over hyped, and for the most part, overrated hockey game. 
 Before you thumbs down me (which you will anyway) , let me tell you that NHL08 was and still is 
 a fantastic and good hockey game. Ok, why is it overrated and what does this have to do with with 
 this year's version? Absolutely nothing, better yet, it's better than last year's version because 
 of this year's newly added BAP mode. And it's nice they improved the online game as well as other 
 tweaks for the better. But let's admit, NHL09 is flawed and defitnetly not deserving of these high 
 scores. MLB08 The Show is just as great, and yet didn't get a 9.0 hmmm something fishy here. Don't 
 want to get into details you already know, all I can say is NHL09 is a fantastic game that will 
 appeal to all masses, young, old, ect. Typical EA. It's all good, but there are options, and thank 
 God for that. Bottom line, NHL09 is made for the average video game consumer looking for a fix 
 in hockey. Real hardcore fans should stick with NHL2k9. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Rastatc
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 17, 2008 8:42 pm PT
Review:  Ok, I won't provide a complete review of a product I haven't played or experienced every entire 
 feature, I always think that is a crock when folks leave one line and rate a game they have'nt 
 looked at entirely or objectively and speak out of their arse due to initial impression passions. 
 That said, I think NHL 09 is getting closer to what sports games should offer in today's gaming 
 world, and certainly represents a better feel to the fast paced game that hockey truly is.
  
  PROS: I think the 'Be a Player' mode is an ambitious and strong step forward in concept. It 
 has some imperfections, but the fact that a sports game now is allowing you - the player - to be 
 a protaganist in a storyline fashion, and allow as Miyamoto sez 'live a childhood dream' is a big 
 step forward. Since EA utilizes a commonality in its sports titles, I hope to see this trend continue 
 across all sports it develops.
  
  Online: Ok, this mode I need to play more to provide a full review. I judged this from 'be a pro' 
 mode merely for the fact that it was ambitious to allow one to take a created and played pro and 
 place on an online team. 
  
  I hope in later incarnations, Sport titles would consider adding more roles such as: GM (partially 
 there if running a league int he past) , Agent Role, Scout Role, and allow more of a personal franchise 
 stake in online created club expereiences. Perhaps even have a promotion/relegation league 'ladder' 
 like that which is used in domestic football across the 'pond' that would eventually lead to an 
 elite league where only one person could play on one team (so in NHL's case, a 30 person league 
 where one player is the sole representative for that team for one season to claim world bragging 
 rights)
  
  Either way, I like the ideas - wouldn't call them 10/10 - but an improvement and step in right 
 direction design wise for sure.
  
  Historic Team: Ok, its only one team really (Habs) , but dang if they could get some old time great 
 teams/players (if it is a license issue - just use number and old jersey, that gets around compensation 
 entaglements, like Madden does with All-Madden great teams or era clubs)
  
  Hockey Card: Good idea - would like to see it return to more of sets as well, just like NHL2002/03 
 (back then with live stats of real games in a ticker tape - that was really a deeper step)
  
  Cons:
  
  AI: Still a bit bugged in terms of NPC positioning both on Defense and offense. 
 Normally one can learn to compensate for it - but with some modes it is a more present issue. For 
 example, In 'be a player' mode, if you are the 'playmaker' role, it is frustrating at times to 
 watch yourself grow in skill, adapt to opponent AI moves, only to watch your AI controlled teammate 
 fairly often miss their high scoring opportunity fairly often, or not go to a proper offset position. 
 
  
  I won't make it a big deal, because to tune an AI perfectly to measure majority of realistic situations 
 likely would take far greater development time than Execs would give the poor developers to adjust 
 (unless they take a page outta Madden and skip one year.. I couldonly imagine what the shareholders 
 in a large publisher would say to that request lol) .
  
  Weaker fighting mechanics (just feels a bit like button mashing at moment - perhaps more engage/disengage 
 sliders etc)
  
  Create Team: Still would like to see a feature that lets people import images and type in a club 
 name rather than use cookie-cutter names and art. Likely a license issue with the leagues or something, 
 but seriously, it would add much more depth.
  
  
  
  Overview:
  
  All in all, the look and feel are getting very close in terms of capturing a look and feel of being 
 in the game and a really solid experience thus far. I'll provide a complete review after completing 
 each mode in greater detail - but first impressions I would rate it good game, well worth playing. 
 Not a 10/10 - but in my books NO game is perfect, some just get it right and send a good benchmark 
 to aim at ;) ... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TylerMeyer88
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 19, 2008 5:55 pm PT
Review:  This time last year, I was AMAZED by NHL 08's graphics and wide dynasty mode, but THIS surpasses 
 that by far.
  
  Here's some quick points:
  
  -Be a Pro mode is amazing. I takes a while to get up to the NHL, depending on which team or what 
 postition you choose. It's very wide and realistic.
  
  -The graphics have improved quite a bit.
  
  -A new intro at the beginning of the games really 
 makes you feel like a proffesional.
  
  -Cool new music.
  
  -The Montreal 100th Anniversery team is included, it has all the best players from Patrick Roy 
 to Maurice Richard. 
  
  -In Create a Team, you have a selection of any of the current 30 NHL logos for your custom team.
 
  
  -Player movements, goalie saves, and defensive hits are more realistic.
  
  -More European teams to play with.
  
  -They have included most of the past uniforms to choose 
 to wear during games, if available.
  
  -New alterante jeseys will be included, but the code won't be realeased to unlock it until all 
 the alternate jerseys are realeased.
  
  -Most all of the previous glitches from last year are fixed. 
  --------------------------------------------------------
 
  BUY THIS GAME!!! Wether you're an avid fan or not, you will find this game fun, chalenging, and 
 addicting. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tic-tac-man8
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 13, 2008 10:01 am PT
Review:  I love hockey, and this is by far the best game (of any video game) that I have ever played. It 
 went so much further than 08, and has so many improvements, and the online is excellent as well. 
 It's a lot more real-paced, and its just awesome in general. If you like hockey at all, get this 
 game... and if you don't like hockey at all (WHAT?!) then buy this game anyways! A lot of things 
 that were useless, and unfair have been made better, more efficient, and more fair. A lot of times, 
 it's better to lift someone's stick, or poke check then just go for the big hit every time, and 
 lets you get a quick rush... but I mean, going for the big hit every time is always good too. I 
 play goalie in real hockey, and NHL 09's goalie mode is pretty sweet too, and is actually pretty 
 real-to-life. Best game I have ever played! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: matnaami
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 13, 2008 7:07 am PT
Review:  THIS GAME IS SOOOOOO FREAKIN GOOD... like i cry everytime i play, the framerates rock, graphics 
 rock, Ken Dryden animation stance KICKS A$$.., skill sticks are cool ect
  
  the only problem i have... WHY DOES CAREY PRICE SUCK... in my BE A PRO (center) he had a 3.5 GAA 
 prior to me being called up
  
  clearly you can see the eveyrone at EA really doesnt like the habs because of how underated they 
 are
  
  but aside from my habsfanboy rant this game ROCKS
  
  they should make BE A PRO a little more like Superstar with an agent, preseason, a couple of high 
 school games so you can get scouted, then do like NHL ALL STAR weekend skills, then draft becasue 
 choosing you team and not being able to leave kinda sucks... even tho i would never want to leave 
 the greatest team ever... LES CANADIENS DE MMMMMMMMMONTREAL
  
  CUP WINNERS 2008-2009, 2009-2010, 2010-2011, 2011-2012... well u get the point lol
  
  if you 
 have a choice between this game and heroin take this game
  
  THIS IS TO FILL UP THE 100 WORD MINIMUM lol
  omg now i have to fill up 800 charaters... THATS 
 HOW GOOD THIS GAME IS... IM WRITING A REVIEW... IM TAKING TIME OUT OF MY NHL 09 PLAYING TO REVIEW 
 THIS GAME AND NOW I HAVE TO ADD A COUPLE OF HUNDREAD OTHER CHARACTERS... either way i hope this 
 is enough
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: adamg78
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 12, 2008 6:39 am PT
Review:  NHL games have been around for decades. but finally a game released that blows past all the other 
 games from realistic game play. Be a pro mode is
  pretty good but the best for me is playing online what an awesome experience ,finally A hockey 
 game that's perfect online. know more cheap goals & the AI
  really helps ya out to play great D. for hockey fans I would recommend everybody to pick this game 
 up you wont be disappointed..
  NHL games have been around for decades. but finally a game released that blows past all the other 
 games from realistic game play. Be a pro mode is
  pretty good but the best for me is playing online what an awesome experience ,finally A hockey 
 game that's perfect online. know more cheap goals & the AI
  really helps ya out to play great D. for hockey fans I would recommend everybody to pick this game 
 up you wont be disappointed.. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LuongoRox1
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 11, 2008 7:38 pm PT
Review:  EA Sports may have just put the final nail in the 2K series' coffin with their latest hockey sim, 
 NHL 09.
  
  The past two years they focused on refining the offensive side of the Skill Stick, this year they 
 pretty much perfected the defensive side. The addition of 360-degree poke checking and stick lifts 
 are great, but the game doesn't take it too far like NHL 2005. (in which the defence was relentless)
 
  
  Be-A-Pro mode is extremely fun, and it's awesome to live the dream. That first game you play as 
 you follow yourself walking out the tunnel and onto the ice, and hearing the crowd roar is just 
 amazing.
  The EA Sports Hockey League is one of the coolest ideas I have ever seen. You can join or create 
 a team, and whenever you and one of your teammates are online, you take YOUR player and go head-to-head 
 against people around the world for the EASHL Cup.
  
  Graphically the game improved over great graphics in NHL 08. The equipment looks way more detailed, 
 and more realistic. The textures are very good as well.
  
  Very few games deserve a rating of 10, because they have to match up to games of such high quality 
 like MGS4 and GTAIV. But in my eyes, any sports fan will love this game, and I know I do, and it 
 is worth the money and deserves a 10! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hockeygamer17
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 12, 2008 8:52 am PT
Review:  Last year I was a K2 player who converted to the EA ways for NHL 08. I was amazed by how realistic 
 the game was, the amazing developments with the skill stick, and the hours and hours of game time 
 I put it. Pretty much the only game I played for months when I had the chance to play. That said 
 NHL 08 didn't come without some flaws however. I could list a few but I'll name the ones I really 
 hated.
  
   Homing missile hip checks
   Instant goal slap passes
   Online glitches such as the faceoff loop
  
  Now we come to the year of NHL09 where EA promised 
 that the game would become even better and ya know what it did.
  
  Gameplay: The game play is very similar to 08 but there are some dramatic changes in my opinion. 
 For one the defense is a whole lot stronger now. You can now give little checks to that guy in 
 front of the net to push him out of the way. You can now stick lift! As a hockey player, you don't 
 know how happy I was to see that feature in the game. It literally interferes with the puck handler 
 and if you get a little too lift happy and hit the guy you get a slashing or high sticking call. 
 Another defensive plus is the 180* poke check now. That was another great plus. The checking is 
 a whole lot more realistic now and the physics seem to be almost dead on but the best part is that 
 there are no more homing missile hip checks! On the offensive side of the puck you have to be more 
 strategic now. I don't know if I should feel sorry or laugh at those who abused the slap pass last 
 year I think I'll laugh. The slap pass is all but dead now. The passes are slower and the shots 
 don't always go on net. In fact I've missed the net quite a few times just on a regular passing 
 one timer. Which brings me to another thing the shot aim is pickier now. So if you are taking 
 a shot and you have the aim on the edge of the left circle you'll probably miss the net more. 
 Also to counter the defense upgrade you can now protect the puck using the X button. It will put 
 your body in front of the puck protecting it from stick lifts but you can still get checked. Along 
 with that you can also dump the puck now, which can be used for dump and chase style hockey. This 
 is perfect for the 3rd and 4th lines. For the 1st and 2nd lines there is *I hate to use this word* 
 "speed burst." Basically you push the puck forward in front of you and you can get from point a 
 to point b quicker. However, this feature allows the puck to be free and can easily be stolen. 
 If you know how to use it right, it's a great attribute. The goaltending in the game is pretty 
 much the same but it is stronger then it was before... well as far as blocking the shot. Rebounds 
 are more frequent now I think, which are always up for grabs. Also the goaltenders will now make 
 more sprawling saves, which if he does you better pick up the rebound or the next shot will go 
 into the net. The final part of the game play is the flow of the game. Now that the PS3 version 
 has the 60 fps, the game does feel 10X smoother then last year. Also the game is a lot slower, 
 I don't know if it's the fps at work or what but the game runs smoothly and slowly.
  
  Now for features. Online play, Dynasty Mode, Create a Player, Create a Team and the world tournament 
 returns to the game. However this year we have a few new features; Be A Pro., European Tournaments, 
 and the EASHL. I'll start on the Be A Pro mode. This is probably the mode I've spent most of my 
 hours playing. From the start of the game you create your player and when you start up Be A Pro 
 you pick the AHL team you want to play for. For me I choose Lake Erie since I'm an Avs fan. From 
 there you pick what kind of player you are and in my case I choose play maker so instantly my passing 
 abilities were greatly higher then my other abilities. You have experience points to spend and 
 you add them where you like checking, shooting power, accuracy etc. You then start up the game 
 and you take control of yourself and that's it. You have to play your position at all time and 
 you have to take your man or else you will pay for it. Every time you come back to the bench for 
 a line change or when the game is over the way you play will be graded by your coach. What they 
 grade you on is position, team play and stats. You are also expected to accomplish certain things 
 before the end of the season. Make so many passes, make so many goals, etc. Over time and the more 
 games you play you will gain more experience and you can those experience point to where ever you 
 feel needs to be better. Like an RPG pretty much. Main goal is to make the NHL, become a star and 
 win the cup. This mode is a ton of fun and as a hockey player, I appreciate this the most. The 
 EASHL will work pretty closely with the Be A Pro mode. You take yourself and you play on a team 
 of guys or gals who are your friends or from an online gild. I joined a team called the Jets a 
 while ago and haven't played a game with them yet, so I can't say much at this time on the EASHL. 
 What I'm worried about is the online lag that is expected from this though. The other tournaments 
 such as the world and the European leagues are pretty straight forward. One other tournament is 
 the Montreal Canadians Cup where you play against 7 NHL teams and earn the right to play EA's special 
 Canadians team consisting of the best Canadian players ever. Create a play, practice and shootout 
 mode are also included as well from last year. I have a little bit of a problem with the shootout 
 mode, it seems like your goalie like ghosts into the goal itself. It's weird and shouldn't be there. 
 08 never had that.
  
  Online Play: It's the same as last year pretty much, I haven't seen any online glitches yet which 
 is good. What I'm really hoping is that EA fixed the damn faceoff loop. Another thing I hope for 
 is the disconnect glitch to be wiped out. Quick note for all those crybabies who pulled that trash 
 last year Stop wasting my time. Oh look you just threatened to DC me and you said it over the 
 mic well good for you. Just pull the plug and let me move on. You're a waste of my time and everyone 
 else that wants to enjoy the game. Why don't you just admit to yourself you suck at this game and 
 get a life if possible.
  
  I just had to slip that in.
  
  Graphics and Audio: The graphics haven't changed much but we do now have game intros and 3 stars 
 of the game. Those are nice to watch. I haven't won the Cup yet but I'm hoping it's longer then 
 last years. There have been reports by IGN of frame rate issues within between play movies but 
 I have yet to experience one. It runs just right on the PS3 so far. The game audio is good to. 
 What you expect in a hockey game is there from the checking on the boards to the PING of the post. 
 There is one thing that pisses me off though and that's the fact that PS3 players won't get the 
 custom soundtrack. It ticks me off that once more 360 users will get a superior copy of the game 
 even though it's a small thing. I just want Kern Kraft 400 to play when I score. I'm sure others 
 feel the same way. At least we PS3 owners don't have to pay to play online. 
  
  I have used the special feature in the instant replay system where you can literally upload game 
 highlights onto the EA servers. It is such an awesome feature. What you do is link up you EA account 
 onto the EA Sports World website and make sure you are logged on your PS3. What you do next is 
 when you find a play you love, you crop your video and upload it onto the website. When it's all 
 said and done you should have you play on your profile page. There is nothing to it really. This 
 feature just stunned me.
  
  To wrap it up EA Sports raised the bar once more and I have to wonder, what they could do to make 
 it even better. This is the most realistic hockey game I've played to date and it really does make 
 you feel like you are the main player of the game. Be A Pro is freakin sweet, and the tune ups 
 in the game play are a huge plus.
  
  + Positives +
  
  Be A Pro Mode is the ultimate hockey game experience!
  
  Defense is way better then it was 
 before. Especially with stick lifts and 180* poke checks.
  
  Much tighter and smoother game play.
  
  -Negetives-
  
  PS3 user gets screwed out of custom 
 soundtrack.
  
  Still not much of a fan of the create a player they could of added more to it like more hair styles 
 and facial features. Also there is not as much equipment as they made it sound. 
  
  Also the create a team still sucks. You're very limited to what you can have on your jerseys. I 
 think the problem is they try to match it to the new stream line jerseys too.
  
  One other thing I just hate is that they still don't have regular Playoff or Regular season modes. 
 I don't want to play a whole season. I just want to pick certain teams and play a regular Stanley 
 Cup playoff.
  
  
  Suggestions for NHL 2010
  
  If they can put all these European teams in give me my NCAA Division 1 hockey! It can expand on 
 the Be a Pro greatly. I want the chance to wipe the ice with the losers from Colorado College or 
 those goons from North Dakota with the University of Denver Pioneers! Give Canadians their junior 
 teams. You don't have to update the roster, just make it a set team.
  
  Maybe they can start working on the goalies to make them better to control. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
