-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: NHL 08
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/ps3/sports/nhl08/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 The skill stick still rules.
 Vastly improved AI that adapts to your offensive tendencies.
 Online modes have been fleshed out to include team play and leagues.
 Superb graphics and audio.
 Great create-a-play feature.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 A few remaining control quirks and glitchy goals.
 Online play currently has some connection issues.
 Goalie controls are still kind of a pain.
 Frame rate isn't terribly stable.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Sep 13, 2007
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 8.5
Critic Score: 8.6, 23 Review (s)
User Score: 8.4, 647 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Electronic Arts
Developer: EA Canada
Genre: Ice Hockey
Date: Sep 11, 2007
ESRB: Everyone 10+

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
EA's latest NHL title creates one of the most legitimately exciting interpretations of the sport 
 you've ever played. 

  EA's NHL 07 redefined the hockey genre with one simple feature, the skill stick. Though the game 
 had few modes and several artificial intelligence issues, its star play mechanic worked brilliantly, 
 and created a great rebuilding point for the franchise. As you would expect from a follow-up, NHL 
 08 takes what 07 did and stacks a bunch of improvements on top of it. The AI has been thoroughly 
 reworked, so it now looks and feels much, much more like the real-life sport. Throw in some balance 
 improvements to the skill stick, a gaggle of new online modes, and an improved dynasty mode, and 
 you've got an all-around great hockey game.  

           EA-branded hockey takes a big leap forward in NHL 08.      

  For lack of a better 
 term, NHL 08 is just a smarter game of hockey than 07 was. Pop in 07 for a few minutes before starting 
 in on 08, and you'll see a night-and-day difference between how players behave in each version. 
 For one thing, 08 is a slower-paced game than 07 was, though not to the point of feeling sluggish. 
 Part of that is because the game has done away with speed burst mechanic, and part has to do with 
 skating, which has been redone from the ground up. The momentum of the skaters as they move up 
 and down the ice simply feels more natural and less overblown, and the pacing of the game is much 
 more realistic. On offense and defense, player behavior feels correct in most every situation. 
 Setting up power plays and other elaborate passing schemes is more natural than in any EA hockey 
 game to date. When you push your way into the offensive zone by yourself, the defense doesn't just 
 try to knock you silly every single time. Defenders will actually poke check, try to push you toward 
 the boards, and close the gap to the net. It's like watching real defenders, instead of the robotic 
 hitting machines from earlier EA hockey games. You'll occasionally see some dopey moments where 
 guys on your team skate right past the puck or stand still in front of the net even though they're 
 getting hammered left and right, but these aren't the norm.  

  Incidentally, it pays to vary up your offense as much as you possibly can this year, because the 
 defense will actually adapt to your plays. If you keep moving to the center of the ice and slapping 
 it in, the AI will react accordingly and start clogging up that area. If you're constantly trying 
 to set up elaborate one-timers, the defense will see it and attack accordingly. The reactions to 
 your repetitive play are almost uncanny. The one goofy thing about this adaptive AI system is that 
 it doesn't differentiate among players and teams; Johnny Oduya is just as capable of figuring out 
 your tendencies as Scott Niedermayer is. While it's better to have everyone be smart versus everyone 
 being an idiot, a bit more differentiation between skill sets would have been nice.  

  If you find yourself running into trouble, the game is quite good about letting you know what you're 
 doing wrong. Between periods, a screen will pop up telling you what you're doing well and what 
 you need to improve on. Specifically, it'll tell you things like your forechecking needs to improve, 
 or that you're doing a great job of getting shots on net. In another helpful feature, if you're 
 getting too predictable on offense, the commentators will actually point that out. It's subtle, 
 but if you're paying attention to what they're saying, you can get some sound advice.  

  As far as control goes, the skill stick feels even more refined this year. There aren't any major, 
 game-changing differences to the mechanic, but all told, it just feels smoother in its movements. 
 Goals scored are rarely alike, and it's a thrilling feeling to fake out the goalie and knock the 
 puck in with a few quick flicks of the stick. And though this seems like less a change to the stick 
 and more a change to the goalies, glitched and otherwise wonky-looking goals are much less frequent 
 this year. You'll still see some highly questionable ones on occasion, but there are very few of 
 those weird goals from 07 where the puck would bounce off every body part of the goalie before 
 eventually donking its way in. Now, if EA could just fix it so your stick wouldn't clip through 
 defenders' legs anymore  

  One specific new feature for offensive controls is loose puck deking. To pull one of these off, 
 you hold down the L1 button/left bumper, and press both analog sticks in the desired direction 
 of the deke. It's a tricky maneuver, as you're basically letting go of the puck and trying to push 
 your skater into exactly the right spot to pick the puck back up once he's past the defender. The 
 timing is tough, and if a defender happens to decide to check you right at the time you're trying 
 to pull this off, you're hosed. Once you get a good handle on the timing, however, the move becomes 
 incredibly effective -- maybe even a bit too effective. Fortunately, not every skater can pull these 
 moves off with a deft touch, but if you've got a one-on-one matchup against an opponent who has 
 the timing on these moves down and a good skater holding the puck, watch out.  

  Defensive controls haven't seen much change, though there are some balance tweaks. The poke check 
 feels a bit more effective this year, though it still looks weird and awkward, and the control 
 mechanic of holding the right bumper/R1 button and swinging with the right stick still feels cumbersome. 
 Checking with the right analog stick is much more understated this year, but that's not to say 
 it isn't effective. You can still wind up for a big hit and send a guy crashing into the boards, 
 provided you can actually time such a hit correctly. But by and large, most checks don't just knock 
 guys silly all the time -- and that's a good thing. You'll knock guys off the puck periodically, 
 and sometimes checking won't do anything. Most of all, checking feels balanced. The big grinder 
 types do a lot more damage than the little speed wingers, and that's how it should be. Lastly, 
 the game does feature slightly improved goalie controls that actually make a measure of sense and 
 let you challenge skaters effectively, though this control method still isn't as much fun as 2K's 
 goalie control.  

           Signing players in dynasty mode actually works correctly now.      

  One of the big 
 complaints about NHL 07 was that it was a barren wasteland for game modes. It didn't have much 
 of a dynasty mode, and online play was just laggy head-to-head play. Both areas of the game have 
 significantly improved this year. Dynasty mode finally features a realistic negotiation system 
 for signing players, as well as more helpful rookie info and better coaching and management options. 
 The negotiation system addition is a big one, since you can no longer just cherry-pick every free 
 agent player you want. Players will actually take into consideration any offers made by other teams, 
 and they'll take a few days on the calendar to come to a decision. You'll even get rejected for 
 more reasons than simple money issues. Players will actually say they don't think they'll get enough 
 playing time on your squad, which is pretty realistic in the current NHL landscape, where plenty 
 of quality role-players are heading overseas due to the lack of good job opportunities here.   
   

  All told, the mode is still nowhere near as deep as what 2K's game offers, but it's largely a step 
 up. The only stupid holdover issue of the mode is that any free agent you sign still automatically 
 gets dumped into the minor leagues, where they don't count against the salary cap. Last year you 
 could pretty much just sign any players you wanted and trade them for less expensive players you 
 could actually use. This year it's much more difficult to sign free agents, and the trade logic 
 is a bit tougher as well, so at least that's less of an exploit. It'd just be nice if you had all 
 your free agents automatically assigned to your NHL squad so that it was done away with altogether. 

           Creating plays and putting them into action on the ice is a blast.      

  Online modes have seen the most definitive improvement. Besides standard head-to-head play, you 
 can play in ranked shootouts, team matches for up to six different players on six different consoles, 
 and online leagues. Obviously, leagues and team play are the big additions. Leagues are simple 
 to set up and easy to use. You create a league for anywhere from two to 32 teams, including all 
 the AHL and international teams included in the game, and can even create some basic logos and 
 a winner's trophy for the end of the season. In the league lobby menu, you'll see which players 
 are online and who your opponents are, and you can simply jump into a game from there. There is 
 individual stat tracking for each time, though there aren't any individual player stats or trade 
 options available. In this regard, the mode is a little on the bare-bones side compared with what 
 2K has been offering for years now, but the leagues function as advertised, and getting to play 
 in leagues online at all is pretty awesome.  

  Team play is a great idea in theory, though it isn't quite working at the moment. Basically, up 
 to six players can take up to three spots on each team, and anyone in the game has the option to 
 lock to a certain position or switch freely between all players on the ice. While we'd love to 
 say this mode is as cool as it sounds, we frankly just don't know, because the mode doesn't really 
 work right now. On the Xbox 360, every team match we tried to play dropped the connection from 
 the moment the opening cinematic loaded. We tried this a dozen or so times with different players 
 in every match, and every time we got the same result. On the PS3, we were never able to find enough 
 people to play a team play game, so it may or may not suffer from the same issues. This seems like 
 the sort of thing EA could easily fix with a patch, but it's pretty irritating that this feature 
 doesn't work right out of the box.  

  Apart from that rather glaring issue, online performance seems OK. The bulk of the matches we played 
 were lag-free and worked properly. We ran into a couple of connection drops on both the PS3 and 
 360 here and there (one out of every dozen or so standard online games we played had that issue) , 
 and we also had a couple of game crashes while loading some of the online shootouts. But again, 
 the bulk of our online play experience worked fine, and without any of the dominant lag issues 
 from last year's game.  

  NHL 08 also includes a great practice mode that not only lets you practice strategies in a wide 
 variety of scenarios, but actually includes a play creator. It's a simple, intuitive mode that 
 records the movements of individual players via neon-colored arrows on the ice. You can basically 
 position each player individually and get them into the right position to score. It works nicely 
 within the context of the game, too, as the second you get the right player into the proper starting 
 position, all the other players on your team move to their proper starting positions and execute 
 the play you designed as best they can based on the defense's position. The one slight bummer about 
 the play creation mode is that you can't insert defenders into the play creator. When you're designing 
 the play, it's just your teammates and a goalie. You can take the move you designed into the standard 
 practice mode and try it out there, but it would have been nice to have a way right within the 
 play creator to see if you were designing something legitimately ingenious or just a way to get 
 the puck stolen very quickly.  

  The other big selling point about last year's game, besides the skill stick, was its graphics. 
 Hands-down, NHL 07 was the best-looking sports game on the market last year, and NHL 08 subtly 
 improves on an already fantastic graphics engine. The improved skating is probably the biggest 
 visual treat, though the still-amazing-looking player models and generally improved animations 
 are a nice touch as well. On the Xbox 360, NHL 08 runs a great deal better than it did last year 
 in terms of frame rate. You'll see occasional choppy bits here and there, but they're rare. The 
 PlayStation 3 version runs about as well as the Xbox 360 game did last year. It mostly sticks to 
 about 30 frames a second, though it occasionally chops up on the ice, and cutscenes seem to take 
 a big hit. It doesn't affect gameplay, so it's not a gigantic deal. It's just disappointing that 
 the PS3 version is inferior in this one regard.  

           It's not a huge visual leap from last year's game, but NHL 08 still looks phenomenal. 

  Audio is top-notch all around. Gary Thorne and Bill Clement continue their streak of being the 
 best commentating duo in all of sports gaming, displaying a natural-sounding chemistry that gives 
 a true-to-life feel. Their dialogue is also considerably better written and less repetitive this 
 year. The only knock against their commentary is that they don't address specific players very 
 often. In-game sound effects don't seem much better or worse than last year's, though the game 
 still sounds great on the ice. The soundtrack is yet another mixtape of indie and alternative rock 
 tracks that you may love or not even notice.  

  In pretty much every single regard, NHL 08 is a significant step up from the series' current-gen 
 debut last year. It's got more content, exciting gameplay, and legitimate smarts to its game. Some 
 issues certainly knock 08 back from being a truly superb effort, such as the online issues and 
 the few remaining control irritations. But by and large, this is a terrific game of hockey that's 
 both realistic and thrilling to play, a combo that's often difficult to achieve in sports games. 
 If you love hockey, you owe it to yourself to check this one out.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (42 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: bu-ku
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 14, 2008 10:09 pm PT
Review:  THIS GAME IS UNBELIEVABLE!!! I bought this game because my brother and i both are hockey fanatics 
 and have been playing hockey games since freakin SEGA. And i must say that this game BY FAR is 
 the sickest hockey game i have ever played. The graphics are just unbeleivabley realistic. You 
 can see every hair, every sweat bead, every cut on each player it is unreal! The controls have 
 to be the best part though, they are easy to learn how to use and if you spend sometime praticing 
 some dekes with the sticks you will be unbeatable. Another feature that i liked is how you can 
 customize your player, head shape, hair color, eye color, helmet, stick, the list goes on and on. 
 You can literally make the player look exactly like you! Overall just a brilliant game!
  
  Pros:
  -Very unique and fun controls
  -Superb graphics
  -Sweet dekes
  -Player customization
 
  -realistic fights ;)
  -Amazing player phisics
  -Many different game modes
  
  Cons:
  -Hmmm... cannot think of 1!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TylerMeyer88
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 20, 2008 9:08 am PT
Review:  I bought this game a little too late, but it was deiantly worth the money and the wait. The players 
 look EXACTLY like themselves, and the graphics are the best I've ever seen. You can create teams 
 down to the stripes on their pants and the straps on their goalies pads. Now how awesome is that? 
 You can create players with almost any hockey equpment and any hair, face, eyes, ect. You can also 
 move players and goalies really quickly, which is really helpful during the offseason. In Dynasty 
 Mode, which is what I use the most, you have nealy full control on any of the 30 teams: Rosters, 
 AHL team, lines, practice, finances, games, and more. Salary Cap and trade stragety makes you feel 
 like you are really the GM. DO NOT BUY NHL 2K8. I tried NHL 2K8 for one day and hated it so much. 
 It was nothing like this game. BUY THIS GAME IMMEDIATLY, YOU WONT RERET IT!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: The_Dunc_man
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jul 11, 2008 8:00 pm PT
Review:  Just anonther hockey games. Not this time. NHL 08 takes a huge step by adding new stick controle, 
 great graphics, and better overall gameplay. This new game adds stick controle threw the joy stick, 
 not buttons. I have to say that is what seperates this game from previous NHL games. The stick 
 controle is what makes the game different because you have to push the stick forward to take a 
 wrist shot, pull it back than puch it forward to take a slap shot. Pull the stick back to fake 
 a shot and move it side to side to deck. Enough about the stick controle, the graphics are great. 
 It now is just expected for NHL games to have good graphics and this one met my expectation by 
 a long shot looking more real than ever before. In this game the players look exactly like the 
 do in reality. They did look good before but now there better. In this game ALL the fans are done 
 well and some have shirts from the away team. In previous NHL games the fans in the back were 2D 
 and all identical and every last person was there for the home team. A side from that the ice net 
 and boreds look good and are very well detailed. The sound is also realistic. The puck shots sound 
 like your actually there and when your on pratice mode the puck shots sound as if they were taken 
 in an emty room. The annoucers voice is also good. In this game it sounds like he actually. Its 
 not exact but better than before. For and example it sounds like this. "Shot by Crosby!" or "Saved 
 by Turco!" In older NHL game that would sound more like this. "Shot by, Crosby!" and "Saved by, 
 Turco!" The game is perfect though. The controles are sometimes clunky and unresponsive. I get 
 annoed when that happens when on a break away or on defence. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dutch777
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jun 12, 2008 11:26 pm PT
Review:  Just by looking at the back of both NHL 2K8 and NHL 08 boxes, it's readily apparent that EA and 
 2K are back at war with one another. What with both games launching at nearly the same time, there 
 are a lot of similarities between both games on the outside, as well as the inside - the inside 
 being the gameplay. So what decision do you make when you've come down to making the daunting decision 
 between picking up either NHL 08 or NHL 2K8? Well, that's actually something I can't answer, unfortunately, 
 as both NHL titles are pretty spectacular titles, with their fair share of problems and issues 
 here and there.
  Of course the one thing that's made EA's NHL a standout is its Skill Stick feature - an aspect 
 of the game that allows you to control puck handling, dekes, and shots with the right analog stick. 
 It's back in NHL 08, and continues to deliver that precision and feel of authenticity that's made 
 it such a success in the first place. Now the quirk with the Skill Stick is that it's not intuitive 
 or user-friendly, and so it becomes very time consuming to master. 
  All in all, along with NHL 2K8, NHL 08 is also a fantastic hockey game. Each game has its ups and 
 downs and trade-offs. Ultimately, I encourage you to play both. I'm not saying to buy them, it'd 
 be crazy to spend $120 on two baseball games. But I highly suggest you spend a few bucks to rent 
 both to decide and see which one suits your tastes more. Gameplay is just about equal between both, 
 but if you're the type where visuals make or break a game for you, then you may want to sway towards 
 NHL 08. Otherwise, run, don't walk, and check out both. You'll be happy that you did. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gilligan841
Rating: 6
Date: May 21, 2008 4:31 am PT
Review:  I expected an interesting version of this game on my PS3, according to some reviews. I was very 
 disappointed at first, but changed my mind as I learned the new AI system.
  
  EA changed the AI system and it took me a few time to understand that the major change is the defensive 
 system. If one do not take care of this new fact, he will probably note the game with a very low 
 note as I did at first.
  
  I gave a 5.0 at first, but changed the note to 8.5 after all.
  
  Very good graphics. The game itself becomes very interesting as you play. You can forget the 
 way you used to play with previous release of this game.
  
  I repeat, take the time the learn the new playing system, because you'll throw it to the waste 
 if you expect a kind of NHL 07 PC version.
  
  I retract 1 point because of the multiplayer that is not running very well and 0.5 because of the 
 AI that is weird sometimes.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: andyb8619
Rating: 1
Date: Apr 11, 2008 9:28 pm PT
Review:  This game blows like no other. Biggest waste of 50 bucks I ever spent and i've wasted a lot on 
 disapointing crappy games. Its soooooooo slow compared to all the previous nhl games. When I play 
 a hockey game I want it to be an exciting fast pass action game. This crap just feels slow and 
 hard to control specially on defense. I mean dont get me started on the defensive play. they might 
 as well not have put it in this game. All that happens is the other team takes the puck in your 
 zone and skates right around any players that happen to even come close to getting in the way. 
 You cant even check anyone. On the off chance you can even get close to them all you do is run 
 into them and just slow yourself down. Then they skate right by and score some cheap goal that 
 your goalie should have stopped. Of course you shooot the perfect one-timer and there goalie is 
 all over it. But thats enough ranting and being thoroughly frustrated with this sorry excuse for 
 a hockey game.
  IT TOTALLY BLOWS!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dmcneill777
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 2, 2008 12:51 pm PT
Review:  THIS IS THE BEST GAME I HAVE EVER PLAYED, PERIOD. If you want a game with everything on it, this 
 is it. The graphics are only one step behind real, the players look like they are right in front 
 of you, create a team lets you build every piece of your team, Dynasty Mode coulden't possibly 
 get any better, create a player lets you create every element of your player, the player profiles 
 are all up to date, and you can see every hole and stitch in the new 2008 RBK EDGE Jerseys. There 
 is not one thing bad I can say about this game, it is just amazingly unbelievable. If you buy it, 
 you will never want to let go, trust me, it grows on you.
  
  Congrats to EA Sports for making their absolute best game ever.
  
  DMcNeill777
  
  P. S. 
 Absolutly do not buy or even rent NHL 2K8, it is a true piece of trash, EA has really brought down 
 the sales of 2K Sports' games, and if you play it, you will definantly see why. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Paul_Els
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 27, 2009 7:28 pm PT
Review:  I have made a decison if I by a sport game it has to be made by EA because NHL08 is easily the 
 best sports game I have ever played! The computer is a challenge to beat if you cannot connect 
 to the internet or only have 1 controller and managing a season is good fun and time consuming.
 
  
  
  But the real winner in this game is the multiplayer both online and offline, It features up to 
 7 players offline and about 4 online per console, The great thing about this game is that it is 
 easy to get a grip of by that i mean it doesn't have a steep learning curve so you can get right 
 into the action straight away, so if your playing against someone who hasn't played it before don't 
 always expect to smash them after your first game with them, The actual gameplay itself is very 
 fast paced and consists of using team stratagies (and if your lucky, You'll be fluking half your 
 goals) and also team planning before the game commences all of this creates an intense competitive 
 atmosphere when playing against someone else, It can also get tense or even develope into frustration 
 when playing against the console.
  
  Apart from the brilliant gameplay the game includes all the authentic NHL teams and players of 
 that year and it also includes a few European leagues the AHL and the International league.
  
  The graphics are pretty good but they aren't extreme but you don't really pay attention to 
 that when playing but the reall masterpeice here is the sound, Hearing the crowd roar in praise 
 when the home team scores and booing the hell out of the away team is just one example of how well 
 the sound features have been put together, The Commentary is very good and ive been playing this 
 game for a year now and i'm still not tired of it and yes the commentary can get pretty funny sometimes!
 
  
  All in all this is a very good game and people who don't by this one should definetly get at least 
 one of it's series. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: smithbubbajones
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 15, 2009 5:05 pm PT
Review:  For quite a long time, EA's NHL franchise has played second fiddle to 2K's NHL franchise. However, 
 the tables have harshly turned this time around, as NHL 2K8 is possibly the worst hockey game we 
 have ever witnessed, and it also doesn't hurt that NHL 08 is possibly the best. That's right. NHL 
 08 is possibly the best hockey game we have ever played, as it is nearly perfect in every aspect.
 
  
  One of the first things you'll notice is the switch back to the skill stick for shooting. This 
 works unbelievably well, and it is amazing fun. The skill stick requires some real skill, but with 
 some practice, it can be perfected, and you'll be able to pull of the Pavel Datsyuk deke in no 
 time. The animations for the moves are really fluent and add that huge sense of realism and style, 
 that the players deserve to be recognized for. The only problem, is that the hockey stick still 
 goes right through a player, instead of not do that, as it would in real life. But this is such 
 a minor prob, because the overall execution of the skill stick is a great addition that works really 
 good.
  
  What's also great, is that EA has finally started to utilize the power of the next gen systems. 
 Not only is this one of the best looking sports games ever, but it also happens to be one of the 
 best looking games of this generation. Players' and coaches' faces all look photo realistic, and 
 their animations show all sorts of emotions that bring them to life. Everything reflects in the 
 ice perfectly, not just some cheap image that's supposed to pass as a reflection. If a player lifts 
 his leg, his reflection will do the same. The glare in the ice is really greatly placed. The full 
 body animations are also really life like, and there are no seams to any of the movements.
  
  08 also sounds amazing. The crowd noises are loud and vibrant, and the announcers do a terrific 
 job of doing the play by play. The soundtrack is actually one of the best ever in an EA game, as 
 there are virtually only one or two songs worth switching off.
  
  Probably the biggest addition is the new AI system. The opposing team will learn your routines, 
 and will actually put up a big fight. Every player on the ice has this AI, and it makes for some 
 of the most realistic gaming in recent memory. Now, playing through a season is actually realistic, 
 as you will lose games frequently, and all the goalies will actually try to stop the puck, usually 
 doing so with success. In previous games, the top save % would be 89, and in NHL 08, that would 
 be around the middle of the pack. Yes, that means that 20 goal games are very rare.
  
  In dynasty mode, AHL rosters have been added, to increase the realism of being a GM. Also, signing 
 free agents has become a difficult, but worthy topic, as it can really pay off for your franchise. 
 The scouting system has also been upped, as you can scout all throughout the season focusing on 
 the players you want to look at.
  
  There is also a new create a play function that works well, although it is probably only for the 
 hardcores. Just winging it usually works out. Also, there is now the ability to go to practice, 
 with a bunch of training sessions that will raise the attributes of your players, and help you 
 get a feel for your new lines.
  
  Keeping it short, the focus on NHL 08 was to add that sense of realism. With great audiovisuals, 
 great physics, and great AI, EA has finally done that. If you are a fan of hockey games, or looking 
 for something to showcase your system, definitely pick up NHL 08. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pawel_9
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 22, 2008 7:58 am PT
Review:  NHL 08 is a really fun game and fans of the NHL series will love it.
  
  Gameplay: Passing, Shooting, Skill Moves, it all makes the game a good one. The new features make 
 it even better.
  
  Graphics: The graphics are amazing, it looks like real life, mainly because its on the PS3.
  
 
  Main Feature: The main feature of NHL 08 for the PS3 is the added practise mode. You can practise 
 rush plays with up to 4 atackers against the goalie. You can also practise powerplays, skating, 
 and even shooting.
  
  Well, NHL 08 is an awesome and adiccting game, so if your into hockey games, GET THIS!! I also 
 want to say that this game has awesome multiplayer. So if you have any friends who like hockey 
 too, play multiplayer with them. Up to 7 people can play multiplayer. So grab a couple of friends 
 and play the game with them. Thats all I need to say about NHL 08 , so see ya. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jerann10
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 13, 2008 12:47 pm PT
Review:  NHL 08 is great for a number of reasons.
  
  First, The Skill Stick Rocks! Everybody complains that you cant knock people through the glass, That's 
 ridiculous! That isnt Realistic. This game is the best to me considering i've had to play NHL Hitz 
 Pro for GC (2004 Season)
  and NHL 2000 for Playstation and they werent realistic at all! The New Controls are awesome and 
 the menus arent that complicated as people say. Goalie Control is great. The create a team option 
 is awesome. Creating people is also very good. This game is even fun when you lose! When you win the 
 Stanley Cup They actually give the Conn Smythe Trophy out! You choose captains and trades are fair 
 and you cant sign every person in free agency. Shooting is realistic and the people actually celebrate 
 after a Game
  winning goal in Overtime. This was the first game Igot for My PS3 and it was the best. This game 
 is an Instant Classic. Everybody should buy this game
  even if they aren't huge hockey fans they should enjoy this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GunSmith1_basic
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 10, 2008 6:42 pm PT
Review:  The core of this game works. I admit that I am having a hard time with deking and getting shot 
 placement exactly where I want it, but overall there are a lot of great mechanics at work in this 
 game. The gameplay is simple and smooth. It is addictive. When you score and win you get a great 
 rush of adrenaline, and when you get scored on and lose your heart sinks to the floor. 
  
  There are a lot of great options in this game. NHL, AHL, national squads, european leagues. There 
 are a lot of great GM options letting you customize everything from blockbuster trades to concession 
 prices. Of course, you dont have to do any of this if you dont want to. 
  
  I have some issues with the game though, mainly along the line that some things are not intuitive 
 enough. Stats pages could be streamlined quite a bit. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: aliscrazy11
Rating: 6.5
Date: Jan 29, 2008 9:09 pm PT
Review:  When I first got this game I most likely would have given the game a 8.5 or 9 rating. But over 
 the time I've had this game I have been let down and frustrated by the games terrible online service.
 
  
  This game is great when playing one on one offline, or even against the computer. No problems at 
 all. It looks beautiful and provides an amazingly realistic hockey game. But online is a disaster. 
 Since I got the game, every time I invite a friend to a game, it tries to download a "new" roster. 
 Eventually the game tells my friend the session is closed and tells me that they left the game. 
 The only remedy for this issue is to be invited by someone else, or to download the roster manually 
 again and again and again between games. And that's IF the manual roster download is working. Which 
 it isn't 30% of the time. After downloading the roster you'll get the message that you lost connection 
 to the EA servers. Odd that an issue this large hasn't been fixed since the game came out in September.
 
  
  And here's my latest issue. When I turn on the game and see the first loading screen it's suddenly 
 freezes. So in an attempt to figure out what is causing the game to freeze I deleted the roster 
 update provided online. After that data is erased the game once again works just fine.
  
  There is one thing I will never understand with most sports games. Why include downloadable rosters 
 when you never put out updates. The first, and last update for NHL 08 came in November. Now that 
 we have reached the NHL All-star Game without an update I am quite angry. Several teams have changed 
 dramatically since the last update. If you're not going to provide updates at least once a month 
 during the first year's season then why bother including the feature.
  
  Overall NHL could be an amazing game. Unfortunately a lack of support on EA's end has left this 
 game a jumbled mess online. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: slender1
Rating: 1
Date: Jan 19, 2008 3:24 pm PT
Review:  this game is absolutely horrendous on superstar mode... i have been playing this game for nearly 
 two months now... and nothing works...
  
  on superstar mode, your AI on defence is completely dumbed down, and it's as if you are playing 
 1on5... the cpu scores on 2on2 rushes the entire game and pulls off extremely stupid one-timers 
 and your defence does absolutely nothing...
  
  you force their own skater to the outside... but your defensive partner does absolutely nothing... and 
 they score on the one-timer on the pass across the ice...
  
  same goes for 2on3 when you have 3 guys back...
  
  5 on5 in the zone... sometimes its absolutely 
 impossible to take the puck away and you just know they are going to score... and you can only get 
 the puck if the goalie saves it...
  
  this is where i drew the line and finally broke a chair of mine...
  
  lightning were changling 
 lines... tampa is bringing the puck into my zone...2on3
  
  st. louis is basically skating to the corner... with sundin right on him and i brought my defender 
 over to hit st. louis... pretty basic play... right before i hit him.. he manages to pass it over to 
 lecavalier who is acorss the ice at the other faceoff dot... and he scores on the one-timer...
 
  
  if i pushover with my defender... the other defender thinks its fine to come over a triple team 
 the guy...
  
  this is an asbolutely terrible game.. i've played every easports game since 94...
  
  also...2on4!!! 
 pretty much the same play later on in the period... they manage to pass it past 2 of my players 
 this time..
  
  easports has created a game where your defence becomes extremely stupid and does not do a thing... they 
 leave men WIDE OPEN in front of the net as if it doesnt matter...
  
  rediculous game.. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: do_the_mario
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 16, 2008 3:14 pm PT
Review:  NHL08 is a lot of things first of all it is a Ice Hockey Simulator second of all it is a videogame 
 and third it is an awesome experience (Maybe that shoulda been number one?) NHL08 continues the 
 new and proud tradition of the total shot control (TSC) using the two annalog sticks you must move, shot, deke, 
 win/lose face-offs. NHL08 has great graphics and being my first PS3 game of course I was stunned. 
 Audio is pretty nice but not out of the "Norm" for a hockey game. Gameplay was fenomenal with TSC 
 all I know is if you were gonna get a Hockey game for PS3 I can reccomened this game I can't for 
 2K8 because I haven't played it. I give it a 8.5 I will now follow up the reveiw with some neat 
 comments and what not. NHL08 is a game were you cannot stop untill you get a game like Guitar Hero 
 3. NHL08 is a great game...... You do realise I'm just trying to write characters till I get to 
 eight hundred? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: weddlecm
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 14, 2008 4:15 pm PT
Review:  NHL 2008 is the newest hockey game for the PS3. I am very impressed by this game. I thought it 
 would be another bad hockey game, but it wasn't. Anyways, one of the things that cought my eyes 
 were the graphics. There very good giving every details from the ice, players, to the stadiums 
 and stands. I was very impressed. Also the gameplay is very cool too. It has good controls and 
 lots of different moves you can learn. Also you can get in a fight when the time is right, throwing 
 punches is always fun! NHL also brings a great game to the online play and career modes. You can 
 choose from many different teams and other extras that you can unlock by winning tournaments and 
 other things. If I were you, I would wait for this game to come down in price though, because it's 
 fifty dollars right now which is a little pricy. But overall, if your looking for a great hockey 
 game that's up to date I would reccamend this game. 8.0/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: alex13echo
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 13, 2008 7:39 pm PT
Review:  NHL 08 is so far the best NHL game i have played. The mechanics and realism are unbelievable, but 
 I have experienced a few problems wit it. I don't know if it just me, but at some areas, the game 
 will freeze on me and I have to reset the system. It dirves me INSANE! But I'm not sure if that 
 problem is common or not, and besides it hasn't happened lately. I haven't tried to create a team 
 yet, but from what i hear it has unlimited customization with coloring your jersey and created 
 players. Also, online play is a plus especially if you own a headset. Playing against real people 
 is much less predictable than playing a CPU, even with the advance AI in it. Also, when i first 
 bought it, I found it very difficult. I could not score a goal to save my life, but I eventually 
 found ways to creat great chances. I play as the Buffalo Sabres, as they are my hometown team, 
 and I only score with Thomas Vanek and Max Afinogenov, which i find annoying. Goaltenders have 
 greatly improved, and they do not fall for the same trick twice, such as in past games where a 
 simple deke or skating in front of the net and shooting puts the puck in. Overall, if you enjoy 
 a challenge and know ample information about hockey and how to set up plays and chances, buy this 
 game. If you don't have much of a hockey sense and this is your first NHL game, start wit a game 
 on PS2, either NHL 06 or 07 latest. I recommend this to hockey/ video game fans everywhere. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tlandry23
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 13, 2008 4:59 pm PT
Review:  Wow, i got 3 games for christmas, This, COD4, and Ratchet and Clank, and i really did not expect 
 this one to be my favorite. It's just crazy fun, i can't get enough of it.
  
  Graphics
  The Character models are amazing, truly incredible, so much detail, in the sweat to the facial 
 expressions, it all looks great, they all look like a different person. The only complaint is that 
 the crowd characters look bad, they don't look like real people, but it was worth making the crowd 
 not good to make the players exceptional.
  
  Gameplay
  This is where the game truly shines, you use the Left analog to move your player of course, and 
 the right you use your stick with, to shoot, deke etc. The R2 trigger is pass and it works and 
 feels great, and to check someone you skate towards them and move the right analog at them and 
 it checks them, its awesome
  
  
  Yeah so if you're a hockey fan, buy this game without hesitation, believe me, it is worth the cash 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bEnOiT92
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jan 5, 2008 8:33 pm PT
Review:  This is the first NHL game i have had since 2004. My first guess was going to be that it would 
 be great because they usually are.... but i was wrong. This game was difficult for someone LIKE 
 me who hasnt played the game in a while. The controls are just impossible to learn and it feels 
 like there is a delay between your button mashing and the actual movement of the players. One of 
 the good things in this game though are the graphics, they are some of the bes ive seen so far. 
 Overall i think this game would be great for someone who has played the game year after year. But 
 if your someone like me who has skipped a few years i would not just go and buy this game i would 
 rent it get used to te controls and if you like it then buy it. This game could be better but its 
 good enough. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Miklu19
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 5, 2008 11:04 am PT
Review:  EA has made a good NHL game (again) , but it looks that they don't listen those who play their games. 
 It has 40 fps, no superstar mode (what's the reason why i've bought Madden) , not so much animations... but 
 still it's the best NHL game in a while. Commentary is good, graphics too and goalies don't let 
 every goal in. Skill Stick was better than I expected. And, the best improvement from NHL 06 was 
 music. I really loved the Anberlin's A Whisper & A Glamour -song. I also liked the goalie mode, 
 what should be great in Superstar mode (if they'll add it to NHL 09) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: HatTrick66
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 1, 2008 8:17 am PT
Review:  The game is amazing. By far the most realistic hockey sim out there. Skill stick or not, this game 
 is fluid and easily controllable. The AI is smart, almost too smart on higher difficulties, but 
 it's great to finially have a challenge. This is one of the first hockey games that I have ever 
 been able to develop a realistic type of cycle in any zone on the ice. 
  The only issues that I have come accross in the time I have played are the checking, and switching 
 players/passing. First, the checking is still over the top. Don't get me wrong, it is much better 
 than anything I have ever seen and it is heading in the right direction, but there are magical 
 hip checks that would never happen. Each game has about 15 or 20 "Once-in-a-lifetime" hits. That 
 shouldn't be the case. It is extremely bad online. The skill stick and dekes do not match the power 
 of the checks. Next is passing and switching players. I have a very hard time switching to the 
 player that I want. It mostly switches to the closest to the puck on defence which is one thing, 
 but others it goes to a forward on the point when you have the puck behind the net... makes no 
 sense. It should be changed next year so it's the way it used to be, which ever direction you place 
 the left stick, that's the guy you get. This isn't an issue all the time, and you get used to how 
 it works, but It still needs to be fixed. Passing is a different story. I cannot think of how many 
 guaranteed goals I have been robbed of due to this passing problem. I can be in the slot or behind 
 the net and have a wide open player at the net, and when I pass, it goes right beween his legs 
 to the guy on the point, only to be intercepted by the opposing team and leading to a 2 on 1. BIG 
 problem that also needs to be corrected. 
  Overall this is an amazing game that deserves sports game of the year and will be overlooked. If 
 you are a hockey fan, this is a must buy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hackett31
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 30, 2007 1:42 pm PT
Review:  When playing this game you maybe wondering, why has there not been a NHL game like this before 
 in my life. It has great game play, nothing like the easy game play before when scores would jump 
 as high as 16-2. You should start off at pro or rookie, as all-star and superstar is an expert 
 zone. Dynasty mode makes a great experience as it goes through real NHL general manager's duties. 
 Even build up your AHL affiliate team, build up rookies into superstars. Jump into online play 
 and test your skills against the best across the world, or even start up your own league, also 
 in online have 6 on 6 games, as one person can be goalie with 5 skaters. The skill-stick provides 
 for exciting moves, even use them for one-on-one plays. Even in game play against AI, your opponents 
 will adjust to your plays, so you better switch your plays up a bit, or you will be shut down one 
 time after another. Overall this game would be a great buy for any gamer and is a great addition 
 to the NHL series. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: woody_0609
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 15, 2007 4:09 pm PT
Review:  Ok first of all this EA NHL series has come a long way even from last year. The graphics are drastically 
 better especially if your going to play it in HD. The goal tending is a lot more realistic, like 
 your stick cant go right through the goaltender to score. The skill stick is lots of fun in this 
 game allowing you to 1 on 1 dekes or where to shoot and what kind just all with the analog stick. 
 If you want a good hockey game i highly recommend buying this one. The create a team and player 
 feature are very cool in this one considering you can pick the equipment or colours of what you 
 want for your team to everything else you could imagine. The dynasty mode i would say is not that 
 much improved and I found that you couldn't make on-ice, off-ice, or front office upgrades like 
 in the other games. I cant imagine how much more realistic next years will be because every year 
 it just gets better and better. I give a big 8.7 out of 10 and suggest next year they make create 
 an arena. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: brokenhalo-6117
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 8, 2007 2:08 pm PT
Review:  Last year EA sports introduced use to the "skill stick" in NHL 07. This new design gave the player 
 the ability to completely control the skater. Ea has taken this new design and applied it to NHL 
 08 to make one great hockey game.
  
  NHL 08 has been able to win the battle of hockey games this year completely on the gameplay. As 
 mentioned before this years gameplay features the revolutionary design called the "skill stick". 
 This design allows the player to control the skating with one analog stick and the stick (which 
 includes shooting, deking, etc) with the other analog stick. This design gives the player full 
 control of the ice allowing then to do exactly what they want to do. The physics in this game a 
 also very realistic. no longer will the puck have direct paths to the net. You could take a shot 
 and it would deflect off of a few legs before going to the back of the net. The pucks movement 
 is realistic to how it is in real life. Another improved part of the gameplay is the skating, defence, 
 and goaltending aspects. The newly developed skating engine is identical to how skating is in real 
 life. You have the ability to make wide turns and cross over to build up speed as you are in your 
 turn or you can do a tight turn to turn very fast in a different direction. One of the best parts 
 of the new skating engine is that there is no longer a speed burst button. The speed of your skater 
 will fully depend on how much you tilt the left analog stick. The new defence is way better then 
 last years version. You can actually beat the defence wide and you can deke them out with the dangle 
 button (i dont know the real term lol) . The goalies are 100% better and realistic. They no longer 
 make miracle saves and it is possible to get weak goals on them. 
  
  The graphics in the game are incredible. There is so much detail put into the players and equipment 
 its amazing. The sounds are also very good esspicially in the commentating and sound effects. 
 
  
  One of the most improved parts of the game is dynasty mode. Everything about it has been improved 
 from the addition of the AHL to the free agent signings. The online is also very fun but can be 
 extremely hard to get into a ranked game at times. 
  
  Of course not all games are prefect and the same applies to NHL 08. A lot of minor problems occur 
 during this game that can be annoying. One problem is sometimes when you take a shoot the puck 
 will go flying into the air and go out of bounds, not very realistic. The puck will also randomly 
 get stuck in between the net and the goalie and the whistle will never go. This kills a lot of 
 time in a game, which can be very annoying. In the dynasty mode you cannot edit your players like 
 you can out of the dynasty mode. This is bad because you cannot change players equipment types 
 if you wanted, esspically goalies that come from other teams so there pads will be a different 
 colour. Also in the dynasty mode pretty much all the rookies have a cut below there left eye and 
 are bald. All the rookie defence are either 6'7'' or 6'9'' which is extremely unrealistic to real 
 life (its hockey not basketball) . 
  
  Besides the few minor problems NHL 08 is by far the best hockey game ever made. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: courtdeze
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 30, 2007 1:47 pm PT
Review:  Ill start by saying the graphics are some of the best in any sports game ever.
  The arenas are well done, the ice is very detailed and fun to watch deteriorate over the course 
 of a period, then return brand spanking new for the next one. The player models are very well done, 
 and while the jerseys could use a little work they are still pretty on point.
  
  The audio is very good, and the commentary could be some of the best in any sports game to date. 
 Crowd noise is very realisitic, as well as the sounds from the players and the PA system. Very 
 well done, overall.
  
  As far as the gameplay, controlling the players, once you get used to it, is very fun and very 
 realistic. Stop on a dime, go from full sprint to defend easily and smoothly. 
  
  The problem here is, well, that its hockey! A great and fun sport, but still hard to folllow the 
 puck on occasion when playing (the same as when watching) . When the puck is loose around the net 
 this game, unfortunately, turns into alot of button mashing/right ananlog stick flicking madness, 
 and when you get a goal in this situation it is suprising, instead of rewarding.
  The goalie controls could use some work, and sometimes this game just seems a little too fast paced 
 to be able to control the players the way you want. Computer AI can get frustrating when your own 
 players wont get out of your way when they should.
  
  Aside from those minor problems, this is still a great looking and fun game, with plenty of features 
 and options to keep you coming back for more. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gillster316
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 23, 2007 12:40 pm PT
Review:  NHL 08 is probably the best hockey game ever made. everything is so realistically done. The players 
 movement doesn't seem like they have rockets on the back of their skates they skate as fast as 
 normal players would. the skill stick is really good but hasn't been that much improved on then 
 last year but is still just as good. The A. I in NHL 08 is where it really shines most it is purely 
 adaptable to any type of play. so you can keep doing the same moves over and over. or else they'll 
 catch on. Online is great i havent experienced any lag at all. The only problem with NHL is that 
 there is a freezing problem at the end of games where the game will completely freeze up and you'll 
 have to turn the system off. But that doesn't hurt the game at all. Overall if you love hockey 
 games get this game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: funkybreakbts
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 20, 2007 9:24 am PT
Review:  Graphics are amazing. 
  Gameplay is smooth and very realistic.
  Movement and physics are very well done.
  Sound is great and crowd noise is a factor, kinda cool.
 
  I love the new skill stick and the way the controller layout is now, good control and a fun way 
 to be a hockey player. Very responsive and easy to get the hang of.
  
  Goalies got better this year, play on anything other than rookie and be prepared to have close 
 low scoring games with lots of hard hits!
  
  New shootout mode is AWESOME!! Great addition and the goalie is easier to play as this year.
 
  
  PS3 version blows away my PS2 version which I took back because of a very lacking game in every 
 way... I maybe played 3 games with it.
  
  Online gaming needs some help on this game, wheres the stats? why doesnt it show the opposing players 
 record when entering a game with them? 
  It also seems slow, and somewhat glitchy trying to start a match once in the game it seems fine 
 though.
  
  Online shootouts are fun addition too! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: juicetino
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 18, 2007 11:23 pm PT
Review:  I'll say it right away - any hockey fan will be blown away by the fun, realistic play and graphics 
 of NHL 08. I had a few people walk into the room and say "oh for a minute I thought you were watching 
 a hockey game." Yea, there that good and it's that realistic.
  
  There are many great things I can say about NHL 08, and many ways it triumphs NHL 07, and here 
 are some:
  
  The graphics will just blow you away. I mean, hook it up to HD and you've got yourself one helluva 
 pretty game. The game goes so smooth, with no loading times. If theres a whistle and you hit the 
 X button, the camera will just shift right to the face-off circle swiftly. The games are fast paced 
 and fluent, with the ice getting warn as the games go on. 
  
  The game play is just way more solid. No more one-year lame little moves (the skill stick, etc.) 
 This year shooting, deking body checking are both controlled by the right analog stick. With the 
 puck, pull the stick back and push forward for a slapshot, and push forward to shoot on any play. 
 Pull it back lightly and then push forward for a wristshot. Move the stick back and forth to deke. 
 Without the puck, push forward for a body check. 
  
  Pass is now R2, same with change player, with poke check being R1, dive being R1+L1, and even a 
 slash button (triangle) and hook button (X) . There is no speed burst, adding more realism.
  
  The new skillstick is another revolution to the series. Hold down the L1 button, use the right 
 analog stick to control the puck and left analog stick to control your player, and you can manouver 
 around players with style. Simply hold L1, push the right stick to the right (or any direction 
 you choose depending on where you want the puck to go) and the left stick to the left to the right 
 (or any direction you choose depending on where you want your player to go) and your player will 
 pull off a smooth side step.
  
  Shootout mode has been changed too. Now, if in one player, you can control your goalie via a view 
 from behind the net. As the player, you have an in-action angle from behind the player and all 
 kinds of dekes and shots can be pulled off. In 2-player, you get the 1-player shooting view, but 
 the 2nd-player can control their own goalie.
  
  Practice mode is a new creation. Wanna practice a power play situation? Maybe a 1-0, or even a 
 5-0 rush? Just go to practice mode and try out any play you choose with any players you want.
 
  
  Dynasty mode has been changed as well. You now get to control your AHL affiliate team - sending 
 players down to the minors and calling others up. But watch out - if your player only has a 1-way 
 contract and you send them down, they could be picked up by another team. Same with other teams 
 sending a player onto waivers and you having a chance to pick them up. Dynasty is still the same 
 old "control the team as GM and coach while playing the games", no big changes, but just updated. 
 
  
  NHL 08 has had me addicted since Ive played the demo. Online is also wicked, playing hockey shootouts 
 and games against people worldwide has never been better. If you are a hockey enthusiast (or heck 
 just a fan) you should be playing this one! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: trav_have
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 15, 2007 4:27 am PT
Review:  If there is any sports game to get this year, it's this one. EA definately blew 07 out of the water 
 this year for NHL games. NHL 08 is the most fun I've ever had with a sports game, not to mention 
 NHL game. 
  
  The graphics in this are great, with almost all the players looking identical to real life. In 
 08, the ice even looks superb. When a player skates by, that scratch on the ice stays there for 
 the whole period! I found even that one little touch amazing. The jerseys look great also, where 
 you can see the stitching and the colours stand out well. Everything this year seems to have been 
 revamped. 
  
  Compared to 2k8, EA is the way to go for the year 2008. Usually 2K games win with hockey, but EA 
 stepped it up a notch and proved they could once again be on top for hockey games.
  
  The skating is, ... wow. It's very realistic to an actual person skating, with the twists and turns 
 and all. Even the stick bends when you shoot the puck, if you look closely in a replay. Yes, I 
 did do that, lol. Shooting is more precise where you aim also. You can aim anywhere at the net, 
 and thats where the puck goes. Most people complain that you hit the post too many times in this, 
 but thats just because thats where they are aiming. For example. if you put the analog stick all 
 the way to the top, you're aiming at the crossbar. It most of the time goes in anyways though when 
 you do that, either hitting the net, or post and in.
  
  Commentary is great, you rarely hear the same thing being said more than once. The voices take 
 some getting use to, that might just be me though since Ive been playing EA's games for quite awhile. 
 They've had Craig SImpson and Jim Hughson for a long time.
  
  Goalies are a lot harder to beat here also. Last year, almost every one-timer or deke would go 
 in the back of the net, even on the hardest difficulty. Now, you cant score 10+ goals every single 
 game on the hardest difficulty. Sometimes its hard to even get 2 goals.
  
  What Im trying to say is, buy this if you're a hockey fan. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xXLongRiderXx
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 13, 2007 11:05 am PT
Review:  So I havent played an NHL game since 2004, much less watched it on TV, but after seeing previews 
 I thought I would rent it. It took me a while to figure out the set up before I even played a game. 
 After finally playing, I was totally impressed with the graphics and it took a few minutes to figure 
 out the controls. I really like the way you can customize your equipment and I love the goalie 
 mode. Overall, even with a few glitches here and there, its a great game and I want it so its a 
 must by for me. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gally66
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 4, 2007 4:42 pm PT
Review:  EA doesn't just dump the puck into the zone with this addition to the NHL series, they skate it 
 in and score. Easily the best NHL game around.
  
  Graphics: Awsome players look great, great puck momentum aspect with realistic deflections and 
 bounces.
  
  Shooting: Easy, fun, and satisfying hearing a ping off the iron, followed by a goal horn. SNIPE.
 
  
  Checking: Difficult but very rewarding, more realistic than previous games, you actually have to 
 line up the hit, not just tap a button some where near an opposing skare
  
  Penalties: Varied, realistic, good call, no crap calls like other games.
  
  Fighting: New style 
 great results lots of fun.
  
  1 on 1 : Dangle fest best addition to the game, nothing better than breaking Hal Gills ankles and 
 going in on the break away
  
  Goalie mode: Very fun realtime action 3rd person view, no slow mo, how are your reflexes?
  
 
  This is a great game all around, a must have for Canadiens, Russians, and whoever else loves hockey. 
 Realistic games for once, no sure way to score, great AI makes you change you strategies often, 
 no more rediculous 10-5 games, it's finally possible to have a shut-out. Games are close more 2-1 
 games making you pull you golie to take the game into OY or the shoot out. Only bad or unrealistic 
 part about the game is that Manny Fernandez is in the high 80's and Tim Thomas is in the 70's. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Juvenlast
Rating: 7.5
Date: Oct 31, 2007 12:22 pm PT
Review:  While EA certainly produced a quality game, it seems as though they forgot to test it before they 
 put it on the market. Let me explain. Let's start with the positives:
  1.) Amazing graphics. They aren't the best I've seen, but compared to NHL2k8, it takes the cake. 
 The player models are great, the crowd is ok, but better than the cookie cutter models in 2k8. 
 The ice looks great, and even the menus are not grainy like the 2k8 installment. The replays look 
 ok, but the thing that wowed me was the cut scene between shots in a shootout. Particularly when 
 you stone the forward and the goalie is picking up the puck. 2.) Realistic gameplay. You can't 
 just run and gun. You have to set up in the offensive zone. On the penalty kill if you run off 
 or decided to try and score a Shortie and you miss, you are probably going to get scored on. The 
 goals look good, and rarely are there any wierd goals. 3.) Deep create a team and player options. 
 The creat a team idea has always been a favorite of mine. The uniforms are very diverse... logos 
 are the exception... Creating a player is fun and rewarding if you jack up his stats. 4.) Deep 
 franchise mode. Don't put all your eggs in the current season, cause you have to survive and actually 
 sign some contracts with some stubborn people. OK now the bad and the ugly:
  1.) The AI is rediculous. You will play a team that is second in the NHL and you will beat them 
 7-0. Then you will play a team that is dead last and lose 1-0. what the heck??? You can set up 
 in the offensive zone and produce pretty play after pretty play after pretty play, producing a 
 couple of goals, and then in the third their forward skates in to the zone, does no move, and wrists 
 it past your goalie who for some reason when down to his knees as soon as he entered the slot??? 
 How come when I check a guy he bumps off me and keeps going with the puck, but when I am bumped 
 the puck flys to the other end of the ice? (btw same sized guys) . 2.) The options on tweaking the 
 game as far as goalie skill puck friction, etc... either don't exist or leave much to be desired
 
  
  3.) having the right stick there for deking is cool but why oh why is there no option to turn off 
 the push up to shoot option?
  
  4.) Why is Gary Thorne obsessed with the word Cannonade?
  
  5.) Why is it that when you trade you can't trade for more players than you can have on your 
 team. I realize there are rules and I can understand those rules preventing you from playing a 
 game before you conform to them, but you can't trade until you have the right amount of people???
 
  
  6.) The replays sometimes show the dumest stuff while leaving the coolest things out
  
  7.) Why does it seem like every goal hits the post, and every post that doesn't go in goes 
 out of play?
  
  8.) Pretty cool glitch that makes your players spin a complete 180 in about a sixteenth of a second.
 
  
  9.) poke check on offense without the puck being the same as poke check on defence. Why is this 
 a problem? Well when you are waiting in the slot for a pass from your friend and you want to wrist 
 it in to the gaping net, but you instead hit it too early so you poke the puck instead of shooting 
 it???? then you might understand the aggravation. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: logan2k_17
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 30, 2007 8:33 am PT
Review:  There have been two Hockey franchises that have ruled the video game world since th 00's began. 
 I had never tried the 2k series since the days of the Dreamcast and have only heard good things. 
 This year i decided I try out both games... Well I can only say this was by far EA's year. The 
 second i popped in NHL 08 and noticed the new skating engine that emulates actual skating strides 
 rather then the graphical bubble hockey feel (you would understand if you compared 07 and 08 side 
 by side) . The skating felt real and was followed by the realistic hit physics, the fast gameplay, 
 a free puck with the ability to flutter, and a revised deking system that is sure to impress any 
 hockey fan. Not to take anything away from the 2k series but this year they were out of their league. 
 The visuals are fantastic in 08 along with the endlessness of gameplay that will in the end of 
 a night of playing leave a reel of highlights flashing through the players head as if he/she had 
 just watch the top 10 on Sportcenter. If you love Hockey, and you notice details like skating, 
 deking, stiff arming a power move, bending sticks, wobbly puck, insane hit physics and incredible 
 goal opportunities.... this game is for you! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: spiff_p239
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 20, 2007 12:17 pm PT
Review:  A very solid first effort for EA on the PS3 but it has some annoying shortcomings when it comes 
 to the AI system. When playing against a computer controlled team, their defense plays much better 
 than your AI controlled teammates. While the computer's defense will poke check and swarm you when 
 you have the puck, your AI controlled defense mainly just set up zone coverage and make very few 
 attempts to go after the puck.
  
  Another annoying AI problem deals with the fact that the computer controlled team scores a lot 
 of really weak goals on shots that pose no threat in real life. On the Pro difficulty, the computer 
 often scores 4 or 5 goals in a row in an attempt to make the game more even. You'll find that you 
 have games where your goalie has a 50% save percentage due to the cheap play from the computer. 
 The worst part is that you never know how well the computer is going to play on the higher difficulty 
 settings. Sometimes you'll blow them out and other times, they'll be an unstoppable force so you 
 can't really play with the AI learning to suit it to your skill level.
  
  When in shootout mode against the computer, their first shooter will always make the same move 
 over and over again in any rematches.
  
  This game is better suited for multi-player than single-player. I can't comment on the online play 
 as I do not have access to the Playstation Network. Hopefully next year's version will address 
 some of the glaring problems that I find annoying. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shauwn
Rating: 7.5
Date: Oct 18, 2007 1:40 pm PT
Review:  I dont know if its just me or my generation, I'm 28 years old but the older Hockey games such as 
 NHL Faceoff 97, NHL 98, and the older ESPN NHL games were phenominal.. I loved the hitting, massively 
 wide shots that ricchoeted off the glass and went all over the place, the enthusiastic crowds, 
 special moves , and basically real exciting arcade style of Hockey. I miss it so much.. Last year 
 I purchased NHL 2k 07 and played 4 games before laying my controller down with this cringe on my 
 face. The game felt like playing a boring gold game. This is supposed to be the fastest game on 
 Ice! While it played like 85 year old men on the ice...
  
  Which brings me to my review for NHL 08.. (POSITIVES) The game has excellent graphics, the commentary 
 is spot on, I love the replays after a goal is scored, and player animations look great, not to 
 mention the smooth prety ice surface and decent looking fans.. But thats about it. The gameplay 
 I feel needs work. Players are to stiff, the hitting looks to stiff, its as if a 85 year old man 
 is hitting another old man and they're both trying not to break a hip in the process,,, lame.. AND 
 WHERES THE SPEED BURST AT?!??! It literally feels like I'm playing some old timers hall of fame 
 style of game. Everything just seems lifeless just like in the nhl 2k 07 game last season.
  
  Personally, I dont understand how people gave this game 9.0-10's. They must have never played 
 the real great fun hockey games in the late 90's. Now, some people would complain about my review 
 stating the older arcade style hockey games arent realistic,, but I disagree with them wholeheartedly. 
 Real Hockey plays just like an arcade style and not some slow putt putt simulation. Where's the 
 heavy hitting along the boards, crashing the nets, the massive shoulder checks into your bench, 
 the 100 mph shots that deflect off players and go skyrocketing into the crowd and hearing the crowds 
 oooooooooooooooohssss and aaaaaaaaahhhhhhhhsssss., wheres the 90 mph slapshot scoring from the 
 blueline and seeing the goalies water bottle go crashing off the net?? Its just not there in this 
 game. None of it. The game just doesnt get my adrenaline going and heart pumping like in previous 
 EA Hockey games,, the same with the 2k sports..
  
  I dont know what it is with the new sports games in general, but none of them seem very fun and 
 exciting anymore..
  I'm still giving nhl08 a 7.5 only because the graphics are great and some of the other features 
 are nice,, but the overall gameplay and excitement factor is about a 2.0 in my book..
  
  Heres a tip. Any of you young kids between the age of 16-21, go play the older Playstation 1 hockey 
 games, then come back and try NHL 08.. You'll see what I mean... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Stevie19
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 20, 2007 11:05 am PT
Review:  Pros: Gameplay is really good. It is really what make the game so good. The AI catches on to repeat 
 plays. Adding in the AHL league is a nice addition although i'm not sure i will every play an AHL 
 game.
  
  Cons: -No Season Mode. Dynasty mode is fun but i would rather be able to control all teams and 
 all player movements. - The game has froze on me 3 times so far and i've had to restart the ps3. 
 Save often so you dont loose progress. - Not a big fan of the new controls. Id rather use the old 
 configurations. Your able to change between two difference types of control schemes. You cannot 
 customize it to your liking.
  
  - the on screen menus are slow to react. Example - As you flip through the different teams it will 
 get stuck on a team logo and you have to stop flipping so it can catch up with the proper logo 
 for that team.
  
  Despite the glitches and occaisonal freezing ive had with this game, the gameplay seems like its 
 the best its ever been in this series. I've yet to try the online play so i cannot comment on that 
 feature. If you're a big NHL fan, its worth the buy if you can get over the lack of a season mode. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JohnJerome
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 17, 2007 11:12 pm PT
Review:  NHL 08 gets better every time I play it. It looks great, plays great and is super deep. I actually 
 feel like I'm playing Hockey instead of just checking and setting up one timers. I score a different 
 way every game! The play making feature is easy, intuitive and actually leads to more fun with 
 the game. Every other sports title should look to NHL 08 for inspiration on how to get it right. 
 If your looking to play a sports title, look no further than NHL 08. I'll see you online, at the 
 rink or anywhere you want to throw down. Get the game, play the game, rule the game, loose the 
 girl, win the cup!!!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Stars2099
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 16, 2007 10:40 pm PT
Review:  This game is absolutely terrific. The controls are nothing short of topnotch. Puck handling is 
 a breeze and setting up in the offensive zone can be done with ease. For the first time in a hockey 
 game, you can correctly set up a power play and run many styles from behind the net to quarterbacking 
 from the point. Online is vastly improved with leagues and 6 v 6 play, though connection can cut 
 off randomly. My two disappointments are the suffering graphics on the PS3 and the wrist shots 
 are a little too weak this year. But the improved skating, puck handling, and lack of cheese goals 
 make this the best hockey game you have ever played. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: botyme
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 13, 2007 4:34 pm PT
Review:  man ea is not kidding when they say they worked on the AI because man it is a hard game to play 
 but finally at lease there is competition now playing against the computer. I got creamed 4 game 
 straight but who cares, this is pure hockey at its best. bye bye nhl 2k8 and hello nhl 08!!!!! 
 i was a big 2k fan up to last year and i had no choice but to let them go just because ea worked 
 harder on making this year`s best game to date. i read about the game and i saw the videos on gamespot 
 and i`m i did this is a must own....................... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hockeygamer17
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 18, 2007 11:19 am PT
Review:  I'm a long time 2K hockey gamer who hated EA games. They were so unrealistic, arcade like, and 
 far too easy. However, since I started reading and watching the previews on NHL 08, I decided to 
 give EA another chance. They showed me that they wanted to change their game and take it to a whole 
 new level. You know what... they did. It's been a long time since I played a hockey game that has 
 given me much difficulty and it's a great refresher. Having converted from 2K I have yet to fully 
 master the new pro stick and the tough AI has made me run around my own defensive zone, causing 
 major consequences on my part. I haven't won a game yet *yes I know I stink right now,* but I'm 
 getting better. I'm extremely pleased with the game play EA has provided this year.
  
  Other then the game play, I created my own skater and I was surprised how much you can do with 
 the equipment. They even had my hockey stick, helmet, and skates. Also it is true what they say 
 about the equipment making your player better. They have different attributes that affect your 
 player in skating, shot, etc...
  
  *Update* Online Play
  
  Since I last updated; all I have really done is play online and I've had allot of fun. It's quite 
 nice to play against other people for once and so far I've been really successful on online play. 
 I have played against 2-3 people before, I have fought down to the wire with many players on the 
 EA network and I have really enjoyed checking up on my rankings on the network. Records of wins 
 / losses, goals scored, etc... it's all here. However, there sometimes seems to be some problems 
 with connections, and I even lost connections during games at times.
  
  I still have yet to work with Dynasty Mode and Create a Play; but I can easily say this is the 
 best hockey game I've ever played. I don't know what the frame rate is like on the 360 but being 
 this is my first PS3 game changing from PS2; it's a huge step forward. I do have one thing to say 
 about it though. All of you that are freaking out because of how Madden was, NHL 08 doesn't seem 
 to suffer like that game did. There are a few things though I like to see in next years game.
 
  
  1) Add Classic Jerseys
  2) Add the NCAA Division 1 to the list of leagues.
  3) Let us set up our own soundtrack like 2K allows us.
  
  For now my score is a solid 9 and 
 that's the highest I have ever rated a game. I'm off to play some more hockey but I have one last 
 thing to say...
  
  Here's to the Colorado Avalanche for a strong come back season! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mountain_duwe
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 12, 2007 3:20 pm PT
Review:  I thought it would be hard to dethrone NHL Hitz 20-02 as the best hockey game ever... but within 
 10 minutes of having my hands on NHL 08 for PS3, my mind was easily changed. Without beating around 
 the bush, this is the best hockey game that has ever been created.
  
  Pros:
  Skill stick control... bar-none best controls in the business
  Shootouts are handled perfectly
 
  Playing as the goalie is challenging yet fun
  All 29 AHL teams!
  Player models are spot-on
  The ice looks beautiful, and the crowd animations aren't that bad
 
  If you love hockey... you'll love this game
  The rosters are surprisingly accurate
  New create-a-team and create-a-player modes are amazing
  Editing equipment colors and such is 
 a blast!
  
  Cons:
  Controls take a little getting used to
  At launch, no new RBK Edge jerseys (fixed soon with a password?)
  
  It boils down to this -- if 
 you love hockey, you NEED this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: matnaami
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 13, 2007 9:07 pm PT
Review:  Ideas in this game are great, if you are waiting for the NHL season to start no need to wait because 
 this game looks so great that it would seem like it is real. EA did a great job until (like all 
 previous EA games) we find some wierd glitches, like 2 goalies or quarterbacks do what ever they 
 want and other than the FPS (which is hardly noticeable) . In a season or game it gets a lot harder, 
 when they say on the fly AI they mean it and the AI is smart. In conclusion they have improved 
 a lot since the 360 version last year but this is the last 30 FPS EA game. Create myself as a goalie 
 omg i have my different set of pads (glove/blocker RBK and pads Itech) ... season is ridiculously 
 hard... i mean hard 0-4 with Habs and 0-2-0-2 with Bulldogs and im pretty good at games. only bad 
 thing i would say is the cr@ppy music that is in there but i thought i heard some Hendrix which 
 would b sick... CANT WAIT FOR 09.... HABS 07-08 CHAMPIONS 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
