-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: NHL 2K7
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/ps3/sports/nhl2k7/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Cinemotion brand of presentation is a unique and enjoyable alternative.
 Great looking player models and animations, and fantastic looking ice.
 the same deep, engaging gameplay the series is known for.
 lots of available features, both offline and online.
 Some new Sixaxis tilt control features that are relatively amusing.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Core gameplay has changed little since last year's game.
 A few ugly animations.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Nov 16, 2006
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 8.3
Critic Score: 7.9, 26 Review (s)
User Score: 7.9, 394 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: 2K Sports
Developer: Kush Games
Genre: Ice Hockey Sim
Date: Nov 13, 2006
ESRB: Everyone 10+

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
NHL 2K7 might be your only choice for a hockey game to go with your new PlayStation 3, but it's 
 still a great one. 

  2K Sports' NHL 2K franchise made its next-generation debut a couple of months back on the Xbox 
 360 with NHL 2K7. If you want to get technical, NHL 2K6 was on the 360 as well, though that game 
 was a glorified port of that year's Xbox game. 2K7 finally delivered a game that felt like it belonged 
 on the new generation of consoles, especially in the realm of presentation. Now, 2K7 is on the 
 PlayStation 3, and for all intents and purposes, this game is identical to its 360 counterpart. 
 A couple of amusing Sixaxis control functions are the only real bonus to the package this time 
 around, though they're certainly not anything special enough to make you consider the game again 
 if you've already bought it this year. But for hockey fans that were holding out for the PS3 launch, 
 NHL 2K7 is worth adding to your launch purchase list.  

          The NHL 2K series makes its PlayStation 3 debut in NHL 2K7.     

  The biggest, most 
 elaborate change to this year's game involves the excellent new on-ice presentation system. Titled 
 "cinemotion," this optional feature strips away the normal game-time TV broadcast setup and audio 
 commentary in favor of a more dramatic interpretation. A rousing orchestral score pipes up from 
 the moment the game begins with the coach delivering his opening pep talk to the team. From there, 
 it moves to the ice, changing distinctly in tone depending on what happens. If you're well behind 
 in the game, the tone is more somber. If you're on the comeback, the music kicks in to higher gear. 
 And if you win, you get the sort of happy, inspirational score you'd expect from the end of a good 
 hockey movie.  

  While the music might sound a touch cheesy, it's added subtly enough that it never seems over the 
 top. It's more  Miracle  than  Mighty Ducks  in its tone and delivery. In fact, if anything, it 
 could stand to be a little more in-your-face. The default audio levels for the music are rather 
 quiet, and sometimes it's tough to hear the music over the din of typical on-ice action. It's not 
 a volume issue so much as understated musical sequences. But when it swells up at the key moments, 
 you notice it, and it's an interesting and cool change of pace from the typical TV broadcast. It 
 makes the on-ice cutscenes more entertaining, too. If for some reason you really miss the commentary 
 but don't want to give up the music, you do have the option of turning the commentary back on via 
 the options menu.  

  On top of the cinemotion feature, 2K7 also includes a new default camera angle that might just 
 be the best one ever put into a hockey game. This parametric camera comes down at more of an angle 
 than the typical top-down camera view, and turns and zooms ever so subtly depending on where you 
 are on the ice, and what's happening. It's the sort of thing that casual fans might not even notice 
 or take note of initially, but dedicated players should certainly appreciate this change, since 
 it gets you just that much closer to the action without sacrificing any level of control or visibility. 

  These are all great changes, but from there, the additions begin to get fewer and further between. 
 On the gameplay front, just about every feature from last year's game, including the crease control, 
 icon passing, enforcer, and on-the-fly play-calling systems return once more, and they're all basically 
 the same (save for some PS3-exclusive control options, which we'll get to momentarily) . The few 
 additions to the gameplay engine include a new drop pass button, and the new pressure control scheme. 
 The drop pass is assigned to the R1 button, and by pressing it, you'll pass the puck back through 
 your legs to a nearby player. With the pressure control system, if you find yourself having particular 
 trouble with on individual opponent, you can order your teammates to pressure them by holding down 
 the L1 button and pressing the right analog stick in the direction of that opponent. You can set 
 the level of pressure via taps of the L1 button. A single tap applies light pressure, a double 
 tap applies more physical pressure, and repeatedly tapping sends your players in for a very hard 
 check. You can cycle through opponents easily enough by simply tapping the right stick around while 
 holding the button.  

  These new controls, much like many of the previously mentioned gameplay control systems from last 
 year's game, aren't exactly amazing by themselves, but when combined with the wealth of other available 
 options, they help make NHL 2K7 one of the smartest games of hockey around, if not the flashiest. 
 The basic gameplay engine hasn't really changed dramatically in the last couple of years, and those 
 familiar with how 2K hockey plays will find yet another game of 2K hockey in this year's offering. 
 Of course it's hard to call that a bad thing, since the depth of play, especially in the defense 
 and core strategies of the game of hockey, is unmatched by any other available hockey title on 
 the market. But when it comes to some of the faster and more exciting aspects of hockey, like scoring, 
 offensive moves, and fighting, little has changed, and these aspects of the game engine are starting 
 to show their age.  

          The new parametric camera angle is excellent, putting you closer to the on-ice action without 
 creating visibility problems.     

  If you're wondering how the PlayStation 3 version of the game differs from its Xbox 360 counterpart, 
 it's the addition of a couple of Sixaxis functions that give this version a bit of extra oomph. 
 When playing defense, you can shove the PS3 controller forward to check another player. The timing 
 is a bit strange at first, and for the first hour or so of play, you may wonder if it's even working. 
 The trick is to line up your check very carefully and then time the push forward to lay it in. 
 When it works, it's satisfying, though it isn't any more fun or useful than just pushing the check 
 button on the controller. However, the crease controls are considerably more fun. As was the case 
 in NHL 2K6, by pressing down on the R3 button, you can switch to a behind-the-back camera view 
 and take direct control of the goaltender. The same functionality applies in this version, but 
 with the PS3 version, you can move the goalie back and forth and pull off the various goalie moves 
 simply by turning and tilting the controller. Again, it's not necessarily a better option than 
 the previous analog stick movements, but this does work considerably better than the checking. 
 The movement sensitivity is also just right.     

  2K7's feature list is quite familiar. Party mode returns with a familiar roster of hockey-based 
 minigames; mini rink and pond hockey provide similarly goofy yet enjoyable distractions; and the 
 skybox once again houses all sorts of unlockables, statistics, and other fun things. All the usual 
 in-game skybox challenges are still on hand, as well. Franchise mode returns with most of the same 
 great features introduced last year, as well as a few small additions. A hard salary cap has been 
 implemented for all teams in the game, though it's not detailed in the ways of the NHL collective 
 bargaining agreement. It is still displayed as a basic budget, and there isn't a realistic contract 
 system in the game with regard to sending players to the minors or letting them go. You can't sign 
 two-way deals, so you can send a player to the minor leagues or cut him outright, without having 
 to put him through waivers.  

          Sixaxis tilt controls do a good job of letting you control the goalie, but that's about 
 it.     

  On the plus side, the franchise mode still has an excellent rookie scouting system, a solid free-agency 
 interface, and a minor-league roster to keep track of as the season progresses. Trade logic is 
 still solid, if a bit overly frequent in its offers. Though you get plenty of offers right near 
 the trade deadline, you also get a lot of offers throughout the season, perhaps a few more than 
 is realistic. Injuries occur mostly in a realistic fashion, though you'll sometimes find a proliferation 
 of minor injuries, like broken hands and bruised faces, and they sometimes take overly long to 
 heal.  

  Other additions include a more-emphasized rivalry system that creates statistical bonuses and takeaways 
 depending on how players play in games against their rival teams. We all know how much the NHL 
 loves its rivalries, and with this system, players are physically affected by how they play in 
 rivalry games. Another addition involves messages from the team owner. Along with receiving the 
 typical day-to-day e-mails, you also have an option called "opportunity knocks." Here, you'll get 
 specific bonuses and takeaways for various players based on news delivered to you by the owner 
 via a cell phone call. For instance, if one of your players just got a sponsorship for a new energy 
 drink, his attributes will go up for the next few games. Or, conversely, if one of your players 
 looks ragged and tired, his attributes will go down for a few games. It's sort of random as to 
 which way a call will go, and the only way to avoid bad ones is to not receive the calls at all. 
 Of course, if you do that, you won't get the good ones either, so it's up to you to decide whether 
 it's worth the risk. The bonuses offered are rarely significant enough to make it worthwhile to 
 take time out of your schedule to check the feature.  

  The online-play setup is very much how it has been the last couple of years. Basic competition 
 is available for two to eight players (four to a console) , and you can engage in competitions of 
 varying difficulty levels, with or without the crease control turned on. The party games and minirink 
 modes are also available online. Most importantly, online league play is once again available for 
 tournaments or full seasons and involves anywhere from four to 30 teams. The options for leagues 
 haven't changed much, though with so many options available for scheduling and stat tracking via 
 the 2K Sports Web site, it's hard to complain, considering there's still nothing else like it available 
 in other hockey games for consoles. But it would be nice if in the future some little features 
 could be included, like fantasy drafts, free-agent pools, and the like. As far as how the online 
 modes play, our experiences playing the game online yielded little to no lag. The frame rate definitely 
 dips below the near 60 frames per second that the game typically runs at offline, but for the most 
 part, it still stays steady at around 30.  

  The PlayStation 3 version of NHL 2K7 looks on par with the Xbox 360 version's graphics in just 
 about every way. The player models are great, with great-looking faces, body builds, and jerseys. 
 Animations are also excellent, and the skating engine in particular looks fantastic. The flow of 
 the players on the ice is much better than ever before, and they move with more realistic momentum. 
 Some holdover animations, such as dekeing and checking, could stand a similar revamp, but they 
 still look good. However, there are also some clunky-looking animations, specifically some transitional 
 animations that appear missing at times. Players will sometimes go from being doubled over to raising 
 their arms cheering with no in-between transitional movement. Sometimes they'll instantaneously 
 go from standing to being practically upside down when checked. These aren't frequent issues, but 
 they're noticeable. If you've got an HDTV, you'll get the best of the graphical experience. But 
 even on an SDTV, you'll notice the improvements to the game's visuals. The player models look just 
 a touch more aliased on the PS3 version when running in HD than they did in the 360 version, but 
 the effect is relatively minor.  

          Graphically, it's tough to find much difference between the PS3 version and the 360 version. 
     

  Apart from the cinemotion music, NHL 2K7 goes through a lot of the same audio motions as previous 
 games. Bob Cole and Harry Neale are on hand again for commentary duty, and functionally, it seems 
 like much the same commentary as in last year's game. It's sometimes informative, but it mostly 
 serves as background fodder. The on-ice effects, however, sound excellent, especially the on-ice 
 dialogue by the players and coaches, shouting to you and other players on the ice as the game goes. 
 The game's indie-rock-heavy soundtrack is better than the average indie-rock-heavy soundtrack, 
 if only by a small margin. It consists exclusively of bands from the Sub Pop record label and has 
 songs by The Postal Service, Mudhoney, Hot Hot Heat, Band of Horses, Sealter-Kinney, and more. 
 It's unusual to hear something like Band of Horses or The Postal Service in a hockey game, but 
 you could do worse.  

  NHL 2K7 delivers an experience on the PlayStation 3 that's entirely comparable to what it delivered 
 on the Xbox 360 just a couple of months back. From a features standpoint, no concessions have been 
 made here, and the visuals are still great. The new Sixaxis controls, while nothing overly spectacular, 
 are also a neat bonus. If you already bought the game on the 360, there's nothing here that makes 
 it worth buying a second time. But if you haven't already made your hockey game purchase for the 
 year and want to get some hockey going on your new PlayStation 3, NHL 2K7 is absolutely worth checking 
 out.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (15 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: genmonkey
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jun 13, 2007 2:33 pm PT
Review:  Hockey games have always held a special place on my gaming palette. Ever since blowing &pound;30 
 of my pocket money on NHLPA Hockey '93 for the Sega MegaDrive (the first game I bought on my own) , 
 I've sampled the digital version of Canada's favourite violence simulator every following year 
 in some form and on varying platforms. Back in 1992, videogame hockey consisted of primary colours, 
 near vertical camera angles and silky smooth brutal action with the minimum of complexities. Nowadays 
 in the year 2007, It's pretty much the same; but for once lack of change is definitely not a bad 
 thing. NHL 2K7 on the Playstation 3 sports all the hallmarks of a 2K series game. Gameplay is dynamic 
 and fluid, with some innovative use of the SixAxis controller tacked on to the already solid framework 
 setup in the Xbox 360 version. The visual and audio fidelity is top notch, and the menu presentation 
 is almost uniformly awful and devoid of personality. Business as usual then.
  
  The decidedly old-school menu system hides away the usual menagerie of game modes. From instant-action 
 multi-player fun through to online and franchise modes, it's all here and accounted for; with the 
 usual depth of tweakability that we've come to expect from Visual Concepts. Fans of the franchise 
 mode will be particularly pleased, as this has all the depth and simulation aspects of some of 
 the more serious management games out there, all wrapped up in the fantastic new 'Cinemotion' engine 
 created specifically for this title.
  
  In fact, Cinemotion is one of the best inventions yet seen in the series short history. Whilst 
 NHL '07 took a different approach this year with the total stick control, NHL 2K7 takes a completely 
 separate direction; opting to keep the basic controls the same, but wrap up every game with a level 
 of cinematic presentation that borders on the extremely cheesy. You'll be treated to cutscenes 
 with stirring music, a dynamic camera angle that sweeps across the ice, and an in-game orchestral 
 soundtrack that alters with the pace and score of the game. Play badly and the music takes on a 
 sombre, dark tone; play your way back into a comeback situation and the pace of the orchestra quickens, 
 with tunes designed to lift the spirit and encourage a fightback. It's a unique set of features 
 that soon blend into the background, but the fact that they all fit in so well with the experience 
 is an excellent indication that the design team succeeded. Going back to a normal game without 
 the musical accompaniment soon makes you realise just how much it adds to the proceedings, and 
 I certainly hope this is expanded upon in future versions.
  
  Of course the ultimate trick to producing a decent hockey game has always been locked into the 
 motion of the players. It's something that EA's NHL series got right on a primitive level very 
 early on, and whilst that particular series may have slightly lost its way (although '07 is a half-step 
 back to form) , 2K7 nails this particular sensation with aplomb. The players all feel as if they 
 have a genuine level of inertia and weight whilst sliding around the ice, and the excellent adaptive 
 animation system ties into that feeling. Arms are held out for balance, bodies sway when making 
 a gradual turn, and pretty much all types of motion just feels correct. With the usual repertoire 
 of responsive controls on offer and the generally decent AI, NHL 2K7 plays an excellent game of 
 hockey, and certainly one that anybody can get into with a little practice. Although quite how 
 much of that is down to the simplicity of the sport itself is a matter for debate.
  
  The PS3 version is largely the same as its Xbox 360 cousin, with a barely perceptible level of 
 graphical improvement thrown into the mix. The inclusion of the SixAxis motion-controlled checking 
 and goaltending modes boosts the title, with both features well implemented and a natural addition 
 to the control scheme. The fact that these additions don't feel forced in any way is a compliment 
 to the development team, and we can only hope that more games follow the same path.
  
  Whilst the core of the game is undoubtedly well-polished, there are a few glitches along the way. 
 The AI tends to over-rely on specific one-time goals, and shooting in general could do with an 
 overhaul. Winding up for slapshots can take an inordinate amount of time, and there are some animation 
 oddities that crop up occasionally, taking you out of the experience for a moment or two. Oh, and 
 did I mention the menu system already? For a company so focussed on ramping up the in-game presentation 
 to new levels, it's beyond baffling that they don't see fit to extend the same courtesy to the 
 menu system. It might sound a trivial point, but the 2K series just lacks the polish and shine 
 of its EA rivals, and that can only damage its reputation as a result.
  
  NHL 2K7 is a decent addition to the 2K sports range, and a title with core gameplay so pure that 
 it easily overcomes any hint of a problem. The focus on cinematic in-game presentation is undoubtedly 
 a success, and with features like this being added every year, it seems that Visual Concepts are 
 on the way to becoming one of the best sports game developers in the business. Indeed many people 
 would argue that titles like NHL and NBA simply consolidate their position at the very top, and 
 I'm not going to argue with that.
  
  
  Note: This text was originally written by myself and published over at strategyinformer. com 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bencm21
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jun 5, 2007 3:25 am PT
Review:  2K have out done themselves with NHL 2K7 for the PS3, its absolutely fantastic, just because its 
 your only choice for a Hockey game on the PS3 atm doesn't mean its a bad one, its quite the oposite.
 
  
  Gameplay
  The new Skating engine feels great, you actually feel as though you are skating on real ice (which 
 looks amazing) and the backwards skating looks fluid and life like, the controls are easy to pick 
 up for both players of the series and newcomers, its all really accessible. New features such as 
 the Sixaxis Checking and Crease control make the game all the nicer and shinier on the PS3 , everything 
 about ti has been polished and refined from 2k6 which is a good thing. the new intimidation system 
 works well as well helping take the heat off your players by intimidating the more aggressive of 
 the opposition.
  
  Graphics
  Although its just a standard port, with the additions of sixaxis controls, the game still looks 
 fantastic, the Ice looks brilliant and the skaters make tracks in it as they skate. the player 
 models and rink has a large amount of detail which helps the game achieve its simulation aspect. 
 overall its one nice looking games.
  
  Game modes
  The game is packed to the brim with alternate game modes ranging from mini-rink to shootout challenges, 
 there is a season mode and a Franchise mode which lets you experience what its like to run a hockey 
 team. Online is superb as well, the service is fast and easy to use, as well as allowing for online 
 seasons to be started.
  
  Cinemotion
  Cinemotion is 2K's way of reinventing how hockey games are represented, Cinemotion uses dynamic 
 camera angles to create a dramatic game, these camera angles are accompanied by a musical score 
 which dynamically changes in relation to the game.
  
  Bad points
  There are some minor issues such as inaccuracies on shooting and saving with the sixaxis can be 
 frustrating. Those issues aside and you will find a very enjoyable, fun Hockey game, its the best 
 sports game so far on the PS3, its only a port as well so i look forward to the next-gen installment 
 created specifically for PS3 with improvements in graphics, also i agree with gamespot, there needs 
 to be more innovation if the series is to move forward. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: steve-og
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jun 3, 2007 7:58 am PT
Review:  this is the best hockey game ever. There is barely any flaws! Ok the graphics are very good, the 
 ice looks very real, and the player models look realistic. The puck handling and skating is smooth. 
 The controls are pretty easy and will only take a few minutes to figure out. Also theres alot of 
 things to do on this game, along with online play. But you should practice before you go online 
 because some of those people are really good lol. what im saying is if you are looking to buy a 
 good hockey game this game is for you, and if your a hockey fan i recommend getting this game! 
 It is well worth the price. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: balladofbron
Rating: 9.1
Date: May 20, 2007 11:07 am PT
Review:  If you waited to get the game like I did, it dropped down to $30. And for it only costing $30 its 
 great entertainment. :) The sound tracks on the game are really good. The game play is quick and 
 easy to learn, and the franchise and season modes are great fun. I found that the only thing I 
 wish was improved a bit more was the Fighting. Although thats not what the game is revolved around, 
 I still think it could of been fixed up a bit, so it was cooler, maybe some bloody noses or something?
 
  
  But all in all the game was worth the money and some. For all the non hockey fans out there, I 
 still say give it a shot, its pretty sweet, a good break from all the FPS's / RPG's / and Racing 
 games, and is fun to just speed down the arena and check someone into the wall as hard as you can 
 and get into a fight with them :) ~B_roN 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Confondu
Rating: 8.4
Date: Jul 6, 2007 4:13 am PT
Review:  I think that Nhl 2K7 is a nice game. It has really good gameplay. The commentary is actually quite 
 good, i mean atkeast they dont repeat everything as much. I think the gameplay is better than all 
 other hockey games. The graphics are good , but the players don't really look real! Lol some of 
 them look very fat. NHL 2K7 has many new game modes for example the crease control is neat and 
 you can also play pond hockey which also is fun. The online is ok. Overall, I don't think you should 
 buy this game. Just rent it. It's not as expensive as other PS3 games, but still 30 $ is 30 $. 
 Anyways, it's good beginning for PS3 hockey games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: medhopeful
Rating: 8.6
Date: Mar 29, 2007 11:07 am PT
Review:  NHL 2K7 offers both the casual and hardcore hockey fan a great experience. The game be very easy 
 for those of you starting out or very hard for the more experienced gamer. My only major qualm 
 with the game is that the pro difficulty is too easy (I average about 5 goals/game) but the hall 
 of fame difficulty is almost too hard - there should have been an in-between there. However, the 
 hall of fame difficulty is, I feel, very realistic. Also, while the hitting is good, it can get 
 a bit excessive with the player getting laid out whenever you try to aim up a slapshot or call 
 a play. Be sure, if you want a realistic game, to turn the hitting power down; if you want a fast-paced 
 game then crank it up and let the bodies hit the ice! One-timers are your best chance at scoring, 
 but these again can be unrealistic depending on how you have the settings. One-timers have a normal 
 difficulty and a hard difficulty, with the hard difficulty making it so you need everything to 
 be perfect to get it, which can rarely happen. Your best bet, if you want realisim, is to have 
 this set at normal and turn the passing down a bit. That's just me though, I like a fast-paced 
 game so I keep the one-timer difficulty at normal. The announcers are annoying, but the sound is 
 great on everything else (especially if you have surround sound) . Hearing your players call for 
 the puck and then getting the goal and hearing the horn go off all around is a very pleasing experience! 
 Graphically, they are good in 720p, but I was not expecting anything great in a fast moving game 
 so I was impressed with just how good they were. Online leaves alot to be desired, but the franchise 
 makes up for it. Unlike other sports franchises, the computer actually makes trades and it can 
 be very active around the trade deadline. Definately a great game to get for any type of hockey 
 fan! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: grand17
Rating: 7.5
Date: Aug 29, 2007 8:55 am PT
Review:  Gameplay: This game is average at best. The soundtrack isnt really my kind of music but the in game 
 commentary is the best ive ever heard. its really not like it used to be with the same 5 sentences 
 said over and over. The game can be quite difficult and if your trying to get the achievements 
 well that can be pretty hard as well.
  Online: Before you go play online you really should get in A LOT of practice. Those guys are good. 
 Positives: It's a challenging game. Has Achievements. Online has potential. Updateable rosters.
 
  Negative: Almost nobody is online. trying to set up an online tournament or season is a useless 
 feature. its nowhere near as addictive as resistance was. whatever happened to create a player? 
 why arent all the goalie masks right? It gets pretty annoying listening to the same dumb speech 
 from your coach to start the game. but the worst of all is at the end of the game when it says 
 your about to see game highlights and its juts a 2k7 logo on the screen... ive never bought a 2k 
 sports game before and now i know why.
  
  Rent or Buy??
  Wait for NHL 08 
::::::

::::::
UserName: evan_hotham
Rating: 9.3
Date: Mar 13, 2007 5:38 pm PT
Review:  This game rocks everyone. It has great graphics (the ice looks fantastic; it has a jaw-dropping 
 realism to it) . The players (some of them) look like they really do in real life. The gameplay 
 is very good as well. Crease Control mode is great (using the sixaxis to become the goalie) , and 
 it is one of the more fun parts of the game. Even though I hate Bob Cole in real life (Leaf Homer! 
 grrr) he is great in the game, but Harry Neale always repeats himself and he is just annoying (also 
 he is annoying in real life too, hehe) . This game is very realistic. The puck doesnt go in from 
 the blue line like in some games (*cough* NHL 07 for PS2) , it is very realistic, and very FUN! 
 Overall, this is one of the best NHL games I ever played, and it looks awesome in HD.
  
  GO SENS! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: biller88
Rating: 8.3
Date: Mar 2, 2007 1:08 pm PT
Review:  If you are looking for a good NHL game on the PS3, well, this is your only game. Not only because 
 it is the only NHL PS3 title, but also because it is a good game.
  2K7 casts off the arcade feeling of the EA Sports series, in particular NHL 2006 and 2007 and brings 
 more of a simulation feel. The checks aren't huge, the shots aren't all over 130 MPH, and the scores 
 don't always end up 15-14 as they seemed to in EA's franchise.
  2k7 brings decent A. I. competition that can be changed with sliders, much better goal tending as 
 goalies don't slide and dive everywhere, as well realistic shot, hit, and score totals that make 
 the feel more accurate, especially for those who like authenticity in their game.
  Not to mention the online play, that despite the lack of actual league players, is astonishingly 
 fun with a small amount of lag that makes playing enjoyable and unpredictable.
  2K also releases roster updates, adding that new rookie or moving the unsuspecting franchisers 
 to their new teams to mirror the real life moves.
  Overall, there are a couple of rule bugs (goalies keeping their hands up on icing calls even if 
 the opposing team is first to the puck, line changes on icing calls) , but the aesthetics and the 
 overall feel of the game give it an 8.4 in my books. Not a great game, but a good NHL game that 
 kills the competition. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: johnrbednarz
Rating: 5.5
Date: Feb 28, 2007 10:32 am PT
Review:  Graphically, this game is all it is cracked up to be. It is also very deep and includes jerseys 
 from long ago, defunct teams (hello Kansas City Scouts) and even has some fun mini-hockey on a 
 pond. The franchise mode attempts to be deep, but ends up being quite shallow. After hiring coaches 
 and choosing the ones that meet your team's goals based on ratings and salary, they do not have 
 much impact on actual gameplay. While the game can be fun, it is not challenging unless it is on 
 the highest difficulty level. Penalties are impossible to regulate and games are almost always 
 played in duration at 5 on 5. Line changes are horribly implemented through a strange button combination. 
 I miss EA's version. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: underdog4221
Rating: 9.8
Date: Feb 14, 2007 4:33 pm PT
Review:  This game is terrific, from the variety and intesnity of gameplay to the graphics I give this game 
 two thumbs way up. I never get tired of playing and it has numerous styles of gameplay from tournament, 
 exhibition, to playing on a pond or elimination. You can play as the goalie and put your skill 
 to the test... I haven't made a review before but this game was so satisfactory that I felt it only 
 right to let the public know what they're missing out on. Today I had a snowday and I played a 
 good 5 hours of NHL 2K7 and I wouldn't mind playing some more. I recommend having a few friends 
 over and starting up a tournament or bracket cause it just adds to the competition. I do have high 
 expectations for video games especially for the ps3 because I payed a lot of money for it and this 
 game is well worth it. I have friends who would say if they could afford it they would buy ps3 
 solely for this game. Being more of a shooting game player myself, this transition to a different 
 game scenario makes it all the better. So get your ass to the store and buy NHL 2k7 or at least 
 try it out and see for yourself, cause your missing out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kruegmeister
Rating: 8.3
Date: Feb 13, 2007 9:21 pm PT
Review:  The Graphics on all my Next-Gen Systems have left me wanting more.
  Madden I have tried 07 Demo which did not improve much on the 360 Madden 06 which really Stunk. 
 This Game is kind of the Same. I just have not seen that big jump in believability this Generation 
 that I saw when the PS2 and XBox came out. This Game looks better than Previous-Gen and the Crowds 
 are more detailed but Both EA and 2K Need to work on the Whole Face thing. The Faces in Resistance: FOM 
 are a good example of what I would expect to see.
  
  Back to the Crowds. I was pretty impressed that the Crowd was Filled with all different People 
 who were wearing varied clothing. My Biggest Complaint with Fight Night Round 3 which I own on 
 my 360, was that I would see 3 of the Same Guy wearing the Same Shirt while moving in time together. 
 The same was true on Madden07, it really kills the Realism Factor. So in NHL2K7 I applaud the effort 
 to keep the crowd believable.
  
  The Pressure Control and Advanced Passing work pretty well once you get used to them and the Game 
 has a Mode to Teach you all of the Various Advanced Controls One by One.
  
  All the Un-Lockables are cool.
  Un-lockable Jerseys and Teams are cool.
  The Un-lockable Mini 
 Rinks were Nice.
  
  I don't know if it is a licensing thing or not, but my Biggest Request for All Sports Games would 
 be to at least have the Correct Names and Numbers on all the Classic Teams. The Classic team isn't 
 much fun to Play without the Names (But at least make sure the Numbers are Correct.)
  
  The AI is Pretty Good. I can't pull off the One-Timer as easy without making an awesome pass first. 
 There is a lot less of my AI Teammates going offside for me. My Goalie doesn't pass like an Idiot 
 anymore.
  
  The Controls work very well for me. Some Reviews complain because they think it lacks the Innovation 
 of NHL07, but I personally found the NHL07 Controls to be OK in the Shootout and Annoying during 
 the Game.
  
  The Goalie Control is Pretty Cool, and it works well with the Sixaxis Controls and Good from the 
 Analog stick as well.
  The Sixaxis works pretty good on the Checking as well. It is easier to check via the Face Buttons, 
 but when you get the Timing down on the Sixaxis Checking it is a lot more satisfying because you 
 really feel like you just laid that dude out.
  
  All in All I like this Game, but there is Room for Improvement. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fuman3
Rating: 7.7
Date: Feb 4, 2007 11:16 am PT
Review:  NHL 2K7 to me is like being in that relationship thats starting to go stale. You know , you still 
 love her but her routines are getting old and you want something that will freshen up the relationship 
 like it did when you first met her? Thats what this game feel like. This is the first hockey game 
 ever on the PS3 console. Its impressive at first. The ice looks amazing. The new camera angle is 
 the best ive played with since Ea made hockey games Vertical instead of horizontal. the franchise 
 mode is pretty deep compared to the other next gen sports games but thats where the good stuff 
 ends. Like many other reveiwers are saying, its the smae old skate up the ice and try to find that 
 open one timer. I ve been a fan of this series since 2k3. Right now they need more innovation. 
 We seen what they can do now lets see what they can do next. Here comes the negatives.
  
  Player models look out of date and blocky. They almost look like zombies for facial expressions. 
 My suggestion here is that they should take a page from NBA 2k and make the player models look 
 like there reality counterparts. Why is it that hockey gets the short end of the stick on this?
 
  Make Crosby look like Crosby. Besides the face. Ea did it with NHL07 which looks great. The audio 
 to me is a vital part of a sports game, and Crowd participation is a main ingredient. The crowd 
 in 2k7 is as boring as watching a chess match. With the next gen technology, This stuff should 
 be eliminated. Crowd participation should be more involved. They should be louder and more exciting 
 when a home team goal is scored. Make the chanting more intense and meaningfull. I dont understand 
 hwy companies make games like this. madden is known for this. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jcblithe84
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jan 16, 2007 8:41 am PT
Review:  NHL 2K7 is by far the best hockey simulation I have ever owned. It blows every ea sports hockey 
 title out of the water. I started playing this game on a crappy 36 inch television and thought 
 the graphics were excellent. I just recently bough a High Deff LCD tv and the HDMI cable to hook 
 the PS3 up and my mind was blown. I can not believe the graphics. They are the best of any hockey 
 game ever. They are probably the best for any sports game ever. If you love hockey you will love 
 this game. Each player looks just like the real person. It is truly amazing. The lines are also 
 extremely clean. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jake0401
Rating: 9.4
Date: Nov 25, 2006 1:50 am PT
Review:  This is again a notch on the belt in the dominant 2k puck belt. 2k sports again delivers a top 
 notch hockey experience that puts the EA offerings to shame. It is simply one of the most immersive 
 and fun pick-up-and-play hockey offerings ever. The tilt controls are especially successful in 
 the 2k7 PS3 iteration of this game.
  You will appreciate the top notch graphics, especially the slick player models, jerseys and facial 
 hair (IT LOOKS REAL!) in this game. One would definately be hard pressed to call this a 'game' 
 in a sense, numberous vistors have asked who is playing (as in a real game) . On an HD display this 
 looks great (remember SONYs problems with 1080i gaming at the time of this review) and the 720p 
 support brings a crisp visual aspect of hockey that is hard to be touched. Which is truly 2k7s 
 strong point; presentation.
  The graphics are the tip of the iceberg and gone are the lackluster announcing offerings of previous 
 games and in are a new way of depicting the on-ice action. Instead of simply announcing play by 
 play you are treated with a soundtrack to the action via an ever-changing orchestra. As the action 
 picks up so does the orchestra, coming from behind, the band is playing right with the action. 
 Although it sounds subtle it adds a great immersive quality to the game and puts importance on 
 every draw and play.
  As far as action goes this game is hard to beat, the hockey adrenaline is captured to a great degree 
 and never lets up. Online also has a wealth of offerings, including leagues, seasons, tournaments, 
 playoffs, and the typical ranking and matchmaking systems prevalent on many online titles today.
 
  Player models are solid and the animation is superb, every movement rendered in a realistic HD 
 fashion. The controls are solid, akin to the 2K franchise of hockey, and if you have played previous 
 versions on a Playstation console you will easily mesh with this game.
  The tilt controls are utilized particularly well in this game as well. You would be suprised as 
 to how satisfying it is to lay a hit on an opponent, especially one in the room, via the tilt of 
 the SIXAXIS controller. Jolting it forward releases a collasal hit that makes it worthwile on any 
 occasion. It also works particularly well in the manual goalie mode where you tilt it to not only 
 move the golies vision cone (think madden) but also to line up your block with the shooters target. 
 It takes some experience but offers true masters of the game yet another facet to shine their skills.
 
  As of press I am having problems with online however others are not and I cannot comment therefore 
 on its current state. However like other PS3 games it offers a free service and provides all the 
 content paying customers of XBL are accustomed to.
  Overall 2K7 delivers a definitive puck experience to the PS3, not because it is the only ice hockey 
 title available, but because 2K Sports continues to deliver on-ice action at its highest point 
 yet another year. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
