-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: NHL 2K8
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/ps3/sports/nhl2k8/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 An incredibly deep franchise mode, complete with all the collective-bargaining agreement details.
 Scoring is much less reliant on the one-timer.
 Some of the new superstar moves are awesome.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 New control scheme is overcomplicated and unintuitive.
 Checking is way over-the-top.
 A few glitches and quirks in the franchise mode.
 Online matches run at about half the frame rate as the offline game.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Sep 12, 2007
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 7
Critic Score: 7.5, 21 Review (s)
User Score: 7.1, 148 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Take-Two Interactive
Developer: Kush Games
Genre: Ice Hockey Sim
Date: Sep 10, 2007
ESRB: Everyone 10+

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
NHL 2K8 is a generally fun hockey game, though its new control scheme is a step backward for the 
 series. 

  For years now, 2K Sports' NHL 2K series has been the gold standard for hockey games, both in gameplay 
 and depth of content. But over the last couple of installments, a trend has been developing. While 
 certain strides have been made to improve various aspects of the game in each installment, these 
 changes have become less and less significant. Last year, most of the work went into the presentation, 
 which left the fun yet aging gameplay engine much the same as it was in NHL 2K6. In NHL 2K8, the 
 gameplay has been reworked in some key areas, but many of these changes don't really improve the 
 gameplay so much as change it for the sake of changing it. There isn't the feeling that 2K8 has 
 really moved the series forward in any major capacity, and in some regards, it feels like a step 
 backward. This is a good game of hockey that's jam-packed with features, but it's nowhere near 
 the level of quality the series has previously set for itself.  

           2K hockey takes a step backward in NHL 2K8.      

  Most people's first reaction to 
 NHL 2K8 will probably be, "Wait, what the heck happened to the controls?" That's because the controls 
 in 2K8 have been completely reworked, and not necessarily for the better. For example, shooting 
 and passing have been mapped to the bumpers on the Xbox 360 controller, and to the R1 and L1 buttons 
 on the PlayStation 3 controller. On top of that, the L2/left trigger buttons now act as a modifier 
 for slap shots by default, so if you want to do one, you have to hold it down  and  press the shoot 
 button. While this does make things a bit more involved than the age-old methodology of hammering 
 on a shoot button until the puck goes in, it also makes the early hours of the game kind of a pain 
 as you try to figure out how to effectively shoot the puck. You will get used to it, but even once 
 you do, it never feels quite right.  

  The other big change to the game is the "pro-stick," otherwise known as 2K's attempt to rework 
 the right analog stick into something more than just a way to pull off a preset deke. Essentially, 
 you can now use the right analog stick to move the puck from side to side on offense, and to swipe 
 and poke check on defense. Unfortunately, it isn't actually that useful in most situations. On 
 the defensive side, the poke check feels very hit-or-miss, and it actually felt better last year 
 when the poke check was just a button press. On offense, you get a decent range of motion when 
 moving with the stick, but the responsiveness just isn't there. The stick isn't dynamic enough 
 to really let you move the puck quickly, and for the most part it simply feels stiff. Given that 
 EA pretty much set the hockey world on fire with its skill stick mechanic, it's understandable 
 that 2K would want to come back with its own right-analog-stick innovation. It's too bad that this 
 one feels more like a half-cocked knockoff than anything else. If you're going to try to match 
 someone else's gameplay innovation, go all the way with it. Don't deliver something that's only 
 half as useful.  

  The control goofiness doesn't end there. There are now two speed bursts in the game, one of which 
 is the standard, sustained speed burst, and the other is a real quick burst that's supposed to 
 push you past defenders for a breakaway. They don't really feel much different from one another, 
 save for the fact that one ends sooner; you just end up feeling that the second speed-burst button 
 could have been used for something more useful, like, say, icon passing. For some dopey reason, 
 icon passing has now been mapped to the select button on the PS3, and the back button on the 360. 
 Given that you can use this feature only when you're in the offensive zone and have control of 
 the puck, you have a very narrow window of time to turn on icon passing and set up a play. Fumbling 
 for the least accessible button on both controllers to engage icon passing is the opposite of fun, 
 and often leads you to lose the puck when you get checked out of your skates.  

  Which brings up another issue with NHL 2K8: checking. Checking is always fun, especially when you 
 knock a guy flat on his back, but the amount that you can check and the frequency of big hits in 
 2K8 is just crazy. Every check seems to knock a guy off his skates, regardless of size or strength. 
 On harder difficulty settings, it seems as if the artificial intelligence is a bit better about 
 avoiding your checks, but you can still lay out opponents in ridiculous fashion. Never, ever in 
 a million, billion years should the 5'9", 165 pound Steve Sullivan be able to lay out the 6'9", 
 260 pound Zdeno Chara on the ice, short of putting rockets on his skates and holding his stick 
 out like a lance in a jousting contest. But lo and behold, you can do it here. This is supposed 
 to be a realistic simulation of hockey, but at times, 2K8 feels as if it has more in common with 
 Midway's NHL Hitz series than the real-life sport.  

  Granted, that's a lot of negative talk for something that is, by and large, a good hockey game. 
 For what it's worth, there is good to be found here, though a great deal of it is due to holdover 
 mechanics from previous games. 2K8's method of goalie control is still the most enjoyable interpretation 
 of the position to be found in any game, and the game still uses the best default camera angle 
 in the business. Apart from the stiffness of the right-analog-stick controls, the rest of the controls 
 are quite responsive. Moving up and down the ice feels great. You also have the option of switching 
 to one of the older control schemes from previous years, though that essentially makes you feel 
 like you're playing last year's game, instead of a new iteration.  

           All the various control tweaks and added maneuvers eventually become workable, but the 
 learning curve to get there is pretty irritating, and the end result still doesn't feel remarkably 
 better than the old controls.      

  There are also a couple of new things in this year's game that definitely benefit the overall experience. 
 First are the superstar moves, which are a roster of maneuvers that only top-flight forwards are 
 capable of pulling out. By holding down the left trigger/L2 button and pressing a combination of 
 two of the controller's face buttons, your forward will go into some kind of ridiculous animation 
 before shooting the puck in ridiculous fashion. Whether it's faking a whiff, spinning like a top, 
 or pulling a Marek Malik-style through-the-legs shot, these moves are awesome. The only bummer 
 about them is that their usefulness is so limited. They're absolutely great during shootouts because 
 they let you get real fancy against opposing goalies. But in traffic, you're more likely to get 
 slammed to the ice than you are to pull off a 360-degree spin before shooting the puck. There are 
 also so many moves that it can be difficult to memorize all the different ones, meaning you might 
 occasionally pull out the wrong moves at the wrong times.  

  Another useful change is faceoffs. You use the right analog stick to set where you want your stick 
 to be prior to a faceoff, and release it the second the puck is dropped. If you and your opponent 
 end up hitting at the same time, it will result in a tie-up, and another player will have to skate 
 in and grab the puck. If you time it just right, you'll knock the puck back to one of your teammates. 
 It's a neat system that feels much more like real faceoffs, though you do seem to end up in a few 
 more tie-ups than is realistic.  

  Lastly, and perhaps most beneficial to the game overall, is scoring. Yes, the shooting controls 
 are a bit of a pain, but by some miracle, the actual scoring in 2K8 feels much, much better than 
 it has in previous years. This is specifically because the one-timer no longer feels like the only 
 way to score. You can actually hit big slap shots from the point and get them redirected by your 
 teammates into the net, or pull off quick wristers on the breakaway and actually have them go in 
 with proper consistency. It's a shame that most people might not even really notice this, given 
 the weird control scheme and silly amount of checking, but it is a big improvement.     

  2K hockey has always been about incredible depth when it comes to gameplay modes, and 2K8 isn't 
 a disappointment in this regard. Once again, the developer has delivered the deepest and most involved 
 franchise mode of any sports game on the market. The biggest change is to contract negotiations, 
 which have been totally overhauled into something more reminiscent of actual negotiations. Whenever 
 you want to re-sign a player, pick up a free agent, or sign a member of your draft class, you're 
 going to find yourself initially quite far apart in terms of money. A meter dictates where your 
 owner wants the contract to be versus where the player's agent wants to be. Your goal is to try 
 to get a player for as cheaply as possible while still giving some leeway to what the player wants. 
 It's a tug-of-war that actually feels really authentic, right down to how you or the player can 
 just up and walk away from the negotiating table when either side feels things aren't going right. 
 Knowing when to walk away is, in itself, a skill to be learned, considering that at times players 
 will simply cave and ultimately agree to your terms when you opt to walk away.  

           Keen negotiators will be able to sign guys on the cheap -- less keen negotiators will be 
 paying out the nose.      

  It goes even deeper than that. The collective-bargaining agreement between the league and the NHLPA 
 has been implemented here with such detail that casual players are likely to roll their eyes back 
 in their heads and pass out from trying to absorb all this information. For the most part, the 
 game does a good job of explaining what each feature does, though some are left a bit opaque. For 
 example, restricted free agents are kind of left on the fringe. The game never really makes clear 
 what happens when you propose qualifying offers that players don't sign, so you may be initially 
 confused as to why you have these guys you didn't sign still sitting around on your roster. It's 
 just a very complex system that requires some research and occasional bouts of fumbling around 
 with to finally grasp.  

  Most every other feature from previous years is on hand as well, including all the various management 
 and coaching duties (assigning practices, balancing line chemistry, and the like) . Rookie scouting 
 seems to have disappeared altogether, though it's been replaced with more generally accurate and 
 intuitive info about all the rookies in the draft class right from the get-go. There's also a whole 
 new player-development system in this year's game, though quite frankly it doesn't make a ton of 
 sense. After every game, players earn experience points that seemingly are there to build them 
 up and improve their stats. The problem is that you never really get a good sense of how the game 
 does that. You get these reports that show where players are in their development, but the whole 
 thing just looks like a big jumble of arrows and names. The 2K hockey games have always had issues 
 with menu and interface design, and this whole system seems like a big victim of that specific 
 issue.  

  Of course, this wouldn't be a 2K hockey game if the franchise mode didn't come encumbered with 
 a few bugs and quirks. One of the weirder features from previous years was the whole "opportunity 
 knocks" system, a feature in which the team owner can essentially call you, and as a result something 
 either good or bad can happen to your team. In this year's game, the amount of bad that comes from 
 this feature is so lopsided that it pretty much makes ignoring it a better option. On top of that, 
 sometimes it will actually cause bugs within the game. We had one situation where, while playing 
 as the Devils, we took an "opportunity knocks" call right at the end of the season and before the 
 playoffs. It was a bad one, and essentially sent Dainius Zubrus away from the team for seven days 
 due to a "death in the family." The trouble is that he wasn't gone for only seven days. He was 
 gone for the entire length of the playoffs. It's as if the game treats the playoffs as a single 
 week, and as a result, that player was lost for the duration.  

  There's also some weirdness with the waiver wire. The game includes a realistic waiver system in 
 which players with one-way contracts that are sent down to the minor leagues get put on waivers 
 first, and any other team can claim that player. You periodically get notifications in your e-mail 
 box about players that are put on waivers, but the game never actually tells you how you're supposed 
 to put in a waiver claim for that player. Other teams can snake your players (and often do) when 
 you send them down, but the game isn't up front about how you can take advantage of this same procedure. 
 There's also a bit of insanity when it comes to which players are put on waivers. Half the notifications 
 we got were for players rated 85 and up. You know something's busted when Jason Spezza, 2K8's cover 
 athlete, is getting put on waivers in the middle of the season.  

  Apart from franchise, the usual modes are on hand as well, such as season mode, tournaments, pond 
 hockey, minirink, and minigames. Most of these modes haven't been touched in any meaningful capacity. 
 In fact, the minigames haven't been touched at all, to the extent that they still use  last year's 
  control scheme. Online play is also largely the same. Tournaments and seasons are available to 
 play in the league option, and they're functionally identical to last year's game. The online games 
 we played were basically lag-free, though all online games evidently run at about half the frame 
 rate of the offline game, so you'll notice some significant and irritating choppiness when you 
 hop into the online arena. We also ran into some connection issues with games on the PS3 version. 

  NHL 2K8's graphics are a notable improvement over last year's game. Obviously, one of the bigger 
 improvements is animation, specifically those awesome-looking superstar moves. But there are other 
 animation upgrades spread throughout the game that are more subtle, yet more realistic-looking. 
 Goalie animations in particular look a boatload better this year, and you'll actually see goalies 
 come out to challenge for the puck, and drop into some pretty elaborate stances. The ice deforms 
 better than any prior year, and player models have gotten a nice boost in detail, especially in 
 the jerseys and equipment. Player faces still look a little bit funky in spots, but they aren't 
 awful-looking by any means. Incidentally, the cinemotion feature from last year is still on hand 
 this year, though it's turned off by default, and hasn't really seen any significant changes -- which 
 is odd, considering how highly touted a feature it was in last year's game.  

           Player models have seen a jump in overall quality, but this isn't the best looking NHL 
 game out there.      

  Audio is pretty much on par with last year's entry. Commentators Bob Cole and Harry Neale seem 
 to have a bit more to say this year, though again, their commentary largely turns into white noise 
 after a while because little of it has much substance beyond basic play-calling. The soundtrack 
 is another quality collection of pleasantly listenable indie rock and metal tracks (with Korn's 
 "Blind" tossed in there for some weird reason) . The on-ice effects are about on par with last year's 
 game, save for a few missing sounds during certain scenarios. (You hit the puck, so why didn't 
 it make a connecting sound?)  

  There's no arguing with the notion that NHL 2K8 is a good, solid hockey game, but in the wake of 
 strengthening competition, the franchise seems to be withering a bit. It's like the cagey old veteran 
 that has to put up with a number-one draft pick vying for his job. Eventually, that veteran is 
 going to lose a step, and that touted player is going to step in. That doesn't make the veteran 
 useless, given that he can clearly still contribute, but he's no longer the superstar of the team. 
 That's what happened this year. 2K8 lost a step when it made its bizarre control-scheme changes 
 and failed to really improve much of the rest of the game beyond the franchise mode. You'll have 
 some fun with NHL 2K8, especially if you're a franchise-mode fiend, but overall, it's just not 
 up to the standards this series has reached in the past.  

      
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (10 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: TylerMeyer88
Rating: 1
Date: Jul 20, 2008 9:25 am PT
Review:  I liked NHL 2K6 and 2K7 alright, but always liked EA's NHL games better. But this year was just 
 wrong. The graphics were undesecribably terrible, sticks and pucks go right though players and 
 goalies, which means I END UP LOSING 9-2!!! I almost broke the TV everytime I watched a replay. 
 Creating tems is hard and very limited, and so was creating a player. The players don't even look 
 like themselves, especially on the Ducks, Corey Perry looks like an Asian person (not being racist, 
 just saying he doesn't look like that) . Plus, the profile images are from 05-06 and some evn pre 
 lockout. Defiantly not worth the $50. LIKE I SAID, BUY EA NHL 08 OR 09, NOT THIS. Next year better 
 be better, because I wasted an entire gift card on this stupid game. And on't believe the other 
 good reviews, because they obviosly haven't played NHL 08 yet. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dmcneill777
Rating: 1
Date: Apr 3, 2008 1:28 pm PT
Review:  Looking at the pictures and other reviews, you would think that this would be an awesome game, 
 but IT ISN'T. For one thing, the graphics aren't near as good as you would think, the players don't 
 look like themselves, and the player profile photos are from 05-06, and even before the lockout! 
 Apparently 2K is too lazy to change things from 2 to 4 years ago. When you create a team, you don't 
 have near as many jersy/logo choices as they did before, so that pretty much sucks too. If you 
 have 2K7 on PS3, keep it, because there is almost no change from last to this year. I bought 2K8 
 and played it once, and am going back to trade it in for something else, and I advise you to do 
 the same. DO NOT WASTE $60 ON THIS GAME, YOU WILL BE SO SORRY. But that's just my opinion, you 
 can try it, but more than likley, you will return it the next day.
  
  DMcNeill777 
::::::

::::::
UserName: enigmatic_evil
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 2, 2008 5:06 pm PT
Review:  If you ask any of my friends who play sports games. The first thing I usually hear about is how 
 disappointing the franchise modes are for various reasons. (Oddly, these complaints are rarely 
 about 2K sports titles) the 2K Hockey series got me back into playing Hockey games with the stellar 
 NHL 2K7 and it managed to improve itself in 2K8
  
  I'd like to point out I love the control scheme of using the L and R buttons only for shooting 
 or passing, its brilliant and it really frees up the controller to just use the right thumb stick 
 as a simple aimer. This was honestly how I felt it should always have been, none of this aim-while-you're-skating- 
 crap. I dont mind the EA Sports innovative control schemes but their games heavily lack in other 
 ares.
  
  I get the most enjoyment out of my sports games from the franchise modes. This one is awesome, 
 player progression is reasonable and the feel is fun. I like the menu set-up, its simple, gets 
 the job done.
  
  My only complaint about this game is how the goalies pads dont adjust to what uniform you pick. 
 If I pick the black and yellow Vancouver Canucks uniform, I dont want green and blue goalie pads, 
 please guys! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jackiesherrill
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 12, 2007 1:13 am PT
Review:  Don't see what the big gripes are about the new control scheme. If you don't like it u can use 
 the old classic controls. It plays much better than 2k7 and I hated EA NHL 07 demo. Very good game 
 and the online play is good but not very many play because of the unnecessary lame reviews this 
 game got. One gripe is that if you have a router in order to host games online it seems you must 
 enable DMZ on your router for the address your PS3 is on. Hopefully they come out soon with a patch 
 to fix this. This game is very fun to play and that is really what matters. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: brokenhalo-6117
Rating: 6.5
Date: Nov 15, 2007 4:42 pm PT
Review:  NHL 2K games have always been very realistic with fun and exciting gameplay. They have always had 
 the best modes, esspically in their dynasty or franchise mode. This years game, NHL 2K8, has been 
 a total step back from the great games that 2K is so use to putting out. 
  
  Last year i bought both 2K7 and 07 hockey games. 2K7 was byfar the superior game in my opinion. 
 So once i heard that NHL 2K8 was coming out i went to the store and reseved a copy. Once i got 
 the copy and played it i was very disapointed. The graphics in the game were not that much better 
 from last year. The player models look a little bit werid and their faces still look retarded. 
 The only thing that looks better i my opinion is the ice surface and arenas, as they seem to look 
 alot better. The gamplay has been changed very slightly but enough to make it feel different then 
 2K7. The default controls are totally stupid and even if you change them to the default or classic 
 settings it still does not feel right. The overall gameplay does not feel real but some what arcade 
 like. If you are really into the hockey games that demonstrate a realistic gameplay this is not 
 the game for you. 
  
  Obviously the modes in 2K8 are still great. The dynasty is deeper then ever and all the mini games 
 are still there. 2K8 provides these great modes but the gameplay is what really kills the game. 
 As for the sounds they are still pretty much the same as 2K7, which is very good esspically in 
 the commentating with bob cole and harry neil. I have not tried the mulitplayer and im not going 
 just because of how much i hate the gameplay.
  
  Overall if you are looking for a hockey game with great modes and fun mini games go for NHL 2K8 
 but if you look for a realistic and fun hockey game go for NHL 08 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: spykfase
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 21, 2007 5:45 pm PT
Review:  Gamers, for 15 years, have been used to a single control style for hockey games. But the fact is, 
 that control style was a poor representation of what it meant to PLAY the game of hockey. As a 
 hockey player, I've always appreciated the 2K series attention to detail. In this series, you position 
 defensemen as you would in a real game. Otherwise you get scored on. Likewise, on offense, if you 
 don't do the little things to beat the goalie, you don't score. You can take a thousands shot on 
 an NHL goalie, but unless you've done something to beat him, you won't get the puck past him. With 
 the new control system, 2K has added more the ability to do that little bit extra. It does take 
 a little while to get used to the new controls. I've missed out on plenty of scoring opportunities 
 because I've hit the old shoot button when I've has a gaping net. But now that I'm used to them. 
 I find them vastly superior, I now have to ability in-game to do the little things that I do on 
 the ice. Poke checking is harder now, but more realistic. Realism is what I want from my hockeys, 
 and NHL 2K8 delivers. And I think that anyone who has put on a pair of skates and played the game 
 of hockey will agree with that. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheTrueMarik
Rating: 6.5
Date: Oct 20, 2007 7:33 pm PT
Review:  Loved NHL 2k8, but this year, it's gonna be 08 for me.
  
  Biggest Complaints
  +Controls make you switch from right joystick to circle, square, triangle and x buttons, making 
 it hard and annoying to use the right joystick to actually deke or move the puck around effectively. 
 They are also pretty complicated to pick up right away, and left me not actually using the right 
 stick, since my main goal was using the circle and square buttons to harass players off the puck.
 
  
  +AI on your team refuses to allow you to play positional offense, as is seen during powerplays 
 in actual hockey. Instead, the defensemen will stay outside the zone, and refuse to keep the puck 
 in play if cleared to the blue line. +Enemy AI swarm the net in an almost annoying fashion, leaving 
 3 players in front to bat the puck, while their defensemen ALWAYS play so that they can keep the 
 play alive, and keep the puck in the zone, something your own defensemen fail to do. The most annoying 
 part is with so many people in front, and me only being able to take out so many, sticks tend to 
 pass through many body parts possibly causing some pretty dumb goals.
  
  +Poke check with right joystick never pushes the puck away enough to cause the enemy to actually 
 lose the puck. Instead, he ends up picking up the puck he just got poked from, and going right 
 past me with a speed boost. This lead to me having to check everyone to get the puck off them for 
 good... not something a hockey sim fan wnats to do. Just looking at the checks being 45 - 9 in 
 my favour can be funny, but it gets annoying.
  
  +occaisional lag which occurs during big rushes sometimes.
  
  +control scheme, especially during 
 shootouts, makes it hard to get the feeling that you're actually in the game, something NHL 08's 
 controls do very well, especially during shootouts.
  
  +Sometimes your teammates' can have such poor AI, that you end up trying only certain shots, which 
 can be accomplished with little to no comp AI. This makes the game become VERY repetitive, and 
 goals seem to come more with luck than with actual skill.
  
  I usually love 2k, the game is very fun, but all these little annoyances add up to the point where 
 I'm competing with my own teammates lack of intelligence &amp; my frustration instead of the opposing 
 team. Definitely RENT IT FIRST, Im glad I did. It could save you a lot of money vs buying a you 
 will end up disliking. 2K just didnt step this series up enough to merit my purchase. The 10 or 
 so dollars for a rental to ensure you will enjoy the game is money well spent, IMO. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Serpens_Solida
Rating: 7.5
Date: Oct 18, 2007 7:16 pm PT
Review:  Then, plenty of times I've tried to check a player that is less than a foot away, and my player 
 hits him like a girl. I feel the characters very unresponsive and slow when they have to react 
 to gain the poke or to defend an upcoming forward. And with the goalie beaten, my players have 
 missed the goal being less than three feet away from it.
  I really got angry because of these stupidness. I've played hockey games since before Wayne Gretzky 
 retired, and I became good at them. But this game is not enjoyable at all, and still seems to be 
 the best option this year... that sucks. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: schpenke
Rating: 6.5
Date: Sep 18, 2007 10:09 am PT
Review:  I'll preface this review by saying that for several years prior I have been a huge advocate of 
 the NHL 2K series. I've passed on EA's offering in favor of 2K because in my opinion 2K has always 
 provided a superior game in regards to game play and a realistic hockey experience. This year I 
 can't say the same. It's also important to mention that I picked up EA's NHL 08 for the XBox 360 
 and NHL 2K8 for the PS3. I opted for the XBox 360 version of NHL 08 simply because of the 60 FPS 
 offering which was not offered on the PS3. It's probably important to keep that in mind when I 
 make my comparisons since the PS3 NHL 08 is not 60 FPS.
  
  Graphics:
  
  NHL 2K8's 60 FPS makes the game play extremely smooth. I spent quite a few hours with 2K8 and the 
 game never once hiccuped or dropped frames during any of the game play modes. Unfortunately that's 
 about the only positive thing that I can say about the graphics. First, the player faces are absolutely 
 horrible. They look somewhat like the actual players but the texturing makes them all look like 
 they have horrible acne or have facial hair that the players simply don't have. The coaches are 
 for the most part completely incorrect. Point in case, the last game that I played was against 
 the Tampa Bay Lightning. John Tortorella was represented by some blond guy that looked kind of 
 like the Assistant Coach, Mike Sullivan. But only barely. The player outlines are somewhat fuzzy 
 when the players are on the ice and close-ups reveal a weird phantom outline that plagued players 
 from last year's NHL 2K7 for the XBox. My biggest annoyance from this year's offering is the net. 
 For some unexplained reason 2K decided to pile snow around the back of the net with two huge piles 
 of snow at the bottom of the new narrower pipes. It's almost like they didn't have time to correctly 
 adjust how the pipes should look at the new angle and instead of fixing it just added a white blob 
 of snow to cover it up. I realize that this sounds like a small thing but when looking for the 
 most realistic game of hockey possible the small things kill. The overall HD display and frame 
 rate was nice but there were too many bizarre nuances to make this a believable hockey game visually.
 
  
  Sound:
  
  The music this year was decent. Lots of added tracks and artists at least make the background music 
 pleasant. In game sounds weren't as stellar. The announcers rehashed a good majority of what they 
 said last year and never really announced the game as it was being played. It's mostly just general 
 references and mundane comments. I really wish they would have switched it up a bit this year. 
 I found myself enjoying the game more with commentary completely turned off while focusing on the 
 on-ice sounds. It's too bad that the on ice sounds are exactly the same as last year. Over pronounced 
 skate-on-ice sounds with little to no useful player comments.
  
  Game play:
  
  This game is a hitting frenzy. Lots of huge fore and back checking, board pins, and neutral zone 
 contact that just isn't representative of the current state of hockey. There is very little to 
 no finesse in this game what so ever. It's impossible to use set pass plays during the fore check 
 because your players will be charged and checked constantly. This is true even on power plays when 
 defending teams should be focused on rotating skaters and keeping the slots covered.
  
  The inclusion of the right-stick puck handling this year is a nice addition and in some ways is 
 easier to manage than NHL 08's Skill Stick. Unfortunately 2K failed to let the goalie AI know about 
 the right-stick puck handling. While one-timers are harder to peg this year charging the goalie 
 one-on-one will almost always assuredly score you a goal. Why? Because the goalie insists on poke 
 checking the center of your feet which is where the puck pretty much always was in previous years. 
 Since you can now dangle the puck to either side the goalie will poke check at nothing, commit 
 themselves out of position, and consistently allow an easy goal.
  
  The Franchise Mode shines, though. I enjoyed every aspect of team management this year. Unfortunately 
 when office simulation is as good as this you really expect the same on- ce and it just doesn't 
 happen. It was very frustrating to me to set what I felt to be the perfect lines based on player 
 skill and my opponent's lines only to have players who aren't enforcers or even physical players 
 manhandle my shooters uncharacteristically. It really felt like it defeated the purpose of team 
 management since you're going to be hitting everything that moves anyway and charging the goalie 
 with any player who happens to have the puck for a quick score.
  
  One aspect of 2K8 that I absolutely loved was net mode. Here you can control the goalie and let 
 your team AI worry about scoring. Once you take control of the goalie you're given the perspective 
 of looking at the ice from slightly behind and above the goalie. There's a colored cone in front 
 you that is either green if you're in proper position with the puck or red of you're out of position 
 with the puck. When someone takes a shot on goal the game goes in to a very, very slow motion animation 
 and a tiny bullseye appears in the net where the puck is heading. At this point it's somewhat like 
 a mini-game because you've got only a few seconds to move a tiny reticule that appears on the screen 
 to wherever the bullseye is located. If you're in position and you cover the bullseye with the 
 reticule you make a great save. If you're out of position your only option is to hit the right 
 stick, stack the pads, dive, and hope for the best. This makes for some really exciting game play 
 as the goalie especially on break aways and shoot outs.
  
  Online:
  
  2K8 completely dominates NHL 08 in online mode. There are so many game options, play style controls, 
 and statistic management that you could realistically never spend any time on single player and 
 be perfectly happy with the game. I haven't experienced much lag, if any, and for the most part 
 found all the online modes to be extremely satisfying.
  
  Overall:
  
  Your choice of NHL 08 or NHL 2K8 is really going to be dependent on what kind of hockey game you 
 enjoy playing. If you're a fan of arcade game play or if you've been a previous fan of the NHL 
 Hitz series you'll probably really enjoy NHL 2K8 even with all of the little quirks both graphically 
 and on the ice. In a complete turn around from previous years if you're looking for the best representation 
 of a simulated hockey game NHL 08 is the easy choice. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ILOVETHEENOT
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 13, 2007 7:04 pm PT
Review:  This is with out a doubt the best NHL game I have ever played the new controls are hard so I switched 
 over to classic however I will start to use practice mode to start getting used to those as I bet 
 they are in the long run easier to use. So here is what the good of this game is fantastic visuals, 
 very realistic gameplay something that the 2K franchise has been good at. The free agency is alot 
 more realistic then anything I have come across before as you now really feel like a GM. The music 
 though some of it sucks is actually quite good could have been better if I could have added a few 
 of my own songs here and there but oh well maybe in a patch that will come. The other good things 
 are that the player and the goalies now act like they should and it is actually harder to score 
 and the games because of this are alot closer and I am only playing on the Pro level (that's the 
 level up from rookie) also there is no frame rate issues or lag as far as I can tell so far. The 
 bad however is sometimes winding up for a slap shot the player fakes it but this might just be 
 do to the old controls but no big deal as passing it usually freaks the goalie out and they choke 
 or flop around. The new trading system is also a plus! So over all if your a hockey fan looking 
 for the ultimate hockey sim, buy this game, however if your more of a casual player then go out 
 and buy NHL 08 by EA games because that is more of an arcade game. Oh and for PS3 users this should 
 be a staple in your gaming collection as so far it is the only PS3 game of my 3 game collection 
 to get a 10! 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
