-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: NHL 2K9
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/ps3/sports/nhl2k9/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Simple button-only control option will please retro hockey gamers.
 Challenging, if not particularly smart or realistic.
 Lag-free multiplayer with plenty of game options and frills.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Very few advancements over last year's game.
 AI issues and some cheap scoring.
 Visuals are in need of a serious overhaul.
 Play-by-play commentary is repetitive and the soundtrack spectacularly grating.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Sep 16, 2008
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 6
Critic Score: 7.1, 14 Review (s)
User Score: 6.1, 75 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Take-Two Interactive
Developer: Visual Concepts
Genre: Ice Hockey Sim
Date: Sep 8, 2008
ESRB: Everyone 10+

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
AI issues and the lack of any significant new features have NHL 2K9 skating backward this year. 
 

  Time travel just became possible, at least for hockey fans. Toss NHL 2K9 into an Xbox 360 or a 
 PlayStation 3 and you'll immediately feel transported back to 2006, which seems to have been the 
 last year that any significant improvements were made to this hockey series. This so-so look at 
 the Canadian national pastime actually turns away from realism to embrace a more old-time arcade 
 hockey feel with streamlined controls and single-minded AI. While the game still gives you a good 
 challenge, it seems like what remains of the realistic NHL 2K games of the past is being slowly 
 erased.  

           Close-quarters action makes games feel a little too uncomfortably like the old clutch-and-grab 
 era.      

  Modes of play are almost identical to those offered in 2007, with the addition of Zamboni races 
 between periods (you'll try this option once, then forget it exists) . Special games now include 
 being able to play three-on-three in a pint-size minirink, four-on-four pond hockey, and a solo 
 shootout. None of these options will be more than moderately diverting, however. The minirink is 
 so small that games are nonstop breakaways from one end to the other, while the pond is simply 
 a bland sheet of outdoor ice surrounded by snowbanks and invisible glass that still clangs every 
 time you shoot the puck high and wide. Ah, nothing says "outdoor hockey" like the synthetic bang 
 of Plexiglas.  

  Franchise and Season modes haven't really changed. Granted, these options were pretty deep last 
 year, particularly when it came to the implementation of the NHL's labyrinthine salary cap regulations 
 and tough contract negotiations. But there are no refinements or serious additions here, and they 
 are sorely needed given the continuing mess that is the interface. The game has taken on a minimalist 
 look with menus popping up only on demand, and while this looks clean, there are no permanent onscreen 
 icons indicating which button you have to hit to pull up which menu. Even when you do come to grips 
 with menu navigation, too much of the information you need is buried. The biggest problem is the 
 lack of a central hub screen where you can get a quick look at all the big news from across the 
 league. You shouldn't have to go looking for vital information like who's been dumped to waivers, 
 who's been traded, and who's gone to the injured reserve list.  

  At least multiplayer has been significantly overhauled. You can now play full six-on-six games 
 with up to 11 other human players online on both the 360 and the PS3 in Team-Up mode, and take 
 part in online leagues and tournaments. All of the online options seem to run smoothly. Lag is 
 completely nonexistent on both the 360 and PS3, and getting into matches is trouble-free provided 
 you can find an opponent.  

           The Zamboni races are new, but they're hardly a compelling reason to upgrade from last 
 year's game.      

  Controls have been revised somewhat successfully. Visual Concepts has reversed last year's changes 
 in this department, revamping the fiddly control system introduced in NHL 2K8 that shifted passing 
 and shooting to the 360 gamepad's bumpers and the PS3's R1 and L1 buttons. You can now choose among 
 three control options -- basic, pro-stick evolution, and hybrid. The focus is on hybrid, as the new 
 game emphasizes "bringing the fun back" to hockey gaming through simplified control schemes. What 
 this really amounts to is a merging of button controls with the pro-stick so that you can switch 
 between the two on the fly. This actually works extremely well, as there are moments when you'll 
 want to snap shots off quickly with the buttons, and other times when you'll want to stickhandle 
 and deke with the right stick.  

  All the control customization in the world can't help NHL 2K9 on the ice, though. Awkward speeds 
 are the biggest issue, with an odd disconnect between the timing of player reactions and sheer 
 skating ability. Players seem sluggish when winding up for a slapshot, throwing a wrister on net, 
 or simply navigating around a defenseman, but their feet are always moving at a fast clip. This 
 results in disjointed play where even the most nimble NHL stars like Sidney Crosby and Henrik Zetterberg 
 seem fleet-footed yet downright klutzy. As a result, there are a lot of broken plays, particularly 
 involving train-wreck collisions that cause unnecessary offsides, and a general clutch-and-grab 
 feel that breaks up the flow so crucial to any hockey game. The new fighting system is the only 
 place where players are as dexterous as real pro athletes, yet it's a waste here because there 
 isn't any weight to your punches (making it hard to tell when you actually connect) , and the balance 
 mechanic is too gimmicky and erratic to properly simulate a hockey fight.     

  Poor hockey sense is another problem. Everything is too forthright and simple-minded for games 
 to feel much like real hockey. Both offense and defense are tight enough to offer you a challenge, 
 but neither are the slightest bit realistic. AI offense is all about going to the net. While there's 
 nothing wrong with hard-nosed hockey, computer players almost always forgo making passes for making 
 a beeline to the slot. So you can generally shut the opposition down by simply gooning the puck 
 carrier and forcing a turnover. Defense is just as mindless. Computer defenders constantly hit 
 you with heavy pressure, smothering you so effectively that you always have somebody hanging off 
 your shoulder pads. To avoid turnovers, you'll have to get off a lot of quick passes, which gives 
 games a pinball feel and results in numerous odd-man breaks since it can be easy to catch the pressuring 
 defenders out of position. Such tough defense also makes all of the teams in the game play in the 
 same style. You go into Montreal for a game with the high-flying, no-D Habs and they're playing 
 the exact same traplike system as the defense first, last, and always Minnesota Wild.  

           Pond hockey plays a lot like regular hockey, except there are less people and the Plexiglas 
 is invisible.      

  Goalie wonkiness is another problem. Meltdowns between the pipes aren't uncommon in the real NHL, 
 but the number of flaky performances by top-flight goalies here is simply too high to believe. 
 In the franchise games we played, even first-rate goalies like Carey Price and Vesa Toskala crashed 
 and burned every few starts. They would go through stretches where they couldn't stop beach balls 
 and surrender goals on wristers from the hash marks and wide-open slappers from the point. Whenever 
 one of these softies went in, you had to get out the hook, too, as you could just about bet the 
 house that the back of the net would soon fill up with rubber. Odd-man rushes appear to contribute 
 to the cheap goal issues. Whenever the computer goes down the ice on a two-on-one or three-on-one, 
 it seems as though the chance to score artificially increases. So even if the computer doesn't 
 get off a half-decent shot, or you get back and break up the rush, you can bet the farm on your 
 netminder letting one trickle through the wickets or whiffing at a floater heading for the top 
 corner.  

  With all that said, there is still something about NHL 2K9 that rings true. On-ice action can feel 
 close to that of the actual NHL at times. Do some serious tweaking of the game-setting sliders 
 and you can hack the game into something approximating real hockey. And players can perform like 
 their real-life counterparts in astonishing ways. Curtis Joseph may be just a backup at his advanced 
 age, but he still pulls off his trademark windmill glove saves every now and then. Brendan Shanahan 
 fires his killer snap shot coming down the wing. And Sidney Crosby flops and draws cheap penalties. 

  You sure won't mistake the appearance of NHL 2K9 players for those in an actual NHL broadcast, 
 though. Graphics have barely been touched over the past couple of years, so the look of the game 
 is way behind the curve on both the 360 and PS3 (more so on the latter, due to a lack of antialiasing 
 that leaves a lot of jaggies) . Player faces are roughly hewn Cro-Magnon takes on real people; bodies 
 are so angular and blocky that they seem like Frankensteins stuffed into too-tight equipment; names 
 and numbers on jerseys are far too small and stretched out. The lone new touch is players growing 
 beards during the playoffs, which, admittedly, is pretty cool. Animations are realistic, too. Someone's 
 done a great job of motion-capturing movements for skating, shooting, passing, hitting, and even 
 falling down.  

           Blocky player models make NHL 2K9 even more of a blast from the past than its retro controls. 

  You can't say the same about the audio work. Someone really dropped the ball here. Crowd noise 
 is a mumbling mash so jumbled up at times that you can't make out chants like "Go Leafs, go!" Play-by-play 
 commentary is beyond annoying.  Hockey Night in Canada  legends Bob Cole and Harry Neale have been 
 dropped for the San Jose Sharks' local team of Randy Hahn and Drew Remenda, who do nothing but 
 repeat generic phrases that tell you very little about what's going on. The duo recycle lines, 
 rarely mention players by name, and use a lot of weird affectations such as a faux-French pronunciation 
 of "Canadiens" and forever calling some teams only by nicknames (it's "Blues," not "Bluenotes"!) . 
 Soundtrack tunes are even more aggravating; the developer seems to think that all hockey fans are 
 extreme sports dudes who listen to nothing but the likes of The Offspring, Bad Religion, and Mastodon. 
 Also, "Bad Boys" (the  Cops  theme) plays during fights and almost every time somebody heads to 
 the sin bin.  

  It's hard to categorize NHL 2K9 as anything but a disappointment. Even though it will give you 
 a tough game on the ice, the gameplay isn't very realistic and is monotonously simple-minded in 
 its approach to both offense and defense. Only the superb multiplayer makes it worth a look, so 
 if you're not interested in online leagues and tournaments, you can sit this one out and see what 
 next year brings.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (6 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: nucksfan_16
Rating: 4
Date: Jan 22, 2009 9:02 pm PT
Review:  I will be covering four of the most important aspects of hockey games in this review.
  
  
  Graphics: 5/10
  
  The arenas in this game look absolutely fantastic. The working JumboTrons 
 and LED display banners are very impressive; animations, almost exactly like the same as the ones 
 displayed on the banners of real-life NHL arenas, are displayed in the game. The developers' attention 
 to detail is respectable, as even signage such as The Canucks For Kids Fund in GM Place, are duplicated 
 and displayed in the game. Also, during the playoffs, NHL Playoff insignia appears on the ice, 
 and Stanley Cup Finals patches appear on the jerseys of the two teams in the finals. These little 
 things aregreatly appreciated by people like me, who obsess over all aspects of hockey. Moving 
 on, let's talk about the players. The character models for the players are grotesque. They remind 
 me of early PS2 game graphics. The body is blocky, and the faces look nothing like the real-life 
 player's faces. The jerseys are the worst of all. Reebok should sue 2K Sports for making their 
 jerseys look that bad. The jerseys look as if they were all 3 sizes too small for the player, and 
 are skin-tight. It makes the players look like they have a shrunken old sweater on, with no equipment 
 underneath. The fonts on the jerseys do not match the real-life jerseys, and the names are stretched 
 awkwardly. The jersey numbers are way too small, and the logos are not proportioned properly. Matched 
 with the realistic-looking helmets, the players look like they have big heads and skinny, scrawny 
 bodies. You'll probably think that I'm exaggerating, but the players and the jerseys are actually 
 painful to look at while playing. This makes it hard (for me, at least) to enjoy the game. If you 
 try to zoom in during the replay option, the screen will blur, making it impossible to see. This 
 leads me to think that 2K did not want us gamers to see what a sloppy job they did in terms of 
 graphics. The equipment on the players are somewhat blurry and dull; they are not sharp and do 
 not stand out like they do in NHL 09. The goalie equipment looks disgusting, as they still have 
 not fixed the proportion of the paddle of the goalie stick, and the mask looks like a kid's toy 
 plastic mask. The pads look dull and lack shiny-ness and overall detail, unlike in NHL 09, where 
 you can see the stitching and properly proportioned logos on the pads. The skin of the players 
 look too plain and are not detailed at all. In NHL 09, you can see the light shining off players' 
 faces and all the scars and dents they have on their face. In 2K9, the faces look current-gen, 
 and the face models look nothing like the player's real faces.
  
  Creation Zone: 1/10
  
  The creation zone was just painful to use. All it is, is a menu with a list of choices in which 
 you can scroll from left to right on each one to select one of few equipment brands. In NHL 09, 
 there is depth to the creation zone, not just scrolling left and right, and adjusting sliders to 
 make a generic looking player. In NHL 09, when we were customizing equipment and other aspects, 
 a screen would pop up with small picture-previews of each piece of equipment, and you would go 
 through these many choices on that separate screen to select one. This gives the presentaion of 
 illusion that we are given more choices and more freedom when creating a player, not just scrolling 
 left and right between words on a menu. The create team option reminded me a lot of NHL Hitz 20-02. 
 You are given three options to customize: Team Name, City Name, Name Abbreviation, Logo. Based 
 on the logo (you pick from a list of ugly-looking, cartoonish logos) you have chosen, you will 
 have a mtching jersey with unproportioned logos and disgusting colors. You then move on to select 
 your roster. That's it. Name, Logo, Roster. No jerseys to picks, no arenas to create or choose 
 from... The team creation was an utter failure to say the least.
  
  Sound: 4/10
  
  The commentary is provided by the announcers for the Sharks. New voices, same dialogue. 9 out of 
 10 lines were from Bob Cole and Harry Neal's commentary from 2K7. They should at least have the 
 decency to rewrite some of the words on the script... The soundtrack is decent. I'm into rock music, 
 so I enjoyed most of the songs on the 2K Beats soundtrack. Blast from the past; it seems that they 
 stole one of the songs (Knocked Down, by Pennywise) off of NHL 06's soundtrack...
  
  Animations/Smoothness: 4/10
  
  The animations have some issues (the same ones we see every 
 year from the NHL 2K series) , such as players skating, but not moving anywhere, players buping 
 into each other on the way to the bench and the faceoff circle, and clipping issues with the goalies/refs 
 and the nets. Once, A net was dislodged and slid almost all the way to the other end of the rink. 
 The ref tried to put it back, but kept pushing it further down the ice. I eventually had to skip 
 that sequence.
  
  Overall: 4/10
  
  NHL 2K9's gameplay is fair, but horrid graphics and bad animations will most likely prevent you 
 from fully enjoying this game. NHL 09 without a shadow of a doubt (in my own opinion, of course; 
 don't get offended 2K Sports fans!) wins this year's battle. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: myloman44
Rating: 3.5
Date: Jan 7, 2009 4:50 am PT
Review:  Since I've always been a fan of 2k sports I figured with my holiday money burning a hole in my 
 pocket I'd go out and purchase NHL 2k9, and boy oh boy was that a mistake. The graphics are stone 
 age at best, glitches galore, Goalie A. I. went to Andrew Raycroft Goalie School, cut scenes are 
 best described as awkward, online is laggy and boring, Franchise mode is constantly freezing, and 
 the season statistics are so far off its not even funny, the average leader in points comes in 
 with a knock you socks off...85 points... yea, that happens a lot in the NHL anymore, and the best 
 thing is that 2k has just informed all its consumers that theres not going to be a patch in the 
 foreseeable future.... are you kidding me? This game is bordering on unplayable because the player 
 models hurt my eyes with there Medusa like looks and the gameplay is just not 2k like. Just play 
 ESPN NHL Hockey if you want a very realistic hockey sim. What has happened to sports games these 
 days? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TylerMeyer88
Rating: 5.5
Date: Jan 3, 2009 9:19 am PT
Review:  When i first got this game, I really noticed some changes. The whole looks of the main menu improved, 
 and they FINALLY updated the profile pictures. The I went to create a player. A little improvment 
 with some updated equipment and very customizable. Then I went to Franchise Mode. Pretty cool menu, 
 with the NHL. com feature, I really thought this game rocked. The new playoff beards were a pretty 
 nice idea. Then i left this and went to Create a Team. WHAT?!?! THEY SCREWED THIS UP!!! All you 
 can do is choose a logo, choose name and city, and pick the team. Last year was really cool with 
 the alternate jerseys and stuff, but YOU CANT EVEN CHOOSE YOUR OWN JERSEY!!! I always thoguht of 
 2K as the fun game and EA as hardcore, mainly because of 2K's skybox, unlockable items, and battle 
 mode, but all of that is GONE!!! All there really is to do is Franchise and Season. Come on 2K, 
 what happend? 
  
  Overall, it's kind of a so-so game, so try renting it first. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lunchboxx10
Rating: 6.5
Date: Dec 31, 2008 9:22 am PT
Review:  The bad:
  
  Really buggy goalie controls.
  Passing sometimes goes in total opposite direction you want.
  Little to no control over where 
 your shot goes.
  Commentators keep saying the same thing.
  Your teammates keep clustering in front of the opposing teams goal and block your shots. You can 
 be poke checked from 2 feet away by the other team but when you are right on top of the other team 
 you can't get the puck away from them. 
  Pond hockey is stupid. 
  There are only about 10 music tracks. They get repetitive soon. 
  
  The good:
  
  I don't 
 really know what is so good about this game. I just like playing hockey games and if you just like 
 doing that then this game is ok. It will probably be in the $1 bin in a year.
  
  
  
  ...
  
  
  As you can see the bad outweigh the good. The game is still playable but I would 
 recommend NHL 09 instead.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: tellthetruth
Rating: 6
Date: Dec 14, 2008 4:13 am PT
Review:  What happened to the progress 2k made in nhl 2k7 this was a pretty good game. Then came nhl 2k8 
 in this one they decided to change the controls all around (and not for the better) which was the 
 most stupid thing that i ever seen developers do. The game play and graphics was very good though. Then 
 came this piece of crap it looks like they went back to 2k6 and released it again. The graphics 
 are terrible, the frame rate sucks, and the commentary is the same, they took the same dialogue and 
 put a new voice to it thats it. I thought 2k wanted to regain consumer confidence in this years 
 game, they achieved nothing but the opposite. This game is terrible and i feel embarassed with 
 the fact that i spent $60.00 for it, and shame on you 2k for releaseing such a low quality product 
 for this amount of money. All 2k had to do was put the controls from 2k9 on the 2k8 game and they 
 would have a very good game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RangersRock30
Rating: 1
Date: Sep 29, 2008 7:03 pm PT
Review:  NHL 09 is better than this crappy game in everyway possible. When i saw the graphics for this.. wow. 
 I thought i couldve been watching NHL 2001 or something! Animations are horrible. Just look at 
 09's and see for yourself. This game is also easy even if put on a higher difficulty. NHL2k9 is 
 one of the biggest arcade hockey games ive seen. 2K put no effort in this what so ever..2k should 
 just stick with their baseball games and make another football game!! Yet again you want them to 
 do horribly so you can laugh in their face. BUT YET AGAIN, you want your game to get better and 
 better which is where competition comes in. We'll see guys.
  Thanks for reading.
  
  w g g g g g g ggtgwe g g g g we g g g g g g g g g g g g g g g g g g g g g g g g g gg g g g g g 
 g g g g g g g g g g g g g g g g g g g g g g g g g g g g
  GET NHL 09!!!
  g g g g g g g g g g g g g g g g 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
