-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Ninja Gaiden Sigma
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/ps3/action/ninjagaidensigma/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Still one of the best action games ever, with plenty of brutal combat to get your heart pumping.
 A lot of new content in the form of new boss battles, new weapons, and new enemies.
 Subtle changes and additions make the gameplay even more centered and compelling.
 Rachel's chapters are nicely integrated and a welcome change of pace.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Shaking the controller to increase ninpo attack power is a bizarre, needless add-on.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Jul  2, 2007
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 9
Critic Score: 8.6, 57 Review (s)
User Score: 8.6, 4,961 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Tecmo
Developer: Team Ninja
Genre: Fantasy Action Adventure
Date: Jul 3, 2007
ESRB: Mature

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
If you haven't attempted to do so before, this is the best way to play one of the best, most brutal 
 action games ever made. 

  Ninja Gaiden for the Xbox was a true modern classic. It featured smooth, challenging gameplay and 
 amazing production values. It was, in short, one of the finest games of its generation. In 2005, 
 its gameplay was reworked and expanded for a second release, Ninja Gaiden Black. And incredibly 
 enough, the third time's the charm. No, Ninja Gaiden Sigma isn't a true next-gen sequel, nor is 
 it a simple port of the Xbox release. But it does add a good deal of new content, both subtle and 
 obvious. If you're a Ninja Gaiden enthusiast, you'll want to see the new chapters, reworked levels, 
 and slicker graphics. And if for some reason you missed it before, this is a must-play game. The 
 action is intense, focused, and certainly not for the faint of heart. It's also among the most 
 satisfying in all of gaming and remains as awe-inspiring as ever, three years after its original 
 release.  

  So what's changed? The biggest addition is that Rachel the fiend hunter is a new playable character. 
 She's a badass buxom babe who gets three chapters of her own, and a few levels in mission mode, 
 too. She may be top-heavy, but she still manages a good number of terrific moves. Her minicampaign 
 isn't as expansive as Ryu's: She's limited to using the warhammer and has only a single magic attack 
 (called sorcery, rather than ninpo) . The chapters are remarkably refreshing though, particularly 
 because Rachel isn't as agile as Ryu -- though a swing of her hammer does a huge amount of damage. 
 Playing her requires you to adjust because her levels are interspersed among the others, so as 
 the game's groove shifts, so must yours. Along with her chapters come new cutscenes, new bosses, 
 and even a few feminine touches that humanize a story that was (and still is) more summer blockbuster 
 than art house drama.  

           Rachel appreciates her unique talents. And so should you.      

  Her chapters aren't 
 just disconnected additions, however. Ryu's chapters are shifted and reworked to give greater context 
 to Rachel's. In fact, every level offers unexpected surprises, both big and small. In some cases, 
 it's as simple as different items found in treasure chests. In others, the significance of the 
 adjustments will catch you off guard, but pleasantly so. For example, one of the central chapters 
 of the original Ninja Gaiden featured a straightforward puzzle to end the sequence. Now, a replica 
 of an earlier boss returns, complete with a few new attacks to round out the surprise. Throughout 
 the game, you'll find new enemies to uncover, such as glowing spirits and soldiers on motorcycles. 
 You'll even get to play with a new set of weapons: Dual swords called Dragon's Claw and Tiger's 
 Fang.  

  The changes are great, and they do more than throw in stuff for the sake of stuff. In some cases, 
 they refine the pace and address frustrations of the original to make for an even tighter, more 
 centered experience. One such change is the addition of a shop near the final save point before 
 a major, difficult boss fight. It sounds insignificant, but it soothes a large frustration from 
 the original and keeps the difficulty level steady without removing any real challenge from the 
 boss encounter itself. Needless to say, there are countless additions, subtractions, and modifications, 
 and they run the gamut from superficial to substantial. For the most part, all of them are for 
 the better. The only questionable one is the ability to shake the Sixaxis controller to give more 
 power to your ninpo skills. It feels needlessly tacked on, and shaking the controller doesn't really 
 jibe with the general slickness of the other controls. Thankfully, it's the only element that stands 
 out as unneeded among legions of improvements.  

  And if you haven't played Ninja Gaiden? Well, there's no better time than the present, and you 
 won't need any previous experience with the series to understand what makes it excellent. Ninja 
 extraordinaire Ryu Hyabusa is on a quest to recover the legendary Dark Dragon Blade and avenge 
 the destruction of his peaceful village. Along the way, he meets Rachel, who is on a vision quest 
 of her own. Their two stories mesh nicely in a single-player campaign that may take you 25 or more 
 hours the first time through, depending on your skill level and prior experience with Ninja Gaiden 
 Xbox.  

  The story never takes center stage, though it has the proper over-the-top sensibilities to frame 
 what the game is really about: kick-ass action in the form of throws, slashes, wall-running, and 
 acrobatic tumbling. If you think a ninja should be able to do it, you can do it in Ninja Gaiden 
 Sigma. The controls for doing so are smooth and seamless, and aside from a few camera angle issues, 
 at no point will you feel you have to struggle with the controller to pull any of these moves off. 
 They result in astounding sequences of somersaulting, swordplay, offensive magic (called ninpo) , 
 and countermoves that are as gratifying as anything found in gaming. And as you progress through 
 the game, you can upgrade your weapons, add new attacks, and earn other enhancements.  

  As you may have heard, Ninja Gaiden on the Xbox was a difficult game, and it's no different here. 
 That isn't to say it's as tough as Ninja Gaiden Black, nor does it ever reach punishing levels. 
 But it is no walk in the park, and newcomers may find it initially intimidating. If you've already 
 cut your teeth on the series, you may be inclined to think that Sigma is a little easier, though 
 that is due more to certain level design tweaks than it is to a reduction in challenge. In particular, 
 Rachel's first chapter may strike fans as a little too easy thanks to a nice smattering of health 
 potions, but the impression won't last once you reach her later appearances. As it is, you'll encounter 
 armies of strong, agile opponents of all sorts, both human and, well, not so human -- and you'll 
 fight them in a variety of environments, from winding city streets to subterranean caverns.  

 
           The boss fights are as challenging and invigorating as ever.      

  Some of the most touted improvements in Ninja Gaiden Sigma over the original release are in the 
 visual department. That isn't to say that it looks exactly next-gen, because there are signs of 
 porting in the form of some bland textures and a few other blemishes. But it looks great, and a 
 side-by-side comparison reveals a lot of nice enhancements in elements like shadows and color saturation. 
 Animations are particularly spectacular, and Rachel's movements are as sleek as any of Ryu's. The 
 sound effects and soundtrack remain the same as before. Still, as with the visuals, the audio additions 
 are beautifully woven into the rest of the design, so nothing seems out of place or glued on.  
 

  And once you're done with the tour de force the first time around, you've got new difficulty levels 
 to try out, stand-alone combat missions to play, and in-game leaderboards to peruse. There's simply 
 a lot of game here, and the fact that this is a retooling of a three-year-old title for a new audience 
 shouldn't dissuade you from playing it. Whether you're a series veteran or a newcomer, the in-your-face 
 action of Ninja Gaiden Sigma is as exhilarating now as it ever was, and the new, slickly embedded 
 content is surprisingly meaty. Play this game.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (275 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: Ubermensche
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 15, 2009 10:31 am PT
Review:  When Ninja Gaiden for the XBOX was released, I remember being incredibly excited. Growing up I 
 played the NES versions and always enjoyed them. I was excited to hear that the XBOX version was 
 being ported to PS3.
  
  The negatives I will cover immediately. First, visually speaking the game is improved over the 
 XBOX counterpart.... but not by much. This was somewhat given the hype of the PS3 graphics in the 
 beginning of the system. I realize that this was a very early release. But so was Motorstorm and 
 Heavenly Sword. Both of those games had far superior visuals. Team Ninja generally brags about 
 it's visuals and usually that is the case. Such was the case when the XBOX version originally released. 
 However, this was a rather quick visual port that did not take full advantage of the PS3 at the 
 time.
  
  Also, the camera can still be a problem at times. It is much improved over the original version 
 (first camera update was in the Hurricane update pack back on the original XBOX Live) . This is 
 frustrating especially in a game that is so focused on combat, difficult combat as it is. Also 
 jumping up certain walls can be difficult since the camera can get in the way. 
  
  The sound has also never been an impressive part of the Ninja Gaiden series and I wish more would 
 be put into the soundtrack as well as ambient noises. 
  
  The rest of the game shines. Combat is fast and insane... but most importantly: brutal. The levels 
 are designed incredibly well with various hidden items that are difficult to obtain at times. Ryu 
 has the ability to scale walls which makes exploration much more immerse. 
  
  Boss battles are big and o-so-fun. Not to mention difficult. Ninja Gaiden is definitely always 
 been a game that challenges your wits, reflexes, and most importantly your patience. This game 
 has without a doubt been somewhat responsible for numerous controllers breaking. Mostly due to 
 angry gamers throwing them with extreme rage. But in the end the game is well worth the work. Few 
 games can make a player actually feel rewarded for beating the game. not that beating a game is 
 a real accomplishment or anything, but hey, no one needs to look at it that way...
  
  Fans of action games should definitely pick this one up. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: THEGoD1
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 10, 2009 4:43 pm PT
Review:  this game WILL make you tear your hair out. but when you actually beat the parts that get you pissed 
 the most you will get tears of joy.
  the weapons are extremly fun to play with i just wish there were more.
  nothing much to say but 
 get it if ur ready to cuss your brains out :D
  the story line is unbelivably fun. there are the occasional twist in the plot and a HUGE one at 
 the end. but it was somewhat predictable.
  the boss battles are MASSIVE and very fun to play, although the bosses have a limited attack style 
 it does not take very long to get used to the bosses's attacks and counter with devistating attacks. 
 if you get stuck on the boss battles i suggest using Ze_Rhino_'s boss battle FAQ for it was an 
 unbelivable great help for those bosses that gave me trouble.
  Good Luck beating this game on Master Difficulty :D 
::::::

::::::
UserName: im_really_rich
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 7, 2009 5:59 am PT
Review:  What's there to say about Ninja Gaiden Sigma?
  
  Is it enough to say that this is the best version of all the post-millinium Ninja Gaiden games 
 (not including the Xbox 360 sequal) ?
  
  Is it enough to say that this game is ridiculously fun?
  
  Is it enough to say that this game 
 is hard as hell and the people who created it are near-sadistic?
  
  Could I say this beautiful piece of art is one of the most compelling, most challenging, and definitely 
 most addictive action games or just plain GAMES I've ever played?
  
  All of the above are superb descriptions for this game, and then some. Simply put, Ninja Gaiden 
 rocks, really hard, and only if you have the spine and the teeth to get through it.
  
  It seems so many games nowadays want to be cake walks, simple easy paths to follow to get to the 
 end so you will have "beaten" the game.
  
  Ninja Gaiden stands out in a crowd as truly wanting to push the limits of the player beyond a standard 
 expected difficulty.
  
  This game truly wants to weed people out so that you have to actually be good and work hard to 
 get through it, pushing your gaming skills to their limits. This game wants to put you to the test, 
 to see if you're bone enough or if you'll either give up after the 3rd level or go to the 'easy 
 mode.'
  
  I keep ranting about how hard this game is. Now what makes this game so hard?
  
  First off, the bosses can be kind of a head ache. Some bosses are human-sized, but some are 
 very large mythical beasts and most of these types have a move where they catch you in their mouth 
 and spit you out, literally, and that's pretty irritating. Some of the human bosses are actually 
 quite a doozy when you first get to them. You actually have to be GOOD to not die or use up too 
 many potions.
  
  The common enemies are also very difficult and if I put it this way, 'good' at the game. The enemies 
 aren't just there for decoration, they aim to kill and to kill your character. There isn't too 
 large of an assortment of different enemies. There are ninjas, samurais, soldiers with guns, a 
 couple different types of supernatural creatures who gush green blood when you cut their head off 
 (some of them remind me of the little troll dolls (the hair) ) , some other various enemies, and 
 there really aren't too many more. A lot of the enemies get recycled throughout the game, and I 
 ran into parts where I got sick of fighting the same enemies over and over again.
  
  Oddly enough, I actually found combat more fun with the human creatures than the supernatural type 
 creatures. There is one bonus part where you have to go into a room and kill several white- and 
 black- garbed soldiers to get a prize. THAT fight is intense. Very hard, very grueling, and very 
 fun. You WILL be on the edge of your seat.
  
  The bosses can be tough, the regular enemies are pretty tough, but the puzzle elements are unusually 
 straight-forward. Don't expect any Zelda-type difficulty in the puzzles here, they are kind of 
 easy (sometimes) so the real challenge in the game is actually in the combat.
  
  There are a few parts where the game's difficulty falls into cheap territory. As I mentioned, some 
 enemies have cheap moves that you can't avoid and take off lots of damage, like where they try 
 to chew you up or when the soldiers try to slit your throat (literally) . The game also demands 
 that you collect 9 of a rare certain something to extend your maximum health, and when you do, 
 it doesn't go up very much. I suppose it all adds up, but like I said, the game's designers really 
 want to challenge you.
  
  The games designers even add insult to injury when you try to access an easy mode. Easy mode isn't 
 readily available when you start out. You have to play on the normal mode a few times and die before 
 they offer it to you, and when they do, you watch a cutscene with one of the key characters approaching 
 you and showing you her disappointment. It's kind of brutal, but like I said, the designers are 
 sadists, so of course they want you to play their ridiculously hard game.
  
  I have some issues with the golden scarabs. At first when you start handing them in, you get prizes, 
 but then after a while, you have to collect more and more golden scarabs to get a prize, and sometimes 
 it's kind of lame, like a large potion.
  
  Also, you start out with your basic sword, the dragon sword, but as you accumulate other diverse 
 weapons and try them out, you start to learn that all of the other weapons kind of suck and the 
 dragon sword is really the only good one. Only in a few situations did I find it easier to use 
 a different weapon. With the dual electric tapeworms in the blue cave, I used Diabolahro and when 
 I entered the pyramid after fighting Alma and the statues came alive, I used Lunar, the staff, 
 and when you fight those dead fishes, the bladed nunchuko works pretty well, but that's it. You 
 get a dual sword at one point early in the game, but really your best weapon is the one you start 
 out with.
  
  Speaking of those dead fishes, that is one of the cheapest elements of the game. I didn't hate 
 any enemy in the game more than those damn fishes. They are cheap, utterly cheap. They latch onto 
 you and you can't move and they drain your health and you have to somehoe figure out how to get 
 them off and sometimes you use up all your ninpo on accident just trying to lose them. I really 
 really hated that enemy, more than any other one.
  
  There are other elements to this game where you play as a girl named Rachel who is on a mission 
 to free a relative of hers from her torment. Rachel is very beautiful, of course, most video game 
 heroines are, and on a few missions you actually play as her.
  
  Unlike Ryu, the main character (no, his name is not Gaiden) Rachel cannot run up walls nor jump 
 off them. Her acrobatic skills are much weaker, much more 'boring.' Her weapon is not a katana 
 like Ryu's, but is a large cumbersome scythe/ax/hammer combination. Gameplay wise, her reaction 
 time is much slower than Ryu's and she is much more difficult to use, so much that playing as her 
 just wasn't as fun and was kind of dreadful because at a part that would have been a relative cinch 
 to get through as Ryu, it was a cumbersome ordeal to play as Rachel. Her missions aren't too numerous, 
 however, and they are fairly short, even if they aren't very good, and they provide some insight 
 into the story. They aren't terrible, they're fine, they just aren't as fun to play as the missions 
 are with Ryu.
  
  Graphics and animation wise, this game is intense and beautiful. The character animation and bloody 
 combat is beautifully portrayed painting the walls with beautiful red globs of goop. The animations 
 for this game are nothing short of superb. That's all I can say.
  
  What I love most about this game is the developers' audacity to make a difficult game. They want 
 you to try, they want you to suffer, they want you to succeed and to succeed they really want you 
 to earn it.
  
  This game makes dying and getting a game over that much more exciting, knowing that you are playing 
 one of the most grueling and trecherous games out there.
  
  If you like action adventure, if you want a challenge, if you love games like Devil May Cry and 
 you for some reason haven't played this yet, you owe it to yourself to do so, because if you don't 
 play this, you could be missing out.
  
  Seriously, no wusses allowed. This game isn't meant to be played at Chuckie Cheese. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NathanH2003
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 25, 2009 4:50 am PT
Review:  Ninja Gaiden Sigma is the third version of the XBOX game. I've never played the original or Black, 
 but I was pleased when I heard that it was coming out for PS3. Challenging as it is, it was well 
 worth the wait, and if you ever wanted to feel like a bad ass ninja, this is the one for you.
 
  
  The last 3D ninja action game (not stealth kinds) I played was Shinobi. Shinobi was a game that 
 had style, but at times too aggravating to enjoy. The Tate was interesting, and nothing was more 
 satisfying than killing Hiruko after 50 tries. The thing is, I was in denial because it was the 
 only decent Ninja game to come out on the PS2, and I didn't like Xbox all that much to buy one. 
 So, then came Ninja Gaiden Sigma, which roundhouse kicked me in the head, waking me up to what 
 a REAL super ninja game should be.
  
  First, I'll start with the story, but to quote Yahtzee " [screw] you if you want a story". Demons 
 come, destroy your home, steal a sword and you have go and get it back as you strike with great 
 vengeance and furious anger. You're a ninja and you have evil demons to kill, and that's all you 
 really need to know. Rachel has some middle ground, but it never really goes anywhere.
  
  The gameplay is really what you play a ninja game for. Some people think it's too hard, but I think 
 it's just right. In a away, it feels like Prince of Persia mixed with God of War. You are given 
 all sorts of acrobatic moves from the start, like running on walls, running up walls, running on 
 people's heads, and running on water. The blocking and dodging works well enough, and the combat 
 is both fun and intense. Now, in action games like this, combos may seem a little repetitive and 
 simple (compared to fighting games) , but I never really experienced any problems with that. You 
 can do the standard "light, light, strong" combos, or take him into the air and rip him apart in 
 the sky. You have running attacks, the favorite "Flying Swallow Technique", where you fly through 
 the air while taking off your enemies' heads (sometimes more than one) , and, while not every weapon 
 is worth while, you'll have a nice selection of slashy death that are actually useful. There's 
 a giant sword, which is very nice for taking out larger demons. The bow in the air actually works 
 well, too. This is one of the few action games where you'll find a place for most of your attacks.
 
  
  While the game is in the same bucket as Devil May Cry, as far as difficult goes, Ninja Gaiden seems 
 to be almost directly opposed to the weak gamers. DMC will allow you to go on a lower setting if 
 you just want to experience the story and gameplay. Ninja Gaiden spits and defecates on that notion. 
 In fact, it hates weak players with an undying passion. It would make them commit sepiku if it 
 was still legal. That's how much it HATES them. If you want a lower difficulty, it will put pink 
 ribbons on you and have the tutorial girl insult you with every tip she gives (not kidding) . I 
 never played it on Ninja Dog Mode, but god only knows what would happen if you die on that setting. 
 The game would probably take the controller from your hand and shout "YOU SUCK!!!" in Japanese. 
 Despite all this, the difficulty makes every victory all the more satisfying. After I was able 
 to kill a group of ninjas for the first time with a scratch, there was nothing more rewarding than 
 seeing Ryu sheath his blade after seeing that there's no one left.
  
  Ryu also grows stronger as the game progresses, unlike Shinobi. You get health extensions, weapon 
 upgrades, and accessories to help ease the game's difficulty. And if all else fails, you can carry 
 around enough potions which you can use via the d-pad. They keep things balanced, but the game 
 always requires your skill to ultimately decide the outcome of battle. Never be too reliant on 
 potions.
  
  The graphics are gorgeous, giving nice scenery. The animation is flawless from what I've seen, 
 and every move that Ryu does is seamless from start to finish. Some of the blood effects could 
 have been better, with some splatters hanging off of the edge like it's a sticker or something. 
 Other than that, there are no glitches that are too noticeable to take from the experience. The 
 sounds are always what they should be and help every death blow be as satisfying as the last. 
 
  
  Despite the greatness that this game has, there are some parts that they left out of the original 
 version and should have continued doing so. As much as I liked a game that mixes things up, Rachel 
 is the absolute weakness of the game. Her attacks are slower and not particularly powerful. She 
 wears a skimpy leather stripper dress for the sake of sex appeal, which is pointless now that the 
 internet is around. Overall, she moves like river of bricks and should have been left out of Sigma. 
 The dual wielding technique is a disappointment, being too slow for the lack of power that it has. 
 Using two swords is supposed to be light and quick in games, but they failed to achieve that in 
 this game. All of these, though, are still minor set backs that the rest of the game will help 
 you ignore.
  
  After you complete the game, you can help yourself to the Missions Mode, which offers more challenging 
 combat scenarios. There is also harder modes, in case you feel that you haven't died enough times. 
 Even without these extras, the combat in the normal game will always feel fresh.
  
  There are casual games and there are action games. If you are looking for something that will hold 
 your hand, turn away. But if you truly want to test your reaction time and skill, this is the game 
 for you. It's great gameplay, sound and graphics make Ninja Gaiden a solid package and should not 
 be missed by any hardcore PS3 owner. Let's hope that the upcoming Ninja Gaiden Sigma 2 will be 
 nothing but an improvement to an already sharp combat engine. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bruno_fmenedes
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 1, 2009 6:26 am PT
Review:  
  THIS REVIEW IS DESTINED TO THOSE WHO, LIKE MYSELF, DIDN'T PLAY ANY VERSION OF NINJA GAIDEN BEFORE
 
  
  
  -------------------------------------
  
  Gameplay ------------- (10)
  
  Graphics --------------- ( 9 )
  
  Sound ------------------- ( 8 )
  
  Value -------------------- 
 (10)
  
  -------------------------------------
  
  
  The gameplay is extremely well-designed and the control over Ryu is seamless, particularly when 
 fighting enemies. There's no clunky lock-on system here, instead, when you press one of the two 
 attack buttons, Ryu automatically hits the enemy closest to him and when you press the projectile 
 button, he throws it at the nearest enemy in front of him with the accuracy of a true ninja  and 
 all works perfectly, even when he is in the air and the enemy is on the ground or vice-versa or 
 both are in the air.
  
  In this game if you don't defend yourself or just mash buttons to perform the attacks, you will 
 die many times without advancing much. You have to be smart and thoughtful when choosing the tactics 
 and moves to use, by studying the enemies' behavior, to be able to avoid incoming attacks and defeat 
 them. Because the enemies are varied and each one is strong, fast and have a clever and merciless 
 AI. The action is always intense and brutal, so it's definitely not for the faint of heart. But 
 the combat system in this game is the most gratifying one I've ever experienced, with some of the 
 best and most stimulating 3rd-person action sequences I've ever seen in gaming.
  
  I can understand why a good number of gamers found this game or previous versions of it frustratingly 
 hard, even if they did what I mentioned in the previous paragraph. That's probably because they 
 saw the game as if it was one that frequently punishes you for no reason and where luck plays a 
 significant role. From my point of view that's a misguided perception. Your movements have a direct 
 influence over all enemies' behavior and they don't operate like bunch of independent individuals 
 but as a team trying to defeat you. So when you encounter a group of enemies, you have to move 
 in a way that avoids their attacks and forces them to change to a more vulnerable formation. Otherwise, 
 most of the times you hit one enemy, another will probably hit you back.
  
  The enemies' somewhat coordinated performance plus the fast-pace of the action result in a demands 
 great eye-finger coordination and familiarity with the most useful attacks. So a training mode 
 could've been helpful to lower the number of times Ryu gets killed and to make the game less intimidating, 
 especially for beginners or less-than-hardcore players.
  
  With so many different weapons, each one with its own moves, when the story mode ends you'll feel 
 like there's still gameplay potential to be tapped. Then you realize a new mode has been unlocked, 
 the mission mode, that serves as a perfect complement. It's more focused on the best part of the 
 game, combat, more challenging and gives you a reason to try weapons and moves you rarely or never 
 used in the campaign, in search of the best way to defeat the enemies. Not that the they become 
 stronger (that's what the higher difficulties are for) , it's because you have to fight more and 
 different combinations of them, including some new ones and a few bosses as well.
  
  Shaking the controller to increase ninpo attack power isn't fun, but you won't use it very often 
 and at least is better than mashing a button like in God of War. Another potential control issue 
 is that, in the default control configuration, you have to press both triangle and circle buttons 
 at the same time to evoke a ninpo attack. Although it can be annoying when you press one button 
 before the other, the game lets you change the ninpo attack to the more practical L2 (the same 
 used in God of War to evoke the magic powers) .
  
  With the exception of a couple of frustrating bosses and sections in the campaign, the camera's 
 problems aren't obstructive enough to hurt the gameplay in the normal difficulty setting. It becomes 
 increasingly harder though, to tolerate the camera's inconsistency on tight spaces or near some 
 walls, when playing in hard, very hard and master ninja difficulty settings.
  
  So the lasting appeal could've been longer with a smarter camera system, because it would've made 
 the game less frustrating on difficulties above normal and therefore more re-playable. But it's 
 undoubtedly very fun re-play the story mode and some of the missions on Hard, especially if you 
 use them as a break from the harder missions and to practice for them. Therefore, given the 15-20 
 hours that it takes to beat the story mode the first time, plus a mission mode that requires even 
 more time to complete and the bargain retail price of 40$, I think it's unfair to criticize the 
 value of this product (and now it's sold for only 30$, so you're getting more than your money's 
 worth) .
  
  The presentation is really well put together and makes it fun to just watch other people play the 
 game. Animations are incredibly fluid and dazzling. Ryu and Rachel's character models are full 
 of details. The game runs at 60 fps in 1080p (amazing in a big screen) . Soundtracks are appropriate 
 for each situation and match well the theme of the game (although none of them will stay in your 
 head) . Also worth mentioning are the sound effects, successfully informing you if an attack or 
 projectile was blocked or not and reflecting all the action that occurs in the game simultaneously.
 
  
  The cut-scenes look fantastic but only last a few seconds each and aren't rendered in 1080p. And 
 the game's creators seem to know they aren't good storytellers because there's almost no story 
 in the game (it's better than having a weak or boring story) .
  
  If you, like myself, didn't play any of the Xbox versions of Ninja Gaiden, want to play a deep 
 and thoughtful action game, are old enough and enjoyed playing God of War or the Prince of Persia 
 trilogy, yet agree they were a bit on the easy side, don't miss this exceptional port of a modern 
 classic. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bofish
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 15, 2009 1:56 pm PT
Review:  I feel like a bad dude when I play this game. Once you get the nunchuks I felt like a real ninja.
 
  
  There are so many great things put into this game that it's hard to concentrate on just one thing.
 
  
  First off I must say that this a challenging game. I know this game is from 2007 but it's still 
 to me a top PS3 game. The fighting and gameplay are above average and the moves you can perform 
 are top notch.
  
  I think the storyline is pretty good and there are some very difficult and cool looking enemies. 
 
  
  What took me away was fighting other ninja's on motorcyles... what a great idea! Way cool...
 
  
  There are a few problems that I have which I will explain, but this game is way too much fun to 
 pass up. First off, the camera angle is quite a struggle. It's tough to maneuver and you can get 
 hurt easy if your in the wrong spot. The bow and arrows, a pretty high performance weapon for a 
 ninja, is very tough for me to use in first person. I wish there was more stealth in this game 
 which is a ninja's greatest trait. 
  
  I feel tho that this is still one of the top titles on the PS3 and it's a must buy! Get it... especially 
 now that it's only 29.99. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Q8akira
Rating: 1
Date: Mar 14, 2009 3:12 am PT
Review:  this game is very fun. however i give it a one star over all because of the way it was marketed. 
 i own and love ninja gaiden black. i bought this game because i kept hearing about all the "added 
 content" and "improved graphics". the added content is quite lame. this game actually has less 
 to unlock than the "black" version, besides a few added cut scenes and a couple of addition boss 
 battles that do nothing to enhance the story (they only provided me with irritation) this version 
 has very little to offer. in the way of graphics. i was very disappointed. its debatable that the 
 graphics are improved at all over "black". thats not good for a next gen system. the cut scenes 
 which i love actually were worse because they took out the pretty cgi and used in game graphics. 
 the difference wasnt that apparent but when you look close there were many more jagged lines where 
 before they were smooth.
  i will say that if you own a ps3 and have not played ninja gaiden black then deffinately pick this 
 up. its very fun 
::::::

::::::
UserName: killakomando
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 5, 2009 1:19 am PT
Review:  First off, the graphics, for a port from a last generation platform, the graphics are exceptional 
 for this day and age.
  Lighting and self-shading graphics, not to mention the solid 60 Frames per second this game runs, 
 makes it an excellent addition to any hardcore gamers collection. Yes this game is hard, Very, 
 In fact the normal diffuculty is quite difficult until you get the hang of the fighting mechanics 
 and timing. The reason this game is so fun is the fact that it forces you to use extravegant, Superfluous 
 moves to evade, counter, and just outright out-do your opponets. The controls are simple to say 
 the least. 
  
  The Weapons are in a league of their own, ranging from Staffs to Nunchaku with bladed ends. Wielding 
 and mastering each style is a fun chore in its own league. The first time through the game can 
 range from anywhere from 9-16 hours depending on your learning curve. The story is basic im pretty 
 sure you can figure it out Just by doing the first and second chapter. Enemy ai is superb, at higher 
 difficulties, a sense of urgency to evade becomes a fun pressure depending on how you completed 
 normal mode.
  
  On top of the main story, there are side missions to test your skill, concentation and tenacity. 
 adding on about 3 hours of play time to the already lengthy game. What basically im trying to say 
 is, If you like having a game to show off infront of your friends and yourself, whilst challenging 
 yourself this is the game for you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dcjardim
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 1, 2009 8:09 pm PT
Review:  Each day, this game surprised me more. A game very well done, with spectacular graphics and game-play. 
 Great, great, great game! Will it be the Ninja Gaiden Sigma II? Congratulations!!!
  
  Each day, this game surprised me more. A game very well done, with spectacular graphics and game-play. 
 Great, great, great game! Will it be the Ninja Gaiden Sigma II? Congratulations!!!
  
  Each day, this game surprised me more. A game very well done, with spectacular graphics and game-play. 
 Great, great, great game! Will it be the Ninja Gaiden Sigma II? Congratulations!!!
  
  Each day, this game surprised me more. A game very well done, with spectacular graphics and game-play. 
 Great, great, great game! Will it be the Ninja Gaiden Sigma II? Congratulations!!!
  
  Each day, this game surprised me more. A game very well done, with spectacular graphics and game-play. 
 Great, great, great game! 
  Will it be the Ninja Gaiden Sigma II? 
  Congratulations!!!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: cbmurphy2489
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 25, 2009 9:37 am PT
Review:  This is my eighth PS3 game so far, and I gotta say... I'm amazed by the story, the gameplay, and 
 the graphics. Plus, the best thing about Ninja Gaiden is that it's as addictive as Metal Gear and 
 Grand Theft Auto. Not to mention the action, which is so intense.
  
  It all began with Ryu Hayabusa (now another of my favorite video game characters) who is training 
 with Master Murai, and Ayane comes to warn them about the ambush at the village. Doku, Lord of 
 the Fiends and also one of the invaders have come for the Dark Dragon Blade, sister sword of the 
 legendary Dragon Sword (the True Sword is the best one in the game) . Ryu goes off to fight Doku, 
 but he loses and is out for revenge and claim back the Dark Dragon Blade.
  
  But those are only the good things about Sigma, and now here is the bad: some of the bosses are 
 quite tough to beat (such as Doku, Ishataros, Nicchae, and Marbus) when some of them fight together. 
 Not to mention the Collector's Edition missions... You know what? I'm not even going to talk about 
 that's 'cause it's frustrating enough.
  
  Nonetheless, NGS comes second-best to Metal Gear and God of War. And it's a must-have, as I always 
 say. But I wouldn't say so unless I played it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: maverick_41
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 24, 2009 7:51 pm PT
Review:  Story - I love the plot of this game. It is a classic quest for vengeance for some bad*** guy with 
 awesome ninja skills.
  
  You start off visiting your uncle Murai when you hear news of a raid on the Hayabusa village. Fighting 
 your way back to the village, you encounter Doku, who has killed the Hayabusa shrine maiden Kureha 
 and has taken the Dark Dragon Blade. After dying in the heat of battle, you are brought back to 
 life as a "soldier of revenge" by a falcon, the spiritual animal of the Hayabusas, and then things 
 really start to heat up!
  
  Gameplay - Playing this game is a whole lot of fun. It can be very addicting. Killing enemies by 
 chopping off their heads is pretty cool. 
  
  My biggest turn off of this game has to be the difficulty. It is not one of those games that you 
 might die 3 times befor you get past a certain point, but more like a game that could take you 
 3 hours to get there. With the game being so hard, it is easy not to finish it.
  
  Graphics - It looks amazing as far as the scenery of it, but the skin of the humans in the game 
 look like rubber. This can easily be overlooked, so it's not a big deal.
  
  Control - Despite the game's insane difficulty, the controls are pretty easy to learn. You get 
 to do some pretty cool stuff being a ninja and all.
  
  Sound - Sounds amazing. No complaints in this department!
  
  Overall - Ninja Gaiden Sigma is 
 an amazing game if you are a hardcore, and I mean super hardcore, gamer. It's extreme difficulty 
 can be a major turn off though. I had fun playing it!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Trickedoutps3
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 24, 2009 11:33 am PT
Review:  Ninja Gaiden has been known for being one of the hardest games of its time, and I can say from 
 experience... it is hard. However, they do allow you to play on a easy mode, which is like a mode 
 between normal and hard for a regular game. Hard or not, this game is pretty solid overall.
  
  The gameplay. Did I mention that this game is hard? Well, it doesnt take away from the overall 
 experience that much. This games hack and slash style is very good. It seems pretty hack and slash 
 at first glance, but as you upgrade your weapons (which there are quite a few) you unlock more 
 combos which makes the game a little less hack and slash and little more combination oriented.
 
  
  The controls. Here is where I have a little problem with. The combat controls are pretty good, 
 but the jumping and such is not. When you jump, you dont have much control of where or how far 
 you are jumping because one, he jumps really fast, and two there isnt much control to his jumping. 
 Ultimately, it doesn't soil this game much at all.
  
  The graphics are pretty good, definately nothing to complain about. Not much more to say about 
 the graphics other than they look very decent.
  
  Overall, if you are looking for a high paced, action packed, slash around, freaking hard game then 
 this is it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dashizy666
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 7, 2009 9:31 pm PT
Review:  When I bought this game I knew what to expect. I played every version of Ninja Gaiden and this 
 is by far the best looking out the bunch, that includes NG2. As a veteran of this series, I knew 
 NG Black inside out. I'm on the blimp level and I was astounded on the amount of changes that they 
 put into the game. For example they expanded ninja village level by adding a burning house. The 
 sound is better then black, And the graphics are a feast for the eyes. Since I sold my 360, (Thank 
 God, I'm so over that system) I needed a Ninja Gaiden fix and sigma delivered. One thing they also 
 improve on is the inventory screen is easier top navigate and it look a lot prettier then black. 
 If I am a huge fan of this series and I hope that the ps3 will get a version of NG2 or NG3 in the 
 near future. Sigma absolutely rocks. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: josecarreno77
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 6, 2009 10:03 am PT
Review:  The story, graphics, action, weapons, bosses, enemies, everything is just amazing considering it 
 was one the first PS3 games released in 2007.
  
  Ninja Gaiden sometime is very hard and frustrating due to lot movements and combos that you need 
 to learn. Bosses are too powerful that you get tired every final fight. Some stages are really, 
 really, complicated that you to need think like a ninja to complete the stages (special movements 
 through the walls, double jumps, etc.) . There are some enemies such as ghost fishes (last chapters) 
 that are a real pain in your head to kill them all. 
  
  Despite the fact that this game is really good for the reasons explained above, the sound is very 
 poor and all dialogues too. Sometimes you doubt if you are really playing a PS3 game or nintendo 
 64 game for the old fashioned dialogue box that appears every time when you have a conversation 
 with someone. 
  
  I highly recommend this game for those ninja gaiden enthusiasm, but at the same time it is a shame 
 that Tecmo has not developed a new game to continue the sequel in PS3. 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: JonnyEarthquake
Rating: 6
Date: Feb 13, 2009 5:43 am PT
Review:  Considering that Ninja Gaiden Sigma is a remake of Ninja Gaiden Black which is a remake of the 
 original Ninja Gaiden, I expected to see the best action/slasher ever made. Heck, even the opportunity 
 to slice other dudes with a kickass sword was enough for me! But...
  
  ... before I start whining about whatever the hell I can, the storyline summary comes first. So, 
 the main character, the super ninja Ryu Hayabusa is training in the hills with his uncle (if you 
 can call `slicing up hostile ninjas who try to do the same with you and nearly killing your beloved 
 relative` a training exercise) when the 14 year old (at least according to the manual) sexy jailbait 
 Ayane (the one from Dead or Alive series) informs Ryu that his village is under attack by... ninjas! 
 (Oddly enough, Hayabusa village is a ninja village who should be able to protect itself) Naturally 
 Ryu rushes back and finds his home destroyed, his relatives - killed. But not only that - the Dark 
 Dragon Blade, an ancient weapon guarded by Hayabusa clan, the cause/source/bringer of all evil 
 - war, starvation, suffering and bad breath - has been stolen. Failed to carry his only reason 
 of existence, that is not letting his village got burned down, his relatives - killed and Dark 
 Dragon blade stolen, Ryu decides to go on a bloody revenge against... well, who the hell knows. 
 After receiving a vague hint from his uncle, Ryu sets out for a trip to Vigoor Empire - a small 
 nation, which, naturally, contains all the evil of Universe. However Ayane`s mission is not over 
 - she, as a REAL ninja, that is, without uncontrollable violent issues, follows Ryu and supports 
 him with various mostly useless hints while staying off-screen except the cutscenes.
  
  A few chapters later, we`re introduced with the tragic heroine Rachel - bondage loving, supersized 
 breast and war hammer wielding babe. She is a Fiend hunter (a. k. a. demon killer) who is trying 
 to track down her sister - a very powerful fiend, and kill her. (Seriously, what`s up with all 
 them? I understand you might want to kill a family member, but these guys need a therapist, not 
 a gigant blade.) Ryu`s and Rachel`s paths cross, but don`t expect any drama, because, even if there 
 is some, the amazing breast physics engine makes Rachel`s massive melons to swing around by the 
 slightest movement and... err, I mean.... oh, forget it.
  
  I guess I don`t have to say that the storyline is pretty weak, but you can still amuse yourself 
 by finding pop culture references - yes, you run from a huge boulder and pick up the Holy Grail, 
 there`s a villain who looks and sounds like Darth Vader, and guess what, his boss is called the 
 Emperor. Weather it is a clever hint or a coincidence, that doesn`t help the game`s design much. 
 The game starts in something like Feudal Japan, then Ryu is on a flying ship, lands on 18th century-styled 
 city which has tanks, choppers and automatic guns and visits underground tunnels which recreate... 
 Ancient Egyptian temple. Mixing architecture and cultures is nothing new in gaming, but since majority 
 of events Ninja Gaiden Sigma takes place in a single region, it makes me think that designers simply 
 read a bunch of books and took out whatever seemed `cool`. It would be ridiculous to think about 
 any character development after what I just wrote, and it`s right, because the manual is where 
 it ends. All you need to know about the characters is in that small booklet which comes along with 
 the game. Heck, I wouldn`t even know Ryu`s uncle`s or maids`s (who got, lets see, 2 seconds of 
 screen time?) names or who they actually are. I hear many claim the plot to be the weakest point 
 of Ninja Gaiden. Nonononono my friends, the WEAKEST point is the most celebrated one... gameplay!
 
  
  So, what can a mad ninja do? Anything what a real ninja wouldn`t! We get a lot of hacking and slashing, 
 wall running, puzzle solving and viewing `Game Over` screen. OK, H&S first. In the first level 
 we`re already facing, well, not really hordes, but a good bunch of savage ninjas with very violent 
 intentions. The difficulty skyrockets and every single second is a furious fight for survival. 
 Getting used to controls is nothing difficult, but mastering them is. Basically there are three 
 types of attack - light and strong melee offense and a projectile strike. Naturally, light attacks 
 are faster and does less damage, the heavy ones - slower and more devastating ones. By chaining 
 these attacks, Ryu executes combos which are crucial if you seriously consider killing somebody. 
 Ranged weaponry are more like support, so is the local magic - Ninpo. Ninpo is unlocked by finding 
 spell scrolls, however they are generic beyond belief and do surprisingly low damage, so relying 
 on them is no option. Throughout his adventure Ryu will find or buy a pretty impressive arsenal 
 of sharp, blunt, explosive and simply awesome weapons. From your trusty Dragon Sword to dual katanas, 
 from nunchuks to fighting sticks. Each weapon has different combo set, attack speed and feel to 
 it, except nunchuks and flails, which are practically identical. Projectiles are mostly shurikens 
 and bows, however they are fun to use even if they don`t really help much. For some reason the 
 Ninja Honor Codex doesn`t allow to use automatic guns. Now, what is that supposed to mean? Is this 
 still Middle Ages or something? Melee weapons can be upgraded in shops, also you can buy potions, 
 weapons or accessories which enhance certain Ryu`s skills very slightly.
  
  What Ninja Gaiden Sigma has a lot to give you is enemies. Ninjas, demons, dinosaurs and robots 
 with giant freakin` lazors all share the same vision seeing you dead. They have their own special 
 attacks and weaknesses that need to be studied if you don`t want to see that `Ha ha, you lose` 
 screen all over again. Slicing things feels fun as long as long as you`re doing it right however 
 it feels really stupid to fight fire spitting devils on the street. If somebody needs an aestheticism 
 lesson, its the designers.
  
  There are boss battles and plenty. They all test your skills to the limit, however they repeat 
 at times and feel quite generic. In most games we are allowed to more or less experiment with bosses, 
 however the lousy placed save points are too far from where the battle actually is, so if you die, 
 expect some tedious running back to the fight. Plus bosses tend to be unfairly hard just because 
 they are big and bad.
  
  To change the pace, there are various platforming sections. Ryu can run alongside walls or push 
 against the wall to jump higher. Platforming is closely tied with puzzles. Most of them require 
 boring key finding, however there are some truly spectacular quests that require improvisation 
 with your trusty bow. Curiosity is also rewarded  looking in corners or difficult-to-reach 
 places mostly award you with a potion or some other precious junk.
  
  Rachel has only three chapters, but it`s okay. She has only her war hammer and the completely useless 
 whip-type weapon. Despite her being much slower, yet stronger than Ryu, fighting fiends is somehow 
 easier and I did enjoy her chapters. 
  
  Sounds good, doesn`t it? Yes, Ninja Gaiden can be fun... as long as you don`t get your sorry ass 
 kicked by an average enemy. Why? Well, the thing is that some smartass decided to use the same 
 buttons to do various actions at once. Square, which is responsible for light attack, also is used 
 to open chests and doors. Such an idiotic choice leads to many awkward moments when Ryu attacks 
 door or locks onto enemy instead opening a chest. Ninpo powers can be used pressing Triangle and 
 Circle at the same time, which is even more idiotic. Ryu either will use heavy or projectile attack, 
 what can really piss off, especially in difficult boss fights. Hello, R2 and L3 are used for NOTHING! 
 Most well thought-out action game my ass. Even more - sometimes attacks don`t connect with enemies. 
 Imagine you`re standing next to a boss and instead of finally killing him, your mighty sword just 
 cuts thin air. Lock-on is also a disaster. You`ll be often missing while attacking from air or, 
 while surrounded, Ryu will simply turn away from the enemy you were slicing and try to reach another 
 one you weren`t even looking at, often resulting in very painful and stupid death. The other thing 
 is about movement. Controls can`t decide weather you want to do a wall run or simply run up to 
 a ledge. Also, Ryu is too fast for his own good - doing precise jumps is a real pain since you`ll 
 be down the cliff even before you realize you got to hit the jump button.
  
  What deserves an entire paragraph is the camera. Thankfully, fixed and static camera angles are 
 rarely present, but what we DO have is uncontrollable and very free camera. Now, don`t get me wrong 
 - you can still manipulate the point of view with right stick, but it still sucks. First, while 
 running, the camera zooms far out behind the character, which makes difficult to see a thing behind 
 Ryu`s back and makes the platforming part incredibly frustrating. Secondly, while in combat, camera 
 shows the enemy more than the character itself. It tends to result in getting your ass kicked somewhere 
 behind the screen or those faulty lock-ons I already mentioned. But the worst case is in boss fights. 
 Camera is centered on the boss, so it is difficult to tell weather you`re close enough to hit or 
 evade attack. This all makes the battles twice as harder, because you`re fighting the enemy and 
 the camera simultaneously. A small annoyance is using the bow. You see, when holding the Circle 
 and moving left stick, camera goes into first-person perspective, what lets you aim more precise, 
 however won`t let you move! As you might guess, in such a fast paced action game, it makes you 
 a sitting duck. Was it really that difficult to make dual stick movement?
  
  What Ninja Gaden is also famous for is the excessive difficulty. No, that`s not the word. Unfair 
 and cheap would fit so much better. Enemies are designed to be flawless - they block your attacks 
 with greatest ease and break your defense without taking a sweat. Their special attacks are simply 
 laughable, for example, ninjas who throw around exploding shurikens like some goddamn knife juggler 
 clowns - nobody explains how to evade them and you just end up being blown up and knocked to the 
 ground to await further beating, because you couldn`t even prepare a block! There are many frustrating 
 and unfair situations like that when the enemy will simply spam the same attacks without giving 
 you a chance, but it all seems meaningless when boss fights start. They are fast. They are strong. 
 And they cheat like hell! Expect to receive severe beatings because of their unavoidable and often 
 unpredictable attacks. Discovering boss weak spot normally takes little time, however the more 
 you are closing to victory, the less they will expose their weaknesses, which is simply cheap. 
 There is no balance. There are no deliberative tactics. There is just you, annoyment and a lot 
 of swearing.
  
  If there is something else left to bash, it`s the level design. It`s fine for the most part, however 
 there are various maze-like levels what take forever to finish. Constant requirement of finding 
 detours and collecting numberless keys also get on the nerves. There is massive amount of backtracking, 
 especially in Rachel`s chapters (actually those are exactly the same places Ryu visits, just with 
 different items and enemies) , however in the last levels you can revisit almost any area you have 
 previously been to, which is a neat idea.
  
  NGS is definetly not the most complete version of the trilogy of the same game. There is no original 
 NES Ninja Gaiden Trilogy, nor the Ninja Gaiden Arcade game, less outfits and, for some reason, 
 the opening movie is removed. Not enough space on Blu-Ray? All we get is a reharsal of previous 
 levels just with different enemies, called `Mission mode`. Also, starting a new game won`t allow 
 to carry over weapons from previous playthrough, but that`s not really that terrible.
  
  Ninja Gaiden Sigma is not exactly how a next-gen game should look. It does run in smooth 60 frames 
 per second, however many textures beg for more polygons and character models are nothing compared 
 to any other PlayStation 3 title that came out in 2007. Shadows are also not done accurately (I 
 say that because that was specially mentioned on the back of the CD case) and levels could have 
 loaded much faster. Heck, there even are loadings IN the middle of some levels. What is there to 
 load? Blood splatter is faulty at times, for example it`s possible to see where the invisible walls 
 are when blood splatters on a surface where a gap is supposed to be. It looks pretty lame. Despite 
 that, I was staring at the beautiful landscape in Ch. 1, moonlit bridge in Ch. 2 and storm in Ch. 
 3 etc. etc. for quite a time. Special effects were pretty cool too but they should have ditched 
 those absurd breast physics. Seriously, it`s pretty distracting. However if pre-rendered cinematics, 
 which looked kickass in 2004, now feel a little dark and blurry. Still, Ninja Gaiden Sigma looks 
 good. Nothing I`d take my hat off to, but still good.
  
  Sound design is fine, however I think that they should have re-recorded most of the `huff`, `cling` 
 and `bang` type-ish sounds, because some of them were medium quality, however it can only be noticed 
 by people with sensitive hearing (like me) . Voice acting is as corny as it gets but you can choose 
 from the original Japanese cast, however I didn`t fell any necessity to do so. Music is mixed reactions. 
 Beautiful, traditional melodies co-exist with cheap, looping drum & bass tracks but were very few 
 tracks I actually disliked.
  
  To sum it up, Ninja Gaiden Sigma is a remake of a remake of a mediocre game. All the time I was 
 playing the game, it felt more like going through a very unrewarding and painful exercise. This 
 overrated, cheap, and frustrating title is definitely not what I`d call a classic, and if it wouldn`t 
 be presented as God`s gift to gamers, Ninja Gaiden Sigma might get a higher grade from me. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jd_brisson
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 6, 2009 6:57 am PT
Review:  Ninja Gaiden Sigma is an amazing game. It's the first game I bought for my new PS3, and it was 
 definitely worth it. The graphics are absolutely astounding. There are a few minor glitches here 
 or there in the graphics, but you have to look deeply to really see them. The game is without a 
 doubt difficult, right on par with God of War, so you might want to be pretty adept at other action 
 games before you try it. I also thought the story was pretty good, better than what a lot of other 
 reviewers thought; but, it is a little out there. There are a few negative things about the game 
 that keep it from being a "10" in my book, however. The difficulty can get tedious at times, especially 
 since there are not a lot of save points and NO other checkpoints, so if you die, you go back to 
 where you last saved. The controls can be bothersome at times also, especially when the camera 
 gets blocked behind a wall or something like that. But, these shortcoming are heavily outweighed 
 by the positives of this amazing game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: taplok
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 28, 2008 9:51 pm PT
Review:  There have been a lot of ninja games in the past, 'coz people like ninjas, they are awesome, cool, 
 action-packed, fast, great assassins, nice weapons and accessories... Ninja Gaiden Sigma is one 
 of the best ninja-based games that i've ever seen! cool ninja moves, bloody, decapitations, great 
 animations, iconic character... i haven't finished the game yet, but so far i think its really 
 awesome! the only bad thing in this game is the camera, and it's quite hard, could've been if there 
 are closer checkpoints. The story upon installing wasn't really interesting, they could've done 
 better and should've put animations for a better presentation. but when you get in the game, you'll 
 really get sucked into it! those who are expecting spectacular moves, visual, and ninja-action... 
 you won't be dissapointed with this game! 
  But prepare yourself... the way of the ninja is not an easy path. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: doc18
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 21, 2008 8:36 am PT
Review:  Ninja Gaiden was released on the Xbox back in 2004 and then the sequel released in June 2008 alongside 
 This game, Ninja Gaiden Sigma. Ryu's first outing on the Playstation 3. What took them so long 
 to port it and be a whole game behind microsoft remains a mystery, however the gameplay and great 
 graphics makes you quickly forgive and forget.
  
  NGS can be compared to classic old school games like shinobi and such, the difficulty is high and 
 the frustration factor is too. However this just adds to the length of the game, the enemies within 
 are nicely varied and the boss fights are epic. Once or twice you may feel like throwing your controller 
 at your tv screen as you read the words "do you choose to give up the path of the ninja?" for the 
 billionth time. However persevere and you will be rewarded.
  
  There are a variety of weapons within NGS, dual swords, your powerful Dragon Blade, a pole which 
 can be upgraded from wood into metal as well as nunchuks. Although this may not seem like a lot 
 to some people. the amount of combinations and upgrades you can unlock for them really stops the 
 game from ever feeling repetitive. 
  
  The Fighting in NGS is bloodthirsty, and some of the attacks make you wonder how you survived with 
 the amount of blood that comes out of both you and the enemies. Your combos are deadly and brutal 
 and so are the enemies. It's nice to see that the enemies aren't given a standard array of moves 
 to fight with and in fact look like the attended the same ninja school as you. Flipping and jumping 
 off walls and hitting you with stun batons, swords, grenade launchers, whatever they can get their 
 hands on really. It's a little strange however to see an enemy come up and initiate and hold where 
 they slit you're throat, and you to just then turn around after seeing a copius amount of blood 
 spurt out, and continue fighting. The bosses are even worse, if you think the enemies are tough, 
 wait to you fight you're first proper boss. Not only does he have a devestating amount of attacks, 
 he has two pesky helpers that cannot be killed and respawn every time you attack them. 
  
  The graphics in Ninja Gaiden are good, technically proficient, but compared to today's standard 
 on the next gen consoles, they don't fare too well against the likes of Metal Gear Solid 4 and 
 Drakes Fortune. However all things considered this is still a port of a last generation console 
 game thats been vamped up a bit so you have to take this with a pinch of salt.
  
  The sound in Ninja Gaiden is great, the voice acting slightly cheesy, but this is an action game 
 and you don't expect it to be as good as the voices may be in an RPG or in an adventure game. However 
 the sound effects are top notch, swords clang and thump off different materials, and the sound 
 of a sword tearing into an enemy is gruesomely satisfying. 
  
  In Ninja Gaiden its not all just action though, there are some slight occurences of platforming, 
 and also ideas that are taken from an adventure game. You have to run across walls, water, up walls, 
 basically most the enviroment to get to where you want to go. There is also some backtracking, 
 and this backtracking comes with respawning baddies so you never get too bored of just wondering 
 around. Also found in the game is the shop, here you can upgrade your weapons, buy potions, arrows, 
 and new special moves (ninpo as they are known in the game)
  
  The game also splits up the pace a bit by letting you use another character, called Rachel (who 
 is a fiend hunter) . Rachel is extremely strong but slow, where as Ryu is quick but weaker than 
 Rachel, this means that you have to adjust your play style when you play as Rachel, which is a 
 refreshing change from what can often just be Button Mashing as you play as Ryu.
  
  There are only Three real complaints i have about Ninja Gaiden Sigma, the extreme difficulty, which 
 is really unfriendly against first time players. the little replay value that Ninja Gaiden offers 
 and the weird gimmick that Sony introduced where you have to shake the Sixaxis to complete a powerful 
 Ninpo attack. This is just to showcase the fact the Sixaxis does have motion sensor capabilities, 
 i wouldn't mind the fact it was tacked on, if it wasn't so awkward to use in the middle of a fight.
 
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: dogi224
Rating: 6.5
Date: Dec 18, 2008 8:58 am PT
Review:  I had huge hopes for this game, I love my hack-and-slash games and this game delivers on all the 
 attributes needed on that section. But after a short period of playing time, the difficulty of 
 the game was stupid! You needed to be amazing at the game just to get past the first level! Bizzarly, 
 after hours of frustration and losing the will to play this game, I found out if you let it go 
 to the game over screen you can change the difficulty to easy (or Ninja Dog as its known) . Although 
 this makes the game more playable, my early opinions of this game had tainted the entire thing.
 
  
  The story is appalling and was made by an 11yr old. At the beggining your told of a world of corrupt 
 ninjas and you have to fight to regain control of the ninja world and reclaim the power of the 
 Dragon Sword from the clutches of evil. Sounds great, that is until the enemies become aliens and 
 dinosaurs! Yes aliens and dinosaurs! Where they came from who knows, apparently Ninjas fought aliens 
 on a regular basis. The story got silly and it got to a point not one of the people I was playing 
 the game with could actually tell me what the hell was going on. In the end we did complete it, 
 but i've never even picked up the box since.
  
  There were alot of similarities to other things, for example, there was a character called Doku 
 who comically reminds you of Darth Vader, and to make it even more amuzing, his boss is called 
 the Emperor. Is it me or does that stink of Star Wars? I can't remember other glaring copies off 
 the top of my head but there were many, very little individual imagination in this game.
  
  The graphics were ok and the music was average, the weapons were out right the best part of the 
 game and were a real good laugh when you could get a decent hit on ure opponant and chop their 
 alien heads off.
  
  Overall a reasonible game but alot of work needed on a better storyline. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DanteKilla
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 14, 2008 2:00 pm PT
Review:  This was one or my first games that i bought, and for me, it was like playing dmc 3 all over again, 
 well not as good but close (without the great storyline of course) . 
  What i thinks good about this game is because it isnt online, the storyline is bigger than those 
 that do. 
  The hordes of enemies you have to fight is fun to play, and the thing that makes it funner is the 
 weapons you get to fight them with.
  The best thing i liked about ths game though, is by far the boss battles. I like games where there 
 are BIG energy bars for the bosses compared to your small one, its more challenging. I dont think 
 there was one boss that i didnt enjoy playing, even with the man with the huge machine gun that 
 wouldnt stop coming. The water one was good as well. If you use the right weapon depending on which 
 enemy, youll kill them alot faster, and youll have to change your tactics depending on what your 
 fighting.
  
  The ONLY flaw i found in this game was the blood. It is flat what so ever, so youll sometimes see 
 it 'hovering' just above stairs with the corner bits touching, or halfway on walls then the other 
 half in mid air. BUt cmon, big deal, its not going to wreck your enjoyment of the game.
  
  GRAPHICS-8/10
  SOUND-7/10
  GAMEPLAY-9/10
  ONLINE-N/A 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Androvinus
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 1, 2008 5:19 pm PT
Review:  
  Graphics
  the graphics are very well done, although they are not the highest standard for ps3 games the graphics 
 are eye candy none the less. the framerate remains steady for 99.9% of the time and the animations 
 are fluid.
  Sound
  the sound that you mostly hear is the sound of steel meeting flesh and blood splashing across the 
 walls. but the sound track isnt bad but it leaves a bit to be desired.
  Story
  what story? the story isnt well developed at all and the characters a shallow. the story is very 
 simple but the story is clearly not the focus here.
  Gameplay
  when i first played this game, i didnt know what all the fuss was about but when i got further, 
 I realised that the game had a deep combat system with enemies that pose a great challenge. If 
 you dont adapt quickly to the games difficulty and fast paced gameplay, you will have lots of trouble 
 progressing.
  the gameplay is by far the greatest part of this game and it earns my recommendation for one of 
 the greatest action games ever.
  when you beat the game you will be thrilled to see there are tonnes of bonus missions that are 
 unlocked and they are lots of fun. this game will give you the right to call yourself a hardcore 
 gamer
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: jakarai
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 13, 2008 12:47 am PT
Review:  Well I have to say this is one of the most versatile Ninjas I have ever seen. He is fast, agile 
 and good with a large selection of weapons. The graphics are great in this game for a first generation 
 PS3 title. Not the best but at 60 fps and being able to play in 1080p it looks very good.
  
  The game starts out decent. The action quickly heats up. Now this game has some of the best 
 action with the weapons I have seen. I loved the weapon selection. The story is not one of the 
 best but I guess it gets the job done. Boss fights are lovely and are a great addition to this 
 game. The camera can and was a big problem for me at times. I couldn't had trouble jumping to certain 
 areas because of how the camera reacted. It made the game extra frustrating. Some of the bosses 
 can also be cheap if you know what I mean. This game to me is a chance game. What I mean by that 
 is sometimes you can defeat a boss very easily other times it may take forever, it just happens.
 
  
  Don't get me wrong I like the game but I think it could have been a lot better with some of the 
 design choices. Some areas of the game are a bit tedious with how the character controls and makes 
 the game very, very frustrating at times. Lastly I would like to add the game has some good replay 
 value with the difficulty in the modes and new enemies when you turn it up. After you complete 
 the game there are tons of little missions to do that have even more weapons to toy around with 
 that are not in the main game. Superb action game with a story that falls flat so that's why this 
 isn't AAA for me. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MaximumD
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 9, 2008 9:25 am PT
Review:  Ninja Gaiden Sigma is definitely worth playing. With the upgraded graphics, new weapons, and a 
 new character to play, this game is cool. The gameplay is the same as NG Black. If you like Black, 
 you'll like this better because of the upgraded stuff. I find this game kinda hard and takes time 
 to get used too. But, once you get used to NGS, you'll start to enjoy this game a lot better. The 
 combo system is very deep and you can pull off some amazing combos if you're good enough. For a 
 hack and slash game, NGS does a great job on the Genre. There's are tons of combos for you to master. 
 The Sound quality is good with Japanese Dialog and English Subtitle.
  
  Good: Beautiful Graphics, Extra Contents, and great Combo System.
  
  Bad: Could be too hard 
 for casuals, story is cheesy, and not enough play time with the extra character. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pspitus
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 2, 2008 2:32 pm PT
Review:  Ninja Gaiden Sigma is about a ninjawell.. I guess you've already figured that out by reading 
 the title. Anyways, you play as a ninja named Ryu Hayabusa. Some guy named Doku, who I believe 
 looks like a walking candle with bad fashion sense, attacks Ryu's village. Why? I think it's because 
 he wanted some type of sword or something, I don't know, the story in Ninja Gaiden made about as 
 much sense as an omelet being cooked on the sidewalk during a hot summer's day. Weird. Anyways 
 all you need to know is that Doku attacks the village, Ryu is _____ (insert word here) and swears 
 vengeance on him. Just your simple revenge type plot, but with shurikens and ninjas everywhere, 
 SWEET!
  
  Ninja Gaiden Sigma is a hack and slash type game. You see an enemy, you whip out your weapon of 
 choice, and you murder the freakin' thing; simple, easy, yet satisfying. Satisfaction comes at 
 a high price though. The enemies within the game are ruthless and will do everything within their 
 tiny little AI brains to obliterate you. If you are not careful, and don't react quickly enough, 
 you might become really good friends with the Game Over screen. Needless to say, the combat in 
 the game is exceptionally fun, but can be very difficult at times. There are a couple of platforming 
 sections, but the camera does not do it justice. The in-game camera loves to awkwardly shift in 
 the game especially in really tight spaces. I think I threw up a little bit on my controller (don't 
 worry I didn't) . Ryu's swift jumping can also be a problem if you want to accurately land on the 
 next platform, sometimes you over jump it, and sometimes you under jump it. Both are incredibly 
 bad if there is a never ending abyss below you. The swimming sections in the game are downright 
 ridiculous. Now I'm not saying that the swimming mechanics in the game are terrible, but I am saying 
 that Ninja Gaiden Sigma would have been better off without the swimming sections; the swimming 
 sections seemed to slow down the gaming experience. Honestly I don't think swimming and videogames 
 go well together, but that's just me. The thing that bothered me the most was the.. BACK TRACKING!!! 
 I have never played a game with so much back tracking before. Some missions require you to run 
 through multiple levels that you have already visited in order to reach the objective. Not only 
 is that annoying, but it can also be frustrating. Some may spend up to 45 min. just to figure out 
 where to go in the game. Trust me, Ninja Gaiden + Back tracking = one frustrated gamer. Ninja Gaiden 
 offers great gameplay, but a few minor blemishes hold it back from its true potential. 
  
  The character, monster, and boss designs were nicely done for the most part. As for the level design..... well.. 
 it was pretty dull. The backgrounds seemed to be re-used in many parts of the game, and sometimes 
 caused me to get lost at certain points. The level layout is plain and simple which is a good thing 
 because there is a sheer amount of back tracking within the game. The in-game cut scenes looked 
 nicely done, but felt faded and washed out. The cut scenes didn't seem to match the actual in-game 
 graphics; it felt out of place some how. 
  
  The sound quality in the game was superb. The in-game music matched the atmosphere for each individual 
 level perfectly. The voice-acting was pretty good also, but some of the in-game dialogue was a 
 bit awkward. The sound effects of each weapon colliding with a monster's body were excellent. Hearing 
 your blade slice through an enemy is very satisfying, and will want you to crave for more. Not 
 like Count Dracula though, that guy is just downright crazy with bloodlust. 
  
  Overall: When you get down to it, Ninja Gaiden Sigma provides a fun yet challenging experience 
 that will either make you or break you. If you can supply the time, patience, and avoid throwing 
 your controller on the ground with anger, then you will find yourself enjoying this remarkable 
 game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: WWE4lyfe123
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 29, 2008 4:17 pm PT
Review:  I'll admit it here and right now-I have never played any of the Ninja Gaiden games. I haven't played 
 the ones for the NES, or the ones on XBox. So yeah, Ninja Gaiden Sigma was my first go at the game. 
 This game is simply amazing... probably one of the best looking games to grace the PS3. However, 
 it's not without some of it's problems.
  
  Graphics: 9/10
  The graphics are top-notch, no doubt about that. The animations run very smoothly during cutscenes 
 and Ryu never looked better. Rachel looks great as well, even though I wasn't too fond of her big 
 boobs. The way the characters move and interact is very realistic and shows off the power of the 
 PS3.
  
  Gameplay: 8/10
  Awesome weapons. Awesome combos. One kick-ass ninja. Seriously, you'll want to keep learning with 
 this game. But yeah, the bosses CAN get cheap at times, especially Alternator. I don't know why 
 Team Ninja couldn't just let you dodge the gunfire like in Ninja Gaiden Black and move on to the 
 next chapter because this boss was annoyingly cheap. The camera angles are a bit of an issue too, 
 especially during intense boss fights. I found myself getting smacked from time to time because 
 of the camera issues. Hopefully Team Ninja does something about this. The bosses can also be a 
 bit unbalanced at times, so yeah, some flaws in gameplay. The enemies are also very smart in this 
 game. One screw up and they will kick your ass/counter you like there's no tomorrow. Counter, block, 
 and rolling are your best friends. Don't get swarmed or you're finished. 
  
  Sound: 9/10
  I personally like the soundtrack of the game. The music can be intense at times and puts you right 
 into the battle. The voice acting is pretty good but Gamov's voice in the English version is kinda 
 annoying.
  
  Controls: Simple and very smooth. If mashing buttons is your thing, then this game isn't for you. 
 Mash too many buttons and you'll get punished for it. Ryu's attacks are a must to learn. Use Normal 
 as your practice because harder modes WILL destroy you if you're not careful.
  
  Overall: I really like this game. It can be very hard and frustrating at times but it forces you 
 to learn more. I would recommend this game to anyone who has a Playstation 3. It has Mission Mode, 
 harder settings such as Hard, Very Hard and Master Ninja. If you feel you're not ready for Normal, 
 you can play Ninja Dog but in my opinion, I would rather struggle through normal, learning Ryu's 
 attacks than to wear a ribbon around my wrist.
  
  And a little heads up, the game does have annoying camera angles.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dark_sageX
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 29, 2008 11:23 am PT
Review:  This is the first Ninja Gaiden game I have played, it is truly an epic action adventure with hours 
 of fun hack and slash, Ninja Gaiden sigma is an enhanced port of the original Ninja Gaiden for 
 the Xbox and goes to show the leaping difference between current-gen and next-gen consoles.
  
  Story: Ryu Hayabusa, a descendent of the dragon lineage, journeyed to meet his uncle master 
 Murai in order to complete his training in the art of ninjatsu..
  However having completed his training, Ayane delivers troubling news; the Hayabusa village is under 
 attack by their enemy faction, the shadow clan.
  Upon arrival Ryu discovers his village decimated and learned that their leader was a dark samurai 
 named Doku.
  Ryu attempted to defeat the menace but Doku's powers proved overwhelming, as Ryu lay on the ground 
 he witnesses Doku killing princess Kureha and stole the dark dragon blade, a legendary weapon known 
 to hold terrifying powers.
  After regaining consciousness Ryu sets out on a journey of vengeance in search of Doku as well 
 as retrieving the dark dragon blade. Ryu heads to Vigor, where the enemy is based.
  
  Game design: 
  The story in Ninja Gaiden is honestly very mediocre and you will hardly find any 
 interest in it (with the exception of hardcore fans) however you will gain most out of Ninja Gaiden 
 Sigma through its game play.
  Graphics are nice and pretty sharp but not really to PS3 standard.
  Cut scenes are in pre-rendered 
 and not in game which kind of makes the game presentation pretty weak, not that it's a bad thing 
 since characters are pretty well detailed and environments look very sharp and well detailed.
 
  The game is an action adventure game which gets most of its juice through the combat.
  The game is split into several chapters, the stages are fairly linear at first but will later on 
 require quite a bit of back tracking and you could end up stuck since you will need to go to certain 
 spots which you would never think of going, however you will get occasional hints to help you out, 
 however they are not very useful later on in the game.
  Along the way you will come across new items and really cool weapons, at the end of each chapter 
 you will be given a rank based on how well you preformed, the better the rank the more points you 
 will get (similar to Devil May Cry) .
  Points can be used to purchase potions and items from the shop or take your weapons to the black 
 smith and learn new combos for each.
  The game can be replayed on higher difficulty and with items gained intact.
  
  Game play: You 
 will play as Ryu Hayabusa and will be hacking and slashing your way through hoards of enemies, 
 utilizing various combos and magical attacks.
  The combat is nothing like Devil May Cry, the majority of enemies are either ninjas and samurais, 
 they will basically gang up on you and perform really cool attacks and will have smart AI, the 
 key is timing and precision, as it is wise to strike, dodge and block in certain situations at 
 the right moment and you must be aware of your surrounding, as even enemies that appear off-screen 
 may attack you, you will also have to be especially cautious of bosses as they have more lethal 
 attacks and you won't get much opportunity to attack them very much, so pick a good time to strike. 
 Simply put, if you want to be victorious you must become a ninja, every strike must count.
  In addition to melee weapons such as swords and nunchucks, you can also use projectile weapons 
 such as shurikens and arrows, which are affective for distant enemies.
  More weapons can be found during the course of the game, you can also use magic attacks that can 
 decimate multiple enemies in one go, however you won't get much points for it.
  Ryu is very responsive and you will not have any problems performing attacks and techniques, as 
 you progress you can increase health and magic meter for extra power.
  At certain chapters you will play as a fiend hunter named Rachael. 
  Rachael is slow and isn't 
 as acrobatic as Ryu but her giant hammer packs a punch and can relatively kill most enemies with 
 a single blow, you can also unlock other items and upgrades for Rachael, however she won't get 
 any new weapons.
  
  Music: The soundtrack is pretty sweet, with some nice Japanese ninja themes and rock mix. There 
 are voice casts for every character and you will constantly hear people speaking, it's too bad 
 the dialogues aren't very inspiring though.
  
  Ninja Gaiden Sigma is a fun game that really makes you feel like a ninja.
  The combat is solid 
 and incredibly fun and the game has lots of sweet content worth playing for.
  The story in the game is pretty long but not very inspiring, sure there is a motive behind what 
 everyone does but it is always clear what's going to happen next and most of the time you will 
 think "so what?" and will most probably skip through cut scenes once you have already seen them, 
 it's a good thing there is more combat than story.
  A major issue in the game is the camera, since it will not focus on bosses or enemies you will 
 have to constantly rotate the camera, which can be frustrating especially when trying to perform 
 complex platforming or when there are enemies firing projectile weapons at you but you won't know 
 until you get hit and see where they are firing from.
  While the game's graphics are descent they don't live up to PS3 standard, the pre-rendered animated 
 scenes seem out dated and the breast jiggle effect of Rachael just looks unrealistic and ridiculous. 
 
  
  That said, Ninja Gaiden Sigma is a nice action game that would please action adventure genre fans 
 alike and should be given consideration if you have a PS3 and need a good Ninja game.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: drcsyntax
Rating: 1
Date: Oct 25, 2008 9:43 am PT
Review:  On the back of the box to Sigma it reads "The real reason you bought a PS3"
  
  I think not...
  
  Let's start off with the beginning scene, where a ninja jumps out and comes 
 at another ninja, both of them look basically the same; and your ninja needs to defend himself 
 and kill the other ninja. How you ask? Who the hell knows the game starts off without telling you 
 much.
  The game play is pathetic; controls are iffy, 'combos' are weird to execute.
  
  Graphics wise, the game isn't half bad, but if you look at the biceps of the first boss, you think 
 you're playing on the PSX or something. 
  
  Enemy AI .... what's that? Cause I don't think it was incorporated at all. The enemies just mindlessly 
 swing at you really, all of which are easily dispatched.
  
  Overall in my opinion this game stinks.... if you're an old fan, then I guess you'll like it, I'll 
 stick to old school Ninja Gaiden myself.. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shadygeneral
Rating: 7
Date: Oct 20, 2008 4:00 am PT
Review:  Lets get one thing out of the way first. This is a frustrating, cheap, repetitive & broken mess 
 of a game. Yet it has charm & for some reason you'll want to keep playing. 
  
  The biggest problem without a doubt is the camera. The word awful doesn't even come close to describing 
 just how shockingly bad this camera is. You'll have all heard by now just how difficult this game 
 is meant to be. Well I'll tell you now, its nothing to do with great AI or anything like that. 
 Its because the camera will have you fighting a lot of enemies off screen. You also get enemies 
 that just spam you with projectiles  these are all off screen so its impossible to tell when they 
 are getting thrown at you so you can dodge them in time. And what's worse is that these normally 
 do a hell of a lot of damage. But that's not the very worst of it. Later in the game you get a 
 few platforming sections. These are made much harder that they should be due to the ridiculous 
 camera angles. Causing many instant deaths, backtracking or health loss. All incredibly frustrating.
 
  
  The graphics are functional but nothing special. Its last gen roots can be seen almost everywhere 
 with flat textures, gormless faces & simple effects. However it all runs silky smooth with only 
 a couple of sections that have slowdown & it has good art direction that still holds up well enough. 
 The animation is also superb. The way Ryu runs around his surroundings, jumping off walls, performing 
 back flips, rolls, slicing & generally running circles around your enemies is mesmerising. It really 
 is a great site.
  
  The controls stand up well too. They are simple but allow you to perform a myriad of tricks at 
 the press of one button. However the platforming sections rear their ugly heads again to ruin this 
 element. While the controls feel precise enough at first, when you are having to make certain jumps, 
 they are just too fiddly. Unless you are lined up correctly, Ryu will go flying in completely the 
 wrong direction. There is no mid air control & its just too fast, you have to commit yourself too 
 much when you press that jump.
  
  Next onto the combat system. Supposedly Ninja Gaidens party piece. While they work well enough 
 & there's a load of weapons & combos to chose from. It just didn't seem that special to me. Maybe 
 its because I was playing on normal & you have to try more on hard. But I got through the game 
 relatively stress free just using 2-3 combos, the flying swallow move & counters. I physically 
 tried to use others but they just weren't effective enough. In fact they were just about useless. 
 You are unable to switch weapons on the fly which is a lost opportunity too. & although the combo 
 list seems extensive across the weapons, they all share similar combos. Sure this avoids confusion 
 on button presses but it all ends up feeling the same. 
  
  Which brings me onto the next point. It really does start getting repetitive & tedious. Towards 
 the end I was pretty bored & couldn't wait for it to finish. In fact the whole game gets some pretty 
 big dips, where you're back tracking over areas you've already visited, beating bosses you've already 
 done & the last couple of levels are just long, drawn out combat arenas. It feels rushed & the 
 game could have benefited from being shorter with less fat. As do Sigma's exclusive Rachael's levels. 
 These are just going over Ryu's areas & feel tacked on. They really didn't add anything to the 
 experience. There's also the water levels. Im not going to go into it, but they're so dull you'll 
 want to slice your wrists & they go on for far too long. I almost just gave up at these sections, 
 not because of difficulty, but sheer boredom. 
  
  But even through all this, the camera, platforming sections, pretty repetitive combat, the god 
 awful water sections etc. I still kept on playing it. I wouldn't say it was fun. But I did enjoy 
 it & watching Ryu bounce about the environment never gets old & the combat, while not as brilliant 
 as people make out. Is still damn solid. All in all, its like a rollercoaster - I recommend it 
 but expect it to be full of highs & lows. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: xxZiggyxx
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 14, 2008 2:47 am PT
Review:  This game is amazing. I was really excited when it came out. If you're a big fan of Ninja Gaiden 
 from your childhood, you must have this game! This game is obviously hard but challenging and it's 
 always been like that from the start. I like how you can run on the walls and jump flip over things. 
 The weapons are cool to fight with and it's so brutal. I find the story line is interesting and 
 the bosses are still hard to beat at a normal difficulty. The graphics looks beautiful and the 
 game runs smooth. It even has the outfits from the old games and the new outfit looks really nice. 
 I've seen people complaining about the camera view getting on the way but I don't really see any 
 problem with it. 
  It may be repetitive but it's fun to see all your enemies getting all cut out. So if you're a Ninja 
 Gaiden fan or if you're into games like Heavenly Sword or The Darkness, I recommend you to own 
 this game, it's a must buy!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: -Michelle-
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 13, 2008 7:05 am PT
Review:  Ninja Gaiden Sigma one of the greatest action games on PS3 you don't wanna miss it .. this game 
 is long about 19 chapters and that's the best thing you'll find beside the difficulty and the action 
 style .. there's no online mode and a lot of people complaining about it but in my opinion Ninja 
 Gaiden doesn't need online mode I can't think how could this be possible it's action adventure 
 game there are no multiple characters like first person shooter games ..
  
  Ryu Hayabusa is the main playable character and he's a member of the Hayabusa Ninja Clan .. through 
 the game you'll play with another character called Rachel and she's a fiend hunter searching for 
 her sister .. 
  
  What's bother me the most in Ninja Gaiden Sigma is the story there's no solid story it's odd "in 
 the bad way" the first two chapters everything went alright like you were really back to old Japan 
 then suddenly in the third chapter everything became modern !! I didn't like the changing at first 
 but after that I got used to it .. anyway the story is talking about vengeance but don't expect 
 a lot of drama cuz our protagonist not a dramatic character ..
  
  The Fighting in this game is awesome and you can fight the enemies with melee weapons or projectile 
 weapons also you can utilize magic Ninpo attacks .. if you face dead end don't worry cuz you can 
 use some of Ninja movement techniques like the wall running , flying bird flip , swimming and running 
 across water .. when you out of the supplies you can buy them from Muramasa shop and in this shop 
 also you can upgrade your weapons .. 
  
  The levels are big and it's take time to explore them all and the graphics are great .. the sounds 
 and music are good but the Eng-Dub is sucks and thanks god there is an option to change the language 
 speech so bit of advice choose Jap-Dub with Eng-Sub ..
  
  
  This game will lead you through an amazing adventure so make sure don't miss it .. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MissKittyKat21
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 11, 2008 1:04 am PT
Review:  graphics are outstanding on this version of Ninja Gaiden... so far only a few differences than in 
 Ninja Gaiden Black for the x-box. the bosses are a bit harder and there are a lot more enemies. 
 besides that... you don't get the lunar in the hayabusa village like you do in Ninja Gaiden Black. 
 but the graphics are so much better and it is lots of fun to play! overall great! but for those 
 of you who didn't do well in Ninja Gaiden Black I wouldn't try to play this one yet. it is a lot 
 harder than Ninja Gaiden Black. even in the first level there are many more enemies. and enemies 
 that you didn't face until later in levels you will face much sooner. and it is much much more 
 bloody than Ninja Gaiden Black :) for those of you who aren't big playstation people, the controls 
 are a bit much to get used to at first but well worth it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: HeroKen-ii
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 28, 2008 3:42 pm PT
Review:  Like most Ninja Gaiden games this game was just as amazing.
  I have to say once you get pass the first chapter of the game gets much harder. (when you get to 
 the "air ship")
  I still got pass it but it took some time.
  the graphics where alright, since the game came out like a year ago.
  The levels were really thought 
 out.
  and the story line was nice.
  Game play was good but they could have spent more time on it.
  The weapons you got were fun, i 
 thought some of them were point less though. (maybe it's just me)
  I got stuck on some parts of the game and needed help.
  The Boss fights were fun, but a few of 
 them where annoying.
  Over all i still enjoyed it (i only payed 30 dollars for it, since the price drop) This is a game 
 to play if you are hyper.
  Oh the camera view is annoying.
  think gos it's not "fixed". 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dunnowhathuh
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 20, 2008 2:05 am PT
Review:  The ridiculous amount of ninja moves you can pull off in this game make it tons of fun but a few 
 camera issues really ruin this game. 
  
  I'm not entirely sure why almost everyone chooses to ignore the dodgey camera but it's really annoying 
 imo. A lot of the time I'll find myself trying to bring the camera back to a good position after 
 the damn thing moves on its own only for it to move back to yet another horrid angle. This becomes 
 especially annoying when you're trying to pull off directional dependent combos and finding out 
 exactly where all your enemies are. Given the amount of enemies this game throws at you and in 
 conjunction with the intense difficulty, the game becomes impossible at times.
  
  The difficulty of the game itself (not including any camera related frustration) is punishing which 
 can be a good or a bad thing depending on how you like your games. Any slip ups and refusing to 
 use your block button will result in your untimely demise multiple times. Pulling off some of the 
 aerobatic moves in this game can also become a bit tedius, even when you have become accustomed 
 to it but fortunately, you're not required to do these throughout all of the game.
  
  The graphics are fantastic and the movements of all the characters are sleek (and sexy in the case 
 of Rachel) . Music and sound are great and the english voice acting isn't TOO bad though there is 
 the option of changing back to the Japanese voice overs if you should want to do so.
  
  In terms of a typical slash em up, this game is great but unfortunately there are many things that 
 just make this game frustrating. If you utterly suck at action slash em ups or are easily annoyed, 
 this game IS NOT for you. If you're one for a challenge however, give it a go. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gray_Wolf-13
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 9, 2008 3:12 pm PT
Review:  Ninja Gaiden was never on my "to play" list until my brother convinced me to borrow it from him 
 for a week and try it out. By the end of the week I was requesting another week just so I could 
 get to the halfway point!
  
  Ninja Gaiden has some truly epic battles not only with some of the hardest bosses I've ever had 
 the pleasure of battling but with a huge array of enemies that seem to never stop coming. Of course 
 having a giant arsenal of weapons at your disposal and, most importantly, being a Ninja, you deal 
 quick and gruesome deaths to all who oppose you.
  
  Weapons can be upgraded and new moves learned so that your already kick ass Ninja can kick even 
 more ass quicker and with more grace. Weapons range from the average sword to a bow and arrows, 
 throwing knives, and much more.
  
  All in all a great game that PS3 gamers will enjoy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thvirus
Rating: 7
Date: Aug 31, 2008 11:16 am PT
Review:  I played the demo and i could not stop playing so i ran and got the game. the first half was fine. 
 fighting ninjas, small puzzles, interesting bosses it was all good. Then all the enemies got guns. 
 Now they all just shoot from far away. It gets real lame and takes me out the whole ninja theme.
 
  
  Playing with Racheal is a big bummer. Ryu is such a quick and awesome player that when playing 
 with slow Racheal it keeps me counting down until i can play with Ryu again.
  
  I for one think that this game would have been great with just Ryu, ninjas and samurais. The soldiers, 
 tanks snipers nest and Racheal belong in some other game. Don't get me wrong racheal is fun to 
 look at but combat wise she comes up short.
  
  The combos are wonderful. Just watching them being performed helps overlook SOME of the flaws of 
 this game.
  
  So rent it first if you like it a lot then by all means keep it. Tell the people you rented it 
 from that i said you can have it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: naughtydogmania
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 31, 2008 6:46 am PT
Review:  This game is not appropriate to new gamers and inpatient ones. Why do I say this? easy question, 
 this game is so freaking hard that you have to be familiar with the ps3 controller, thus not being 
 suitable to those that have to look to the buttons that are pushing. Also the game is awesomely 
 fast, giving you no time to think, and testing your reflexes to the max!
  
  One thing in which the game really s*cks is on the video clips between some chapters. The quality 
 is terrible, but from what it seems, it was originally good... yes, I'm saying the videos, were 
 copied from the xbox version, while you play the game in all the screen 19:4 if I'm not mistaken, 
 the videos use a 3:4 screen. You can see a lot of pixels, it really is bad quality. 
  Besides that, the story is cool but very simple, your from a ninja clan that protects a super awesome, 
 super strong and evil sword. Then someone stoles it and in the way kills a girl that you like... 
 You go for revenge and to retrieve the sword. the end...
  
  Something that annoys me very much, is the fact of the final bosses, appearing from zero... don't 
 want to talk much because of spoilers, but WTF! I mean There are like 3 bosses that aren't related 
 to the story!
  I mean, the first bosses aren't very important, but being one of the last and not having a relation 
 with the story is kinda lame you know...
  
  Again in the gameplay... 
  As i said it before it's an hard game, but not because of lack of weapons, no! You have THE Dragon 
 Sword, 2 other swords to be used at the same time, a sword that splits in two, a stick, shuriken, 
 windmill shuriken, incendiary shuriken, bow, explosive arrows, a gigantic sword, 4 ninpo thingys... 
 you know... ninja's magic, and much more.
  Also the main weapons, can be upgraded, which is cool.
  
  At the beginning of the game you 
 think you're in the japan from them past, cause there are only ninjas. But no, you're in a completely 
 different world with the so called fiends, and also with motorcycles, tanks and guns...
  
  The music is thrilling and kinda gives you the strength to kill the 80 fiends that are attacking 
 you... yes in the game you kinda have some challenges: kill 80 fiends and you'll get for example 
 an item to make your health bar bigger. but you don't have to do the challenges, only if you want 
 money, or more karma. Whats karma? It's the name for the so familiar points. Points that exist 
 for only one purpose... to kill you... joking! The more points you have the better you are in the 
 world ranking, but you only appear on the ranking IF you have finish the game... good luck with 
 that...
  
  Oh btw, a note... if your a vilont person, and you have dualshock 3 and sixaxis... i advise you 
 to play the game with the sixaxis... you know, just in case you freak out.
  
  If you have any more questions about the game gameplay or other things, just pm me! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: alinhix
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 21, 2008 4:52 pm PT
Review:  This game is really hard.......... take some time to get used to the controls before you get too 
 far or you'll have to abandon the way of the ninja!!!! Graphics, controls, and gameplay are amazing! 
 If you like hack and slash games, and need a challenge, this is the game. There are so many new 
 moves you can do, and lots of new weapons at your disposal to get rid of all who step in your path. 
 Each type of enemy you encounter has a different fighting style, and it seems like they adjust 
 to your play style. For example, if you try the same move too many times they will catch on and 
 you will be done for. You will be buying a lot of potions, and don't be afraid to use 'em!
  
  There is a shop in this game where you cash in your yellow orbs. You can buy upgrades for your 
 weapons, buy potions, accessories, and technique scrolls. You are going to want to get all your 
 available weapon upgrades before you spend on anything else, but health potions are essential.
 
  
  Overall, a good challenge, lots of excitement, no bs, and pure fun. Don't get frustrated if you 
 can't do it, keep trying, you'll get it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rolmanus
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 19, 2008 2:43 pm PT
Review:  I've never played the Xbox's Ninja Gaiden. Maybe becouse i've always was a PS fan, maybe becouse 
 I've never played with Xbox (only with 360) , but I've missed that game. Now, I've heard a lot of 
 good things about this game. And all of that was right. It has nice graphics, It's a long game, 
 well long for an action game, the musics are great, and the voice acting too. BUT! There was something 
 I did not know! THE GAME IS SOOO F*CKIN' HARD!!!! It's one of the hardest games of all time, sometimes 
 even harder than the original trilogy! The bosses are awesome, but hard, the levels are awesome, 
 but hard, the enemies are awesome, but there are too many of them, so they're too hard, the game 
 is awesome, but it's TOO F*CKIN' hard! Well, that's all about the game. You should give it a try, 
 but only if you can stand it that it's HARD!!!
  
  Graphics: Great. Nothin SOOO special, but nice. 8/10
  
  Sounds: Awesome! Especially the musics 
 9/10
  
  Controls: Perfect. This is the only reason, why I didn't smashed the controller into little pieces. 
 10/10
  
  Gameplay: Great. BUT! You already know what am I going to say, right? 7/10
  
  The good: An ambitious and exciting game
  
  The bad: An incredibly hard and frustrating game. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheHazardousOne
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 15, 2008 4:35 pm PT
Review:  ninja gaiden sigma for the playstation 3 was amazing. i loved this game. everything about this 
 game was good. the graphics were really great it. they looked so good on sony. the gameplay was 
 perfect. i played plenty of hack n slash and none of them played this good. the levels were big. 
 plenty of secrets for you to find. you got some pretty cool weapons. if you want a game with lots 
 of gore. well ninja gaiden sigma is the game that you want. the story was badass. it keep growing 
 on you. the more you played the more you wanted to keep going to watch the story. the cut scenes 
 are pretty good also. and the boss fights were so fun. but im telling you that they got pretty 
 hard towards the end of the story mode. matter of fact this whole game was pretty hard. nothing 
 that you cant handle tho. pretty much for experienced gamers. either way your going to love this 
 game. i would rent this one. because the story mode was nothing more then 12 hours. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: warokku
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 4, 2008 8:49 pm PT
Review:  This is a classic that was first released on the original Xbox in two different forms/ titles and 
 my only reason for buying an Xbox. A classic that needed to be available to Playstation. Naturally 
 the Playstation 3 version stays true to the original, except for some cut's and some extra's. It 
 is a little easier to play than the Xbox version, as there are more save points. Graphic's have 
 been refined for use of HD. Many critics have given the game a slightly less score than the original 
 but I feel it is up to par and worthy of the same score. If you are a die hard Playstaion fan and 
 missed out on this classic via the Xbox, then I highly suggest you try it on you'r PS3... if you 
 don't you are missing out on something special. Ninja Gaiden Sigma is a true action/adventure/fantasy 
 game players paradise. I am a huge fan the Zelda series for it's content and I would very easily 
 compare the content of this game with that of legendary status. Buy or die. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dragonflyer123
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 13, 2008 10:33 pm PT
Review:  Ninja Gaiden is a great game. You don't need to rent it buy it. Its FREAKEN hard I'm stuck in chapter 
 7. I just got the game a few days ago. When I started and got this skill at the first chapter. 
 I WAS LIKE, WTF CRAZY! Chopping their heads off is fun lol. Heres my ratings.
  Game Play 10/10
  Camera 4/10
  Value 10/10
  Graphics 9/10
  Story Line 10/10
  Overall 9/10
 
  Mission Mode ?/10
  Game Play: AWESOME GAME PLAY. You could really do a lot of combos. Find stuff around each chapter.
 
  Camera: I'm really disappointed with the camera. It really moves around a lot. Press R1 then it 
 goes back behind you. That sucks, its to close.
  Value: Its very cheap. On sale when I bought it at Fryz for $27.99.
  Graphics: The graphics are 
 not like real-life graphics their just like 3D Graphics which is A. O. K.
  Story Line: THE STORY WAS GREAT, OVER 15 CHAPTERS! Very Long. It takes like 15 min - 1 hour! It 
 makes it more fun! 2 playable characters which are Ryu and Rachel!
  Mission Mode: Haven't got to mission mode yet but I think it will be great!
  Extra: Its a bit 
 bad that their are no lock on like in Kingdom Hearts, you get to lock on a monster or any other 
 enemies. Well its not like Devil May Cry 4 or Techu (Whatever its called) . I didn't find any thing 
 like them. Their should be! But that's alright. 
  THE GOOD: 2 PLAYABLE CHARACTERS, NEW WEAPONS, NICE COMBOS, AND OVER 15 CHAPTERS.
  THE BAD: CAMERA 
 KEEPS MOVING ITS ANNOYING. ALSO THEIR IS NO LOCK ON LIKE KINGDOM HEARTS AND ITS NOTHING LIKE DEVIL 
 MAY CRY 4 OR TECHU (HOWEVER YOU SPELL IT) .
  Enjoy my review people!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Princess_Jill
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 11, 2008 9:49 am PT
Review:  Ninja Giden Sigma is one of the best things Tecmo did! :D it's about time Sony owners had a Ninja 
 Gaiden game of their own! and it's awesome and lovely! :D and addictive, I might add
  
  Story:
  The story is not diffferent from any NG game story, but you have more of Raechel this 
 time, she's the girl you saw in Ninja Gaiden Black on the Xbox for the first time, you also play 
 as her :) fun, because she can do spells and moves of her own using the sixaxis controller
  
  Presentation:
  The grpahics are lovely :) one of the best the PS3 has to offer, the cutsecenes 
 are simply amazing and although they look pre-rendered, they're acrually polygonal, and the blood 
 is soo real, it splashes and gets the environment stained just like real blood would do, and the 
 voice acting is really good, I just wish Ryu would talk more hehe
  
  Gameplay:
  It's less difficult from the previous Ninja Gaiden games you suffered from their difficulty on 
 Xbox, but what's awesome is, It's still difficult! seriously, if you played an NG game before, 
 you'll have no problems with chapter 1 then when chapter 2 comes, the true face of this game is 
 revealed, you'll have multiple enemies attacking you from near and far at the same time, which 
 sometimes you'll think isn't fair at all lol, and the bosses are difficult, and to get through 
 some of them, you have to buy new weapons from this shop that's owned by an old man, who can also 
 be seen in DoA4 LOL :D Yep, that's Itagaki's games for you :)
  
  I forgot to mention that you have an online ranking, depending on how much karma you collect, and 
 in case you don't know what karma is, its these little yellow balls you get from your enemies after 
 you kill them, you have different colors of balls, each does a different job, like for example 
 the blue one heals you.
  You also collect items, some you can sell and some you use to open new areas
  
  So to make 
 a long story short, this is a must-have for all NG fans and PS3 owners alike! :) don't miss it 
 out especially if you haven't played an NG game before 
::::::

::::::
UserName: eze_sl89
Rating: 6
Date: Aug 7, 2008 9:34 pm PT
Review:  Okey, when I first got the game i thought "cool ninja gaiden" the classic series thats been in 
 video games for long... so now on the ps3 should be such an awesome game it should be a must buy... 
 WRONG.
  Just in the moment i saw the starting screen everything started to go wrong. First, no multiplayer 
 features. Fine, its an arcade singleplayer game, thats ok, but... come on, it would ve been cool 
 to include online stuff like deathmach or something like that. 
  Anyways... i started the game hoping it would be something exciting, such as tenchu games or assassin 
 creed. Not a chance, first, in the first level i got dissapointed, the graphics werent as expected, 
 they were a bit mediocre actually and the fighting mechanics were quite weird.
  It made me remmember long ago when i played devil may cry on the ps2.. just pushing and pushing 
 buttons and waiting till the bad guys were all finished.
  On the other hand, after a couple of hours.. and levels.. i started to enjoy the game "style" just 
 a bit but then got sick of the respawn of enemies, the mediocre graphics, and the TERRIBLE CAMERA. 
 I really expected much more from a ninja gaiden, so now im getting the 360 version.. and check it 
 out.
  
  Summing up, good game... not an unforgetable one, just for rental. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lukeitch
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 4, 2008 1:19 pm PT
Review:  Yes, this game is gorey and thats part of the reason I love it. The actual gameplay is perfect, 
 lots of skill required, lots of difficult levels, many different weapons and "power ups", absolutly 
 great. The graphics, nearing perfection but its on the PS3 so thats no big suprise. The game can 
 and cannot be smooth, if you do not use the install feature then every so often the game freezes 
 and at the bottom right corner says "now loading". If you use the install feature, perfect!
  Its online mode is disopointing, you can only compete scores with each other, it would be great 
 if you could fight each other with bosses and playable characters.
  
  This came out around the PS3's release and for one of the first games its perfect. If they release 
 another one, change the online mode and add more characters.
  
  Really, more of the same. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: twistedray
Rating: 8
Date: Jul 27, 2008 4:47 pm PT
Review:  Ninja Gaiden is an awesome and addicting game. The only real problem I have with it is the camera. 
 It is the worst camera in a video game I have ever seen. In fact ,the the only thing that makes 
 this game so hard is the camera issue. For example, the camera likes to zoom in on your character 
 when he's fighting. This causes it to be near impossible to see all your enemies. You don't even 
 know they're there til they hit you and depending on your health status, that could be too late. 
 It also makes fast moving bosses extremely difficult because the camera has a hard time keeping 
 up with them making it hard to keep them in sight causing you to take cheap hits. If it wasn't 
 for the camera I'd give this game a 9.5. Hopefully they fixed that issue in the sequel. I have nothing 
 further to say so now I'm just adding for words so that I can post this rating. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kuraime
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 23, 2008 7:26 am PT
Review:  Since the games have shifted out of the 2d-platform into the 3d-world, the game difficulty has 
 significantly went downwards. However, one exception does exist to prove the rule. The Ninja Gaiden 
 series. In ancient times (in the late 80s) there existed a game hard enough to cause young kids 
 cry out for their mommy. That game was the original Ninja Gaiden (Shadow Warriors in Europe) , a 
 game so awesome, but yet so hard that completing it felt like Mission: Imbossible.
  
  Now that 2d games are out of fashion (I still love them) , there hasnt been any game that causes 
 more gray hairs to modern gamers than Ninja Gaiden Sigma (or Ninja Gaiden for the X-Box, but I 
 dont know anything about that) . At first the game seems like a common Onimusha style game, where 
 you only need to press one attack button to sweep the floors with enemy bodies. However Ninja Gaiden 
 will quickly bite you to the balls if you continue with this attitude, and this becomes obvious 
 in the very first level. The level itself is pretty easily completed, but once the first boss battle 
 commences, you are in deep doodoo. This was the point where I raised my hat to the truly devious 
 game that actually forced me to learn how to defend and use various other techniques other than 
 square-tapping.
  
  From thereon the game really started to hit me in the face. Basic enemy groups swept the floor 
 with my bloody remains, until I stopped underestimating the standard line troopers and learned 
 to use all available moves in the movelist. And this is when the game really started to excel. 
 Obtaining new weapons were truly worth the trouble and the new different moves on each weapon made 
 you constantly learn new skills and techniques. The game is incapable of becoming boring as you 
 are constantly fighting for your life, even against the common critters.
  
  The plot of the game is really not that interesting. I predicted how it all would all turn out 
 from the very beginning and I wasn't mistaken. But this game doesn't need a plot, the pure intense 
 action makes you return to this game over and over. Especially when you finally learn how to fight 
 back with style. The game also contains challenges that were the biggest obstacle during my first 
 playthrough. They were so hard that I just wanted to bash the TV with my SIXAXIS. My lips are usually 
 very sore after a session playing this game, because I have a tendency of biting my own lips when 
 trying to fully concentrate. And that is the only bad side I found when playing this game. It really 
 brings back the old intense gameplay of old 8-bit games like castlevania, gradius and of course 
 ninja gaiden.
  
  I found all the extra features in the game (the new character and her levels) just useless delays. 
 Id rather play the whole game with only Ryu, but the game forces me to control the busty Rachel 
 (and dont tell me you havent noticed her brests, taken straight out of the DOA games) . I dont mind 
 admiring her physique, but playing her is just dull compared to the speedy gameplay of the ninja.
 
  
  All in all, Ninja Gaiden Sigma is an awesome game. The fighting can easily be called an artform 
 by itself and the difficulty makes the game truly rewarding once you really get going. After that, 
 even completing the game wont make you stop playing it. The only way to get out of the game is 
 to bite your lips till blood start gushing out and you are forcefully taken to a hospital. Hopefully 
 mental hospital. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hameedox2
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 23, 2008 2:13 am PT
Review:  Those who love playing with swords should try the new game of Ninja. A very great game with variety 
 of great features.
  
  Ninja Gaiden Sigma, is a new action game using swords and ninja stuffs. The environment where the 
 plyaer is playing is great. It reflects how the true ninja fight. A very nice and clear forest 
 and biuldings are introduced here. 
  
  Just as before playing a ninja means that you are suppose to play in Japan, China. You may noticed 
 that even biulings and their doors are similar to those Japanese have. Even sitting and manners 
 are reflected like a real ninja is playing what a game.
  
  Talking about gameplay, it is simply great and uncompared to any previous games of ninjas. Various 
 moves and actions can be performed by the character. Jupming is coll you can wall on a wall and 
 jump from it. Also, you can jump between two close walls to reach an upper level. It would be more 
 powerful and great if they implemented double jump, but I think they wanted to reflect the real 
 ninja's work and this is great.
  
  Various swords are available and hence various pwoer is available depending on your sword and actions 
 you are using along with it. Each sword has its own features and combos. This make the game more 
 attractive since the user should not stuck with one combo or one actions only. As you proceed you 
 will learn new actions and get more combo hints
  for different swords. Magic also available so the players can use it along with a sword attack.
 
  
  The gameplay is not complicated that much since clear and easy hints will be provided as you are 
 proceeding. You will learn different action in a short time.
  
  Regarding graphics, simply they are great and very close to ninja's world. Tress and buildings 
 are well designed to be like you are playing in a real ninja world. Hills and mountains also designed 
 very well. Everything regarding graphics was great and they did a great job regarding this matter.
 
  
  Sound effects are not that much cool. Everything in this game is great except this thing. Moving 
 and sword clashing effects are very clear and great, but some actions has bad effects. An example 
 of that, if you use chararcter's hands to move across a hill, you will notice that the effect is 
 bad and ugly. 
  
  As a summary, it is a great game with great features. As a matter of fact, event there are some 
 bad sound effects, but people who like to play with sword will like it too much.
  
  I rated this game to be 9.5 out of 10.... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: howardorr
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 19, 2008 3:14 pm PT
Review:  When talking of Ninja Gaiden Sigma, there are those who wish to talk about how the game differs 
 from the original XBOX versions (especially Ninja Gaiden Black (2005) ) , on the one hand, and those 
 who wish to talk about Sigma as simply a great PS3 game. I would like to focus on the latter point. 
 Sure, NGS is more polished graphically than its predecessor, and has a new playable character -the 
 heavily bosomed Rachel- but it is fundamentally the same game to any but the most fanatical Ninja 
 Gaiden fans. Of course, Tomonubo Itagaki, who was Producer of the XBOX Ninja Gaidens, would disagree 
 with this point: he has publicly denigrated the PlayStation 3 version of the game, perhaps because 
 it was left to his understudies to make whilst he worked on the XBOX 360's Ninja Gaiden 2. But 
 let's put that down to ego and move on.
  
  Sigma is a beautiful game, but its real beauty lies in the complexity of the combat system. The 
 game is quite simply a masterpiece of fast-paced control and combat design. It edges ahead of games 
 such as the excellent Devil May Cry series because of its wonderful balance of defence and attack, 
 magnificently fluid controls and ultra-demanding difficulty level. Its lasting brilliance is shown 
 by how it is able to instil a feeling of pride in a gamer who succeeds in defeating a boss, or 
 mastering a combo move: it is the gaming equivalent of learning a martial art. It is Ninjitsu for 
 thumbs.
  
  Sigma, whilst not significantly "better" than the previous versions of the game, is wonderful despite 
 -or perhaps because of- that. Most significantly, it gives PlayStation 3 owners the chance to play 
 the greatest hardcore action adventure masterpiece of the last twenty years. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: RazerOfHellVII
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 15, 2008 8:33 pm PT
Review:  I mean it's just so awsome, you are two characters, one is the famous ninj awe all know and love, 
 and thats Ryu (duh) , and the other is a fiend hunter, that has breasts the size of my computer, 
 and her name is Rachel i believe, and she wields a huge Sycthe/War Hammer. But anyways the controls 
 are great you get to do everything a ninja can do, you can even walk on water, Yes i said you can 
 walk on water! The game is a prequel i believe (Sorry for the spelling error) , and it's about a 
 evil Greater Fiend named Doku, who invades and kills the people of Haybusa village, and steals 
 the Dark Dragon Sword, and you're out to find it. When you first play the game you think, wow everyone 
 says this game is hard, but i'm kicking everyone's @$$! Then you fight a guy on steroids, and he 
 explains alot of the story. There are plenty of weapons to choose from and you have to upgrade 
 them along the way. Although i haven't exactly "beat the game" i have beat the stroyline, and im 
 currently working on the missions.
  
  Chapter 1 Takes Place In The Ninja Dojo
  Chapter 2 Takes Place In The Haybusa Village
  Chapter 3 Takes Place On A Blimp
  Chapter 4 Takes 
 Place In The City
  Chapter 5 Takes Place In The City (As Rachel)
  Chapter 6 Takes Place In The City (As Ryu)
  
  Im sorry i couln't remember the rest of them, 
 but if you want to know GET THE GAME! Believe me it's worth it! You can do missions, and even earn 
 Karma which alows you to get up higher ranks online, in the Leaderboards.
  
  Speaking of ranks, after you beat a chapter it gives you the rank of how you played
  
  Head 
 Ninja-Best
  Ninja Dog-Well i think you get the concept.
  
  You can't have a saved data plus, which sucks because of all the essence you have and all the weapons 
 you've achieved and upgraded. You do though, have the option of making the game run faster, by 
 clicking the install button on the main page of the game.
  
  Well that's it for the review, and i hope you enjoy the game as much as i do!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gamergeek545
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jul 15, 2008 12:02 am PT
Review:  Well this is Ninja Gaiden Sigma (and some crooked M:) ) and it is basically a remake of Ninja Gaiden 
 for the regular Xbox. The main thing that this one adds is the ability to play as Rachel and some 
 other add ons were you can shoot arrows in mid-air, and fight on water surfaces and that was all. Well 
 I watched the great KVO video review of this and he said that the difficulty was scaled down a 
 little bit... and that meanie! He lied.... but that is just my opinion he is probably much more skilled 
 at video games then me so he could probably tell the difficulty change. I want to really get all 
 the bad out of the way so. Well the camera is absouloutly the worst I've saw in a game. While the 
 sword play may get repetitive to some, I found it very exciting and bloody... real bloody... really 
 bloody :) yeahhhh blood. But they might get bored because they will just say you hack you slash 
 you die you restart you hack you slash then you kill them. But I find it very fun to block a attack 
 roll out the way and jump in the air and press triangle in which it will make Ryu fly across the 
 screeen in a second and be-head the oppenent. Next is the graphics. They are superb with from what 
 I've saw no frame rate drops everything is smooth and beautiful. The controls are very smooth. Just 
 press down with the D-Pad and you'll heal some health and all the UT's are really fun. The story 
 in this one in not brilliantly great but it is a lot better then some other games that have got 
 more praise then this (ie Halo 2) . The level design is beautiful, you'll see many amazing looking 
 enviroments and you'll see some really gritty enviroments.
  
  
  
  Multiplayer:~None~
  
  
  
  Re-play value: Well the story is good and the fights are brutal but you wont want to 
 go through this one more than two times.
  
  
  
  End it! All-in-all this is a great game that at the price it is at now deserves a buy. Even if you 
 haven't played a Ninja Gaiden game in your life, this is a great start
  Real Score 8.4 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Hwoarang12
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 10, 2008 6:58 am PT
Review:  gameplay: 10/10
  graphics: 8/10
  sound: 10/10
  value: 10/10
  reviewer's tilt: 10/10
  
  To be honest I didn't expect that Team Ninja will release Ninja Gaiden on Ps3 but they did 
 it. So here we have Ninja Gaiden Sigma, a remake to the Ninja Gaiden that was first released on 
 the xbox. Was Sigma worth the wait and money? The answer is really simple: OH YEAH!
  
  There were lots of additions to Ninja Gaiden on the xbox, first the Hurricane Pack and then Ninja 
 Gaiden Black with some new cut scenes and etc but now we have a different situation because Sigma 
 is a next generation game on a next generation console. What's new and what's not about Sigma? 
 There are some new things added to the game, for example, I'm sure you guys remember the cut scene 
 where Ryu fought with Doku in Hayabusa Village, now in Sigma we can actually play through that 
 section of the game and fight with Doku, unfortunately it's impossible to win with him but we can 
 control Ryu's movements. There are also some new cut scenes just like in Ninja Gaiden Black so 
 it's great. Another cool thing is that we will find a new weapon and I'm not talking about Lunar, 
 of course this weapon is in Sigma but the new weapon, well... actually new WEAPONS ARE the two swords 
 there are extremely deadly and fast. Some levels look a little bit different of this from the xbox 
 but it's not bad. There are new enemys like soldiers riding a bike for example.
  The story, Ryu's movements are the same here in Sigma so there are no new things here. What about 
 difficulty level? Well, I can say two things: VERY HARD. Yeah, Sigma is as hard as Ninja Gaiden 
 on the first xbox was. The fights with bosses are very hard and other enemys are really tough. 
 But Ryu is an fantastic warrior so everything is going to be allright hehe. 
  
  The Graphics in Sigma is really good but it's not a revelation. The light and shadows, character 
 models and the environment look great but it's not something breathtaking. Sigma looks like next 
 generation game but the graphics isn't also superb. The leaves falling from the trees in the first 
 level are looking great and very atmospheric really, you must guys see it.
  What I saw is that Ryu is looking much better graphically here on Ps3 than he looked on the first 
 xbox. His costume is shining and character models have more polygons overall.
  
  The music is superb, voice acting and the soundtracks in levels are absolutely fantastic. Other 
 noises are really realistic and very good.
  
  When I reviewed Ninja Gaiden Black I said that even if you have the first game Ninja Gaiden Black 
 should't be missed and the same thing is here. Even if you have and even if you played, beat the 
 first two Ninja Gadien games you definitely should buy Sigma. It's an awesome game with superb 
 main character. One of the best action adventure games I have ever played, really.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: oblivionck
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jul 8, 2008 8:53 am PT
Review:  Ninja Gaiden Sigma... Well? What can i say? I have mixed reactions. It was a really cool game, 
 with the running up and across walls, running on water, all the sword action. it was all cool. 
 But the game was soooo damn hard. Your enemies are at least three times stronger than you. and 
 every time you get a new weapon, you could not upgrade it becasue it does such little damage to 
 your enemies. in the end, the only weapon you really use is the original Dragonsword. 
  
  i thought that the second story was pretty fun, but also hard at the same time. Ryu's story was 
 better though. All in all, it is good, but hard. People with short fuses would probably not like 
 this game too much becasue of its difficulty. Hey, i dont blame you. You would be braking your 
 controllers all the time but slamming them against the floor and throwing them around the room. 
 Controllers are expensive, dont do that to yourself. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Droidekadroids
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jun 29, 2008 5:05 pm PT
Review:  I am normally not a big fan of fighters but Ninja Gaiden is one of the few fighting games I've 
 enjoyed along with Devil May Cry series. 
  
  Gameplay 9/10- Some of the best gameplay in a fighter that I have ever seen. The weapons are all 
 amazing, your wall running/jumping abilities are pretty cool, and the combat is amazing. The boss 
 fights are great and the gameplay mechanics work. The story could be a little better but if you 
 got great gameplay and style, you don't need a story that works well. Everything here is about 
 what it should be, the only complaint is that the Rachel missions were kind of short and pointless, 
 and there could be a few extra weapons added. Also, the game is a hard and could take a while getting 
 used to.
  
  Graphics 8/10- A little dated since this is kind of an updated xbox port but they still are good. 
 Cutscenes look a little last gen. The environments are amazing.
  
  Sound 9/10- Pretty good voice acting and great music with sound efffects. 
  
  Value 7/10- Altough 
 this game has some pretty good hours the first few playthroughs, you can't carry over weapons or 
 points and that is dissapointing. You unlock a mission mode where you can fight for fun but is 
 also kind of hard where you have to take out a boss with multiple enemies with only one healing 
 potion. If you could carry over weapons or points, that would be much better but this game lacks 
 unlockables. 
  
  Tilt 9/10- This game is one of the best fighters for PS3 but still is somewhat injured but lack 
 of ability to carry over and unlockables. Still a good dead for only 30 dollars used. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SollidSnake_
Rating: 7
Date: Aug 5, 2008 4:32 pm PT
Review:  Well, how should i start this.. Seeing a 9.0 game and hearing an opinion of someone who said Ninja 
 Gaiden was awesome for XBOX i assumed: "this game must be great.. a must-have I'd say.."... WRONG! 
 i have never felt worse for spending money on something.. first: because they were 69.90 ($110) 
 second: cause i expected A GREAT game. The biggest disappointment i had in the video game history 
 (and I'm a pretty experienced one) . Well visually i found the game not good... The graphics (for 
 a ps3 game of course) aren't good.. You look at them and the visual effects and think to yourself: 
 "there's something here that doesn't fit.." (graphics can be realistic (like Assassin's Creed) 
 and with beautiful visual effects (like Devil May Cry 4) .. I didn't find any of those in Ninja 
 Gaiden Sigma.. They would supposedly be with beautiful visual effects but i found them not attractive.. 
 like the old 3D games.. something similar.. Well the difficulty i think it's a little too hard 
 but that would never be a reason to criticize the game! Well the game could get some support from 
 a good story you'd think! But no.. The story is just shallow with no content. The game as a good 
 variety of attacks and weapons.. Even so.. I didn't use any weapon besides the FIRST ONE you get.. 
 It's the only one that is worth using.. And even with a good amount of moves there is not a "evolution" 
 or "experience" idea where you could get better moves (using some kind of points for example) as 
 you move through the game since that idea extends itself only to the different weapons you get. 
 some of the moves are "cool" but because of the lack of impressive visual effects i talked about 
 they couldn't get THAT far. Apart from the menus, that are just.. Lol.. Sad? Frustrating? Neither 
 of those can describe it.. (they seem like the menus from the arcade games from 20 or more years 
 ago..) I found some other important aspects about the game.. THE SAVING SYSTEM.. That's one of 
 the most annoying things.. You can only save at save points and if you die you have to do everything 
 all over again since your last save.. NOT EVEN CHECKPOINTS ARE THERE! This can't exist in a 9.0 
 review'd game. an example? Alright. In level 3 (if I'm not mistaken) you get to fight a boss and 
 if you defeat that boss you move on to the next level.. Once you're in the next level you have 
 some enemies fighting you.. You know what happens if you die here? Exactly... YOU GO ALL THE WAY 
 BEFORE THE BOSS IN THE PREVIOUS LEVEL! Just because the last save was before the boss.. This is 
 unheard of.. In no game you go to previous levels.. And absolutely not in a 9.0 review'd one!!! 
 More, the camera is just too annoying.. It interferes with everything and mostly in fighting. And 
 some other major problem? So it seems the action button is the same as the attack button.. It seems 
 alright.. Unless you are fighting enemies NEAR ANY ACTION OBJECT/AREA! This is absurd! If you happen 
 to fight a enemy near a door, your character turns himself to the door opens it and moves to the 
 other room.. C'mon guys... =S. More.. Forgetting the hard difficulty that forces you to some boring 
 habits and cautions, and the lovely story of a legendary trained ninja that wields a legendary 
 sword going after bad guys that come to some village and steals an ancient artifact, it doesn't 
 occur any other problem to me.. (the gameplay is good tho.. Running on walls and many other acrobatics.. 
 Those kinds of things..) . This is all... Well, for the fans and even normal players that don't 
 know Ninja Gaiden Sigma for example, this review may seem a negative review.. Maybe too negative 
 for a game that received a 9.0. But this may happen for reasons, 1: I only made it feel so negative 
 cause I REALLY thought it would be a great game and i had a huge disappointment and don't want 
 to see that happen all over the place.. (trying to help xP) 2: Even if this look too negative you 
 can watch the score I gave it and understand the kind of game it is and the quality it has (or 
 the quality I think it has.. =P) . This was my review for Ninja Gaiden Sigma. Hope it is helpful 
 for anyone. Best compliments! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nocoolnamejim
Rating: 8
Date: Jun 26, 2008 5:16 pm PT
Review:  Ninja Gaiden Sigma Review
  
  The Good:
  Terrific graphics supported by a silky smooth 60 frames per second. An incredible array of fighting 
 moves and a good selection of weapons and styles to choose from. Beautiful environments. Great 
 music. Lots of replay value.
  
  The Bad:
  Story is lackluster. Character development is non-existent. Voice acting is lame. Game difficulty 
 is frustrating to the extreme. Collector's Edition is a rip-off.
  
  Ninja Gaiden Sigma was the first top tier exclusive title to come to the PS3 and remains, to this 
 day, one of the most popular games on the platform. It was a huge disappointment to PS3 owners 
 everywhere when Ninja Gaiden 2 was announced to be a 360 exclusive (though this author suspects 
 the proper phrase is likely to end up being "a 360 timed exclusive" at some point) .
  
  But was this game worth the hype and accolades that it deserved? I had the chance to sit down and 
 play it recently and came away with decidedly mixed feelings. Time to go to the scorecards to see 
 if the steak matches the sizzle.
  
  To begin with, I want to focus on the positive, and there is plenty of that to focus on. Ninja 
 Gaiden Sigma is nothing if not an incredibly polished and well-finished title. This polish begins 
 with the gameplay.
  
  If you can find them all, you'll be treated to nine different melee weapons and eight different 
 projectile weapons. While there is some overlap between them, where a couple of weapons handle 
 similarly and have very similar moves, there are enough differences that the gameplay has a significant 
 amount of variety should the gamer choose to make use of it.
  
  Nearly all the melee weapons in the game can be powered up further by paying an in-game blacksmith 
 to refine them. By "blacksmithing" your weapons, you unlock new moves that can only be utilized 
 once the weapon is further powered up. This seems a bit counterintuitive at times. After all, how 
 does smithing the sword better have any impact at all on Ryu Hyabusa's ability to swing it? It 
 would impact how much damage the weapon does, but there is a definite logical flaw in the reasoning. 
 
  
  Still, that is a minor point in the big scheme of things, which is that having a wide variety of 
 weapons and the ability to power them up is never a bad thing.
  
  All the weapons and moves in the world wouldn't make for a good game if the frame rates didn't 
 manage to keep up, and players will be happy to know that they manage beautifully. The game runs 
 completely smoothly, without so much as a hiccup anywhere at all during the gameplay. In fact, 
 the silky smooth nature of the moves is perhaps the best part of the game.
  
  Nor does this refer exclusively to the fighting moves. The platforming moves that you, as a ninja, 
 can perform are equally flawless. Whether it is running up walls, along walls, or jumping along 
 the heads of your enemies, this game captures the feel of being a ninja perfectly. The way the 
 body motions are replicated on screen is seamless, but sadly, brutally challenging.
  
  Be prepared to die, and die often, while playing this game. This isn't a reflection on your skill 
 as a video game player. Rather, this is a reflection on the fact that this is one of the hardest 
 games in recent memory. This is the worst part of the game. It is unbelievably frustrating how 
 hard this game is. Some reviews have made mention that the difficulty is a bit toned down from 
 the first release of this game on the original Xbox, but this is more in the area of the placement 
 of shops and save points than the actual difficulty of the environments or enemies.
  
  This game is just brutally difficult to the point it severely impacts how fun the game is to play. 
 What's worse, it doesn't include the ability to stop in the middle of the action and load a recent 
 save if you get off to a bad start. Rather, you need to either completely exit the game and restart 
 or wait for the enemies to finish beating the snot out of you to reload. A sparse instruction manual 
 that does not in any way show how to perform some of the more important moves in the game doesn't 
 help the difficulty. Ironically, this very factor lends the game a lot of replay value. A lot of 
 people will have more fun playing this game the second time through than they did the first.
  
  For those who either picked up the collector's edition copy of the game or have access to an 
 Internet function and basic awareness of what a Google search is, you also play several levels 
 as the beautiful, well-endowed fiend hunter Rachel. This makes the collector's edition, which costs 
 $10 more, something of a ripoff since at that point the only "bonus" for the collector's edition 
 is a behind the scenes how the game was made video, and that isn't really worth $10.
  
  Rachel's gameplay shows a similar polish to Ryu's, even if her basic modus operandi is somewhat 
 different. Where Ryu handles like a cobra; lean, lethal and astonishingly fast, Rachel is more 
 of a bear. She is slow, but her moves are extremely powerful and heavy hitting. The storyline explanation 
 is that she has "fiend" blood in her that makes her extremely strong, but whatever the reason it 
 is a very nice touch that, for once, the male protagonist in a game is the extremely fast but light 
 hitting one whereas the female is the slow, front-lines bruiser.
  
  Sadly, or perhaps fortunately depending on your opinion on the subject, this break from tradition 
 does not extend to Rachel's, ahem, "attributes" or attire. Rachel's body figure is tactfully described 
 as "generous" and generously revealed as well. This is a nice lead into a discussion on the graphics 
 of the game.
  
  To say that the graphics are pleasing is a bit of an understatement. While the game never reaches 
 the visual splendor of, say, Heavenly Sword, it still manages to hold its own thanks in large part 
 to the level design. The level design is expansive, so much so that you may have to be careful 
 to jot just a couple of quick notes when you save for the night in case you forget what your ultimate 
 destination and objective was when you pick the game back up the next day since the game doesn't 
 give you a journal to reference.
  
  If there is a weakness with the level design it is with the repetitiveness of it. This is a weakness 
 that actually overlaps the storyline. For a ninja, Ryu does remarkably little planning. You'll 
 revisit several of the same environments multiple times because Ryu doesn't seem to have the first 
 clue how to achieve his ultimate goals. He's like a force of nature, destroying all in his path, 
 but with little in the way of direction.
  
  He knows what he wants to achieve (vaguely) but doesn't really map out how he's going to go about 
 doing so. The cut scenes don't give a lot of clues either and so sometimes you're going to end 
 up doing a lot of wandering around and pondering what exactly you're supposed to be accomplishing, 
 where, and how to go about accomplishing it. Thinking and planning are not Ryu's strong points.
 
  
  And, as I've hinted previously, the storyline isn't this game's strongpoint either. "Tacked on" 
 would be a kind way to phrase it. While, granted, a good and well fleshed out story isn't always 
 the central focus of a game of this type, it often seems that Sigma's storyline exist just so some 
 developer or programmer somewhere could check a box off on a list of their action items.
  
  This weakness extends to character development. To summarize: don't expect a lot. To elaborate: 
 particularly for Ryu. In an ironic twist, Rachel's personality and motivations are explored in 
 much more depth than Ryu's are and, in the process, she comes across as a much more likeable figure.
 
  
  The storyline isn't helped much by the sparse dialog and pathetic voice acting either. Have you 
 ever watched an old martial arts movie where none of the actors speak Japanese and their lips continue 
 to move long after the voice over dubbing is finished reading the lines, thus providing very strong 
 hints that it isn't the actual actors on the screen speaking? Sigma comes across that way. True, 
 the lip-syncing is done better, but the actual voice acting itself is just plain bad. As in second-rate 
 JRPG bad.
  
  Fortunately for Sigma, and anyone playing it, the in-game music makes up for what the voice acting 
 lacks to some extent. The music always fits the mood and is generally high quality. 
  
  So what's the verdict?
  
  Ninja Gaiden Sigma is a great game, but it is not a must-own for 
 anyone who has a PS3. People who do not play action games on a regular basis will not like this 
 game because of the difficulty level and will almost certainly not finish the game. The lack of 
 a strong storyline to provide a hook, combined with the difficulty, will provide a big disincentive 
 for casual action game fans to play it through until the end.
  
  True Score: 8.2
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Darkdesires
Rating: 8
Date: Jun 25, 2008 2:10 pm PT
Review:  And here it is, another remake of ninja gaiden, one of the best action games of the last console 
 generation. Originaly released on the xbox, and than with a remake called black also on xbox ninja 
 gaiden comes to ps3 with the name Sigma.
  
  Gameplay:
  
  "A lot of fast, stylish and flashy ninja action gameplay", thats what defines ninja gaiden, there 
 are tons of movements that old ryu can perform, like running in walls, shoot shurickens and of 
 course hack n' slash with ninja blades (and not only ninja blades) , all of this its not too much 
 dificult to do but its dificult to master, its just a shame that sometimes i get that cheap feeling...
 
  9
  
  Graphics:
  
  There is obviously a major boost in graphics from the original ninja gaiden to sigma, since the 
 original was released on the xbox and this one on ps3, but the truth is that ps3 can do much better 
 and there are lots of other games that look much better than ninja gaiden.
  8
  
  Lifetime:
  
  The game lasts something like 15 hours, but if you are not familiar with this 
 kinda game you'll need MUCH more because the game its no walk in the park, sometimes the game its 
 quite difficult. By finishing the game you unlock some stuff and the game has some replay value 
 but the hard and very hard settings are for trully masochistic players.
  8.
  
  Overall:
  
  ninja gaiden its a great action game with gorgeous action and nice graphics but 
 buy it only if you haven't played the original ninja gaiden, otherwise just go rent it.
  8. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chronicman7
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 20, 2008 12:36 pm PT
Review:  graphics- really just xbox version with higher resolution. Not great but not bad either. The animations 
 are slick and pulling of a series of decapitating combos well really make you wanna take on the 
 next group of fiends. 8/10
  
  story- not really there but really doesnt matter. Centers around Ryu (the most badass ninja ever) 
 and his revenge journey for his destroyed village. The story is pretty lame but once you start 
 playing you really dont care, you just cant wait to get to the next environment and see the next 
 type of enemy. Honestly i stopped even listening to the cut scenes after the first chapter and 
 im normally an FPS/RPG gamer that loves a good story. 7/10
  
  gameplay- best ever period. using a wide range of weapons and techniques allows hundreds of combos. 
 All enemeies are challenging and if your not careful you can be dead in less than 10 seconds. Constantly 
 keeps you on gaurd. Some say it can be frustrating but thast only really if you get lazy and dont 
 thing while fighting. If you enter each battle thinking about positioning and your next move youll 
 be fine. Camera isnt as bad as people say, except on some boss fights where it can be the reason 
 you die.
  Plenty of replay value as you'll be tempted to tackle every difficulty and all missions. 10/10
 
  
  overall- This game is just fun. Doesnt relal re-invent anything but does just about everything 
 better than any other game in the genre. A must play for anyone. 9/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ShadowTech_FTW
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jun 19, 2008 10:30 am PT
Review:  I rented ninja gaiden because, ninja's are brilliant and i heard good things about this well........ i 
 didn't like the game, one thing that annoyed me was no autosaves, you die that's it you start all 
 the way over i mean yeah there's kind of alot of save points but you gotta do everything all over 
 again. Another thing boring story, its so tedious........ evil samurai comes destroys village, steals 
 a precious item...... then the hero goes on a epic journey to recover said item ............ boring 
 and the gameplay is pretty nice but that camera is everwhere and you constantly got to hit r1 to 
 get it behind you which gets annoying if your fighting........ this game is meant for hardcore gamers 
 which i am but i didn't like this title...... its good but not for me and the level design was atrocious 
 but its a port from the xbox which was a nice translation to the ps3 but i'll pass which i did 
 i returned it after i played for a good 9 hours 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kobe24mvp
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 16, 2008 4:19 pm PT
Review:  Deng!!!! I dont think i can ever find another action game superb as this one. this game was an 
 extreme blast to play. you can really feel the action of being a ninja. the graphics, if you got 
 an HD TV, impressed me a lot. the graphics are great, the heads getting cut off, which is awesome 
 to see, the blood splatters on walls, and floors is mouth dropping. there is nonstop action to 
 the gameplay in this game. the enemys are extremely challenging, and fun to kill, (if you dont 
 get killed by them first) . the A. I of the enemys is extremely challenging, and really have to study 
 them in order to beat them. the depth of the game is crazily superb. there are many difffernt kinds 
 of enemys, bosses, levels, and scenes to enjoy. i love the scenery of the game as well. if you 
 can get passed all 18 levels, you are a master, due to many riddles, puzzles, and levels, and challenging 
 enemys to fight. 
  
  I really felt like a ninja playing this game, and am dissapointed they didnt make a second one 
 for the PS3. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: joelgau
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 13, 2008 11:16 am PT
Review:  I played partway through this game on the Xbox but never finished it. When I saw it come out in 
 Hi-def on the PS3, I just had to get it and try to beat it. The game looks great at 1080p. Of course 
 it is nothing compared to the beautiful graphics that you see in MGS4, but it works well. I enjoyed 
 the game much more on the PS3 than I had the original. It is a great game but very unforgiving. 
 It is easy to die in this game. You have to learn when to block and when to attack. To stay alive, 
 you must block and dodge often. I did finally beat the game in the end after much perseverance. 
 It is definitely worth the 35 bucks it costs right now used at Gamestop. I recommend this game 
 to anyone who likes to hack and slash. You might enjoy it if you liked God of War but this game 
 requires more defense while GOW is more offense. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dutch777
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 12, 2008 11:02 pm PT
Review:  I have to admit that I'm quite the sucker for next-generation game remakes. There's just something 
 about revisiting a familiar game world but with graphical caliber previously impossible. I think 
 seeing that trailer of Final Fantasy VII rendered on the PlayStation 3 brought to light that hunger 
 more so than ever before.
  What bothers me a bit about Sigma is that it exhibits some annoying camera issues, which makes 
 extremely quick runs a little dangerous (for instance: you can fall into a trap if you don't have 
 the proper view of your surroundings) . You can control the camera yourself, or center it whenever 
 you need to by hitting one of the shoulder buttons - and that's a minor plus. But it's still an 
 incredible inconvenience to be quick and tact during combat, while at the same time trying to control 
 the camera. 
  
  Now, as far as difficulty goes, don't expect the Devil May Cry 3 treatment, where Capcom toned 
 down the difficulty of the game on normal for the Greatest Hits re-release. Sigma is still very 
 much a difficult game on normal, and an utter sob-fest beyond that. But what some may enjoy hearing 
 is that the game does have an easy mode of sorts. While the difficulty isn't toned down much, what 
 the mode does is make items in the shop cheaper - allowing you to buy more health and power up 
 faster. So while the difficulty is hardly adjusted, you do catch a break with cheaper purchases. 
 Oh, and unlike the Xbox version, when choosing to 'abandon the way of the ninja' in Sigma, in order 
 to play on the easier difficulty, Ryu won't have to wear any embarrassing pink ribbons. 
  I expected nothing less from Itagaki and Team Ninja. After all, the developer is known to be one 
 of the few perfectionist studios along the likes of Team Kojima and a select few others. Ninja 
 Gaiden Sigma exemplifies the meaning of an action game, as it offers diversity, depth, and a challenge 
 that rewards you and delivers a sense of accomplishment that not many games can achieve. It's a 
 visually stunning game running at a superb framerate, with super tight action. While the camera 
 can be a nuisance sometimes and the English voice acting isn't fantastic, the sum of Sigma's parts 
 add up to an experience that no action gamer should be without. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Imagine09
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jun 8, 2008 1:25 pm PT
Review:  When first playing the demo that I downloaded off the PSN I absolutley loved it and could not settle 
 for just the first level, I wanted more. So I went out and bought it and right away did not regret 
 it. The game's amazing battles and fights create an awesome replay value. But going further into 
 the game, of coarse, the fights got harder and the other ninjas got stronger. This caused me to 
 fight in another matter which got boring and repetitive. Where i would hold block, dance around, 
 and dodge. waiting for a time to strike. So in my oppinion. the abbility to block and jump around 
 never getting hit is a little too repetitive and simple. This takes away from the epic killing 
 and head slashing that the game is all about. Although the first levels are great and at the perfect 
 difficulty, the further in the game you get, the more it forces you to noob ur way outa every fight. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jackrocks123
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jun 6, 2008 10:39 am PT
Review:  well, how do most reviews start? 
  
  this is a very good game, its got good graphics but the only bad thing is the enviroments look 
 a bit too bland, but the cutscenes are fantastics,
  
  i can only review as much as i played, i played a bit of it and then got stuck, because it became 
 very hard, i enjoyed it, its got fast paced, brutal action. maybe could of been a bit bloodier 
 but oh well.
  
  you might be thinking why you have to buy plenty of new controllers well, it becomes frustraightingly 
 (if thats how you spell it) hard, and you will probably end up throwing the controller, hitting 
 the ps3 or just going on a mad rampage, well probably not the last one.
  
  well on one part of it you have to kill 50 foes yep 50. and when you die you go all the way back 
 to the save point which is annoying a. d very frustrating.
  
  but other then that its a very good came i think alot better then devil may cry 4. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ZimpanX
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jun 2, 2008 8:21 pm PT
Review:  The Good: Improved graphics over the original, some added music, challenging, slick animations, 
 amazing bossfights, added tweaks that removes some frustration, deep and rewarding combat system, 
 female character Rachel is now playable.
  
  The Bad: Rachel's missions could have been lengthier and more robust, not all changes are necessarily 
 for the better, some signs of age, missing unlockables, bad and unnecessary use of the Sixasis 
 motion controls, doesn't come at a reduced price.
  
  To quickly sum up the story of this game you play as master ninja Ryu Hayabusa on a quest for revenge 
 after an evil blade has been stolen from your precious home village along with witnessing some 
 of your fellow clan members being slain or burned alive. During your quest you will not only face 
 ninjas, but also military soldiers and even things not so human such as demons and dragons. 
  That's pretty much all you need to know and the story is both told using CGI and cutscenes using 
 the in-game engine. Before the CGI helped to present the story rather well and they still do. The 
 problem is that they have not have not been remastered to fit with the higher resolution this game 
 is rendered at, so there are times when the in-game stuff actually looks better than the CGI and 
 in the original it was the complete opposite.
  
  The gameplay remains pretty much the same which certainly isn't a bad thing as there wasn't much 
 room for improvement to begin with. There is one unnecessary addition though where you have to 
 shake the sixasis controller to increase the power of your ninja magic attack, it feels bizarre 
 and rarely works. 
  The combat in this game requires split-second timing and button mashing won't get you very far. 
 Yes if you haven't heard this is a challenging game that requires a lot of investment and skill 
 to succeed even though it's very easy to learn the basics. 
  The original was almost too hard for some, the very first level for example was actually on the 
 hardest levels in the game and the same holds true here unfortunately but there have been some 
 minor tweaks made to make things a little easier. For example the save points are now a bit more 
 evenly spread out. The bow which you will get to wield later on can now be fired in mid-air which 
 will prove very useful in some of the later chapters. Some frustrating puzzles have been remade 
 or completely removed. A few of the puzzles I really liked though as they provided a nice change 
 of pace and are now in this game often replaced by another combat section or maybe even a new bossfight. 
 While the combat and the bossfights are some of the major highlights of Ninja Gaiden you need a 
 brake from that too once in a while. 
  Too take the focus back on the difficulty again the easier mode called Ninja Dog which was added 
 in Ninja Gaiden Black for the Xbox is here as well but you need to die multiple times early on 
 to unlock it and if you choose to play on the easy mode you will be forced to wear a feminine pink 
 ribbon accessory through the rest of the game. 
  The added weapon called Dragon's Claw & Tiger's Fang which are dual katanas also removes some difficulty 
 because that weapon encourages you too stay on the offensive more even though that weapon doesn't 
 have all too many moves for you to experiment with. You can also now run on water much more easily 
 by simply walking out on the surface and keep moving, many who played the original didn't even 
 know you could run on water.
  
  The original game for the Xbox was one of the very best looking games of it's generation and this 
 version looks even better. Especially the lightning which makes everything look a bit more dynamic 
 and realistic but there also tends to be some overuse of bloom effects once in a while. Most of 
 the textures have been improved aswell, the animations are slicker than ever and blood that has 
 been spilt will now stay on the ground and walls. 
  The graphics tend to be uneven though and you can tell that this game wasn't built for the Playstation 
 3 from the ground up as you will run into some very blury textures once in a while and some edges 
 tends to look very jagged. 
  There are even cases where the game can actually look worse as there are some effects missing such 
 as reflections, god rays from the sun and after-images from Ryu after very fast movement and the 
 water surfaces can even look downright horrible. 
  There are also some performance issues where the game might load when you open an items chest or 
 even during in the middle of a fight which didn't happen in the original but at least the levels 
 themselves loads faster, and yes these issues are still there after the optional installation you 
 can do but thankfully this is something that happens very rarely.
  Don't get me wrong though the game looks great but considering how much powerful the Playstation 
 3 is compared the Xbox I expected a little bit more from Team Ninja.
  
  The sound and sound effects are pretty much the same and that isn't a bad thing as the sound was 
 very good to begin with. There has been some additional musical scores added though which is much 
 appreciated.
  
  As far as value goes the game is highly replayable, especially if you bump up the difficulty as 
 that will change many of your encounters during the story mode. There is also a Mission Mode unlocked 
 after you beat the game but be warned though, these missions can be pretty tough. There are also 
 some new bossfights here not found in the original and Rachel has some missions in Mission Mode 
 too.
  For fans that have already played trough the original the most interesting addition is probably 
 that you can now play as female character Rachel aside from the few new boss encounters and missions. 
 She plays great but also a lot different from Ryu as she is a bit slower but often deals out more 
 damage. 
  The problem is here though is that her missions tends to be very short and not really too well 
 structured. 
  And while her campaign adds a different perspective of the story that is appreciated some other 
 parts of the story has gone missing as for example the introduction sequence telling the story 
 about the Dragon Sword and the Dark Dragon Blade. There is a sequence that is still there but can 
 be totally missed as that level has been restructured so that you might progress a bit to fast 
 which leads to that a certain upgrade that Ryu gets towards the end of the game might just seem 
 totally random.
  There are also some unlockables missing such as some costumes and the classic Ninja Gaiden NES 
 titles or the Arcade game are nowhere to be found. The Theatre mode is missing aswell.
  What hurts the value the most is that they expect you to pay full price for this game which would 
 have been ok if the game would have been more different and packed in some more features but then 
 again Ninja Gaiden Black that contained a fair amount of new content was sold for just 30 dollars 
 when it was released back in 2005.
  
  To sum it all up, even though this is originally a game from 2004 and not all changes are for the 
 better this game holds up surprisingly well and is a must buy for anyone that has yet to experience 
 this adventure or are just looking for a challenging action game in general. Old fans should give 
 this a look too as there is some nice extra additions the be found here, but I would advice you 
 if you're one of those to wait for the price to drop a little first.
  
  //ZimpanX 
::::::

::::::
UserName: freefadi
Rating: 9
Date: May 27, 2008 4:42 am PT
Review:  You can talk about ninja games all you want, but no one can deny the fact that playing as a ninja 
 is one of the coolest things ever, add to that the fact that you can use a variety of weaponry, 
 magic and acrobatics to help you during your adventure and that fact will never find anyone who 
 can deny it. Ninja Gaiden Sigma is a remake of the Xbox classic Ninja Gaiden game plus all those 
 challenging missions found in Ninja Gaiden Black. This makes for a game full of value, and if added 
 that it's a great action adventure game in itself, then it makes it a must buy for PS3 owners.
 
  
  You play as Ryu Hayabusa, a young ninja master who belongs to the dragon ninja clan who were entrusted 
 with the powerful dragon sword given by his father to him. Some sinister characters try to locate 
 and hold possession of the dark dragon sword- which is an evil sword also protected by the Hayabusa 
 clan. So they send their minions to destroy Ryu's village and he sets out on a quest for revenge. 
 Well it's the same game as the one on Xbox, but hey there are some changes you know? For example 
 a beautiful female fiend hunter known as Rachel is also here but instead of just watching her during 
 cut scenes, you can actually play as her in three short chapters during the game. 
  
  Speaking of beauty, the game does feature amazing looking graphics that are sharp and full of color, 
 the effects are nice and the reflection and light and shadow effects all look impressive. And Yes 
 the jiggle effect famed by Team Ninja's Dead Or Alive series is Very obvious in this game too. 
 The sounds are clear and satisfying to the extent that you'll want to yell: yeahhhh! When you hear 
 the sound of your swords and other weapons hacking and slashing your enemies. The music is great 
 and in rhythm with the action, whether it's a calm melody to accompany you during your exploration 
 or underwater diving, or an intense orchestral score that will keep you on your toes during those 
 intense battles.
  
  As mentioned before, it's always fun to play as a ninja, and especially if it is done correctly, 
 and fortunately it iscontrolling Ryu is a joy, he can walk, run, run on water surfaces, dive, 
 climb walls, wall run jump, shimmy across ledges and do all sort of ninja like stuff that'll make 
 your little brother say: wowcool (and even you of course) . As for Rachel she is okay to play as 
 but unfortunately she is very slow compared to Ryu and doesn't have as many combos and special 
 attacks as him but still she can cause some considerable damage to enemies. Ryu has this Ninpo 
 technique which is basically magic spells that have great damaging effect on enemies, but this 
 time you can use the sixaxis controller to increase the power of these attacks by shaking your 
 controller when using these techniques. Rachel has some similar magic attack simply called sorcery.
 
  The stats (health bar and magic slots) found at the top of your screen can be extended by spending 
 carma points which are like experience you gather from fighting enemies, you can also increase 
 the power and level up your weapons and even buy healing items and other accessories from statues 
 that act like shops which you can find scattered around the different areas in the game.
  There is one thing you should know about this gameespecially if you didn't play the Xbox NG games 
 and don't have any idea on how this game playsTHIS GAME IS HARD! In fact It's very hard that if 
 you didn't master Ryu's evade, dodge, and counter skills you won't stand a chance against Ninja 
 Gaiden Sigma's foes: ninjas, samurai warriors, fiends of all kinds, shapes, and sizes, no matter 
 how weak they are, if you're not careful they will finish you off in no time. So if you're a NG 
 game player then you know what are you up against. Seriously Team Ninja at Tecmo didn't listen 
 to the complaints and therefore didn't make the game any less difficult, but hey that's the world 
 of Ninja Gaiden people, it's for hardcore players. Of course if you keep dying in this game you 
 will eventually unlock Ninja Dog difficulty which is the "easy" mode, but you'd be wrong if you 
 thought it's gonna be a walk in the park, but it's better than nothing.
  
  The game is divided into nineteen chapters and even when you finish it (finally) you will unlock 
 a set of missions that aren't less hard than the main game, as a matter of fact some of them are 
 really frustrating at times, but these are fun none the less and they give the game a lot of value.
 
  
  So if you're into hardcore fast paced hack and slash action then you probably have been waiting 
 for a game like this for ages, and it's about time a game like this gets released to satisfy gamers 
 waiting for value in their games. It's a game of style, quality and class that should satisfy PS3 
 owners. So there's no arguments about it, this game is a must buy and it's this kind of quality 
 games that made you buy a PS3 in the first place.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Detroit421
Rating: 9
Date: May 18, 2008 12:47 pm PT
Review:  This game is great from the chopping of heads off, the great story line, and the boss fights. At 
 first getting used to the controls and combat is fairly difficult. Once you get the hang of it 
 you realize what a bad SOB Ryu really is. Mastering defensive moves is key to this game. The weapon 
 selection is great. If you had a rough day at work this is a good one to take out your aggression 
 on. Nothing like chopping heads off to make the world a greater and happier place. I can't really 
 find anything to complain about in this game. It kind of pisses me off when you are trying to climb 
 up somewhere and you fall all the way to the bottom and have to start over. But that is part of 
 the challenge of the game. I really enjoyed this  
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: marc002
Rating: 8
Date: May 18, 2008 11:28 am PT
Review:  I first thought about giving this game a 7.5, but that just didn't seem right. Make no mistake, 
 Ninja Gaiden Sigma is an awsome game. It plays smooth as butter -- Ryu handles just right and even 
 feels "real" to me, in terms of how he moves. The action is fast-paced but tactical enough at the 
 same time. Executing the wrong move will let the bad guy sneak in a counter blow before you can 
 recover. And the list of moves you can perform goes on forever. I guess I should put in, in terms 
 of gameplay, the game is extremely, punishingly hard. Just a warning. And the weapons I got so 
 far are pretty cool. Even the story is cool -- simple enough, but plenty of fun.
  
  But there are a few graphical glitches. Namely, sometimes the blood splatter ends up sticking awkwardly 
 out of place. For example, a splash of blood might stick straight up off the ground as if it was 
 supposed to be set against a wall, only it's in the middle of the room on the floor. Slight glitches 
 like that could have been improved and in sort make the game feel like it's missing some refinement 
 that prevent it from being a complete next gen experience.
  
  However we have to keep in mind Sigma was ported up from the first Xbox version and is therefore 
 allowed it's flaws, I guess.
  
  So all in all, for what it actually is, Sigma is great, plays great, and looks great if you re 
 willing to forgive the ocasional, minor flaw. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: aluparatha
Rating: 9.5
Date: May 17, 2008 9:57 pm PT
Review:  ninja gaiden sigma is basically a remake of the orignal ninja gaiden on the xbox. so does that 
 mean its a bad thing being a remake and being 3 years old no not at all. why because ninja gaiden 
 is one of those games that pushes you off the edge and its gameplay is truly phenominal. ninja 
 gaiden doesnt really have a story its mainly a revenge saga. the gameplay well is unique it is 
 the fastest action game i have played to date. and is works more on technique than combos. it is 
 one of the hardest games i have played and having clocked over 100 hours on the game because of 
 it being so addictive. i finally gave up on my online ranking which was 112 on mission mode gamertag 
 heydar. its gameplay is awesome and definetly gives other action games its run for its money yes 
 im talking to you devil may cry. visuals have had a serious bump they look amazing especially if 
 you ve played a previous ninja gaiden. what seperates this from the xbox version is that you can 
 play as an extra female character which you couldnt in the xbox version. shes fun to use but ryu 
 the main ninja is much better. this game is simply too addictive and i ve banned myself from playing 
 this. do yourself a favour and buy this game if you havent already its a must play for ps3 owners. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dohboymaddness
Rating: 9.5
Date: May 7, 2008 8:28 am PT
Review:  One of the best games available on the XBOX finally made its way to the PS3 with a few upgrades. 
 Among the few improvements are better visuals, more weapons to choose from, more enemies exclusive 
 to the PS3 version and the ability to play as secondary character Rachel. If you have been following 
 the Ninja Gaiden games since the XBOX you may be a bit disappointed by the few changes since, at 
 its core, it's the same Ninja Gaiden from way back 2004 but with nicer graphics. But for the rest 
 of us who never experienced this game before will have a chance to play one of the best most challenging 
 games available on any system.
  One thing you should know is that the game is extremely challenging. Right from the start the game 
 strongly encourages you to use all the special moves and combos at your disposal, you'll get used 
 to them in no time, but other moves like the Ultimate Techniques will take you longer to master. 
 As you kill enemies you'll be rewarded by karma points which help evaluate your performance in 
 each level and also acts as currency to buy items and level up weapons, and the faster and more 
 skillful you kill enemies the more karma points you'll get.
  Some of the best fights from the game come from the many boss encounters; most of them are huge 
 and require more quick thinking than the usual enemies. 
  The game is not without faults, like the Ninpo techniques which require you to shake the controller 
 to use, and once you realize how little effective they are in battle (specially against the bosses) 
 it's better to just save them to get a higher scores. 
  If you're looking for a challenging with lots of replay value then you should check out Ninja Gaiden 
 Sigma, if you don't like hard games then you may want to give it a rent first. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PS3-over-360
Rating: 7
Date: May 3, 2008 4:52 pm PT
Review:  This game looks, sounds, and plays great, but does it have a serious potential Period ?. I have 
 been trying to find the time to get down on it since it came out and I finally started last weekend. 
 What can I say, it is beating me down. Very tough, but totally worth it. Takes me back to the days 
 of the nes ninja gaidens which also beat me down. The action is very addictive. Hacking through 
 a crowd of ninjas or soldiers is just as much fun as the huge, epic boss fights. I haven't progressed 
 too far yet, but the story and cutscenes are very cool, it definitely takes the very intriguing 
 plot points and style of the originals to new heights. I have always loved how the story mixes 
 the realms of demons, ninjas, and secret government agencies. That sound like 3 things that probably 
 shouldn't go together, but ninja gaiden continues to pull it off. I guess that is all I got to 
 say. It is incredible so far. Believe the hype. Play this game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Agent_305
Rating: 10
Date: May 1, 2008 5:24 am PT
Review:  Ok.. i think you have probably gathered it's hard..... you think Devil May Cry 4 was hard?, It's 
 got NOTHING on ninja gaiden!!
  
  But it's not all bad! .. you play as ryu, a hardcore ninja with an obsesion for black leather spandex. 
 .. no not really you div.
  as the game begins, you are outside a ninja temple that has been over run by enemy ninja's, your 
 gole is to find your master!.. of course it's not as simple as that!!.. on there own, the enemy is 
 as easy as 2+2, in groups, it's near impossible!!
  If you can get to the end of level one without diying, well done, but then some huge bloke with 
 nun-chucks comes at you... if you can defat him, it turns out he is you MASTER!!... and he is all 
 like, 'sorry about that'.
  Anway, the game is actualy set in modern day/near future.
  
  If you are finding the game too much to handal, you can die three times and you will be given an 
 'easy mode' option, but you have to ware a girly pink ribbon on your arm as a punishment for taking 
 the east road, which isn't much easier!!... And yes, i was serious about the ribbon!!
  
  If you take away the difficulty, it's an amazing game with an AWSOME combat system and every combo 
 you pull off looks WICKED!!
  There are also different swords you can pick up and a store wher you can buy stuff like health 
 kits and ranged wepons such as bows, boms and ninja stars!!
  
  If you can push past the difficulty factor, you got yourself one sweet game. But if you are more 
 of a take the easies option and stay safe, then maby it isn't for you!!
  
  Still, i would recomend in or atleast rent it to see what you think of the difficulty!! it is amazing 
 to watch and the graphic's and scenry are amazing!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jawshoeuh
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 17, 2008 8:33 am PT
Review:  This game looks, sounds, and plays great. Period. I have been trying to find the time to get down 
 on it since it came out and I finally started last weekend. What can I say, it is beating me down. 
 Very tough, but totally worth it. Takes me back to the days of the nes ninja gaidens which also 
 beat me down. The action is very addictive. Hacking through a crowd of ninjas or soldiers is just 
 as much fun as the huge, epic boss fights. I haven't progressed too far yet, but the story and 
 cutscenes are very cool, it definitely takes the very intriguing plot points and style of the originals 
 to new heights. I have always loved how the story mixes the realms of demons, ninjas, and secret 
 government agencies. That sound like 3 things that probably shouldn't go together, but ninja gaiden 
 continues to pull it off. I guess that is all I got to say. It is incredible so far. Believe the 
 hype. Play this game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AlucardsFate
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 7, 2008 2:24 am PT
Review:  Best Feature: Rewarding, fast and fun combo system. Beautiful 1080i visuals. Ninjas... Ninjas are 
 always awesome...
  
  Worst Feature: This game may not be for everyone, cause its so damn hard. Rachel's missions are 
 less fun and don't seem to add anything substantial. 
  
  I was very excited to play this game, because I am a diehard fan of the classic NES Ninja Gaiden 
 games. So diehard in fact that I almost didn't play it based sheerly on the fact that Ruy's uniform 
 was not purple like his NES counterpart. I actually looked on Gamefaqs. com and found out that his 
 purple outfit was in game, so I bought it. (Never mind the fact that Irene Lew doesn't exist in 
 the game)
  
  After bringing this game home, I was completely blown away. First off, its my first PS3 game to 
 take full advantage of my 1080i LCD television. And the results are stunning, I even turned my 
 PS3 down to 720p to check the difference. And the difference is huge. The colors are crisper, the 
 lines are sharper and the flames are brighter. This game is beautiful. 
  
  But thats not the highest point of this game, the gameplay is unbelievable. The combo system for 
 you multitude of weapons, from swords to hammers, is deep and fluid. It's almost like playing a 
 fighting game, only you have large levels and many enemies to battle. 
  
  The controls as a whole are incredibly responsive, which is a very good thing. Because THIS GAME 
 IS HARD! I cannot stress this enough, its not just normal difficult. Remember when I in my "Devil 
 May Cry 4" review I mentioned how hard "Devil May Cry 3" was. Devil May Cry 3 wets it bed in fear 
 of this game. That's how hard it is. So the casual gamer will get frustrated with this game very 
 quickly. 
  
  But this rampant difficulty is a good thing here, where as some games are difficult just for the 
 sake of being difficult, Sigma makes you learn the game. Your forced to earn every victory through 
 smart play rather then winning by luck. 
  
  What do I mean by smart play? This game makes you truly learn to play like a ninja, rather then 
 defending and countering, the true master becomes the blur. Always in fluid motion, the true master 
 can barely be seen, much less even touched. You don't have to dodge attacks, when they can't even 
 move fast enough to hit you. Once master your skills, you can make this game LOOK very, very easy. 
 
  
  I never played the Xbox original, but from what I understand the only substantial difference is 
 the addition of Rachel as a playable character. She gets a level here and there in between Ryu's 
 stages. Unfortunately she isn't as much fun to play as Ryu, why? The game rewards a speedy play 
 style and Rachel... especially compared to Ryu... is a tank. She is powerful like one, wielding a 
 large axe but also just as slow as said tank. So her sections are tedious efforts in survival rather 
 then the speedy fun that the rest of the game is. Luckily her levels are few and far between.
 
  
  Aside from that very small shortcoming, this game is simply amazing. I wouldn't object to calling 
 it one of the ten greatest action games I've ever played. Certainly worthy of its amazing heritage, 
 even if Irene isn't in the game...
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: NYuuRaKuS
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 31, 2008 8:04 pm PT
Review:  This game just takes too much skill for the likes of me. I'm a button masher, not a combo remember. 
 Given I memorized the combos and such, this game would have probably been much more enjoyable, 
 but even with button mashing it was quite enjoyable.
  
  The quality of the visuals is great. Sounds are nice. Conrols are good, but I wish there was a 
 combo list like in fighting games, for easy access to the combo list (I should have just printed 
 that out) . The AI is quite difficult, even on easy. I must admit Ive died quite often and had to 
 resort to strategy guides/videos to learn a good strategy to use. The addition of Rachel as a playable 
 character was nice. I dont appreciate sixaxis usage for ninpo and to shake off enemies.
  
  The difficulty level of this game is just crazy and its amazing watching people who excel at this 
 game. That makes me know its all possible, but Im just noob. Story is interesting. Just a great 
 game, but maybe not for me. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Roman_Irishman
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 27, 2008 8:56 pm PT
Review:  Wow! That's the only word that I can really think of to best describe Ninja Gaiden Sigma. I picked 
 this up right after I played through DMC4 and it was amazing. The game is complete action and is 
 a lot like DMC in many regards, difficulty and a ton of weapons. Ninjas have always captivated 
 my imagination and to play as such a hard ass like Ryu it was quite the treat. As pretty much everyone 
 knows this game is based off an X Box game from a couple of years back. Having never played that 
 version I can't make any comparisons, but as far as graphics are concerned it's pretty damn good. 
 The graphics don't look decidedly as good as CoD4 or DMC4 but still flex a little PS3 muscle where 
 it counts. The frame rate basically never beats an eye, which is good because in a heavy action 
 game like this you need a stable frame rate. The weapons are one of the strongest parts of this 
 game. From the regular Japanese sword that Ryu carries (called the Dragon Sword) to Nunchucks, 
 to the new PS3 weapon, dual swords, (called the Dragons Claw and Tigers Fang) each carries a load 
 of combos and new ways to strategize. The controls are extremely sensitive (probably more so than 
 any other game I've played) that being said, they are extremely responsive and if you ever fall 
 off a ledge or screw up on a sword swing its your own fault, because the controls are perfect. 
 The boss battles are pretty freakin epic, each one is harder than the next, with the exception 
 of Alma. And each one requires a bit of your own strategy to beat. Really the only problem with 
 the boss battles is that they could have been a little more fantastic if they were built up more. 
 To me that is probably the biggest problem with the game, the story. I realize Team Ninja was focusing 
 completely on gameplay here and that's fine, but Ryu is such a hard ass he deserves a little more 
 dialogue. One thing Team Ninja did with this though was add a few levels for Rachel (the huge breasted 
 female lead, seriously she makes Lara Croft look flat) those levels were fun and added some more 
 playing time along with building up the story somewhat. The only other problem I had was with the 
 camera. Many times I was fighting a boss or jumping from a ledge and I couldn't see a damn thing 
 because of the camera. It didn't cripple the gameplay but with the superb job Team Ninja did with 
 everything else in this game it's a shame this was the only real problem with the actual gameplay 
 itself. Especially since this was a second time in reworking the title, the camera should have 
 been cleaned up. The difficulty in this game is extreme, definitely one of the hardest games I've 
 ever played. Consider this, in the second to last level, you have to play through a standard level, 
 then climb up five levels of a palace filled with fiends, then fight more at the top, fight a previous 
 boss, more fiends, another boss, then a new boss, finally an ultimate form of a fiend with two 
 transformations. All this with two opportunities to save. Hard? Yes! The other levels aren't exactly 
 easy either. The great thing about this difficulty is you actually feel like you are training to 
 become a Ninja yourself with all the hardships you have to endure to accomplish your goal. Finishing 
 this game is very rewarding and you will have something to brag about. There are a lot of extras 
 to keep you going after you beat the game so you will always be coming back for more Ninja action, 
 which is certainly not a bad thing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Big_D_34
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 25, 2008 8:24 pm PT
Review:  This franchise is one of the best, since the first time ninja gaiden for the original xbox, remake 
 on the PS3 brilliant its a must have, or if not you just got to try it, if you like action games 
 you wont regret it, cant wait for Ninja Gaiden 2 on the 360 it looks like its going to be the best 
 game ever made. take care guys game on! 1. ryu hayabusa is a badass ninja with a badass dragon 
 sword 2. Very good and fast gameplay 3. Beautiful graphics 4. Cool big bosses 5. good story a little 
 more deep than the original but yet nice so if u were a fan of the original you should pick this 
 one up, but if your new you'll love it thats if you like action games 6. a little challenging for 
 new gamers for this game, but you'll get the hang of it the original was a bit harder, but once 
 you get it it'll be fun i guarantee it! remember always block! have fun guys! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: andyplatinum
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 23, 2008 2:43 pm PT
Review:  In the first few months after the PS3 launch, only a small number of new games seemed to appear 
 on the shelves. Ninja Gaiden Sigma was one of these and although the series was 360-based, it managed 
 to impress in many areas. The gameplay is like alot of hack/slash games, except for in Sigma everything 
 seems very smooth and accessible. Enemies are imaginative and solid, and weapons are effective 
 and varied, although sometimes frustrating. The graphics are so-so through-out the game, sometimes 
 very impressive, and sometimes glitchy and last-gen. As for the story, it is very fun and dramatic, 
 and the levels are creative and well structured. The playable characters alternate from Ryu, who 
 you play for teh most part, and Rachel, who you control seldom. The only thing that really stops 
 Ninja Gaiden Sigma from being exceptional it the difficulty. Even if set on easy, enemies are tough 
 and bosses are sometimes near-impossible even early on. This is especially annoying if you are 
 used to completing games in a weekend or in a couple of hours, because in Sigma that is practically 
 impossible. Overall though Ninja Gaiden Sigma is a very creative and playable game that impresses 
 in many areas, but is sadly let-down by its overly hard difficulty - 8.0
  
  + Imaginative enemies
  + Great weapons
  + Brilliant gameplay
  - Overly difficult 
::::::

::::::
UserName: aim49
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 23, 2008 6:17 am PT
Review:  This is so far the best game out on PS3. This game takes on you on a wonderful journey that you 
 will never forget. Gameplay is cool and brutal if you love those game in which every second you 
 must fight then you will love this .You will learn how to run on walls and other ninja techinues 
 which is fantastic .Graphics are awesome evrything from shadows to brightness is set just right 
 ,Which makes the game very realistic. As far as sound is concerned I didnt find any problems ,The 
 chains ,the sword slashes and the voice acting is marvelous .This is why NINJA GAIDEN SIGMA is 
 the best game available on PS3 .SO This game is a must buy .Oh and Ryus COSTUME ROCKS .If you like 
 this game check out devil may cry 4 and heavenly sword. RYU can use a lot of different weapons. I 
 said this game takes 100 hours because after you finish the game there is a lot of content .There 
 is even downloadble content .The main story mode is a bit easy .I felt it really easy but many 
 people were not even able to complete the game . The first few chapters are really boring but later 
 it gets really intresting . Rachel is an unwanted and un needed cahracter . She is a boring character 
 and it is very very difficult to control. We would be very happy if she was not there in the game 
 but thankfully she has only 3 chapters in the game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kai_Ozu
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 19, 2008 12:16 am PT
Review:  I just finished Master Ninja mode in Sigma for the first time, so that's why I'm here writing this 
 review in the middle of the night.
  
  The rebirth of Ninja Gaiden was totally unexpected to be as awesome as it is. The First games on 
 the Xbox took everyone by surprise in how amazingly deep the game play was and most importantly 
 how large and open-ended the world is. Sigma takes all these things and refines them graphically 
 and tweaks some of the game play a little, mostly in animation, everything in Ninja Gaiden has 
 this amazing sense of weight to it, so when the sword connects to your opponent, it feels, looks 
 and sounds correct. So many action games don't get this core concept right, it should feel great 
 when fighting enemies, Ninja Gaiden dose not only do this well it exceeds at it beyond any other 
 action game that has come out in the last 4 years. I can't stress how good this game is, go download 
 the demo off the PSN store or get it from Xbox Originals on Xbox Live. Get it any way you can, 
 this game is something truly special. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: carl_may_cry
Rating: 5.5
Date: Mar 12, 2008 7:41 pm PT
Review:  I think that I don't like this game because I expected too much of it. But sincerely, I hate this 
 game sooooooo much that I can't really tell anything good about this game. 
  I gave it a 5.5 JUST because of its superb graphics and fluidity. You take place as a ninja named 
 ''tropical illness''. He is a super-good ninja for no reason at all. A good thing about this is 
 that he can walk on walls which is kind of cool but doesn't help you at all in combat. He disturbs 
 big bosses just to fight instead of eating his t. v. dinner on his couch. He beats them, goes on, 
 beats some spaghetti sticks walking around for no reason then sees a big guy who is a boss, beats 
 him or her and so on. 
  The combat is soooooooo repetitve and annoying; you smack the button as fast as you can but he 
 will still do the opposite attack. Your health is just too small for the amount of ''ninjas'' you 
 have to fight and the save posts are just too far for you to reach them.
  Sincerely, if you liked the first two games that came out on the original xbox, don't think that 
 this one will be as good. I think you should just wait for the REAL next Ninja Gaiden that will 
 be coming out in 2008 for the xbox 360. If you buy it and you don't like it, don't say that I didn't 
 warn you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheDuskwalker
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 8, 2008 12:34 pm PT
Review:  Any Team Ninja fan remembers Itagaki's 2004 classic title about ninja Ryu Hayabusa on his quest 
 for revenge, and now it's been brought to the PS3 with some fancy new graphical upgrades. Time 
 to see how this version compares to the others.
  
  Gameplay:
  The gameplay of Ninja Gaiden still holds up well by today standards do to precise and responsive 
 controls. Challenging thanks to great AI and plenty of combos make it a intense and exciting gaming 
 experience. However the game suffers thanks to a actually worse camera than previous versions and 
 some tacked on and pointless sixxaxis controls, shaking the controller up and down to charge ninpo 
 to make it more powerful is just silly. There is some item placement changes and level design changes, 
 some bonus sections, like the Doku and Ryu fight in Chapter 2 is now playable, some new enemies, 
 and a added boss in a later chapter to keep old pros on there toes. Some added gameplay content 
 comes in the form of Rachel, she is slightly slower than Ryu and is limited only to her war hammer 
 and whip, and later on 1 ninpo, but she uses the war hammer much better than Ryu and overall is 
 a fun edition to a aging game. Overall this is still one of the best combat systems in a action 
 game to date.
  
  Audio:
  Well most of it is over 3 years old so it's starting to show it's age and some of the voice acting 
 is still as cheesy as ever, but it's still good. Weapon effects still sound nice and music is still 
 techno goodness. I can't help but love it.
  
  Graphics:
  This is where the game really takes a hit. Character models are good and so are physics, but environments, 
 most notably water effects, look pretty dated. Shadows and lighting is still the same as they were 
 on XBOX, but character models now have self shadowing so it sometimes looks awkward with environments 
 still using the standard XBOX versions lighting while character models now have self shadowing. 
 This would all be ok, but the game has some slowdown in a few areas and when lots of action is 
 happening on screen. Also the game has a lot of loading, it even has to load a picture when picking 
 up items, which is very distracting and gets annoying especially when you look at the fact there 
 is nearly 3-4 times as many than in the XBOX versions. Finally the game reuses the CG from the 
 XBOX installments which only go up to 480p so if your on a 1080p HD TV that is again very distracting. 
 Overall you can clearly see this is just a XBOX game running on PS3 hardware and it can't hold 
 up to the big boys of the console, but it's not a ugly game by any means.
  
  Closing comment:
  This is still one of the best action titles, but it's starting to show it's 
 age and this somewhat sloppy port/remake from Hayashi doesn't help make it keep up with the times. 
 If you have never played this game before on XBOX it's a definite must buy, if you already have 
 a copy of Ninja Gaiden Black then this isn't really needed, but if your a huge fan of the series 
 like me, then this is a must just for collection purposes. This is probably my favorite version 
 of the game, and one of my favorite games ever, even if this version has some flaws and glitches 
 not found in Ninja Gaiden Black which sadly force me to lower the score.
  
  Overall: 8.5/10
  
  Pros:
  Solid and challenging gameplay still holds up perfectly by today's 
 standards
  Still one of the best action games ever made
  Sony owners finally getting a chance to play it
  Playable Rachel
  
  Cons:
  Slightly dated 
 graphics with very minor framerate issues
  More "now loading" screens than XBOX versions
  Camera is slightly worse than Black
  Needlessly tacked on sixxaxis controls
  Missing opening 
 prologue cinematic 
::::::

::::::
UserName: scarletlvswayne
Rating: 6
Date: Mar 6, 2008 1:15 pm PT
Review:  In my opinion, this game wasn't at all what I anticipated. I had heard such great reviews and read 
 so many great reviews on the game. So when I got it, I was more than thrilled to start playing. 
 The first level was great. I was introduced to the great Ryu. I loved the ninja moves he had. There 
 are some pretty gruseome moves that Ryu can do with that sword, but other than that, I just don't 
 see it. Sure, you can slice em and dice em, but it takes a lot of skill and timing to kill the 
 enemy.
  
  It wasn't until I was introduced to Rachel, the gamer inside was re-awakened. She was pretty awesome. 
 Maybe it's because i'm a girl, but I still really loved her technique and style. Yet again, that 
 was pretty much it.
  
  So, the game, for me, is just pretty dull. There is practically no storyline that you can really 
 get involved in. Personally, I would have loved to enjoy this game more. I really tried to see 
 what GameSpot does. I played until I just couldn't play anymore. I just said to myself, "Why play 
 a game that i'm not enjoying?" So, I went straight to the next game on my list.
  
  Also, the graphics left a little to be desired. Even for the PS3 I was disappointed. The sound 
 and music were no better. For me, this was just not worth my time... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rijahs
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 4, 2008 10:42 am PT
Review:  A couple of years ago, the first Ninja Gaiden was released for the Xbox, which became an instant 
 classic. Action-packed gameplay, a thoughtful storyline, and some amazing visuals made the game 
 a must-play on the original Xbox. Unfortunately, I was never able to play the original Ninja Gaiden. 
 Once I put the disc into my PlayStation 3, I was really taken aback by the spectacle that I found 
 myself in. Yes, this is the ninja game I was looking for
  
  There's just so much to love about this game. There is a strong storyline which will get you really 
 interested as the game progresses. Controls for the characters are pretty easy to pick up, and 
 of course, difficult to master. You'll be able to unlock combos and special moves as you progress. 
 The visuals are absolutely beautiful throughout the game. It is intricately detailed, and has breathtaking 
 landscapes. Sound in this game is also exceptional. The score is a delight to listen to and really 
 fits the mood and action going on in the game. 
  
  Ninja Gaiden delivers the stuff that it is expected to. It's got satisfying gameplay, wonderful 
 music, and some uber-amazing visuals. And you'll have lots of funHighly recommended game for PS3 
 Owners
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: milby
Rating: 5.5
Date: Mar 4, 2008 7:46 am PT
Review:  This is by far the hardest damn game I've played in a long, long time. I thought we had reached 
 a point where difficulty balancing was a key component to any gaming industry release, but clearly 
 this isn't the case. Put frankly, save your money unless you are an exceptional gamer or are very, 
 very dedicated.
  
  I've given it a five based on graphics and sound which were good. Action is fluid, fast and the 
 controls are responsive - but it really is impossible to play.
  Me and my friend only made it as far as the second boss, (the guy riding the horse with a flaming 
 skull) , and we just couldn't beat him. I've read the 'cheat' guides for want of a better term, 
 but they aren't any use if your thumbs and fingers aren't physically capable of achieving such 
 maddening positions.
  How on earth are you supposed to defeat creatures that turn invisible, teleport and fire homing 
 balls of fire at you - while a fire enveloped samurai demigod rides you down with a sword? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RealMadrid7
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 28, 2008 12:37 pm PT
Review:  Like I said in my opening statement this is a damn hard game, even tougher than DMC3. Each minion 
 fight feels like a boss battle and you will die if you don't pay attention.
  Improvements needed - TEAM NINJA LISTEN UP!
  A lock on control like Devil May Cry or Zelda, please 
 I mean damn I don't wanna spam moves at the air. 
  Better camera.
  Just these two things and alot more people would be able to play your game. I mean I beat the damn 
 thing but do I want to be punished liek i stole something while doing it? NO!
  Ryu himself is slick and fast, great moves, weapons, nice change-up with Rachel, great bosses, 
 but bland regualr enemies and environments. 
  The difficulty level can be kept if we have lock-on in Part 2. Overall good job though, he really 
 feels like se's up against some pretty impossible odds.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: churchoid
Rating: 2
Date: Feb 27, 2008 4:31 pm PT
Review:  What I really love is when you're being kerploded by some enemy that you can't see. Or when the 
 white ninjas somehow grab you, slit your throat, and make your health drop by 1/5. What a piece 
 of garbage. Controls really suck and it's nearly impossible to see anybody before they've already 
 started beating the dog poop out of you, Meh. 100 words. How many words is this? I guess not 100 
 words yet. Oh yeah I borrowed this game from the library. My neighbors must hate me because of 
 the extremely loud cursing I do. Still not? WTF? I would rather play Uncharted for the rest of 
 my life than play this game for a week. Now it says I need more characters. Oh yeah, the game pretends 
 to have a tutorial, but it never tells you anything about the tenpo power or the tampon power or 
 whatever it is. Stupid game, 
::::::

::::::
UserName: majadamus
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 22, 2008 8:23 am PT
Review:  The inferior X Box version was okay... but, you really need to see this in HD.
  
  SOUND: Man.. I never thought hearing flesh tearing, and blood splattering on the walls, ceilings, 
 and floors would sound so... great. Each and every swipe of Ryu's great katana, every connection 
 made on the foes /w the bone cracking nun chucks, all resonate very well in surround sound. The 
 music ain't so bad either. It sounds heavily influenced by 90's action flicks. Ya know... the ones 
 with evil ninjas and such. The voice acting in this game is ear aching though. 
  
  GRAPHICS: The dark blood that spews from the enemies looks gritty, real, and it does a good job 
 at staining the walls. It's a great way to help remind players that they've already been in a particular 
 room before. Why is the blood so dark in this game anyways? Mr. Hyabusa must be extremely bored 
 while fighting the lesser ninjas... so, he only aims for the veins to give himself a challenge. 
 I'm assuming that's why the blood is so dark in this game. Ryu is just so freaking bad ass. 
  
  The animation in this game is excellent. The Rachel add on and her voluptuous figure will make 
 great use of the animations too. The upgraded enviornments really help draw you into the game. 
 Sometimes I actually felt I was there in the Hyabusa village watching Ryu in glorious battle! 
 
  
  GAMEPLAY: So many different techniques. So many fun boss fights. So... many... weapons. The gameplay 
 doesn't get much of an upgrade. But, like the old saying goes, "If it ain't broke don't fix it." 
 The combat system could be transitioned over into a fighter. It would actually be than a lot of 
 the crap fighters out there today. The game is challenging. It can be hard if you want to play 
 this game on the harder difficulty settings.
  
  The storyline could pass for a Saturday morning cartoon episode, but who cares? This is a video 
 game where you play as a ninja, a really good one at that. I'm tired of the "Video games need an 
 interesting storyline to be good." No... they do not. This game is proof of that. If you want a 
 good story, watch a movie, or better yet read a BOOK! I play video games to.... play, not watch 
 anyways. 
  
  BOTTOM-LINE: Newbs, casuals, unskilled gamers, those with no hand & and eye coordination whatsover: 
 Do yourself a favor, and buy this game. Give it a chance. Try it in Ninja Dog mode (The easiest 
 setting) . I know wearing that pink ribbon may make you feel like less of a man, but you owe to 
 yourself to try a seriously good video game such as this. If you have already, and have given up. 
 Try it again. 
  
  Ninja Gaiden Sigma is an experience no one should miss. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Xepheon
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 20, 2008 11:14 am PT
Review:  Ninja Gaiden has been around for a long time. It's a classic series that started out in the arcades 
 of the 80's and went on to have several titles on the NES. Now you can enter the world of Ninja 
 Gaiden in up to 1080p of gorgeous 3D action on your PS3. If you haven't played a Ninja Gaiden game, 
 you may wonder what it's all about. Simply put, Ninja Gaiden takes the most incredible ninja ever 
 and throws him into battle against insanely wicked enemies. Evil samurai, high-tech gunmen, freakish 
 cyborgs, demons, zombies -- it's all here. Would you like to see what happens when a ninja faces 
 off against an undead dragon the size of Godzilla? Then this is your game.
  
  First, let's do away with the typical complaints heard about this game. The story is said to be 
 a little lacking. You're the member of a ninja clan that protects an evil sword of ridiculous power. 
 One day, enemies invade your village, kill almost everyone, and steal the sword. You go after them 
 for revenge. There are great cutscenes and lots of voice acting. The story does seem fractured 
 at some points, but makes enough sense. However, none of this matters because the game itself is 
 so intense that it overshadows everything.
  
  In Ninja Gaiden Sigma, fighting is the greatest spectacle of all. Rather than pit you against unrealistically 
 stupid enemies that stand around begging to get beat down, all of the enemies you encounter fight 
 as if they really want to survive, and really want to kill you. In turn, many players have the 
 initial impression that the game is too hard. However, the difficulty eases up more and more as 
 you become familiar with your moves, much like a real-life RPG where YOU, mentally, "level up" 
 in terms of skill. The result is an incredibly rewarding experience where you actually feel a sense 
 of accomplishment in defeating enemies, rather than the emptiness of mindless button mashing. Eventually, 
 you will look back to how poorly you did in the beginning and feel proud of how far you've come. 
 
  
  The intensity of the battles combined with your potential to improve your technique would be enough 
 to add replay value. There are so many ways a fight can go against even one enemy, due to the sheer 
 amount of moves you have available to use. But there's more than that. You can find a variety of 
 other weapons in the game ranging from dual swords to multiple types of nunchuck weapons and a 
 staff, all of which can be upgraded in power by a blacksmith (provided you can afford it) . Additionally, 
 you have other ranged weapons such as a bow and arrows and smoke bombs.
  
  Sigma is a remake of the original Ninja Gaiden that came out on the XBOX. I own the original version 
 and I still bought the PS3 version. Why? Sigma is one of the few PS3 games to run in 1080p. It 
 looks fantastic. There are leaderboards for the game which you can be part of if you're online. 
 Most of all, it is a game I still love to play after the grueling task of beating it already -- 
 and the PS3 version has additional items, level areas, challenges, AND a second playable character. 
 Which means story elements and levels that were absent from the XBOX version. Basically, this a 
 game I have to own, and if I have to own it then I'm going to own the best version of it.
  
  The bottom line is that this is a challenging and rewarding game that is worth playing through. 
 The things you experience will stick with you forever.
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: smadiso1
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 15, 2008 12:44 pm PT
Review:  I've decided to try out a new review format which is different only in that instead of a Value 
 rating (like GS used to give to games) I'm giving a Story value. This stems from some great debating 
 on Gameplay vs. Story vs. Graphics as can be found here at the Ultimate Video Game Franchises Union. 
 If this format does not work I'll make some more changes in future reviews.
  
  Ninja Gaiden Sigma is, in fact, the very first PS3 game I bought and played on the system. I had 
 read previous reviews and had heard that it was a decent game so I was looking forward to seeing 
 what it was all about. On a history setting, I only had a brief encounter with the original Ninja 
 Gaiden on the NES as I played it a few times at a friend's house. From what I remember of it, it 
 was a cool game but was definitely something you had to play a lot of to get good at and to really 
 appreciate. Ninja Gaiden Sigma follows in the same footsteps but also manages to create uniqueness 
 from its predecessors mostly due to the awesome capabilities the PS3 opens up for potential gameplay 
 and graphics in next generation games.
  
  Gameplay: 9
  There's no denying it, an action game lives or dies based on its gameplay. And Ninja Gaiden Sigma 
 certainly does not disappoint in this area. The game is just crammed full of awesome battles, incredible 
 combos, numerous weapons and of course hidden secrets. Areas might be a little small for gamers 
 that are used to wide open expanses but you will come to appreciate the smaller areas as they allow 
 for more off the wall attacks which provide a needed compliment to combo attacks. Sadly I have 
 found some issues with the game that I just can't over look, but luckily they are items that some 
 gamers might find minor in their play throughs. Difficulty and learning curve have been my major 
 gripes. Bosses are, understandably, pretty hard to defeat. And many times it's a good thing that 
 they are since it gives you a chance to really challenge just how much of a bad ass ninja you really 
 are. Just know that some bosses may take two are three tries to finally figure out their patterns 
 and the best way to attack them; until then be ready to take some beatings as they will definitely 
 come. What will really get you down is when the minor enemies, you know the little pissants that 
 run in between each boss fight, can potentially do some major harm to you as well unless you really 
 know what you're doing. And really getting to know what you're doing can take awhile as new weapons/techniques/enemies 
 show up on every level and each presents a new learning curve to overcome. Thankfully there are 
 some combos that are shared between weapons, techniques usually only get more powerful, and thus 
 more helpful, and enemies usually just get lengthier combos and a few additional defensive techniques 
 to make them harder to hit. After you finally do scrap past your first play through, and if you 
 really need to you can always unlock the easy difficulty and become a Ninja Dog like me (WOOF!) , 
 any additional attempts will likely seem a lot easier as you will already know what to expect and 
 will have a firmer grasp on effective fighting techniques. The only other problem I noticed was 
 with the camera. The camera is not bad, per say, so much as it is annoying. It has a tendency to 
 move to angles that takes all your oncoming enemies out of view (especially when you first walk 
 through a door) which can be disastrous if a mob is barreling down on you. Just keep your finger 
 on the block button, whenever entering a room, and try to make a quick camera adjustment so you 
 can get your right thumb back on those attack buttons.
  Story: 8
  I had heard grumblings about the story in this game and I tried my best to keep an open mind as 
 I played through it. I actually found little fault with the story and thought it played out rather 
 well for an action game. Gamers who are expecting a long, drawn out, epic story with deep character 
 interaction will be disappointed though. The story is just enough to get the gamer interested in 
 pushing through to the next chapter and wonder what will happen next. That's about it. Character 
 development is nearly non-existent and if it wasn't for the little biographies in the instruction 
 manual, I'd dare say I wouldn't really know how any of the support characters were related to the 
 main character. But, as action games go, there is just enough material to maintain interest and 
 keep the plot going smoothly enough. 
  Graphics: 10/ (9)
  With the inclusion of Hi-Def support, reviewing Graphics presents me with somewhat of a poser. 
 Do I review it for 720p/1080i (no 1080p for me as that option was too expensive at the time) or 
 480i? I've decided to try and play PS3 games in BOTH resolutions and on both TVs (HDTV and CRT) 
 so as to give the best rating possible for readers who do and do not have a HDTV. When played in 
 1080i, you're in for a real treat. The graphics are simply amazing and you will certainly feel 
 like you're rewarded for ever last cent you will have spent on your PS3, HDTV and this game when 
 you see that first screen come up. Characters look as good, perhaps better, than any CGI movie 
 character. Background effects (such as leaves and water) look almost life like and there's no hit 
 to graphical rendering or even any hint of stuttering even when the camera is moved. Arguably, 
 you cannot go wrong with this game's graphics when played in Hi-Definition. On the 480i front, 
 there is a noticeable difference from the Hi-Def presentation, but the graphics still look good. 
 Characters still look good but the differences show up in little details such as musculature and 
 background art. The game will look good in 480i but I can assure you, once you see the game in 
 Hi-Def format you will not want to go back to the lower resolution.
  Sound: 9.5
  Musical scores, sound effects and voiceovers can make great additions to any game. However, much 
 like in the graphics department the PS3 gives yet another new dimension to gamers as they can opt 
 to play games in 5.1 digital surround sound. I think anyone will admit that if they could play 
 a game in surround sound it's going to kick stereo's butt at any time. So, for the sake of argument 
 I've tried to focus more on the sounds stereo presentation and will leave the appreciation of fine 
 5.1 digital surround sound to those who are lucky enough to have it; I will say that it is quite 
 awesome to be able to hear enemies coming up, quite literally, from behind you so if you can get 
 surround sound then stick to it! The musical scores add a nice touch to the game but there is one 
 glaring problem with them: there is usually only one, maybe two, musical scores per chapter. So 
 if you don't beat a chapter quickly enough you are subjected to listening to the same music track 
 over and again until you do finally move on to the next chapter. Sound effects are simply incredible. 
 From the ever present "clinking" of your blade as you reposition it to the sound of blood gushing 
 from a headless body, you will not be denied of any great sound effect here. Voiceovers are nicely 
 done too and there's a decent number them to look forward to. In fact, voiceovers will likely be 
 the lone place where you will get any sense of emotion or purpose from a character, but that is 
 a problem that falls squarely on the story for not expanding upon outside of the voiceovers.
  Tilt: 9
  The tilt rating I have kept because it fits the need well for listing all those strange 
 items that a game possesses, can never garner a rating spot all its own, but sorely needs to be 
 commented on. That being said let me comment on the most important part (as my tilt often pertains 
 to items any gamer with children should be aware of) : this is a VERY violent game and as such should 
 probably not be played around very young children. Of course, if you are a parent then it's up 
 to you to set your own rules on what your children should see. So it's always up to you, the parent 
 gamer, to decide what is played in your house. I merely want to share concerns that I've noticed 
 could be problems for any gamer with young children and not dictate how you should raise your own 
 kids. For gamers who prefer an online option, while there is no head to head online play, there 
 is a ranking system that can give you that extra incentive to clear levels faster and better all 
 in the name of being top dog. The fact this game has been out for almost a year lends it to being 
 an easy target to find in a used store for nearly half the price of its release sticker. Even better, 
 for those not sold on used games, is that if Sony of America follows suit of Sony of Japan, we 
 may be seeing a Platinum series version of this game for nearly the same price as one found used. 
 Either way, the gamer wins as it means less money spent to get Ninja Gaiden Sigma.
  Overall: 9.1
  The difficulty of this game is a definite factor to overcome. If you don't mind 
 having your gaming skills put to the test then this will be a great buy and will certainly give 
 you a challenge. If you're hesitant on having your virtual butt kicked around for several stages 
 or get frustrated with difficult learning curves it may be best to avoid this one as it's only 
 going to produce frustration and a sense of "wasted money." Since the game has been out for a year, 
 and may potentially be released as a Platinum title in the U. S., the price should be at least half 
 of its initial release cost. And there's nothing wrong with saving money that can be spent on other 
 games later on. The game's visuals are best played in Hi-Def, but for those who have yet to make 
 the leap to the expensive HDTV, you can still enjoy some great graphics on an older TV. Ninja Gaiden 
 Sigma will certainly fill any void of wanting an awesome Ninja game. The weapons, combos and enemies 
 will give you tons of opportunity to inflict some serious pain. But, you will have to put a decent 
 amount of time into it before you can excel in dishing it out more often than receiving it.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: JOJO_AC
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 14, 2008 4:35 pm PT
Review:  One of the best games available on the XBOX finally made its way to the PS3 with a few upgrades. 
 Among the few improvements are better visuals, more weapons to choose from, more enemies exclusive 
 to the PS3 version and the ability to play as secondary character Rachel. If you have been following 
 the Ninja Gaiden games since the XBOX you may be a bit disappointed by the few changes since, at 
 its core, it's the same Ninja Gaiden from way back 2004 but with nicer graphics. But for the rest 
 of us who never experienced this game before will have a chance to play one of the best most challenging 
 games available on any system.
  One thing you should know is that the game is extremely challenging. Right from the start the game 
 strongly encourages you to use all the special moves and combos at your disposal, you'll get used 
 to them in no time, but other moves like the Ultimate Techniques will take you longer to master. 
 As you kill enemies you'll be rewarded by karma points which help evaluate your performance in 
 each level and also acts as currency to buy items and level up weapons, and the faster and more 
 skillful you kill enemies the more karma points you'll get.
  Some of the best fights from the game come from the many boss encounters; most of them are huge 
 and require more quick thinking than the usual enemies. 
  The game is not without faults, like the Ninpo techniques which require you to shake the controller 
 to use, and once you realize how little effective they are in battle (specially against the bosses) 
 it's better to just save them to get a higher scores. 
  If you're looking for a challenging with lots of replay value then you should check out Ninja Gaiden 
 Sigma, if you don't like hard games then you may want to give it a rent first.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: -Renegade
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 9, 2008 2:06 am PT
Review:  Well I have to say this is one of the most versitile Ninjas I have ever seen. He is fast, agile 
 and good with a large selection of weapons. The game starts out decent. The action quickly heats 
 up. Now this game has some of the best action with the weapons I have seen. I loved the weapon 
 selection. The story is not one of the best but I guess it gets the job done. Boss fights are lovely 
 and are a great addition to this game. Don't get me wrong I like the game but I think it could 
 have been alot better with some of the design choices. Some areas of the game are a bit tidious 
 with how the character controls and makes the game very, very frustrating at times. Lastly I would 
 like to add the game has some good replay value with the difficlty in the modes and new enemies 
 when you turn it up. After you complete the game there are tons of litte missions to do that have 
 even more weapons to toy around with that are not in the main game. Superb action game with a story 
 that falls flat so that's why this isn't AAA for me. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: enigmatic_evil
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 2, 2008 4:26 pm PT
Review:  We've played this game before and if you're anything like me you've beaten this game three times 
 now and you can beat the entire game with the lunar staff. Look at me I'm Donatello! And I don't 
 need Raph, Mike or Leo for this one... 
  
  But let's be honest, we've played this game through entirely already... twice. Sigma offers a bit 
 of an alternate take of Ryu Hayabusa's intense quest for the Dark Dragon Blade but for the most 
 part, its the game that made me think twice about those 'hack and slash' games I'd ignore most 
 of the time. Sigma is amazing, every bit worthy of the PS3 and any PS3 owner who doesn't own this 
 game is really kicking themselves. It's visually and in performance, a step up from Ninja Gaiden, 
 or even Ninja Gaiden Black. And there isn't anything that compares to it
  
  Not even Heavenly Sword. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jon_Sly
Rating: 7
Date: Feb 1, 2008 2:05 pm PT
Review:  Ninja Gaiden Sigma for the PS3
  
  Good: Lots of weapons to choose from, Sharp Cutscenes
  
  Bad: Punishing Difficulty, Storyline is to bland for its own good
  
  Gameplay: 7/10
  
 Graphics: 8/10
  Sound: 7/10
  Storyline: 6/10
  Extra's and Replay Value: 9/10
  
  This game takes place with a Ninja trying to take revenge for his clan by killing off his enemies 
 who screwed him over. Saving a dark evil sword from there grasp, add some evil demons into the 
 mix and thats about it. So you go off slashing heads off and slicing everyone in your way. Solid 
 controls most of the time, with neat ways making you feel like a ninja and not just being named 
 one. Graphics are ok, but for the PS3 I expect a bit better overall. The music and sounds are nothing 
 special and completly forgettable. If anything you will enjoy about this game will be the gameplay 
 with many weapons to choose from and lots of different combo's that are not shown in the game if 
 I might add.... The game has punishing difficulty and is a pain in the butt to play in most cases, 
 with killer boss fights and weak minions who can he poss a threat in most cases. At least you can 
 just say screw this and go to ninja dog rank and get free items for dying making it easier. The 
 game itself with last around 20 hours, with extra mission section to play when your done. In conclusion 
 this game was not worth a 9 reguardless of how you look at it. Unless you like slashing people 
 and difficulty this game was not what it was cracked up to be.
  
  Overall: 72/100 for a 7/10 Score 
::::::

::::::
UserName: exclusiveburner
Rating: 6.5
Date: Jan 29, 2008 3:23 pm PT
Review:  the key elements to make a good game worth purchasing.
  
  I think the game is an average game at best. Enemies are repetitive, combo's are very repetitive, 
 the game graphically isn't impressive at all, its just a better version of Ninja Gaiden Black on 
 PS3..... Its worth a rental if you dont mind hack and slash games if your not a big fan dont bother. 
 The story is terrible, so bad your going to skip every cut scene and every Eulogy to read.
  
  Graphics are unimpressive, they are equivalent to Xbox and some "Popular" game sites give it 
 a hefty 9 out of 10 in that department? This game needs serious anti aliasing even in 1080p.
  
  Gameplay is slightly better then average, you pull off some cool moves, and upgrade your weapons 
 which is very cool, and theres a decent amount of weapons to use but overall it feels old and out 
 of place on PS3. This game should have came out for $20.
  
  Rent, dont buy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tyg_skye
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 28, 2008 5:02 pm PT
Review:  Ninja Gaiden Sigma Has A Hardcore gameplay experience, you are Ryu Hayabusa and you play as a ninja 
 and fight evil and fight against bosse, the animation is great and I like button mashing set-up 
 and what a brutal game, in the game you also get to play rachel, This game is known as a HardCore 
 Action/Adventure Game, Its really hard game, Mostly the bosses, Dont Get me started on that!, Exciting 
 story, It could get boring if you have died for the millionth time , first boss... ahahah already 
 hard enough, I suggest this game should be rented first, Yes this game is like Devil May Cry 4, but 
 why not? Rent this game, could keep you occupied while you are waiting for Devil May Cry 4, It is 
 action-packed and waiting for you to open it, May not be the best game, if you dont get it, you 
 are not missing alot, but it is a great experience. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sony-PS3-fan89
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 24, 2008 9:47 am PT
Review:  Ninja Gaiden is Bloodthirsty Action packed gamewhich is a really great game and has a good debut 
 on PS3
  
  1stNinja Gaiden is one of these games that not easy to beat Although Its really hard it cant ruin 
 the game. To start of the game isnt so long, but u will feel its long cause of its hardness, if 
 it wasnt hard u would beat it in 8 hours. The graphics ar good the ruins the games look. The graphics 
 arent much too look at all u see is blood blood and blood
  
  2nd The Boss fights ar realy HARD, 1 boss will keep u 1/5 hours to beat. The story isnt such a great 
 intrest its some times gets pretty old and boring. But still the gameplay is awsome getting weopens 
 then chop someone with it and kill your Favourtie racheal.
  
  Overall Ninja Gaiden is A good game its really good But the graphics arent soo Atracive and might 
 the story could have been better .
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Harsadi
Rating: 6.5
Date: Feb 12, 2008 6:25 pm PT
Review:  Ninja Gaiden Sigma is in my top ten toughest games ever. Enemies go ape s*** on you, they play 
 dirty and feel cheap most of the time, but they are beatable after a couple of tries. The bosses 
 are even worse, most of them appear out of no where after you had an intense battle over a gang 
 of enemies. Sigma will test your patience and your gaming skills, if you are a weak or even an 
 above average gamer, I would recommend to stay away unless you plan to improve yourself because 
 if you don't plan on doing this you will not have fun you will hate this game. I myself hated the 
 game during the first hours, but then I began to enjoy it the bottom line is you have to keep trying 
 and push yourself like never before to beat a game. Sigma has excellent graphics, animation, and 
 game play no questions about those is just that the intense difficulty of the game will alienate 
 so many players only a small group of players are able to get a kick out of it. Team Ninja, please 
 don't make the next game so damn difficult. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DaddaG
Rating: 6.5
Date: Jan 8, 2008 2:38 pm PT
Review:  Ninja Gaiden to me is a big surprise. A surprise that it has got such a high rating and is one 
 of the only 9.0 rated games that i currently owe yet have only bothered playing once from start 
 to finish after which its been collecting dust on my shelf. The game runs oh so smooth, slick and 
 fast. The characters are pretty different and boss fights are pretty amazing..... and thats it! 
 A poor story along with insane difficulty at times makes this a real poor show to me. The levels 
 are all so linear and lifeless. The female character is downright clumsy and stupidly voluptuous. 
 Voice acting puts you to sleep and the crazy prices for upgrades or items from the store make me 
 want to call for justice on the ratings it has been given as an action game. I have never recommended 
 it to anyone and franlky i think waiting a few more months for Devil May Cry 4 is far better. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KaiserWebb
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 6, 2008 6:14 pm PT
Review:  Graphics:
  The games visuals are upgraded from its original Xbox counter part and previous cut scenes that 
 were pre rendered originally are now in full 3D. Its not exactly "next gen" but its a very attractive 
 game none the less.
  
  Gameplay: 
  Still the great gameplay from the original releases (keep in mind this is a re release of a game 
 from 2004) but Team Ninja fixed some of the camera problems that they game suffered from in the 
 original. The game also allows you to play as Racheal, she may not be as fun as Ryu but she adds 
 some new gameplay to what would just be the same old Ninja Gaiden we played 4 years ago. Theres 
 also some additional bosses for Ryus campaign but at the same time none of this content really 
 makes you feel like this is anything drastically new, at the end of the day it is the same game 
 just with a few new features but those new features are pretty fun none the less.
  
  Audio: 
  The games music is very well done matching the whole Ninja setting very well and the 
 voices for the most part are pretty well done.
  
  Overall:
  If you have played Ninja Gaiden before this may not be worth it as much as it upgrades the game 
 its still the same game thats been released two times besides this already but if your new to Ninja 
 Gaiden this is a very good buy and well worth your cash.
  
  8.5/5 
::::::

::::::
UserName: heirdt
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 5, 2008 5:52 pm PT
Review:  I think the game is somewhat like devil may cry franchise, enemies are demons, action is fast and 
 responsive, it features combos and lets be honest, gameplay in Ninja Gaiden Sigma goes far beyond 
 Devil may cry can offer right now, take it from a Devil may cry series fan.
  
  Graphics in game are just ok. The game sports some good HDR effects and decent self-shadowing, 
 however, some textures look very last gen, except they are obviously in higher resolution, some 
 models have higher polygon count but dont expect to see a radical improvement. If you compared 
 the original Ninja Gaiden with this one, imagine this is the PC version, runs in higher resolution 
 (1920 x 1080) , much better frame rate (solid 60 fps) and add amazingly fluid animations and some 
 great goodies such as new playable character Rachel (aww man shes hot!) . Sound has also being 
 improved a little bit since it now supports LPCM 5.1 (uncompressed sound) , unlike the disgusting 
 Xbox audio quality, which was also 5.1 but believe when I say original Xbox Surround sound was 
 very limited in quality terms, especially with those back surround speakers.
  
  Best Ninja Gaiden Sigma feature is gameplay, period. Nothing comes close if you like action-platform 
 games. Action is just fast furious, blasting, great, phenomenal, incredible, amazing, something 
 worth to remember, you get it? just don't show it to your grand parents because it gets verycarismatic 
 when decapiting enemies with a huge war hammer (rachel) or Katana (Ryu) , believe me this game features 
 some pretty unnecesary violent animations, yet stunning ones (amazing huh?) . 
  
  This game reminds me the good days of Snes and Genesis. Game is long, 19 chapters, you will have 
 great fun, great satisfaction every time you beat a boss, it's addicting.. I don't have words to 
 describe how classic the gameplay feels in spite of being revolutionary. Perhaps it's all about 
 gameplay quality rather than just featuring flashy graphics.
  
  Some people are complaining right now about game difficulty, Im playing right now chapter 14 or 
 15 don't remember.... but the thing is, it sure takes a while to master the moves, to experiment 
 with them, to try to be creative, and the game is almost average. PSN demo is a bit intimidating, 
 yes, especially because of the boss, but believe when I say I would consider it almost a bluff. 
 The game also seems to be very middle-age oriented, but its nothing like that, its a combination 
 of modern weoponry and middle age, ninjas and demons ala devil may cry. However, play the game 
 first, I don't want angry people blaming me, remember it's just my opinion what you are reading, 
 I don't decide for you, I'm not your baby sitter.
  
  Ninja Gaiden Sigma features loads of combos and they are much more detailed as well as animations, 
 most puzzles are not very difficult but are great, devil may cry is good, but this game takes action 
 games to a whole new level. BUT its not perfect, it has some camera issues, not that bad, but 
 sometimes they affect gameplay, particularly when trying to jump from wall to wall (yes Ryu behaves 
 pretty much like old Ninja legends)
  
  Enemies variety will not dissapoint. The main character (Ryu) features loads of movements (yeah 
 some of them are very flashy such as running on walls) , never seen something like this in my whole 
 life, consider there are different weapons, each (one or two are the same thing) gives you a different 
 battle style.
  
  Game deserves to be played and moreover to try to understand what the game is really about. Its 
 really a shame Ninja Gaiden 2 is a Xbox 360 exclusive, if tecmo doesn't realease this game on PS3 
 later will loose my respect.
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: pi_24112
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 5, 2008 5:16 pm PT
Review:  If you're into games like God of War and Devil May Cry and you're looking for a fix in that department. 
 Well look no further this is the game that will fill your needs for the moment until both of those 
 games come out. NInja Gaiden was a game I missed out on for the original xbox era. If you're that 
 gamer like myself than you should check this game out.
  
  The game starts off Ryu is finding out there's a evil clan invading his village and as you go out 
 to find out what's going on. You find out your village has been burn down by this Superior Ninja 
 God like demon called Doku. Once you find out what he did to your clan and peaceful village. All 
 you want is to go out and get revenge for what he did to your village and your people. The graphics 
 and animation in this game are just simply stunning. Even thou this is a ported game from a last 
 gen game. It still looks and plays amazing good on the playstation3. The indoor environments don't 
 look as great and beautiful as the outdoor.
  
  The controls are tight and satisfying when you cut off your enemies head off. This game up there 
 in the difficulty department but just like devil may cry and god of war once you die a couple of 
 times it gives you an option to bring it down a notch but you'll be force to wear a purple ribbon. 
 If you're a fan of the old ninja gaiden games from the nes and xbox you should definitely check 
 this game out with 18 chapters, 25 missions, new bosses, and a new playable character there's a 
 lot packed in to this game. If you never played a ninja gaiden game and are into god of war/devil 
 may cry type games than you should definitely check out this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dawnoflife3
Rating: 7
Date: Dec 30, 2007 8:38 am PT
Review:  the games graphics arnt the best and the fighting can get a bit boring. i had very high expectections 
 but was very dissapointed. this was also my frist game for my ps3. i dont even get the story. where 
 the **** does the flower come from. i get so confused where to go. the map is no help and there is 
 nothin tellin u where to go. the fighting was tough and i could get a hang of it. he only does 1 
 move over and over again. i have spent so much time playin this like more than 2 hours to dinish 
 the game cause there is nothing telling u where to go .that was probablt the worst part of the 
 game. shaking the control for the power atack broke my controller and has to buy a new 1!!!!!!!!!!!!!. afte 
 rusing the main guy figting whith racher is very tough. also the camera is very tough. i think the 
 game is way too overrated, another thing bad is the camera. at times u hav no idea where the hell 
 you ae going. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jpo911
Rating: 7
Date: Dec 28, 2007 7:47 am PT
Review:  A really fun game to play although the camera and variation is a little in the way. Boss battles 
 are a little frustrating to say the whole game is frustrating. To slice and dice is the most brutal 
 experience ever, but it misses most off the things I was expecting. Well thats that the game is not 
 fun And I dont think I am intrested off buying the new one if there will be a new one. I still cant 
 understand why gameSpot gives it a 9.0 it is so hard to finish this game it gives me a head ache.
 
  
  The Good: Good graphics, fun to slice ememies.
  
  The Bad: Frustrating, camera gets in the way, Boss battles are hard to finish, sometimes the controls 
 are not so cool.
  
  Im jpo911 and im signing out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sandro27
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 21, 2007 12:13 pm PT
Review:  amazing action on it, great weapons etc. it is a bit boring at some things
  like: when you start from the last save point ,too much enemies in some chapters but it isn't too 
 boring at this ,but in general it is amazing /// ???? 22 33 8 4 8 1 4 4 4 5 8 4 6 1 8 4 6 kl h 
 g k kj k f f f s s sf sf s f sf s f sf fs sf 36sf5 6 54f6 s45 3sf213 s45 645 s4 64 sf4 64 fs 7sf 
 s8f 9 6 46 kh2 khh41 6 46h4h hj65jh64 h456h4 6k48 64jk 216 46 78kk 56k4 jk46j456 k8h 978jh 246jh 
 41 6 hj4h 4 jhh j4 hjh j il4u f d6 e6 we 7 qq8 o9o po pi+ ij 6p op 5jh i h iu 4 po1 o2ptik 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BondMI6007
Rating: 6.5
Date: Dec 21, 2007 10:43 am PT
Review:  I purchased "Ninja Gaiden Sigma" with very high hopes. I had heard that it was meant to be a very 
 enjoyable game with amazing graphics. This was true, but these features were over-shadowed by the 
 over-all difficulty of the game. It is so difficult, that it becomes frustrating, and when it becomes 
 frustrating, it becomes less enjoyable. You will then no longer be able to pay any attention to 
 the graphics because your sight will be blurry from all the crying you will do. I hate saying all 
 this because for the first three sections of the game, the difficulty is just right, and it is 
 a pleasure to play, but after that - no, thanks!
  Then again, if you are a very patient person - and I mean patient (maybe even as patient as God) 
 - you just might be able to get through this game. But, that would be blasphemy, wouldn't it? So, 
 I wouldn't bother if I was you. On that bombshell - thank you for reading my review... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BlakkSteel
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 19, 2007 11:46 pm PT
Review:  For those of us that were envious of the Ninja Gaiden & Ninja Gaiden Sigma being XBox exclusives, 
 this was a very welcomed "hello." The graphics are extremely smooth, & flow fluidly throughout 
 the game. The load times are kept to a minimal. The storyline is cohesive enough to avoid frustrations 
 with such a great game. It's EXTREMELY challenging (read: DIFFICULT) ; sometimes, it gets to the 
 point of frustration. However, when you overcome your obstacle, it makes you wanna continue to 
 the next challenge. This game grips you tight! You WON'T blow through this game; but, you won't 
 want to put it down, either. I have yet to see the impact of shakin' the controller to increase 
 the ninpo. The things that kept me from rating it a perfect hit, are the occasional bad camera 
 angles (which can come at some of the most inopportune times) , & someone was always obviously horny 
 when this game was made. Rachel's boobs move when she BLINKS! I live enough real life, & have dealt 
 with enough busty women to know that's just too far over the top. She's top heavy; we get the point!! 
 LOL Her story fits well into the scheme of the overall game. The weapons are fantastic; although, 
 they could scatter some more money thru the game. It gets increasingly difficult to upgrade your 
 weapons & purchase elixirs, as the game goes on. Overall, this game is spectacular. & after I finish 
 the mainline story, I'll play the additional 5 missions. It's still in my deck right now, as I 
 type this. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jrco666
Rating: 4.5
Date: Dec 18, 2007 2:19 pm PT
Review:  Ninja Gaiden Sigma has been out for about half a year, and I have yet to beat it. I have had to 
 put the game down countless times at this point. My biggest problem with the game is hands down 
 the camera. The camera hurts this game to the point it may have killed it for me. This game was 
 my first experience with Ninja Gaiden, and likely my last. I like the more traditional ninja games, 
 but I thought this game might still be cool. I was wrong, this game is beyond absurd. An army armed 
 with guns shall never lose to a single guy with a sword! After playing for a while it felt as though 
 Ryu was in the wrong game, because the game just strayed further and further from being a ninja 
 game. The demo for this game was fun, but I would of rather kept the illusion created by the demo. 
 The final product isn't appealing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: moej88
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 9, 2007 7:13 pm PT
Review:  Ok this was my first time trying out Ninja Gaiden and I love it!! 
  The amount of action in this game is unbelievable! The weapons are amazing; the environments are 
 very well done. The graphics blew me away cause they were awesome. 
  It has been a while since a good Ninja game came out, and this game satisfies all the needs and 
 wants for anyone who wants a good game with tons of action.
  I wish the game had multiplayer where 2 ninjas fight in quick action. That would have been cool 
 but other than that this game was amazing and it's worth the money.
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: highflyer800
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 8, 2007 7:19 pm PT
Review:  One of the first games i wanted to picked up with my ps3 was Sigma and behold a week after getting 
 my ps3 i got it. even thought there have been two other versions of the same game on the xbox it 
 still does'nt show its ages at all.
  
  You play the young Ninja Ryu Hayabusa (also from dead or alive) . The story starts with Ryu Invading 
 the Shadow clan ninja fort to pay a vist to his uncle name Muria who is the clan leader soon after 
 thought Information comes that his village (Hayabusa) is under attack and Ryu Quickly returns back 
 to defend it. The reason the Village is getting attacked is because inside it is the Dark Dragon 
 Blade, a Sword of great evil. Ryu makes his way to a small hut where it seem that not only the 
 blade is keeped but his childhood friend Kureha is also there. When he arrives he sees Kureha just 
 befores she dies in a bed of flame. with her killer standing infront of Ryu holding the Dark Dragon 
 Blade. They begian to fight but in the end Ryu is no match and is cut down and left to die. Soon 
 after thought Ryu has recoreved and with the infomation he needs begains his quest to not only 
 find the The Dark Dragon Blade but to get vengeances on the man that lead the attack and killed 
 Kureha, Doku.
  
  There two thing you notice when you start playing, the first is how nice it looks. Looking at the 
 graphical jump its amazing and in HD its just to die for. Anamitions are also just lovely to watch. 
 The next thing you notice is just how hard the game is. When compareing it to other games which 
 have been released in the last few years its a lot more harder. The enemy AI is very good and you 
 find yourself being on the defence a lot.
  
  When not on the defence thought you can create some great feets of sword slashing fun, pulling 
 off great looking combos and just genreal sword fighting is feels great and does'nt get repedetive 
 because of how enemys react to your attacks. Boss fights are also great. The bosses in Ninja Gaiden 
 are some of the hardest bosses in any game and won't give you anytime to sit down in one spot for 
 two long. Even the second boss is a tought fight. Theres also a nice amout of weapons in the game 
 which you collect as you play few and some are for sigma only.
  
  The controls are well throught out and while its not to hard to master the combos its hard to time 
 them right and know when to attack. The levels are very well thought out and look fanstatic to 
 boot. there also little kind of little side quests as well like find the head of a statue and so. 
 These don't really get in the way or anything but i would'nt of missed them if they were left out 
 If there was any problem with the controls. I would say that the camera does tend to get in the 
 way of fight a few times but because your always moving , most the time it can find its way into 
 a good angle so you can start sending dudes flying.
  
  The sound is also Good, the voice acting is of very high standed. Other then that the sound is 
 genreally what you expect from a game. Your sword makes a sound when it hit somthing and the baddies 
 go ow.
  
  The story is also good and the term if somthing not broken why try fix it comes to mind. This is 
 what they done, nothing from Ryu story has been changed and this is good cause we don't really 
 want any stupid major plot twist or crap that were'nt in the game before. Althought there is one 
 small problem with Ninja Gaiden Sigma and thats the fact the some things have been taken it. The 
 biggest one that you notice is that the old Ninja gaiden games that you could unlock in Black are 
 no where to been seen. This is a little anoying if this is meant to be the best out the lot but 
 inclueding Rachel as playable is fun... i guess. 
  
  While i could try and find other little problems with the game but i won't due to the fact that 
 what we have here is a good game. Even thought it is the 3rd remake its a good remake at that. 
 Its a first time for all the xbox haters to get there hands on this game and the graphical update 
 and small bonus are nice. So apart from a few small problems, I 100% recomend you pick up Ninja 
 Gadien Sigma 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: cigsmokingman
Rating: 4.5
Date: Dec 4, 2007 9:27 pm PT
Review:  Ninja Gaiden was a terrific game... when it came out on the Xbox two years ago. Then it was repackaged 
 as Ninja Gaiden black. now again, as Ninja Gaiden Sigma on PS3. i think it's pretty obvious by 
 now Team Ninja is just beating a dead horse to milk more money out of a successful game. sure, 
 they can add a few features, update the graphics, whatever but it's still the same game. i feel 
 like the PS3 was the biggest waste of money i ever made, because crap like this is the only exclusive 
 content for it. 
  
  we're not blind, Team Ninja. although i am anxiously awaiting Ninja Gaiden 2, EXCLUSIVELY for 360. 
 which hasn't let me down once. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hawk1180
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 2, 2007 5:32 pm PT
Review:  Well at first all i had to say was here we go again another ninja gaiden remake. I mean it was 
 a great update to a classic game when it first came out on the orginal XBOX then we got Ninja Gaiden 
 Black for XBOX next which had some new content and a new name but again it was the same game again 
 not saying it was bad but it was basically the same game!
  
  Now we have sigma for the PS3. I knew from the start that it was not going to be Ninja Gaiden 2 
 but I did think that is was going to be a new game designed for the PS3 but NOOOO it is the same 
 game again. 
  
  But enough with the complaining it is still a great game that come with some new bosses new directions 
 to the story and new weapons and move and it also looks better now then its predocessors.
  The gameplay is still very good still a hard game but that is a given anyway. 
  The are the ne 
 weapons and items that you collect to use in the game. 
  And they have added the game play of the heroin Racheal for game play well it is not like playing 
 with Ryu it is still something new to try and is nice to see the back story of Racheal that you 
 can now play.
  The only bad I can say is getting use to the new controls especially if you have played the XBOX 
 versions.
  
  Overall this is a great game to play and to add to your PS3 collection of games. I give it scores 
 of:
  Gameplay: 8
  Graphics: 8.5
  Control: 7.5
  Replay: 8
  
  Overall: 8
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: crazygame2
Rating: 5
Date: Dec 2, 2007 6:23 am PT
Review:  Terrible, Terrible and terrible. This has to eb one of the worst ports i have ever played, i like 
 the ps3 but this is the game that brings it down.
  The graphics for this game are good but the cut scene graphics are just the xbox ones ported to 
 the ps3 so on hd it makes no difference. The story is pretty bad and is confusing and for a game 
 that was one of the best on the xbox it isnt that good for a playstation game. If your looking 
 to buy an action game on the ps3 i would try assasins creed or heavonly sword, this was a huge 
 let down. 
  I'm not going to reccomend this game because you know you will be dissapointed. So do not buy this 
 game and waste your money buy something more worthwhile like. MArio galaxy, assains creed or heavenl 
 sword.
  
  Stewart James
  
  5/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: scarecrow_br
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 1, 2007 11:18 am PT
Review:  I have to confess, I love "beat them up" games and Ninja Gaiden is a good exemplar of this category.
 
  
  Fantastic graphics, nice sounds and voice and it sticks to the genre. if you like the genre like 
 I do you will not be disappointed on buying this game and you will have hours of fun.
  
  The game throws you a good variety of enemies that will demand different strategies to be beaten. 
 Being able to use and arrow is also a good twist and the Chapters that you play with Rachel adds 
 a lot of more diversity on the gameplay experience since she fights and reacts completely different 
 from Ryu. 
  
  On the bas side, the story could be better it has never sucked me into it, at some point the game 
 gets a little bit of repetition since you are just going from one place to another killing enemies. 
 Few puzzles are inserted in the game but they are really easy to be solved.
  
  When it comes to the difficulty, I got say I had some problems and I died a lot ( I'm not any videogamer 
 master but I'm a little bit above the average) . The game is hard! You are going to get killed a 
 lot and at many times you are going to get killed by regular enemies and not by the bosses. Some 
 sections with regular enemies are much tougher than the bosses that are waiting for you down the 
 corner. It is not as hard as Devil May Cry 3 but it is hard. An average player may get disappointed 
 at some time.
  
  But I really recommend it and I guess nobody should miss it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CNS93
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 30, 2007 4:16 pm PT
Review:  This was the toughest game I ever played. Even with the hard difficulty, I enjoyed the game till 
 the very end. The bosses were challenging and fun. The graphics are amazing and the combat is awesome. 
 Cool combos and diverse enemies make you want to play for hours. With smooth gameplay and many 
 weapons, it' ll keep you playing until you find and try all of the wapons and combos. Too bad I 
 cant get the second one cuz I don' t have an Xbox 360. I would have liked to get it. I recommend 
 this game to anyone even if your not a Ninja Gaiden fan. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BeastatBay
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 29, 2007 4:01 pm PT
Review:  Now I wont get in to detail into this review since in the end its still the same game released 
 back in 2004. So you know the story get revenge for what happen to your village. The story is not 
 perfect but it will do thanks to its marvelous gameplay. The gameplay is simply a hack and slash 
 but a very hardcore one that takes skill to overcome. Though unfortunetely Sigma is not as hard 
 as the previous titles though dont be fooled its still tough and you will die alot. The graphics 
 are great and enemies look greater on the ps3 though with more load screens than the xbox versions 
 can be a bit unsatisfying when your fighting all these guys and all of a sudden you are forced 
 into a load screen. The sound is exactly like before which was alright so if you liked it before 
 than good because it the same thing here if you didnt then well too bad because it is exactly the 
 same thing here. This game has some new features that are alright though not as more packed than 
 black was but if you own a ps3 and you have not played ninja gaiden then without a doubt buy Sigma 
 today
  Gameplay-9.5
  Graphics-9.5
  Sound-8
  Value-10
  OVERALL-9.5 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xMeHRuNeSDaGoNx
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 28, 2007 7:57 am PT
Review:  This is one of the Most brutally hard games since the devil may cry series. But might i say, this 
 game is awarded most bloodiest gruesome game out there. Well for me... But anyways, Ryu Hayabusa 
 is one bad ass mother when it comes to killing demons and other ninjas that get in his way. His 
 arsenal of weapons and spells make him one deadly ninja. All the weapon upgrades as well keep this 
 game occupying you to get everything. I only beat it on normal so far ... I would be stupid to 
 try it on hard mode. Nah, maybe i will ... Just to see all the beautifully crafted landscapes and 
 enviroments just one more time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Xionethic
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 16, 2007 4:20 am PT
Review:  This game is great fun, all those cool moves, even though most of the time you will just be mashing 
 buttons, the game still sucks you in for a while. The exciting boss battles, the amazing smoothness 
 of the game on the whole is quite good. The game should be a try for everyone, no matter your genre. 
 There is one thing i hate about this game, the fact that there are re spawns once where u were. 
 This became annoying. Nevertheless, the game is interesting and you get tired of it fast and have 
 no need to actually complete it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Reshun_9
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 15, 2007 12:09 am PT
Review:  If you're expecting a mix of Shinobi for PS2 and Devil May Cry series, you're quite right about 
 that.
  
  The game is brutal cold-steel action / adventure game. For new comers like myself would find the 
 game difficult and end up unlocking the Easy mode that can be chosen after having 3 constant deaths 
 throughout the game.
  
  First off, unlike most action / adventure game, you can't really just dash on most enemies that 
 will randomly appear during your adventure. About 90% of the enemy AIs actually have a basic idea 
 of dodging, blocking or even counter-attacking your attacks if you decide to be the hero in the 
 scene and try to slice and dice'm with no brainer. other than few beasts you encounter (giant fish 
 / bats etc.) you will find your self doing most of the dodging and blocking + counter moves which 
 are the keys to winning most battles.
  
  Now I don't know why gamespot didn't put this up on the Bad Side of the game but the camera angle 
 in this game was just horrible. Because there is no manual Lock-On control, your only hopes are 
 the auto-lock on and the fixed-camera button. Now even those can't save you from certain boss fights 
 where your camera will always lock on the Bosses regardless of the minions they call out to stab 
 you in the back. 
  
  Because of the fact that your dodgy moves can't keep you invulnerable from any attacks while you 
 perform them you have to learn to either block + counter, block + dodge before second attack, or 
 run around in circles to find a different tactics to keep the game from getting repetitive. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: saiid2000
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 12, 2007 3:33 pm PT
Review:  This game is one of the best games I have played ever. It was my first experiece with a Ninja Gaiden 
 game and it was fantastic.
  Everything right from the begining till the end was brilliant. The graphics, game style, the movies, 
 challenges, and Rachel's juggling boobs.
  This game is really well balanced, from the different levels and boss levels it is all good. Apart 
 from the tank boss battle which was veryy irritating because of the amount of fire and missiles 
 which was very difficult to dodge and avoid.
  The story line is very amusing as well, although I didn't find Rachel's chapters that much entertaining. 
 Her fat a** is really heavy and not agile and fit as Ryu. I was expecting more appearance of Murai 
 during the game, but he appeared at the begining and the end and thats it.
  One thing was pointless which is shaking teh controller to charge up the nimpos, I don't know if 
 i missed anything but it was pointless. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Shadow-Koopa
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 12, 2007 12:08 pm PT
Review:  Graphics: The graphics in this game look really good. You just have to look at the main character, 
 the leather looks like real leather, the swords look real, the characters look almost lifelike 
 and it all runs really well and the frame-rate almost never slows except for the one time there 
 was about 18 enemies and I was dodging everwhere and swinging my sword like crazy. The only gripe 
 that I have with the graphics is that the blood looks like it came out of a PS2 game, while that 
 doesn't sound too bad, when you compare it to how amazing the rest of the game looks, it looks 
 really out of place and spoils what is essentially an amazing looking game.
  
  Sound: The in-game music is fantastic and when the swords clash it sounds like real steel clashing. 
 There is again however one minor gripe, which is absolutely tiny but I'll mention it anyway, the 
 enemies in the game all make the same grunts and noises.
  
  Gameplay: First off, this game is hard, perhaps not as hard as everyone else has made it out to 
 be but still its hard. The fighting system is one of the reasons I love this game, it's so simple 
 and within seconds you'll be rolling round leaping off walls, running round and smashing things 
 within minutes, however don't think that you can beat this games enemies just by hammering the 
 attack button, as that only works if there is only one enemy and that happens only once at the 
 beginning of the game, the bosses need strategy to beat and you can't just run straight at them 
 at pummel the attack button, if you do then the first boss will cream you within seconds.
  
  Verdict: Buy this game, seriously go out and buy it right now, as it is the best PS3 exclusive 
 game (possibly better than Oblivian (yes it is that good) ) and is almost worth spending the 400 
 on a PS3 console. The PS3 started off really badly but if there are more games like this then the 
 PS3 might quickly become the best Next-Gen console available. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gulamh
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 11, 2007 5:11 pm PT
Review:  This being my first encounter with the ninja gaiden series, I was extremely impressed. The visuals 
 are amazing. But what I really like about ninja gaiden sigma is the controls, it just feels so 
 natural and smooth controlling Ryu. You are pulling off all these amazing running on the wall and 
 cool jump moves without even thinking, never it being too complicated. 
  Now on to the combat, its really fast paced crazy ninja action. There are a lot of different combos 
 to master and weapons to unlock . What really surprised me was how difficult the game is and how 
 much you have to think to kill your opponents. You definitely can't button mash through the whole 
 game like some other hack & slash games. you have to learn the combos, be tactical, block alot 
 and time your moves because the enemy is really fast paced. But once you do get the hang of it 
 and pull of one of your amazing combos or ultimate attacks it just feels extremely satisfying. 
 
  Boss battles are really cool, although some are very difficult and frustrating at times. You probably 
 have to try at least a few time to beat a boss, figure out the pattern they use, what kind of attacks 
 they have, be precise with your timing and so on. But once you do win, theres a great sense of 
 achievement. So overall the game is really challenging and requires practice and patience, but 
 this I think works in favour of the game. I think theres plenty of replay value. You could could 
 try different weapons, different combos, try to improve your rank, get alot of karma points or 
 just try a harder difficulty to test your skills.
  The only thing not great about the game is the story , a very basic plot without much character 
 development. But I'm guessing that was never the point of this game anyway, it all about the fast 
 paced action. 
  So overall i think this game is great game that should be experienced and a must own for fans of 
 the genre. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DjBreakMiX
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 10, 2007 9:23 pm PT
Review:  Overall, this is the best game i've ever played. The controls are fantastic and the fighting style 
 is amazing. Although to some people it may get repetitive, people who love action games will love 
 this game. The story line is ok.
  
  Overall, this is the best game i've ever played. The controls are fantastic and the fighting style 
 is amazing. Although to some people it may get repetitive, people who love action games will love 
 this game. The story line is ok.
  
  Overall, this is the best game i've ever played. The controls are fantastic and the fighting style 
 is amazing. Although to some people it may get repetitive, people who love action games will love 
 this game. The story line is ok. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RedneckGamer87
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 5, 2007 9:38 am PT
Review:  Gameplay: Ninja Gaiden Sigma is an upgraded, more complete version of Ninja Gaiden Black. Rachel, 
 the heroine, is playable. She's a tank character, meaning that she's relatively slow but extremely 
 powerful. Being that many of the enemies in the game are fast, it can be somewhat frustrating when 
 needing to play a little more defensively than you're used to. The main character Ryu Hayabusa 
 also features new actions, new weapons (like Dual swords called Dragon's Claw and Tiger's Fang) , 
 and new combinations. The people who made this game refined the pace and address frustrations of 
 the original to make for an even challanging, more centered experience. One such change is the 
 addition of a shop near the final save point before a major, difficult boss fight. Well that can 
 I say this game is not easy. Though out the game you will find new enemies to fight, such as glowing 
 spirits and soldiers on motorcycles.
  
  Graphics: Of course, the level of visual detail is enhanced from previous generation consoles. 
 Everything is polished out and colorful and look very realistic during the cut scenes, even a gameplay 
 graphics look real and the graphics run really smoothly.
  
  Sound: Well what can I say, the sound is perfect. Everything and I mean everything is very well 
 done from the soundtrack to the voiced acting and sound effects and sound the way they should sound.
 
  
  Value: All in all this is pretty much a really great game with great replay value. Ninja Gaiden 
 Sigma isn't a true next-gen sequel, nor is it a simple port of the Xbox release. it just adds a 
 good deal of new content to the gameplay. The only thing that I did not like was somewhat confusing 
 layout of some areas and a lack of direction on occasion and you end up wondering for a while trying 
 to find out hwat to do next. I give this game 9.5 out of 10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PS3_Champ
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 3, 2007 3:32 pm PT
Review:  Ninja Gaiden is Bloodthirsty Action packed gamewhich is a really great game.
  
  1stNinja Gaiden is 1 of the most hardest games evr . Although Its really hard it cant ruin the 
 game. To start of the game isnt so long, but u will feel its long cause of its hardness, if it wasnt 
 hard u would beat it in 8 hours. The graphics ar good the ruins the games look. The graphics arent 
 much too look at all u see is blood blood and blood
  
  2nd The Boss fights ar realy HARD, 1 boss will keep u 3 hours to beat. The story isnt such a great 
 intrest its some times gets pretty old and boring.
  
  Overall Ninja Gaiden is A good game its really good But the graphics arent soo Atracive. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: evklinken
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 3, 2007 11:21 am PT
Review:  Ninja Gaiden appeared four years ago on the original Xbox. Back then, that action adventure game, 
 developed by Tecmo, turned out to be a huge hit. But is this second remake (after Ninja Gaiden 
 Black) a redifined version of a incredible game, or is this game good enough to compete with God 
 of War II and Heavenly Sword?
  
  The first thing you probably notice when you start Ninja Gaiden Sigma for the first time, is the 
 extremely high difficulty level. Every enemy in the game will try to kill you, and not in a way 
 like in God of War II (where the enemy's are just waiting for their turn to get killed) . But for 
 those who can overlook the almost niche-like difficulty of the game, will find that Ninja Gaiden 
 Sigma is a pleasure to play and to look at.
  
  But the biggest problem about NGS is that it's not as revolutionary as the original Ninja Gaiden 
 was. But for those who've never played Ninja Gaiden or Ninja Gaiden Black, this is a decent action 
 adventure with enough content to keep you fighting for a pretty long time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jpcc86
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 29, 2007 3:24 pm PT
Review:  Who doesn't want to be a ninja? Well, with this game you have the chance to play as a high-speed 
 deadly ninja filled with the idea of vengeance. If you like bloody fast-paced combat that require 
 fast reactions and quick decisions to keep the hype up, this game is what you are looking for. 
 Ninja Gaiden Sigma is a pretty interesting game worth playing if you haven't played the previous 
 versions o even if you have, the game is, by its own right, a solid piece that entertains quite 
 a lot. Graphics a good and well defined, the light and shadows of the rendered characters leave 
 a pretty realistic, yet somewhat cartoonish , anime-like graphics that fit in very well with the 
 game's topic and play-through.
  The combat animation is superb and it forces you to react fast to the controller, sometimes it 
 might seem that you get too absorbed in the game that you react faster than the game itself can 
 handle. Boss fighting is challenging as they seem to be the only type of enemies that requiere 
 special attention and more strategy than the regular-types. Enemies vary from regular ninjas to 
 big nasty evil creatures, but the fighting is done in similar ways, you just have to pay attention 
 and know when to block and when to atack, this requires full concentration.
  
  You get to use two characters, the main one, who is the already known Ryu and a new one, a girl 
 named Rachel, that seem to be a weaker version of Ryu in both speed and strength but with a significant 
 role in the story of the game. Gameplay is somewhat decent. Control is decent but it has it flaws, 
 as previously said sometimes it does not react as fast as your hands in the controller might do, 
 but it is still easy to handle and easy to get used to. The camera, however, might botch you gaming 
 experience somehow as you will have to adjust it constantly which takes time that you might want 
 to use killing enemies. The game itself is pretty solid and worth playing, however after spending 
 several hours it can get monotonous. Since there are not many great PS3 yet, I do recommend playing 
 this one, as it is quite entertaining when you start playing it and the fast-speed combat is quite 
 addictive. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Arcanum
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 20, 2007 5:24 pm PT
Review:  I finished this just before I started playing Heavenly Sword, and I had no prior experience with 
 the characters found within Ninja Gaiden Sigma. On GameSpots suggestion, I got this game, as an 
 introduction into the genre kinda. The controls do feel right, and the combat system was well done, 
 but the game is too long. I think that this game should have lost points for being too long, the 
 way that HS lost points for being too short.
  
  There is no doubt, that this is a great game. If your thing is this kind of style of fighting, 
 then you will love this game and its a long single player campaign and endless multiplayer Downloadable 
 content as well. But since I played HS right after Ninja Gaiden Sigma, and before this review, 
 I saw how lousy the story of this game is. The framework of a story is there, its just that there 
 isnt anything there, too bad. Graphics are really good, but I did notice some frame rate issues 
 only in the church on more than one occasion. Played in 720p. I played through for a while on normal 
 mode and ended up letting myself get killed to play through on ninja dog (easy level) . There are 
 a ton of bosses to fight, and their weaknesses are different enough that this game took me a long 
 time. Too long! My score would be .5 higher had I not played HS, but after that game, others have 
 to do more (possibly less as in the case of this game) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: basem_fisher
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 18, 2007 5:44 am PT
Review:  hi my name is basem im from egypt i just finished ninja gaiden sigma the normal mode and when i 
 finished it i found a lot to do as the missions mode is opened [ that offers the best thing in 
 the game that is killing monsters as fast and brutal as possible] and a hard mode is opened [ that 
 unlocks a new costume that u havent been able to play whith before {i think} ] and i know a lot of 
 players love things to be opened after finishing the game so its great i think it worth the money 
 i paid it . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nmanma
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 16, 2007 10:40 am PT
Review:  well, the reason i bought a ps 3 ,was because of this game. I have both the gaiden black and original 
 gaiden, and frankly speaking the new content is alright. I was curious as to what the dual blades 
 could do and frankly speaking i used this weapon the whole of the game, except for ghost fishes. 
 This game is action packed, i beat the game on GAIDEN BLACK about 100 times, my game play time 
 was 1290hrs of game play for the black. I am a deep fan of the gaiden series and without a doubt 
 i will get the ninja gaiden 2 when it arrives. As for those like me who love super hard games , 
 they ll have to check ninja gaiden sigma, This is the best edition of the three. People might dislike 
 it when i say that the difficulty is no where BLACK. i beat this game on Normal without using a 
 potion and same on the hard mode. that proves that it is seriously easy. Nevertheless the graphics 
 gives the game a new feel. some of the levels were remodeled and something places were deleted. 
 hopefully the scarabs were kept in place. As for camera, which is the biggest problem of all the 
 gaiden series. I have no problem with it, since i played black, i know all the situations in which 
 to flip my camera and believe me when u ve played gaiden this long. sigma becomes fluid. The water 
 in the game looks bad, i have to admit and the running on water scheme isn't that good , but still 
 for those who are curious and have played black and don't have a ps 3 the novelist for all weapons 
 are the same and only the dual swords are accessible to new fast moves. esp when fighting alma (first 
 form) . People who don't like this game coz of difficulty and storyline in my opinion frankly suck. 
 the combat makes up for every flaw this game has, each time i pull an izuna drop , its awesome. 
 For beginners, this game requires u to lose alot, u ll probably lose to murai like a 100 times 
 b4 u figure out his weakness, but you need keen observations ,fast finger reflexes to defeat all 
 bosses. and believe me when u unlock mission mode you ll definitely get better at the game This 
 game gets a 10/10 from me. and without a doubt. it is the best game alive till today. THE GAIDEN 
 SERIES THAT IS. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bjmage16
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 15, 2007 6:34 pm PT
Review:  I honestly cannot stand this game. I just hate ninja games. Shinobi, Dynasty Warriors, etc, all 
 of them I dislike. I don't know why. This game is no exception.
  
  However, the game is certainly very good. The controls are flawless, the graphics are great, and 
 basically everything about the game is good. The game is WAY too hard for it's own good, and is 
 more likely to frustrate you than to excite you. But if you like good, hard games, this one is 
 for you.
  
  Personally, there are dozens of games I'd rather play. I'll go play Halo 3, or Zelda, or Final 
 Fantasy before turning to a ninja game like this. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Rikusaki
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 10, 2007 7:43 pm PT
Review:  If you loved the other two versions on the Xbox and you want to play it again, Sigma is the best 
 version of this game. The gameplay is amazing. It is a little hard, but if you die 3 times in a 
 row, you will unlock Ninja Dog mode and everything will be just right.
  
  A cool thing that is exclusive to the PS3 version is that your stats are posted online! You get 
 Karma for killing enemies and clearing obstacles.
  
  The graphics are very sharp and clear. The textures are high-res, the self-shadowing is very impressive, 
 you can run it in full 1080p, and it all runs at 60 frames per second. I actually have nothing 
 to say bad about this game. This game is very addicting and you can't miss it if you have a PS3. 
 I have no choice but to give this game a perfect 10/10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Flawie
Rating: 6.5
Date: Oct 6, 2007 8:30 am PT
Review:  Ninja Gaiden was released many years ago as a Hack n Slash actionadventure with heavy emphasis 
 on the action. The game could arguably be compared to games like Devil May Cry or the more recent 
 Heavenly Sword . Enemies spawn and you string together combos of moves similar to a fighting game 
 to eliminate them and move on to the next room. Contrary to DMC and HS tho, Ninja Gaiden feautured 
 quite alot of exploring and puzzlesolving feeling almost like a Zelda adventure at times.
  Since the release of Ninja Gaiden, Team Ninja have released an updated version of the game called 
 Ninja Gaiden Black with some updates to the game and gameplay as well as the addition of some extra 
 stuff. Now, 2007, The same game is release for the third time as Ninja Gaiden Sigma and it includes 
 all the balancing updates and mission packs from previous version as well as the addition of making 
 Rachel playable in a couple of missions making this the ultimate and most complete version of this 
 very popular game!
  
  When it comes to hack n slash action this game delivers in every aspect of the word. The controls 
 are made for this type of action and the action itself is supertight and superfun. It also rewards 
 you for not playing it like a buttonmasher and for thinking about how you string together awesome 
 combos. The game has recieved alot of praise for being this very balanced, challenging and rewarding 
 actionexperience and I can only nod my head and fully agree with the masses on this point. The 
 juicy actioncore of this game is one of the best ever for sure putting the recent Heavenly Sword 
 to shame when it comes to showing off fluid, cool, fastpaced combat. The addition of Rachel being 
 playable really makes the whole thing feel complete. I havent played the earlier versions of this 
 game but I would like to think that it would feel like something would be missing if she wasnt 
 playable. Her moves are slower but packs more of a punch so you need to play more defensively and 
 counterattack with a few heavy blows to be successfull. The characters in this game are truly the 
 most satisfying actioncharacters to play on this side of Devil May Cry 3 SE.
  
  OK. So with that out of the way lets touch on the most popular question when it comes to Ninja 
 Gaiden. The difficulty. Many people are scared to play this game (I was one of them) because of 
 its reputation. The game is challenging, yes. Some might even call it hard. Enemies will not show 
 you any mercy. Every battle is a ballet and if you trip on your partners toes even once you will 
 quickly find yourself taking alot of hits and losing loads of health in seconds. You need to keep 
 your guard up, run around alot and counterattack with haste to successfully completing a standard 
 monsterspawn battle without to many potions. The same thing goes for bosses. They will not give 
 you loads of hints on what attacks they will pull off or stay still for to long to let you hit 
 them. The game expects you to have good reflexes and quick fingers to pull through the game. With 
 that being said it never ever feels unfair. If you die you only blame yourself. I never once threw 
 the controller and yelled at the game when I died because I knew there was something I just hadnt 
 figured out concering the enemies movements. Also since this is the third release of this game 
 everyone can find their level of difficulty. If you start dying alot you will be able to switch 
 the game down to an easier difficulty where you get more money to buy potions for and more mercy 
 from all the enemies. You&acute; ll find yourself living alot longer and defeating bosses on the 
 first try. So my point here is dont avoid playing this game because of its difficulty because they 
 have now finetuned the game so much that everyone can win. Yea well ok, the game still wont be 
 as easy as say Heavenly Sword (since we already used that game as an example before) . The game 
 will not show you mercy even on easy but it will not feel overwhelming if you havent played the 
 game before.
  
  The game&acute; s problems is pretty much everything except this tho and its such a shame that all 
 these layers of frustration are coated on top of this excellent actionadventure. For starters the 
 controls are awful when it comes to everything except combat. The game&acute; s platforming elements 
 are so frustrating you just wanna scream at the television and go out and kill a kitten. The controls 
 are not made for platforming at all and on top of that we have the horrible camera that is constantly 
 working against you. Whether its combat, exploration or platforming the camers is constantly positioned 
 wrong so that you have to manually adjust it with the right stick every second of the whole game. 
 Enter a new room, adjust the camera, start a fight, adjust the camera, run in a particular direction, 
 adjust the camera, jump from one platform to another, adjust the camera e. t. c. Whatever you want 
 to do in this game, you gotta adjust the camera first. I swear, if this game didnt have the cameracontrols 
 on the rightstick but instead went for keeping these premade camera angles, this game would be 
 completely impossible to play. The game is also terrible at telling you what you are supposed to 
 be doing. There is alot of backtracking through levels and over and over and over you&acute; ll 
 find yourself just stopping and desperately looking for a clue on the map or something because 
 you have no idea if you&acute; re going in the right direction. Its even possible to backtrack all 
 the way back through several levels just to then realize you werent supposed to backtrack in the 
 first place. This just gets worse and worse and it gets to the point where I couldnt get any furhter 
 without Gamespots guide by my side to know where I was supposed to be going. This leads us to talking 
 more about all of the backtracking. The same levels are used over and over again and all of Rachels 
 missions (wich are not that many unfortunately) are played on stages you just finished with Ryu 
 wich feels very lazy. The levels themselves are also very boring. The leveldesign could use a huge 
 injection of Cliff Bleszinski. Levels feel alot like a boring room of enemies even if you are in 
 a big outside area. I guess this is one of the things that make it so appearent that this is an 
 old game you&acute; re playing. Textures, colors, leveldesign and overall graphical quality feels 
 alot like a game that is very old. Coming straight from the new generation of games this game really 
 feels old. Graphics are truly lacking by 2007 and PS3 standards even ifs its upscaled to 1080p 
 and runs in a smooth 60fps. The only really good thing that can be said about the games graphics 
 are the characters wich, if you can accept the obvious doll-like design, are looking really sharp. 
 They look extremely crisp and feels like true next generation characters. They animate beautifully 
 and feels very cool in their design (no i&acute; m not going to complain about Itagaki&acute; s look 
 on women, in fact I love it, take that!) .
  
  I know nobody will be playing this game for the story and the narrative but it still needs to be 
 pointed out how BAD it is. It leaves a foul aftertaste in your mouth that wont go away even if 
 you brush you teeth twice. The story is a pathetic excuse for hacking on fools and feautures characterinteractions 
 and dialogues so bad you wanna cover your ears and just get on with the action. The english voiceacting 
 is the worst I have ever heard in my life and shouldnt be used at all since you can thankfully 
 go Japanese instead. You dont care anything for the story, its characters or how it ends. The fact 
 that the end is extremely anticlimatic dosent really make things better. The ending is truly pathetic.
 
  
  The game feautures a very uneven soundtrack. Sometimes its brilliant with adrenalinepumping electronic 
 technovibes and sometimes its as awful as the voiceacting just getting on your nerves like a screaming 
 baby. Soundeffects dont have much variation and you really start to question some of them as the 
 sound more wierd than right.
  
  In the end this is an excellent actiongame with some of the most satisfying and rewarding action 
 you can find on the PS3. On top of this excellent core there are 10 layers of pure frustration 
 that will keep you from enjoying the core of the game. Horrible platforming controls, an awful 
 camera, frustrating and sometimes completely wierd puzzles, insane backtracking, no guidance on 
 where you are supposed to be going at all, sucky story, insanely outdated leveldesign and environmentgraphics 
 and way to few Rachelmissions. The game feels like the best hack n slash ever in certains parts 
 and a very uninspired and stripped down version of a 3D Zelda adventure in other parts. Its a shame, 
 a real shame. I wasnt hooked on Ninja Gaiden before and I am not hooked on it now. The chance that 
 you will start to like it after playing Sigma is not very big. You need to have played the previous 
 games and already be a die hard fan to truly appriciate the game and the improvements made on it. 
 It feels outdated and you need to have that extra nostalgia to like rather than hate the fact that 
 it feels old.
  
  The game is still worth a playthrough to experience the cool bosses and the wonderful hack n slash 
 gameplay but take with you a huge amount of patience to battle all the frustration that will try 
 to kill you, your PS3 and your family before you&acute; re through. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: moonscream
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 3, 2007 11:16 pm PT
Review:  There are very few games out there that are as good as Ninja Gaiden is. Well constructed, superb 
 graphics, excellent story, excellent script and voice-acting, superb game play. I have played it 
 the first time it came out and was blown away. Since then the game has become an instant classic 
 and it seems I couldn't get enough. I know there were some redo's like Ninja Gaiden Black and now 
 Ninja Gaiden Sigma on PS3, but it's like with a very good movie; you can't resist to revisit after 
 a while and every single time you feel you're home again. There are not many PS3 games out there 
 now that are really amazing, so this game made my purchase of PS3 easier. If you have never played 
 Ninja Gaiden it can get very hard in the beginning, but when you get used to it you won't play 
 another game for a while. I promise you that. Ninja Gaiden Sigma provides to all sorts of players. 
 Even if you are not in for action role playing games this one will change your mind definitely. 
 Before you know it it will grow on you. Ninja Gaiden Sigma is a game you have to have in your collection, 
 because I have a feeling this one will never get outdated. The other reason is; this is the only 
 ninja game that rocks! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: flaminshadowman
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 3, 2007 7:22 pm PT
Review:  Ok first i just want t say for all of those people tha sid ninja gaiden sigma suck, ya suck, i 
 mean someone said the graphies were bad, how dumb can that guy feel. This was a great game, it 
 was hard, especially the mission but still fun. it kept me happy like for 2 months. Great moves, 
 smart enemies, 20 great chapters but its just hard. i mean normal mode is like hard, like u have 
 to beat 60 enemies like in 100 sec's, chill wit that. i would like all the weapons to change like 
 the lunar and that other heavy sword. but for those people who didn't play Ninja Gaiden Sigma yet, 
 get it its worth your money. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: soulscraper86
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 2, 2007 10:48 pm PT
Review:  Ninja Gaiden was first released in 2004 for the original Xbox. It is set in a different universe 
 and has a whole new storyline than that of the orignal Ninja Gaiden for the Nintendo Entertainment 
 System. In 2005, it was re-released as Ninja Gaiden Black, which incorporates all the features 
 of the two Hurricane Packs released for the 2004 Ninja Gaiden and a new Mission-mode. Finally in 
 2006, the next project in the Ninja Gaiden series would be remaking Ninja Gaiden Black into Ninja 
 Gaiden Sigma for the PlayStation 3.
  
  New to the PlayStation 3 version of Ninja Gaiden are three new chapters. In this three new chapters, 
 you'll get the chance to play as a new character named Rachel. Shes a fiend-hunter with very well 
 endowed assets which are animated to a very ridiculous level (The developers did go overboard with 
 her chest animations) . Nevertheless, her chapters help boost the overall length of the storyline 
 and helps keeps the game fresh. Rachel isn't as nimble as Ryu Hayabusa, the protagonist of the 
 game. She wields a huge hammer which packs a big punch but she falls prey to the games faster enemies.
 
  
  Of course, being a remake on a next gen console, the developers overhauled the graphics to high 
 definition standard. Few tweaks were also added to the maps like additional save points and Muramasa 
 shrines (which are essentially shops where you could purchase potions and upgrade weapons) in addition 
 to the many new enemies. A new weapons, the Dragon's Claw and Tiger's Fang which is dual wielded 
 (Dragon's Claw is Ryu's original katana and the Tiger Fang is found very early in the game) is 
 also added to Ryu's vast collection of arms.
  
  Story
  The game starts off with the raid on the Hayabusa village and theft of the Dark Dragon Blade during 
 Ryu's visit on his uncle, Murai. He was cut down by Doku when he rushed back to his village after 
 receiving the news. The scene ended with Ryu's spiritual animal, a falcon watching over his body. 
 He then sets off to Vigoor, seeking vengeance and retrieval of the Blade after he recovered.
  
  This story is just ok. Not really in depth nor intriguing, but that's OK. The story merely 
 serves as a backdrop for all the kick-ass actions you will be experiencing. It does not get in 
 the way of what gamers play this game for.
  
  Gameplay
  Which brings us to gameplay. Ninja Gaiden Sigma has a very good mix of platforming and also provides 
 one of the most fluid and dynamic combat systems I've ever seen. From the combos from various weapons 
 to running on and along walls, it flows together so perfectly you would feel like you were watching 
 an over-the-top battles from animes. At no point in time would you ever struggle with the controller 
 to pull of these maneuvers as the are very smooth and seamless.
  
  The result? You would manage to pull off and experience very fluid swordplay blending seamlessly 
 with incredible acrobatics and at the same time casting ninpo (magic) with ease. The satisfaction 
 is phenomenal. This is the most gratifying combat system I've ever played. The experience is almost 
 as good if not better than the God of War series.
  
  As you progress through the game, you'll get to upgrade and learn new techniques for your weapon. 
 As mentioned before, you will also be able to collect utilise the many different melee and ranged 
 weapon in addition to ninpo (shaking the controller furiously will increase the damage) to yield 
 deadly result. Each weapon has its pros and cons and utilising them when the situation calls will 
 lower the difficulty slightly. Running into a room of enemies with the wrong choice of weaponry 
 and mashing the square button repeatedly, will see Ryu massacred in seconds and herein lies the 
 challenge.
  
  Which brings us to the difficulty of this game. Unlike most games, this game is infamous for its 
 difficulty. To me, the default normal difficulty was neither too hard nor easy for me. But I've 
 heard many people complaining about it. Ninja Gaiden Sigma punishes players for being careless. 
 I for one have been tempted to throw my controller against the screen a couple of times, especially 
 during the last few chapters. But patience and dedication paid off. The experience is par exellence. 
 My next time through the game would be on hard difficulty. That should be entertaining enough. 
 Oh yeah, by the way, once you completed the story, you'll get to upload your karma (your score 
 throughout the campaign) and compare it with other Ninja Gaiden Sigma players. This should increase 
 the replayability for those who wants bragging rights =)
  
  For those who are frustrated with the difficulty of the game will be delighted to know that there 
 is hidden easier difficulty - Ninja Dog. Sounds condescending? You bet! According to interviews 
 with Itagaki, the Ninja Dog difficulty was added only grudgingly to Ninja Gaiden Black and was 
 subsequently brought forward to Ninja Gaiden Sigma. He said that while it is a mode intended for 
 casual gamers, it is not Easy Mode. Not being able to beat the game on Normal means that you are 
 a failure as a Ninja, but not that you are a failure as a gamer. A Ninja Dog would never be able 
 to get a Master Ninja rank at the end of each chapter (It is impossible for a ninja failure to 
 obtain it) . Further bashing on said casual gamer, he said that there are some people who want to 
 beat the game, even if it means being reduced to the level of a dog; people who are not afraid 
 to shame themselves to accomplish their goals. Sometimes in life, that type of style is necessary. 
 Anyone who can think like that can still be a real man. The Ninja Dog difficulty setting is for 
 men like that. So don't give up too easily!
  
  So the difficulty was implemented as a double-edged sword. Think Itagaki's taunt is bad enough? 
 Think again. The mode is only accessible three successive times and the player would be asked if 
 he/she, Do you wish to abandon the way of the ninja? If accepted, the player will enter the Ninja 
 Dog difficulty and continues on under a condescending atmosphere - pink ribbons for accessories, 
 Ayane taking on an attitude to Ryu, etc. So my advice? Plough through the difficult parts of the 
 default difficulty and you'll both feel better and gained satisfaction.
  
  Sound
  The soundtrack isn't the best but it is acceptable. Like any other games with english dub, the 
 voice acting is mediocre at best and very bland. It fails to evoke any emotion and makes you squirm 
 in your your chair/beanbag. On the plus side, there is an option to change the voice-over to Japanese. 
 This option rocks! I love how some of the newer games gives you this option. It enhances the experience 
 even more. The music sets the mood, but its average.
  
  Graphics
  I played this game on HD 1080p and my does it look good. The graphics were extremely sharp and 
 the games flows at an excellent frame rate, even during large action scenes with full blown explosions 
 and special effects. In the first mission itself you could notice the foliage falling down from 
 the trees and it really sets the atmosphere for the game. While its not the best the PlayStation 
 3 has to offer, it still looks really good.
  
  Like I said, not the best the PlayStation 3 has to offer but the excellent art styles, high-resolution 
 textures, new visuals and lightnings coupled with the liquid-fluid animations makes this game a 
 beauty to behold.
  
  Replayability
  The first time you play through this game would take you between 10-15 hours. Then you could replay 
 it at higher difficulties which would take considerably longer time to complete. If replaying the 
 same story again and again isn't your cup of tea, theres always the mission mode. Mission modes 
 are stand-alone missions apart from the main storyline. The missions take place in small arenas 
 which are either new scenarios or modified versions of the fights found in the Story Mode. These 
 modes extends the replayability of the games and also provides a quick fix to those who desires 
 some ninja actions.
  
  Within both the Story Mode and the Mission modes, you can earn karma which are essentially the 
 scoring system for Ninja Gaiden Sigma. The scores can be uploaded onto the internet leaderboards 
 to see how you fare against other Ninja Gaiden Sigma fans. This is a nice addition for competitive 
 players and for bragging rights and will extend the replayability of the game for them.
  
  If you've already completed all the missions, there is an option to download more missions (albeit 
 at a small price) from the Playstation Network. Survival Mode is available in the form of three 
 separate packages for Ninja Gaiden Sigma as of 30th August 2007. Each package adds a set of themed 
 missions (Weapon Master, Speed Master, Rachel Master) . As I've not purchased any of these add-ons, 
 I would not comment on them but it should further increases the replayability.
  
  Overall
  First, my few gripes with the game. As I understand, the majority of the bonus features 
 from the two previous versions were excluded from this version. Anyways, here are my complains.
 
  
  1. Unlockable costumes were reduced to only two
  2. Old NES and arcade games which can be unlocked previously were eliminated.
  3. Removal of 
 the introductory movie chronicling the legend of the Dark Dragon Blade and the Dragon Sword (I 
 would so love to see it as it would help set the backdrop to the story.
  4. No way to change weapons on the fly without pressing the start button. This slows down the pace 
 somewhat.
  5. No Theatre mode of some kind to replay unlocked cut-scenes. (You have to replay the game to 
 watch them) .
  
  Be that as it may, this game is probably one of the most complete single-player action/platformer 
 experiences out there. An in-depth battle system, cool stylistic moves, online leaderboard should 
 keep most players entertained for a long while. This is arguably one of the best action-adventure 
 games out there for the PlayStation 3 now along side with Heavenly Sword (Haven't played the game 
 but it has good reviews so far) .
  
  In closing, this is a must buy for the PlayStation 3. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: s2puzzy
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 29, 2007 8:50 pm PT
Review:  Ninja Gaiden Sigma has AMAZING graphics which the game runs at 60 frame rate per seconds.
  
  The game play is good, but it get's boring after a while where you just do the same type of 
 missions over again. Youre objectives are pretty much the same where you find a key, stone or 
 any useful information to keep the game going forward. The weapons you use are good and weapons 
 upgrades are even better.
  
  The only change of the game is where you change player from Ryu to Rachel. Also it has a little 
 bit of Indiana Jones which makes it fun.
  
  The boss battles are good with every level has different type of boss. Each boss get's harder 
 and harder.
  
  The bad thing about the game is that shaking the controller to increase ninpo attack power which 
 makes useless and annoying.
  
  Overall the score I thought it deserves is 8.5 
::::::

::::::
UserName: OrangeCrown
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 29, 2007 12:13 am PT
Review:  Ninja Gaiden Sigma, simply put, rocks! It's beautiful, brutal, fun and satisfying. The combat is 
 intense, the boss battles are awesome, the soundtrack is great ~ the list could go on and on.
 
  The default difficulty is, however, quite difficult. Incredibly frustrating at times. Hard modes 
 and above are only, I believe, meant for masochists. But when you do finally manage to win the 
 fight, the feeling of accomplishment is undeniable.
  There are puzzles scattered throughout the game, but none of them are difficult by any means. The 
 action is where it's at in Ninja Gaiden.
  There's plenty of weapons and ninpo attacks to choose from, Rachel is a cool addition (I personally 
 enjoyed her fighting style over Ryu's) , and once you beat the game there's a plethora of harder 
 difficulties and mission battles to be tackled. There are also survival modes that can be downloaded 
 from the PSN ( 2 currently, a 3rd in the future) to further increase replay value.
  The only downsides to the game are an often frustrating difficulty that'll beat you black and blue 
 until you get the hang of it, and the sixaxis function feels tacked on (shake it up and down to 
 power nimpo/sorcery attacks) .
  But otherwise the game is awesome. Definitely not one to be missed. If you like action, combat, 
 or just great games in general, play this! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: uklegendkiller
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 28, 2007 7:55 am PT
Review:  As the Xbox version is still one of the most thrilling and unflinchingly savage games on the shelves, 
 most PS3 owners would have happily chewed their own leg off for a straight port of Ninja Gaiden 
 to bolster the consoles vapid library. But in taking the time to refine the games delirious action, 
 renowned Japanese developer Team Ninja has gifted players with one of the PS3s most compelling 
 adventures to date.
  
  While the dizzying Matrix-style ninja combat and seamless controls are still in place, the addition 
 of a new playable character brings variety to the challenges. And while the female assassin isnt 
 as agile as the main protagonist, her sluggish-yet-powerful hammer attacks shift the pace of the 
 game and force players to adjust their battle strategies on the hoof, keeping you on your toes 
 and constantly shifting the games focus as the story unfolds. An expanded roster of enemies, razor-sharp 
 graphics and a handful of new weapons also help polish the experience and correct minor niggles 
 with the original game, meaning that even those whove played Ninja Gaiden on a rival console will 
 relish retreading old ground. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shroom76
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 27, 2007 6:27 pm PT
Review:  you get dropped in at first in what seems to be a very easy, but incredibly brutal action game 
 which you completely own all others in similar to god of war. god of war of course is not THAT 
 easy of a game, but this game ends up being very difficult. when you get to level 3, there are 
 swat like enemies that carry automatic assault rifles and electric (tazer) swords. this is where 
 the game really starts and it gets intense and difficult. you could get through the first 2 levels 
 spamming flying swallow, or the same what seemed to be overpowered aerial attack with the dragon 
 sword. the enemies can suddenly block both of those attacks, and do, if you don't time the correctly. 
 there are some puzzles here and there (often very easy to figure out) but the game and challenge 
 lies in the greatest combat system ever devised. sure it looks cool to smack an enemy 15 times 
 in one combo with the lunar (my favorite) , but they make you earn it. they even make you do certain 
 things to certain enemies to score a hit on them (throwing the men off motorcycles, dodging arrows 
 from and endless spawn of archers) .
  
  i love this game and if you have a ps3 you should buy it. just cuz its one player doesnt mean it 
 has no replay value cuz it actually has much more than most games. if you get all the scarabs you 
 get a lightsaber (im serious) or the dark dragon sword which the game is about, depending on the 
 difficulty. plus the difficulty continues to elevate every time you go through (very hard is a 
 beast) .
  
  with the new add on content the game will last you even longer! survival mode has essentially endless 
 possiblilities, and mission mode gets impossible to beat after a while.
  
  the graphics too, jeebus chreest. my family sometimes enjoys watching me play it cuz its so pretty 
 and cool looking. the 60 fps framerate helps too, the fast paced non stop action looks smooth and 
 extra brutal. it even sustains the frame rate when you do the incredibly fast spinning/aerial combos 
 with the faster weapons.
  
  ok the only bad thing i can say about this game, is that sometimes the bosses are cheaters (i. e. 
 alma?!) and have undodgable yet very damaging attacks. but im tired of kiddie bosses that you can 
 just wail away at for a few minutes and defeat like most games, so i enjoyed being challenged again 
 like i used to be with jet force gemini (those bosses are still my favorites tho)
  
  
  
  dont miss out on ninja gaiden sigma if you have a ps3. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: masterchief375
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 25, 2007 4:56 pm PT
Review:  Most may remember Ninja Gaiden as one of the Xbox's greatest titles, but now us PS3 owners get 
 to experience the frustration known only as Ninja Gaiden. This game plays exactly like the Xbox 
 versions except you have a new set of weapons (dual wieldable swords!!!) , new missions where you 
 get to play as Rachel, and a few new difficulty modes. The game thrusts you into the ninja tights 
 of Ryu Hayabusa a young Ninja who must protect an evil sword known as the Dark Dragon Blade, but 
 as the case in many games, things go horribly wrong. First off his whole village is destroyed by 
 Doku (the Darth Vader of the ninja world, literally, just wait tol you hear him speak) then he 
 runs off with the Dark Dragon Blade and plans on using it for evil. But it's up to you to defeat 
 him and any other foe, human or not, to get the Dark Dragon Blade back in the hands of the Hayabusa 
 clan. The game is difficult and it takes some time to get used to the new control scheme for the 
 PS3. The game controls and looks extremely smooth compared to the Xbox versions. Another problem 
 that was fixed was the camera angle, the camera can now be turned around wherever you want it to 
 go, and it can be set behind you. The ninpo attacks are charged up by shaking your controller up 
 and down. This game is a must buy for fans of the series, and it's definetly worth checking out 
 if you're a fan of ninja and hack and slash games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: godhatch
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 25, 2007 3:37 pm PT
Review:  Ninja Gaiden to be put simply is another remake with a few tweaks.
  
  Right off the bat it is easy to notice the great boost in graphical power, especially with the 
 characters. Ryu has a lot more detail added to his costumes and fiends look a more wet and slimy 
 giving great effects.
  
  The biggest feature added to the game is being to be able to play as Rachel a fiend slayer who 
 crosses paths with Ryu not too far into the game. Playing as Rachel is definitely a change of pace 
 and a welcome addition as she plays just as well as Ryu if not better in my opinion. There are 
 also new weapons included in Sigma ranging from dual wielding Swords.
  
  I'll be honest I haven't actually completed this game due to it not being able to keep my interest 
 long enough as it does get fairly repetitive and other things caught my eye.
  
  All in all this game is still pretty good but not as good as many people make it out to be. I'd 
 give it a 8.5/10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: omegabustr
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 23, 2007 12:02 pm PT
Review:  Ever since ninja gaiden was released on xbox, playstation owners have heard how great it was and 
 have had an equally great desire to play it. Now the game has been released on the PS3. In terms 
 of graphics, this game is ok. Nothing is super detailed, and instead, everything seems to have 
 a coat of shiny gloss. You might have heard from many reviewers that the graphics aren't really 
 next-gen... well that's slightly accurate. The soundtrack in this game is downright not memorable. 
 The music is just kind of hanging around. The voice acting and effects, however, make up for the 
 music as slashing a guy with a katana sounds about right with the slicing and yelling. One thing 
 that I must mention is that this game has practically no story. Its story is even more absent than 
 DMC1's. This added with the non-HD CGI and inconsistent sound during the CGI makes you think that 
 the presentation could have been improved a lot. Now the gameplay is where this game truly shines. 
 Ryu has an endless amount of combos and many great enemies to take them down with. I must say that 
 the gameplay is quite satisfying and is the only thing out there giving DMC any competition. Is 
 it as good as DMC though? (which is what playstation owners have been wondering) . My honest opinion: 
 NO. DMC is a game with much more depth and variety. When you get down to it, if you want to place 
 high on the leaderboards with Bigalski in NGS, all you're going to be doing is OLC'ed UT's. However, 
 after using a UT for the hundredth time, it gets lame. In DMC, there is much more depth, and thus 
 more skill is required. If you use the same move over and over in DMC, the AI will understand and 
 take you down. You are essentially forced to use variety in order to survive and gain style for 
 that hard-earned SS. DMC players pride themselves on being able to jump-cancel and understand the 
 exact patterns of the enemy. While in NGS you can hold on to block, in DMC you must understand 
 your surrounding and the enemies' movement in order to Just Block, a skill many fail to gain. NGS 
 also has no punishment for ugly fighting or item use. It's all about UT before time is out. DMC 
 has the style system that rewards variety and makes it impossible to use items; thus, you must 
 be more careful. NGS' bosses are also not that spectacular. There is no boss in the game that is 
 as rewarding to defeat or nearly as epic as Nelo3 or Vergil3 in DMD. Still, asking NGS to take 
 out DMC is a HUGE thing to ask for. The typical person who doesn't want to get that deep into his 
 game will most likely not see the flaws of the NG system. Don't get me wrong! NGS is a fantastic 
 game. It's just that after years of waiting, I just had to match up NGS with what playstation owners 
 have been playing all these years. In the end, NGS has great gameplay that must be tried in some 
 form. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: edlaiz
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 23, 2007 9:07 am PT
Review:  I am a huge Ninja Gaiden fan. The first Ninja Gaiden was unbelievable. Black totally blew me away. 
 Sigma is by far, the best of the three. Talk about how can a great game get any better? Let Team 
 Ninja show you. Ninja Gaiden should be the template for all action games, period. Sometimes, I 
 feel like I am playing a fighting game. The fight with the first boss, Muri, will go down in history 
 as the toughest first boss ever in a game. The only thing I have to say that I don't like is the 
 auto run-on-water part of the game. Thoughout the game, I feel like I have total control of Ryu 
 except for the running on water part.
  
  The addition of a playable Rachel was cool. I wish that Ayane was a playable character. I also 
 wish that Team Ninja would make a game where Kasumi or Ayane where the main characters in an action 
 game. Or any of the DOA characters. That would be cool. Ninja Gaiden Sigma is a must buy for any 
 PS3 owner. It is why I got a PS3. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sportivoo
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 22, 2007 7:56 am PT
Review:  NGS the 3rd Edition of Team Ninja's Ninja Gaiden. The 1st game was Ninja Gaiden in XBOX, and that 
 was the biggest game in the XBOX in that time, so Team Ninja send another Edition which is Ninja 
 Gaiden Black. Also that Edition was in XBOX. After that the game send to PS3 whch is Ninja Gaiden 
 Sigma. All of the editions are the same, but with more events and styles. The game got in GS 9.0 
 , but it should be 9.5. This game is one of the most powerful all the time I mean First you should 
 play with Normal mode and than Hard mode and than Very Hard mode and Finally MASTER NINJA mode. 
 The first thing I see to be this game GREAT is that it has MASTER NINJA mode. Right now we will 
 see the second level of the game Ninja Gaiden in XBOX360. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: germano
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 17, 2007 11:50 am PT
Review:  For all you PS junkies out there. I am sure this game must seem amazing...
  
  But its just the same game for the thrid time for us less stalwart gamers. The xbox had this game 
 released twice... the original was without a doubt one of the best games ever made!!!! then followed 
 the realease of ninja gaiden black... but hold on its the same game with a few reworked bosses 
 and NO blood?? No doubt this whole series has been milked hard!!
  
  non the less it still a really good game on the best platform available!
  
  Hopefully this 
 will be the last time we see the same story told yet again!!!
  
  Bring on Ninja Gaiden 2 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wolokowoh
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 16, 2007 3:50 am PT
Review:  What can i say this is one of the best games in existence and that is that. remakes are still just 
 as good as the orinals sometimes better. new features are awesome. graphics are awesome. sound 
 is awesome. game is fun as hell. everything is pretty much just good al around. if you own a ps3 
 buy this game and join the crowd of people who enjoy awesome 3rd person action adventure games 
 like this unless you already own the game on another console but it is still worth renting for 
 the extra content. this game just flat out kicks ass. i take that back it doesn't rule or kick 
 ass it rules ass. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: -Demonic_Dante-
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 14, 2007 5:32 am PT
Review:  Yeah good game but best for a rental first, the controls work for a while but then seem to completely 
 send the camera for a loop, additions to this game are alright but there enough seeing as this 
 is the 3rd remake of the same game it could have been better but fixing the controls and camera, 
 the only downside to the character gameplay is the new playable character Rachel as she controls 
 like a tank at first ,but that makes you have to find out just how to flush out her playing style 
 she is more based on power as instead of being fast and effective as the main hero Ryu 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AllGameSystems
Rating: 7.5
Date: Sep 13, 2007 12:10 pm PT
Review:  Not what I expected for NEXT GEN and wont satisfy your reason for wanting a PS3. Controls inconsistant 
 at times. Fun to play, just not at next level of expectation.
  
  I would say its worth owning but to play but it deeply discounted in Japan and is going down in 
 price.
  
  Some boss fights you loose some control, graphics are the higher end of the original XBOX. (see 
 Heavenly Sword and you will see how far behind this game is) . Fun one to rent, with some cool stuff 
 to see and ways to get around, buts it not going to make you say WOW! .
  
  Enjoy!
  XXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXxx x xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx xxxxxxxxxx xxxxxxxxxxx xxxxx xxxx xxxx xx xxx x 
 x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x xxx 
  
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: d_ano
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 10, 2007 2:37 pm PT
Review:  this is by far 1 of the best action fighting games of all time. the ps3 version is pretty much 
 perfect. the graphics are amazing and the animations are just unreal! there is a huge amount of 
 combos to do for each of the many different weapons you can get. some you can buy some you find 
 but each one is just as impressive as the last. there is good long 18 chapter story to it which 
 gives you plenty of gaming time and and there is a great boss fight mashed into the end of every 
 chapter. some of the levels can have great puzzles and there is secrets all over the place and 
 some of the secrets can be very rewarding. hunting for the golden scarabs give you something to 
 go looking for and let you see how but and great looking this game really is.
  
  the best thing i found about this game was the boss fights. i just love them and with a boss or 
 maybe 2 to look forward to in every chapter you realy get to test youre fighting skills with them. 
 although the boss fights are hard i think thats the way they should be, they arent impossible they 
 can be done if you try and at leased if you struggle to beat a boss you realy feel good once you 
 beat it.
  
  the reason i didnt give this game a 10 is that it isnt quite perfect. there is 2 small problems 
 i found that are quite annoying when youre fighting. the first being that square is to fight and 
 open toors. so if youre in the middle of a crazy fight and you have almost killed all the enemy's 
 and you walk out the door. once you back in all of the enemy's are back and you have to kill them 
 again. second is the camera, it isnt that bad but most of the time i found that i had to rotate 
 the camera around to it was behind me because it was very slow to respond to youre movement.
  
  this was 1 of the best games i have ever played its a must play and i realy hope there is another 
 game like this soon 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mrpear
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 9, 2007 2:42 pm PT
Review:  Great visuals, great story, amazing gameplay, very responsive controls. What can i say, it's a 
 winner. The only thing is that... it's still too hard. I got my butt kicked so many times, that 
 the lady kept asking me if i want to abandon my way of the ninja. Quite embarrassing. The slew 
 of weapons and upgrades should keep anyone who's into insane hand to hand combat entertained for 
 quite some time. Playing as Rachel is also a nice side bonus if you want to take a break from katana 
 and shurikens. All in all, it's a rock solid game since most of the gameplay hasnt changed since 
 the original from the XBOX. I'm just glad the visuals were turned up a notch for the PS3 version 
 since the release is somewhat dated. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: C-Himura
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 12, 2007 6:00 pm PT
Review:  Pros
  + Great Action
  + Fluid movement all throughout
  + Quality extra content
  
  Cons
  - Bizarre loading times not found in the original
  - Sixaxis use feels tacked on
  
 
  For a game that has been released three times, you would expect that it would be tiring by now. 
 Fortunately that is not the case with Ninja Gaiden: Sigma, the second remake of the original Xbox 
 hit Ninja Gaiden. What's even more surprising, it's that this is by far the best of the three and 
 should not be missed by fans of this genre.
  
  You're Ryu Hayabusa, ninja extraordinaire and heir to the sacred treasure of his clan, the Dragon 
 Sword. During a visit to the leader of a fellow ninja clan, the Hayabusa ninja village is attacked 
 and burned to the ground. Ryu arrives just in time to see the Dark Dragon Sword, another relic 
 said to contain the power of evil in it, stolen from its shrine. After the massacre, Ryu learns 
 that the culprits are none other than the royalty of the Vigoor Empire, a nation shrouded in secrecy 
 and myths. With vengeance in his heart, the young ninja embarks on a quest of bloodshed and non-stop 
 battles in order to recover the stolen sword and bring justice to those who have wronged him.
 
  
  Ninja Gaiden Sigma is an almost identical replica of Ninja Gaiden for the Xbox. The story is the 
 same as you remember, which is only there to give you an excuse to go out an off a whole lot of 
 baddies using amazing looking ninja moves and weapons. That's not to say that there aren't any 
 new changes. The campaign does feature three extra chapters for Rachel, the buxom blonde fiend 
 hunter, as well as some redesigns for some of Hayabusa's missions. The mission and ranking modes 
 are back as well, offering some new missions for Rachel as well. So, even when the game doesn't 
 offer anything particularly groundbreaking for the series, it is still worth a good run, as it 
 offers the most balanced Ninja Gaiden experience to date. 
  
  
  Talking about changes, the first obvious one in Sigma are the graphics. The game has been reworked 
 completely and the same characters and scenarios seen in the original game come back with new life. 
 When compared to other titles, Sigma doesn't stretch the system's capabilities, but that does not 
 mean that it looks sub-par compared to other games, on the contrary, Sigma manages to still look 
 great, even when technically inferior due to its artistic look. It helps the game greatly that 
 it possesses great looking lighting effects as well, because it highlights all the good parts about 
 the new environments. All other special effects, from magic to the squirting of blood look fantastic 
 as well. The animations are once again top-notch and the game maintains a steady 60-frame rate 
 with almost none existent drops, and that is an amazing accomplishment, considering how much action 
 there is going on during battles. 
  
  The sound has been left mostly untouched, however a few new compositions have been added for a 
 more varied soundtrack and all new cut-scenes are fully voiced as well. The game still offers both, 
 its native Japanese and its English dub version. While the Japanese still sounds better than the 
 English cast, the game's conversations are just as inspired as the story, which is not much. However, 
 Hayabusa's battle cries are some of the most passionate seen in this sort of games. 
  
  Game-play is where Ninja Gaiden has excelled in the past and it has done so yet again. The controls 
 are as tight and responsive as before and feel right at home on the sixaxis. Ryu's dodging animations 
 have been changed in favor of a more slick set, which includes a one handed back flip as well as 
 jump side-barrels. The changes in these aren't merely cosmetic, as they give you a bigger gap between 
 you and your enemies, allowing for some more breathing room and making you look cooler in the process. 
 Ryu, has also been given a new weapon, or a pair of them. His new dual swords are a great addition 
 to his already huge arsenal and offer even more combos than the default sword. The new weapons 
 do come with a steeper learning curve than others, but they're more fun to learn than being tedious. 
 The sixaxis functionality has also been added into the game in the form of a ninpo power-up. By 
 shaking the controller, you can increase the power of your magic attacks, but from all the additions, 
 this one is the only one that might become a hit-or-miss in the eyes of players. 
  
  Rachel controls just as well and her three chapters intertwine with Ryu's story quite nicely. She 
 also offers a different style of play, relying more on strength and defense, rather than Hayabusa's 
 speed and agility. That doesn't mean that she is any less fun to play as than Ryu, is just that 
 is a different experience and requires some reworking in your overall strategies. The camera, while 
 reworked, its just the same as before, meaning good enough to follow after Ryu and Rachel, without 
 giving you any major problems most of the time. 
  
  Other changes include new areas, boss fights and enemies, all welcome additions. The more tedious 
 parts of the game have also been reworked, resulting in a smoother ride than ever before. The mission 
 mode from Ninja Gaiden Black is back also, with some new missions and the online scoreboards are 
 up once again. Some downloadable content has been promised as well, with the first, "Weapon Master 
 Mode" already available on the PSN store. It seems Team Ninja is planning on keeping this one alive 
 for a good while to come.
  
  If you haven't played Ninja Gaiden yet, then Sigma is the way to go. It is the most immersive version 
 of Ninja Gaiden yet, making it longer, adding more replay value and is an overall better game that 
 is just as fun to play now as it was 3 years ago.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Slapshotsaint
Rating: 6.5
Date: Sep 7, 2007 8:24 am PT
Review:  Have to shut game off each time you adjust options? meaning you cant adjust options in game??
 
  
  Have to push a buttom 3 times to open a door or pick something up, in fact just to pick up a health 
 it takes you out of the game and shows u a big picture of the health you picked up EACH TIME YOU 
 PICK IT UP, and then you must push a button to get back to the game.. Stupid and breaks the flow 
 and makes it irritating to pick stuff up. Gamespot is in the business of promoting games so all 
 games get overrated!
  
  No camera control vs Bosses? Which makes it irritating. Sometimes you will hit a button 10 or 15 
 times in order for it to respond during boss fights as well of course as you get hit like 10 times 
 in a row with no response from the controller and terrible angles.
  
  Gets boring fast especially when you try to set up the controlls in the beginiing because they 
 are all backwards and of course you must shut the game off in trial an error becasue you cant do 
 it in play. Took me about 20 minutes just to get started. Shut it off , turn it on see if the new 
 setting work,, no shut it off , turn it on se if setting work???
  
  This is a cheap port from old XBOX 
::::::

::::::
UserName: biggamerhk
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 5, 2007 1:58 pm PT
Review:  The Good: Amazing, sharp visuals, nice, sharp character models, amazing, deep combat, great level 
 design, and nice and challenging -- should last you a while.
  
  The Bad: Rather annoying, glitchy camera, the game is sometimes a bit TOO challenging (at least 
 for me at times!!)
  
  Ninja Gaiden Sigma is simply a great game. I never got to play Ninja Gaiden for the Xbox, so now, 
 Im finally getting my chance to play it -- on the PS3!!! It really provides you with stunning visuals, 
 a complex combat system, and challenging gameplay. The game should really last you a while, because 
 its quite difficult. But Im having a lot of fun playing it anyways. This is another must-get game 
 for PS3 owners. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: -DarthMaul-
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 21, 2008 10:52 am PT
Review:  Ninja Gaiden for the Xbox was one of those game that leave you speechless. It fast pace action 
 combine with it amazing graphic just leave you wondering why wasn't this game made earlier. Ninja 
 Gaiden Sigma is simply a game that can't be missed by any fans of the genre. The main reaon why 
 Ninja Gaiden Sigma is different from their competition is how it can be hard and fun at the same 
 time. It offer great gameplay while running at a smooth sixty frame per second. This game won't 
 let you rest, because every enemies encounter could be your last if you are not careful enough. 
 Not ever had I played a more enjoyable game than Ninja Gaiden Sigma. If you want to experience 
 insanity then look no further because Ninja Gaiden Sigma is the game for you. It will frustrate 
 you to a point where you can't go on, but for some reason it pulls you back to the controller.
 
  
  One of the weakest part of Ninja Gaiden Sigma is it storyline. The story has no twist what so ever. 
 It's your basic you destroyed my properties, I will get even by destroying yours. Ryu Hayabusa 
 village was burn down and the evil Dark Dragon Blade was stolen, and the protector of this blade, 
 Ryu childhood friend, was murder defending it. Ryu is out to retrieve this blade and avenge his 
 clan by killing all who oppose him. Yeah I know you seen this story so many time. It doesn't keep 
 your attention for long, but makes up at the gameplay department. Not once will it keep you guessing, 
 it ashamed because it would of added a better experienced to the game by getting you hook to the 
 storyline.
  
  Gameplay is very well done with a bunch of button combination for all obtainable weapons, so there's 
 a weapons for everyone to use. Each weapons is unique on it own. The heavier weapons have slower 
 movement when attacking, while lighter weapons like the dragon sword have quicked movement. Most 
 weapons have three to two levels for you to upgrade. The wooden sword however is the only exception. 
 Inorder to fully unleash it full power you have to upgrade seven level. When fully upgrade the 
 wooden sord become the unlabor flawlessness the strongest weapon in the entire game making the 
 game alot easier. Upgrading the levels allow access to stonger and longer combo, which is a must 
 beacuse tougher enemies are present during the later chapters. Dual swords called Dragon's Claw 
 and Tiger's Fang are new addition to Ninja Gaiden Sigma.
  
  You don't feel the gameplay is cheating you, because Ryu has a large amount of move that can get 
 you out of tough situation. Ryu can wall jump off a wall, so if you are surrounded by a bunch of 
 enemies this techniques is very helpful. There's also techniques scroll which give you access to 
 more techniques. An example is the counter scroll which allows you to counter the enemies while 
 blocking. By collecting more scroll you have more techniques to make the game a little easier. 
 One part that is new that I don't like is the ninpo magic. In Sigma you have to shake your controller 
 to make the magic more powerful. It just seem that the developer tacked this on to make it motion 
 sensor.
  
  Let get this straight, Ninja Gaiden is a game that is not meant to be easy in any way or form. 
 Even on Ninja Dog, you can game over if you are not careful. Ninja Gaiden Sigma is not a hack-and-slash 
 game, so if you are a button masher then be prepared to game over on many occasion. You have to 
 master the block button if you really want to finish this game. The enemies artificial intelligent 
 in this game is out to get Ryu Hayabusa. The enemies will not stand there for you to decapitates 
 them, they will be constantly chasing you throughout the game. On the higher difficulty, you will 
 lose more health everytime you are hit, because there are stronger enemies on the higher difficulty 
 levels.
  
  Graphic is one of the best part for Sigma. It doesn't hurt your eyes or get in your way. It is just 
 easy on the eyes when fighting a bunch of fiends. The character model is very well done with great 
 detail. The environment will make you stop and wonder if you're actually there. Each creature or 
 bosses look very unique with there own special move and weapon. The boss detail is really well 
 done especially the gigantic one. They all look lifelike when encountered up close. The frame rate 
 is sixty so there's really no slowdown even if a bunch of enemies are onscreen. The only thing 
 I didn't like is how the enemies disappeared after the battle. It would of been cool to see the 
 dead bodies stack on top of each others.
  
  Sound could of been a lot better, but still doesn't ruin the game. Some of the boss music makes 
 it epic but the repetition of weapons clashin is annoying. There aren't that much dialoge which 
 is ashamed because there isn't a story to start with for this game. The voice over is just horrible 
 at best. It's no wonder why there is hardly no dialog in this game. There's one thing the developer 
 did right which is include the japanese voice over. The japanese voice over adds a much needed 
 authenticity to the game, that the english one lack. The good part for sound is you can unlocked 
 a soundtrack once you have beaten the game. Value is good but not as good as Black, but still good 
 against the other action game . What happen to all the unlockable costumes in this game.
  
  Extras in Sigma is a big disappointment. In Black you get five, but in Sigma you only get two. 
 There's no unlockable game in Sigman as well. Bad move by the developer to take out three costume 
 and the old nes games. The fifty golden scarab is back which is a good thing because it forces 
 you to find all of them if you want all the powerful weapons in the game. Mission mode is back 
 and better. Rachel is playable this time. She plays like a tank compare to the agile Ryu Hayabusa. 
 Rachel is just not that fun to play as, but still it just an extra so it should add more to the 
 experience. They included Rachel mission in this mode this time around which had added more replay 
 value to this game, but without all the extras from black or the original the unlockables are lacking 
 in Ninja Gaiden Sigma.
  
  Overall this game is simply amazing. There are some good points and some bad points. The good is 
 it has great gameplay which require you to get familiar with the gameplay if you want to beat this 
 game. This game is hard but at the same time it is fun pla over and over again. With it awesome 
 graphic, gameplay, replay value you will be playing this game for a long time. There are bad points 
 in the game also, no game is perfect only the scores are. Well to start the story was not that 
 interresting, and we see these kind of story way to often. The dialog for each characters does 
 not show any emotion at all. If your village was burnt down, you would expect Ryu Hayabusa to show 
 more compassion.
  
  If you think it might be too hard for you then just give it a rental, beside there's a ninja dog 
 level for the weak. And even if you played the original and black you should give it a rental, 
 but if you don't like the two from xbox I recommend you stay away from sigma. If you are up for 
 a challenging, but fun experience then look no further beause Ninja Gaiden Sigma is the game for 
 you. If you never play this game yet in your life, then I recommend you tried it out first before 
 laying down your hard earn sitxy bucks, and if you do like it then definitely buy it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sasruko
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 4, 2007 7:04 am PT
Review:  As Ryu Hayabusa you are out to seek revenge after your clan is massacred by the Vigor Empire. Realistic 
 battle actions and acrobatic ninja moves are at your finger-tips. You play with only your wits, 
 your ninja skills, and your deadly sword. Slice down opponents in the Vigor Empire as you attempt 
 to beat the Holy Emperor and reclaim the magic sword Ryuken . Bringing the classic to the PlayStation 
 3, Ninja Gaiden Sigma is a more complete version of the Xbox Team Ninja title, with new moves, 
 actions, and weapons for Hayabusa. Also added is a new playable character -- Racheal, one of the 
 series' heroines, will be playable, and when using her, you'll get to experience the storyline 
 from her perspective (with new cutscenes, attack moves and more.) [Tecmo] 
::::::

::::::
UserName: OblivionRising
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 2, 2007 9:30 pm PT
Review:  Ninja Gaiden Sigma, another soldier added to the army of Playstation 3 games, is yet another remake 
 of the original released for the Xbox console. This time around, it has a new playable character, 
 Rachel, sharper 60 fps graphics, three extra chapters, new weapons, and more missions. It's everything 
 the previous games had, and more. Plus, it's a PS3 exclusive! So if you haven't played a Ninja 
 Gaiden game yet, there's never been a better time.
  
  In Sigma, you are a young ninja named Ryu Hayabusa from the Hayabusa ninja clan. Ryu holds a weapon, 
 called the Dragon Sword, given to him by his father, while his clan protects another, more evil 
 sword, called the Dark Dragon Blade. Ryu's village is attacked by a Greater Fiend named Doku (Fiends 
 are the monster-like enemies in the game that were once human, and a greater Fiend is one of a 
 higher rank that still has its soul.) , and the Dark Dragon Blade is stolen. Now, Ryu seeks to find 
 the Dark Dragon, and kill Doku for destroying his village and slaying his clan members.
  
  If you're rich (or lucky) enough to have a 1080p HDTV along with an HDMI cable, you'll undoubtedly 
 be playing Sigma in full HD. The graphics are absolutely stunning. It's amazing at how much time 
 artists put into remodeling everything when this could have just been a quick port. Ryu and all 
 the other characters really look better than ever, now, and the environments are beautiful as well. 
 Every square inch of the land in this game is just pleasing to look at. The developers knew that 
 they could pull this off, and they did it extremely well.
  
  Sigma has a few cons. As bad as I make these seem, they are pretty minor and don't drastically 
 affect gameplay. The controls pretty much match the Xbox, which is great for those NG veterans, 
 but there was a new feature that utilized the SIXAXIS's motion sensing capabilities. When you cast 
 Ninpo (magic) , you shake the controller to power it up. This is a pretty unnecessary add-on, and 
 it does sometimes get annoying. Another downside is the camera. It gets in the way a lot and is 
 hard to control. Other than that, the gameplay has never been better. With the addition of the 
 twin katanas, the Dragon's Claw and Tiger's Fang, ripping apart enemies just gave me a new feeling 
 of satisfaction.
  
  This game contains amazing music and sounds that will leave you begging for more. But some of the 
 voice acting is a bit cheesy. 'Nuff said.
  
  Pros
  
  +Action Packed
  
  +Lots of Blood and Gore
  
  +Tough Enemies
  
  +Amazing AI
  
  +Brilliant Gameplay
  
 
  +Stunning Graphics
  
  +Great Orchestrated Music
  
  +Nice Story
  
  Cons
  
  -Motion sensing for Ninpo is an unnecessary add-on
  
  -Annoying Camera
  
  -Some Cheesy 
 Voice Acting
  
  Overall Score
  
  9/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sonic3456
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 1, 2007 8:04 pm PT
Review:  Ninja Gaiden Black just got better, I didn't think it was possible. Anyway lets go to gameplay, 
 it's just as good if not better thanks to Racheal and the the Dragon's Claw and Tiger's Fang (which 
 you'll use for most of the game) . The graphics are amazing, it's the best looking game I've ver 
 seen in my life. Soundwise is great, great voice acting, great music, great effects. You will play 
 this game multiple times just like Black. Anyway as my first PS3 game it is the best looking, best 
 sounding, and overall best game I've ever played and that's saying something. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xkal318
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 25, 2007 9:49 pm PT
Review:  Ninja Gaiden Sigma is my first game on Playstation 3. It is a well crafted game providing beautiful 
 visuals and intense gameplay. Sometimes i found myself just going back through a chapter to fight 
 the enemies again to try some cool new moves. The storyline isn't the best, but it still plays 
 a role during the action of the gameplay. However, this game left me wanting more. The original 
 trilogy not being included was a letdown, not only that, but having to start the game over without 
 any abilities was kind of frustrating. There was no movie viewer either. These are small complaints, 
 but the fact is that all of these things and features were included in the other two versions of 
 Ninja Gaiden. But in the end, Ninja Gaiden Sigma is a great game to get you started on your Playstation 
 3 adventure with tons of more awesome games on the way. Next on my list is Ratchet And Clank Future: 
 Tools Of Destruction. But the wait has begun for Ninja Gaiden Sigma 2... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Vikingsfan2772
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 31, 2007 8:53 pm PT
Review:  this game is a load of fun if you have mad ninja skills if you don't when you put this game in 
 the disc you will be struck dead by a bolt of ninja awesomeness. all life threatening issues aside 
 its worth the risk... this game is ninja awesomeness with all the ninpo and weapons and the rachel 
 missions are stupid but well incorporated into the game. the combos are so much fun it will not 
 get old. If your man enough to play this hard of a game don't pass this one up. if your not then 
 bahahahahaha sucks to be you noob. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: -D3MO-
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 31, 2007 1:37 am PT
Review:  Ninja Gaiden (PS3) Review
  
  Ninja gaiden was one of the best games on the original XBOX. With amazing graphics, amazing gameplay, 
 and a very challenging difficulty the game was pure awesome. Team Ninja decided to let the Playstation 
 fans get a taste of what this game is all about... and its good. The Re-make adds a bunch of new 
 features while retaining the awesome gameplay of the original. The game should not be missed.
 
  
  Pros:
  
  + 1080p @ 60FPS awesomeness
  + Very addicting gameplay
  + One of the most beatiful games to date
  + New Weapons and costumes
  + New enemies and more 
 challenging enemies
  + New chapters which extend the gameplay
  + New Playable character (Rachel)
  + Challenging
  + Superb gameplay
  
  Cons:
  
  - May 
 be too hard
  - No multiplayer
  
  This game should not be skipped. Every person should play this game... if you don't own a PS3 get 
 the Xbox version at least.
  
  The game is superb. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: venom3161994316
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 30, 2007 11:26 am PT
Review:  good
  pretty much everything
  
  bad still not better than dmc3
  
  i luved this game. it was loaded with exereme intense action. it beats every ps2 game exept dmc3!!!! 
 it is the second best ps3 game i8 have. the graphics and sound are so amazing!!!!!!!!!! the value 
 is super high and the battles are so intense it takes my breath away!!!!!! even though it still 
 lacks things which makes dmc3 better its still so great. just so frakin intense. the graphics are 
 the best ive ever seen!!!!!! u have a ps3 then pick this master piece up!!!!! gosh i cant wait 
 till dmc4 comes out!!!!! ninja gaiden i luv u!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! second fav game!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ERS1
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 27, 2007 6:15 pm PT
Review:  I was the first to say why buy a game I already played? After seeing it in HD I bought it. Just 
 to see how the game would be. I have to say the game is great! Even though it does have the same 
 feel it feels somewhat different because it looks so much better. If you played it on previously 
 on the Xbox then you feel cheated after a while until you get to play the extra missions. I think 
 part of a great game is the not knowing. Since you know where to look for certain things it makes 
 it a little easier. If you can't hold out for Ninja Gaiden 2 this is great filler until it comes 
 out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tbui54
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 25, 2007 9:17 pm PT
Review:  THE GOOD: Sharp visuals, superb combat, a vast variety of weapons, and excellent soundtrack.
  
  THE BAD: Frequent Loading Zones, choppy frame rates, unimproved CGI cut-scenes, and a shallow 
 story.
  
  Ninja Gaiden Sigma is a solid retelling of a classic action-adventure game.
  
  GAMEPLAY is superb. Ryu Hayabusa returns for a third reiteration of Team Ninja's 2004 smash 
 hit. Although Sigma is not the deepest or most character driven game out there, the fast-paced 
 combat and responsive acrobatics more than compensate for any of its weaknesses.
  
  Throughout the game, Ryu will also noticeably increase in strength by spending currency to upgrade 
 weapons or collecting hidden jewels to increase health and special Ninpo attacks. One of the best 
 things about Sigma is the variety of weapons ranging from swords, nunchakus, staffs, bows, shurikens, 
 and hammers. With the newest addition of the dual katanas, Dragon's Fang and Tiger's Claw, the 
 game can feel like a whole new adventure since it is vastly different than the Dragon Blade or 
 Kitetsu.
  
  In terms of difficulty, Ninja Gaiden Sigma is no walk in the park. It certainly is one the most 
 challenging games out there so expect to see the Game Over screen quite often. Fortunately, there 
 are more save points and Muramasa Shops around to help ease the pain. What's more, Ryu learns new 
 attacks and gains better weapons at a fairly constant rate, so eventually the game will get easier.
 
  
  As mentioned earlier, Sigma does have its share of flaws. When starting, there is an option to 
 install the game to the harddrive to shorten load times. It takes about 15 minutes to install and 
 3 GBs of space. Unfortunately, there are pros and cons to this. First, graphics and frame rates 
 appear to be smoother when the game in not installed; however, installing the game does significantly 
 shorten loading times between chapters and after Game Overs. But there seems to be no significant 
 improvement during in-game loading zones. While traveling around in Sigma there are numerous in-game 
 loading zones that pause the action for a few seconds. Whether or not there is a difference appears 
 to be up to the player. Regardless, it is still recommended to install the game just because of 
 the number of times you will be continuing from previous save spots.
  
  GRAPHICS are great. There is an immediate recognizable difference between the three versions. Sigma's 
 character models and scenery are more vivid and sharp. The menus and on-screen displays have been 
 updated as well. However, the CGI cut-scenes have not been altered at all so there will be a lot 
 of pixel distortion. Moreover, there are choppy frame rate issues that appear when rotating the 
 camera.
  
  SOUND is excellent. The voice acting is top notch, sound effects are exciting, and the variety 
 of music keeps the game alive and going. In fact, the only draw back in the audio department is 
 during cut-scenes where the volume takes a significant drop.
  
  VALUE is good. Sigma is a fun adventure that takes approximately 15-20 hours to complete on Normal. 
 Afterwards, there are several Mission Modes to conquer as well as harder difficulties to unlock 
 for additional costumes.
  
  OVERALL Ninja Gaiden Sigma is worth checking out whether or not you've played it before. The new 
 weapons, additional playable character, and improved graphics almost make Sigma feel like a brand 
 new game and it is definitely recommended to anyone with a PS3. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Latinbro1
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 24, 2007 7:43 pm PT
Review:  This game is one of those that doesn't really need to rely on story and puts all its money on action. 
 And you know what? it works perfectly! If you are like me and never played the xbox versions of 
 this game than you quickly realized you had missed out on some great gaming and then you say, but 
 now I'm not! Basically, the quick story is that the Dark Dragon Blade was stolen, your village 
 was destroyed, and you are out to seek vengeance and get the blade back. So, for everything else. 
 You'll be hacking and slashing a lot... and dying a lot!. The cool thing about NG sigma, and that 
 I'm sure was true for the older versions is that it never feels repetitive. You'll fight ninjas 
 with varying difficulty levels, monsters, zombie-like creators, and super-natural bosses. You'll 
 go from your temple, to the town, to a big city, and to caverns and underground sewage systems. 
 What helps the game a lot is the quick-paced action and constant moving through environments. Top 
 it off with some basic puzzles/quest (finding a cup or a stone to move along the levels) makes 
 it feel fresh and fun. Remember, that I said you die a lot? I mean you die a lot. The game is hard. 
 Unless you are a quick learner, or played the game none-stop on the xbox, then you will die and 
 feel a bit frustrated. But the game just begs to be played, and you'll find a deep sense of satisfaction 
 once you complete the game. Then, prepare to be frustrated again by the harder difficulty levels, 
 and he Mission mode. As graphics and sound go the game is not really next gen. It is fast, the 
 sounds are movie-like good. But nothing is mind-blowing. One thing I complained about is that in 
 an interview I saw on gamespy. com, the creator stated that the majority of the cut-scenes are in-game 
 and not rendered. And that's great and all, but I hate that I have equipped the Dabilahro but the 
 cut-scene defaults to the dragon sword. Or that, with Rachel, I have a hair style and the default 
 shows up in the cut-scene. These, is really something minor, but when I see or hear in-game cut-scenes 
 I expect these little details of the actual gammeplay (like costumes) to transfer over. All in 
 all, buy this game if you own a PS3. And, even though you might be tempted, don't throw the disc 
 or anything near by around because of frustration. Have fun with it 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SoulKillah
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 24, 2007 3:48 am PT
Review:  This game is one of the best reasons to buy a PS3! Even if you owned the Xbox-version... this is 
 an experience that shouldn't be missed!!!
  
  So what's changed? The biggest addition is that Rachel the fiend hunter is a new playable character. 
 She's a badass buxom babe who gets three chapters of her own, and a few levels in mission mode, 
 too. She may be top-heavy, but she still manages a good number of terrific moves. Her minicampaign 
 isn't as expansive as Ryu's: She's limited to using the warhammer and has only a single magic attack 
 (called sorcery, rather than ninpo) . The chapters are remarkably refreshing though, particularly 
 because Rachel isn't as agile as Ryu -- though a swing of her hammer does a huge amount of damage. 
 Playing her requires you to adjust because her levels are interspersed among the others, so as 
 the game's groove shifts, so must yours. Along with her chapters come new cutscenes, new bosses, 
 and even a few feminine touches that humanize a story that was (and still is) more summer blockbuster 
 than art house drama.
  
  Her chapters aren't just disconnected additions, however. Ryu's chapters are shifted and reworked 
 to give greater context to Rachel's. In fact, every level offers unexpected surprises, both big 
 and small. In some cases, it's as simple as different items found in treasure chests. In others, 
 the significance of the adjustments will catch you off guard, but pleasantly so. For example, one 
 of the central chapters of the original Ninja Gaiden featured a straightforward puzzle to end the 
 sequence. Now, a replica of an earlier boss returns, complete with a few new attacks to round out 
 the surprise. Throughout the game, you'll find new enemies to uncover, such as glowing spirits 
 and soldiers on motorcycles. You'll even get to play with a new set of weapons: Dual swords called 
 Dragon's Claw and Tiger's Fang.
  
  The changes are great, and they do more than throw in stuff for the sake of stuff. In some cases, 
 they refine the pace and address frustrations of the original to make for an even tighter, more 
 centered experience. One such change is the addition of a shop near the final save point before 
 a major, difficult boss fight. It sounds insignificant, but it soothes a large frustration from 
 the original and keeps the difficulty level steady without removing any real challenge from the 
 boss encounter itself. Needless to say, there are countless additions, subtractions, and modifications, 
 and they run the gamut from superficial to substantial. For the most part, all of them are for 
 the better. The only questionable one is the ability to shake the Sixaxis controller to give more 
 power to your ninpo skills. It feels needlessly tacked on, and shaking the controller doesn't really 
 jibe with the general slickness of the other controls. Thankfully, it's the only element that stands 
 out as unneeded among legions of improvements.
  
  And if you haven't played Ninja Gaiden? Well, there's no better time than the present, and you 
 won't need any previous experience with the series to understand what makes it excellent. Ninja 
 extraordinaire Ryu Hyabusa is on a quest to recover the legendary Dark Dragon Blade and avenge 
 the destruction of his peaceful village. Along the way, he meets Rachel, who is on a vision quest 
 of her own. Their two stories mesh nicely in a single-player campaign that may take you 25 or more 
 hours the first time through, depending on your skill level and prior experience with Ninja Gaiden 
 Xbox.
  
  The story never takes center stage, though it has the proper over-the-top sensibilities to frame 
 what the game is really about: kick-ass action in the form of throws, slashes, wall-running, and 
 acrobatic tumbling. If you think a ninja should be able to do it, you can do it in Ninja Gaiden 
 Sigma. The controls for doing so are smooth and seamless, and aside from a few camera angle issues, 
 at no point will you feel you have to struggle with the controller to pull any of these moves off. 
 They result in astounding sequences of somersaulting, swordplay, offensive magic (called ninpo) , 
 and countermoves that are as gratifying as anything found in gaming. And as you progress through 
 the game, you can upgrade your weapons, add new attacks, and earn other enhancements.
  
  As you may have heard, Ninja Gaiden on the Xbox was a difficult game, and it's no different here. 
 That isn't to say it's as tough as Ninja Gaiden Black, nor does it ever reach punishing levels. 
 But it is no walk in the park, and newcomers may find it initially intimidating. If you've already 
 cut your teeth on the series, you may be inclined to think that Sigma is a little easier, though 
 that is due more to certain level design tweaks than it is to a reduction in challenge. In particular, 
 Rachel's first chapter may strike fans as a little too easy thanks to a nice smattering of health 
 potions, but the impression won't last once you reach her later appearances. As it is, you'll encounter 
 armies of strong, agile opponents of all sorts, both human and, well, not so human -- and you'll 
 fight them in a variety of environments, from winding city streets to subterranean caverns. Some 
 of the most touted improvements in Ninja Gaiden Sigma over the original release are in the visual 
 department. That isn't to say that it looks exactly next-gen, because there are signs of porting 
 in the form of some bland textures and a few other blemishes. But it looks great, and a side-by-side 
 comparison reveals a lot of nice enhancements in elements like shadows and color saturation. Animations 
 are particularly spectacular, and Rachel's movements are as sleek as any of Ryu's. The sound effects 
 and soundtrack remain the same as before. Still, as with the visuals, the audio additions are beautifully 
 woven into the rest of the design, so nothing seems out of place or glued on.
  
  And once you're done with the tour de force the first time around, you've got new difficulty levels 
 to try out, stand-alone combat missions to play, and in-game leaderboards to peruse. There's simply 
 a lot of game here, and the fact that this is a retooling of a three-year-old title for a new audience 
 shouldn't dissuade you from playing it. Whether you're a series veteran or a newcomer, the in-your-face 
 action of Ninja Gaiden Sigma is as exhilarating now as it ever was, and the new, slickly embedded 
 content is surprisingly meaty. Play this game. Hold This Game. Love This Game. Get a PS3... NOW!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gillster316
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 23, 2007 10:47 pm PT
Review:  Ninja Gaiden Sigma by far has the best single player campaign then any other game on the ps3. The 
 game isn't as hard as people say it is so don't skip this just because you heard it was hard. The 
 action is simple incredible with all the combos you can pull off, the combat never gets boring.
 
  
  The A. I is just right there not pushovers and there not incredibly hard and with so many different 
 weapon you have you'll sometimes be just itching to get into another fight. The bosses are another 
 great part of Sigma there's tons and they each have there unique attacks and unique weaknesses.
 
  
  The graphics are great everything looks beautiful I have not seen one flaw are any lag in the game.
 
  
  The camera is rather tricky as when you are in small places it does zoom into a rather hard place 
 but it's not a total pain. In conclusion if you have not played any other Ninja Gaiden game I assure 
 you, you cant go wrong with ninja gaiden sigma. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NextGen86
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 20, 2007 8:49 pm PT
Review:  Not having experienced Ninja Gaiden or Ninja Gaiden Black on the Xbox, I finally decided to take 
 control of Ryu on the Playstation 3 to see if this game was really as exciting as everyone said 
 it was. After countless hours of battling ninjas and fiends, I can say that while this game really 
 is one of the best action-adventure games out there, it's not meant for every gamer. I say this 
 because of its difficulty: many will find that this game is way too difficult for them even on 
 the default setting. However, for those that do continue to push themselves, Ninja Gaiden Sigma 
 will deliver an unforgettable experience on the PS3 yet. The only fault that I found with the game 
 was the lack of environments: many of the chapters took place in Tairon, a city that got boring 
 to look and interact in quickly. But with over 15 hours of game play, huge and breathtaking boss 
 battles, and an array of different weapons, NGS easily makes its Xbox predecessors proud. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: keith_cobra
Rating: 7
Date: Aug 19, 2007 9:09 pm PT
Review:  Good: 1. Amazing real time graphics in this game. 2. Easy to pick up. 3. Durable to play.
  
  Bad: 1. The balance is bad. Common enemies is harder than the boss. 2. Camera angle also not 
 so good. 3. Story is not so clear. Many many unsolved question. 4. The quality of CG Movie is worst. 
 The real time CG also better than it. 5. Not enough secret to unlock when U finished it.
  
  Under the powerful PS3. The real time graphics really done a good job. Is pretty cool! And let 
 U travel from Ninja village &gt; modern facility. &gt; Ancient tomb etc. But I hope the map is 
 bigger. More place to go. Rachel's chapter is not very deep to describe the story. &amp; she's 
 a cool &amp; sexy woman. No one can resist her. But Is worth to play. If U like Action game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: D1rk-Knight
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 18, 2007 11:46 am PT
Review:  I really enjoy playing this great game which contain a lot of fun &amp; challenge.
  
  the graphic is awesome &amp; that what I expected from PS3 &amp; Team Ninja, there is so much detailed 
 that sometimes you'll stop to watch the beauty of the graphic, and the fighting system is so great 
 and solid, since Ryu has so many weapons and he can perform so many different combos.
  
  not to mentioned the strong enemies in this game especially the bosses which you need a lot of 
 focusing &amp; skill to defeat them.
  
  the only thing that I didn't like it in this game, that there is no new game+, and also no lock 
 on button.
  
  but it still worth to get ^-^ 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dirty55409
Rating: 6.5
Date: Aug 16, 2007 6:35 pm PT
Review:  If you have an old xbox or 360 try the $10 ninja gaiden black on Xbox! Not as flashy but more solid 
 gameplay, and cheap! The game is ridiculously difficult even on Normal. It reminds me too much 
 of your typical button mashing games! why is this game rated so highly? because it is fun slashing 
 badguys but they get old fast and it's SOOOOOOO difficult you'll probably die 1000 times before 
 finishing the game. Not worth $60 for all the frustration and thrown controllers. If you want to 
 play it on the PS3 rent it and if you think its worth it go for it. The graphics are beautiful 
 which are to be expected but I don't like that there's short load times if you go back in the level 
 and it has to reload the stage. Shouldn't happen in next gen especially on the PS3. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wars45
Rating: 8.8
Date: Aug 14, 2007 4:11 am PT
Review:  this game took me about 2 months to complate but wot a game i loved it but it was so hard . i did 
 it on normal . but if u find it too hard on normal . u can do it on easy but its not called easy 
 its called ninga dog mode u get this if u die 3 times on the trot and i can tell u, u will . ther 
 was times when i was going to give in and do it on ninga dog mode but im glad i dint , has for 
 the game its hard hard has i say but u will enjoy it . becues its fast and dose not slow down for 
 a min allways loads of ningas to kill . the boss are a joy and ther a lot of them . ther a lot 
 of jumping in the game and a lot of wall walking which is a joy to do but hard at times but this 
 game is old school like games used to be simpal game play no messing a bout geting to the end of 
 the chapter and killing the boss and loads of ninga s and dragon s on the way has for the wepons 
 ther are a few swords to get bow and arow and u can upgrade them the enermies are intelligent and 
 well dangerous this game will challenge u and test u gameing lemits buy it if u think no game is 
 too hard for u 
::::::

::::::
UserName: argianas
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 13, 2007 10:16 pm PT
Review:  How many times will the first Ninja Gaiden be repackaged and sold again before the actual sequel 
 is released? Will it challenge Final Fantasy I for the most purchasable versions of the same basic 
 game before all is said and done? Quite the popular question when the same game got a third release 
 with some new extras in a little over three years. The one forgivable aspect of all of this is 
 that each version is a definite improvement over the previous, and the original is a modern classic 
 on its own. As the game leaves the Xbox platform for the first time in search of new fans, it also 
 benefited from a generational leap in hardware and a number of refinements both major and minor 
 in the game itself. When all things are considered, Sigma is unquestionably the best version of 
 a game that every action fan must try.
  
  Sigma will very likely produce a few converts in the age-old ninja versus pirate debate. The whole 
 point of the game is to kill stuff as fluidly and as brutally as possible for hours of nonstop 
 action. The whole premise of the game takes this into account as well. Why bother with a story, 
 when the necessary cutscenes and character development would just slow down the action? Some guy 
 stole a sword, you need to get it back, and tons of foes would for some reason like nothing better 
 than to prevent you from accomplishing your goal. Human foes are a given, like ninjas and futuristic 
 soldiers. Why futuristic soldiers? Why not? There needs to be some demonic fiends too, just because. 
 Animated dinosaur skeletons? Sure, it will make an interesting boss fight. Tanks? Sure, might as 
 well prove just how badass ninjas are. And so on and so forth. If you want to think and figure 
 out where some types of enemies fit into the story, you're missing the point - they're there to 
 die, often by the loss of their head, and nothing more. And that's what makes the game so entertaining.
 
  
  Ninja Gaiden has a rather robust combo system, with seemingly countless combos to execute on your 
 choice of weapons. Swords, staves, war hammers, flails, or even that giant sword that Cloud carries 
 around are all available, and each have their own balanced selection of combos, speed, and power. 
 Brand new this version are the ability to use dual swords, which is probably enough to get those 
 that played a prior version to break down and buy a copy. You'll also find that Ryu controls very 
 quickly and agile, capable of fluidly moving from enemy to enemy with a devastating combo. Just 
 watching Ryu in action in the hands of a capable player is a sight to behold. In fact he's almost 
 too fast for his own good. His speed combined with the camera being fixed from a relatively short 
 distance from you can often be disorienting, as you'll either have to be constantly centering the 
 camera or just guessing where in the foreground the enemies are likely to be.
  
  And it's not just offense that Ryu excels at, his evasive flips and blocking is an absolutely key 
 feature of the game - those that do not learn how to block very early on will die repeatedly. Health 
 is a very precious commodity, and trading blows with an enemy is certainly not in your advantage. 
 Ninja Gaiden has a reputation for being rather difficult, and for good reason. The first time through 
 the normal mode will probably prove to be rather frustrating for newcomers not used to such a demanding 
 game, but there is a Ninja Dog difficulty level that's unlocked simply by dying a lot. However, 
 beating this does not unlock some notable features like the mission mode, so most will likely choose 
 to suck it up and give it a go. While the game itself takes about 15 hours of playtime to finish 
 for those new to the game, it's not surprising to add a good dozen more replaying sequences that 
 you died on. Most would say that the game is easier than Ninja Gaiden Black, but it seems due to 
 better-placed vendors and save points - the actual challenge of the enemies seem unchanged, so 
 such changes are certainly welcome.
  
  Lopping off the heads of your foes with a sword in each hand isn't the only improvements you'll 
 find in Sigma. While such minor tweaks like the save point and vendor placements are a bigger improvement 
 than one would think at first, the most notable change is that Rachel is now a playable character. 
 The female fiend hunter, who shares, uh, the same traits as every other Team Ninja-designed female, 
 is a fan favorite and finally is given a chance to shine. She's a lot less agile than Ryu, but 
 her hits are more powerful and her counterattack is simply deadly. She now has three chapters that 
 are spread throughout Ryu's 16 at decent intervals, and provide a wonderful change of pace. There's 
 other new features such as new enemies, certain very simple puzzles replaced with fights against 
 new enemies (such as motorcycle-riding soldiers) , different items in treasure chests or chests 
 in new areas, an improved selection of enemy-infested challenges with good rewards, and so forth. 
 One anti-climatic ending to a mission was replaced with an upgraded version of a boss that was 
 previously encountered, with other tricks up his sleeves as well. More difficult, yes, but much 
 more satisfying as well. In fact, the only real downgrade this game received is in casting ninpo, 
 the game's version of magic. While in the casting animation, you can shake the controller vigorously 
 to charge up your attack for extra damage. This just feels so needlessly tacked on, as if Team 
 Ninja felt that they needed to add in some motion sensing function just because it was there. Here's 
 a helpful hint - if you have to write a warning in your manual to make sure there are no small 
 animals in the vicinity because you might inadvertently injure them, then chances are the mechanic 
 simply isn't worth adding.
  
  After finishing the game, there are even more difficult modes to challenge your patience and resolve. 
 There's also a mission mode that will allow you to test the limits of your skill with Ryu and occasionally 
 Rachel. Surviving a string of enemies, clearing a setting of enemies within a certain time limit, 
 fight with a limited selection of weapons, defeat game bosses with minions thrown into the mix, 
 fight two game bosses at once, there's a lot of variety there. The 50 or so missions will certainly 
 keep you occupied if you are in search of a challenge once you conquer the game. The Collector's 
 Edition has a code that unlocks five bonus missions, but this easily-found code will work on any 
 version of the game. That makes the Sigma Collector's Edition one of the worst on the market - 
 the only tangible thing the extra cost gets you is a 25-minute DVD about how Team Ninja developed 
 the game. However, they don't let anyone document how they develop games, so all you get to see 
 is a few programmers sing karaoke. In other words, the standard edition of the game is certainly 
 the most recommended one.
  
  Of course, the most obvious improvement right when you fire up the game is in the visuals. The 
 PS3 provides plenty of horsepower that the Xbox does not, and Team Ninja took advantage of it. 
 The game plays up to 1080p, and the shadowing and lighting can be very impressive. Even some levels 
 were given visual improvements, like the rocky first chapter being converted to a rather pleasing 
 autumn setting in the mountains. The game engine is largely the same as the Xbox games, and some 
 bland textures can be found if you look around for them, but you're often so absorbed into the 
 action that you will not notice them. In fact, probably the worst-looking elements are the CG cutscenes, 
 which are undoubtedly lifted directly from the Xbox games untouched. When playing at 1080, these 
 scenes are noticeably pixelated when you transition from the engine to the scene. As such, the 
 quick and simple cutscenes done in the game engine actually look better than the major scenes. 
 Again, since the game is all about action, these scenes are in no way frequent or lengthy. The 
 audio is of high quality, with great sounding sound effects and a strong if unspectacular soundtrack. 
 What little voice acting there is also fits in well with the characters and their situations as 
 well.
  
  There's no question that Sigma is the best version of Ninja Gaiden available. In fact, the only 
 thing that would probably stop people from getting it, assuming they already played the previous 
 versions and own a PS3, is that they don't want to pay full price for a game that, at its core, 
 is one they already played. However, there's enough additions littered throughout, both major and 
 minor, that will make holding out awfully difficult. After a price drop, though, it will be hard 
 to argue against picking up Sigma. If you're a fan of action games and haven't gotten to play any 
 Ninja Gaiden game before, then Sigma is certainly worth the cost of admission. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: acwt111
Rating: 8.8
Date: Aug 13, 2007 1:58 am PT
Review:  When I bought Ninja Gaiden Sigma I thought that it would be the same as the very poor Genji. However 
 just 5 minutes into the game and I found out just how spectacular it really is. The gameplay on 
 Ninja Gaiden Sigma is challenging and fun. You really spend most of your time killing ninjas and 
 progressing to each boss. This is 100% more fun than I expected. The graphics have to be the best 
 that the PS3 has managed to produced in a game so far and the detail is phenominal. However if 
 you like easy games then you will find this annoying as this is most definitely a challenge. Overall 
 this game is only described in two words, solid and exceptional and has to be one of if not the 
 best PS3 game yet - 8.8 
::::::

::::::
UserName: herozs
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 25, 2007 1:50 pm PT
Review:  This is arguably the best action game. Fighting bosses to mobs this game never gets boring it keeps 
 you on the edge all the time.
  
  Gameplay: This game will never get boring. You have a lot of intense combos and in all the fights 
 you have to think not just mash some buttons. This game has the best blocking system Ive played 
 you can roll, jump, counter attack, I believe this game was based on it so if you dont use the 
 block system in this game wont even pass through the first mission. The combos are good and you 
 have a lot. On boss fights there is always a strategy like you using a specific list of combos 
 or waiting for an opening you just cant go and attack without thinking. The only problem with 
 the gameplay is that Itagaki shouldnt have made missions where you need to jump a lot because 
 this game wasnt made to go around jumping on stuff.
  
  Graphics: The character models are great they have a lot of detail but the environment is bland, 
 generic and boring but it looks good and you dont pay much attention to it.
  
  Rachel: She is fun to play with (dont get the wrong thought lol) although her attacks are all 
 cool but Ryu is still funner to play but you will like the change she brings. She is totally different 
 than Ryu. For those who know this game already she has a sweet reverse wind in which she rolls 
 on the enemies back and you can execute them easily.
  
  Should you buy it? If you havent played the Xbox version before its a MUST to buy this game for 
 those of you who already played go ahead if you liked the game a lot before you will like it again. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: auysal
Rating: 9.1
Date: Aug 11, 2007 7:26 pm PT
Review:  First of all, I have not played any Ninja Gaiden games before. I am very satisfied with this game. 
 It is fun, challenging but it can also be frustrating at times. That's because it is not just a 
 button mashing game. You need to approach every enemy differently and carefully. So if you are 
 looking for a hack'n slash game, Ninja Gaiden Sigma might not be the right game for you.
  I would have given this game a 10 if it had a good story but the story is almost non-existent. 
 However, it is the challenge that keeps you going. Try the demo on PSN. If you like it, I am sure 
 you will also like the whole game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thestig77
Rating: 9.3
Date: Aug 11, 2007 1:41 pm PT
Review:  I cannot put this game down. Every time i come to a save point, I don't save, i just carry on even 
 if i do get killed because i just love playing it over and over again. I don't want it to end , 
 it's just pure fun. You automatically start of at a normal level, however this is still hard for 
 some and if you think it's too hard, after getting killed a few times there is an option to drop 
 down a level. It does take a while to get used to using the combos but you can soon master it. The 
 weapons are brilliant but when you do ugrade them, you think can hack any enemy down, however the 
 enemies get harder to as the game flows along. I'm normally into shoot em ups, but with little 
 choice on the ps3, this is far the best ps3 game at the moment 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shadyfozzie
Rating: 7.5
Date: Aug 10, 2007 10:11 pm PT
Review:  I have played this game for a few days now, and let me just tell you, ITS FRUSTRATING..
  
  The positives: the graphics are almost stunning! Playing on a 36 Plasma in 1080 is remarkable, 
 but the backgrounds could be a bit better. The controller layout is decent, with inventory at the 
 click of the pad.
  
  The negatives: The camera is AWFUL! You cannot see the screen fully AT ALL. When I am fighting, 
 I'd like to see who is attacking me. There are times when I have died because a) I was zoomed in 
 on my character and couldn't see; b) the camera was in front of me and i couldn't see who I was 
 fighting. The controls themselves are very mediocre. It is very hard to control Ryu especially 
 when he is jumping. 7.5 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gschoenb
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 10, 2007 8:00 pm PT
Review:  THE GOOD:
  - Graphics: One of the best looking games on PS3. The lighting effects are top notch. Overall scenery 
 is great and the blood/gore looks good too.
  
  - Controls: basic controls are easy to learn, as are the many combination moves. I hate the camera 
 though. 50% of the time something is blocking your view and you end up get slashed up.
  
  - Weapons: immense selection of weapons, from swords to throwing stars to huge battle axes to bow 
 and arrow, this game has it all.
  
  - Quick load times
  
  THE BAD:
  - Difficulty level is too high. There is no selectable difficulty level in the Options menu. You 
 have to begin the game in Normal, and then if you get stuck, you say you want to give up... and 
 they bump the difficulty down to Easy and call you a Ninja Dog. Thanks.
  
  - Sound quality is very poor. I think they pulled a few too many sound effects from the Sega Genesis 
 bin. I want to feel that sword strike, but it just sounds terrible. Everything is muffled. And 
 I have Dolby Digital... no help.
  
  - No way to get back to the main menu once you start playing. You have to quit the game. I can't 
 believe this. Talk about a stupid oversite.
  
  - Cheesy voice overs everywhere. Translated dialogue didn't translate so well.
  
  - Cheap looking 
 menu structure. Again Genesis bin on this.
  
  - Camera views are very poor (see above) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: omi1
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 10, 2007 1:00 pm PT
Review:  Let me start by stating that I have been a Ninja Gaiden fan since the original arcade hit back 
 in 1988. Now arcade games back in the 80's weren't very story driven and to date still aren't, 
 Ninja Gaiden for the NES hit in 1989 and changed all of that.
  Now let me state now that I have never played Ninja Gaiden or Ninja Gaiden Black for the XBOX so 
 I am judging this game as it's stands by itself. I can start of by saying the graphics were very 
 impressive, Playing this game from beginning to end you can definately see how far gaming has come 
 since 1988. The playable environments although you are basically retracing your steps back and 
 forth (which at times can be a pain) isn't that bad when you have formidable AI to contend with. 
 This by far wasn't the hardest game I have ever played but definately forced me to learn how to 
 block and dodge or get killed very quickly. Ninja Gaiden is for the hardcore gamer who appreciates 
 what it means to not just button mash and ease your way through a level, there's a level of thinking 
 and planning that has to be addressed before moving forward. Your average adversary in the game 
 at times becomes your worst enemy as henchmen rival those of bosses at times.
  Ryu Hayabusa is definately the Super Ninja of this generation but as Ninja's rely on stealth as 
 an ally, Ryu certainly does not. I think that takes from the Ninja aspect of the game. The speed 
 and pace of this game definately does rival those of say Devil May Cry 3 and God of War, but is 
 missing the key element that separates them all; story content and character.
  Noone flips, kicks, takes heads and can run up a wall like Ryu that's for sure. His Ninja powers 
 are another thing that can be contended with. But Ryu as a character I found very boring and way 
 too the point, I could see no depth. Don't get me wrong I'm all for making something simple and 
 don't over do it if you don't need to but as I progressed, something as simple as seeing Ryu's 
 face could have made a big difference in the game. Case in point - He hitches a ride on a zepphlin 
 and he's always in full Ninja garb (are you serious Tecmo?) Also you can see the japanese fascination 
 with blond chicks with big boobs, Gimme a break guys.
  Now let's talk controls, the camera at times is very unbarable is can never reeally seem to be 
 controlled, This becomes fraustarting because Ryu is so fast that he's a bit ahead of us at times 
 :\
  Over-all I think this game kicks ass and I'm more of a Ninja Gaiden fan now as I ever was before, 
 We get cool weapons cool characters gorgeous chicks and you get to take heads and blow up stuff; 
 defianately Spike TV's CHICK BANG BOOM for your buck. I may follow the DOA series because of this 
 game. But this game Ninja Gaiden : Sigma is the second remake of the original XBOX classic. instead 
 of pooling all of there talent into redoing the same game I hope they left enough ideas for the 
 sequel. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rockutd
Rating: 7.8
Date: Aug 10, 2007 2:32 am PT
Review:  Ninja Gaiden Sigma is a cool game on the PS3 if u do not own a Xbox n have not played the Ninja 
 Gaiden series. The graphics are pretty sleek on the PS3 but the game gets pretty boring after a 
 while. Its mostly about executing combos, slashing, running around on maps and fighting bosess.
 
  The story of the game is as bad as it can get, with maybe a little twist at the end of the game.
 
  The game itself is pretty difficult if u do not manage ur usage of potions properly. But if u find 
 urself in trouble, there's always the ninja dog mode to help u out. But if u use it, u will not 
 be able to advance to the next difficulty level on your next replay of the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hyofinkl
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 9, 2007 9:29 pm PT
Review:  Ninja Gaiden Sigma is a very fun, technical, and challenging action game. Although I do think it 
 is overrated a little, it is a very enjoyable game for people that are a fan of the genre and like 
 challenging games. As I mentioned, it is a challenging game throughout in that any random enemy 
 could rip you apart in shreds if you let your guard down. However, the bosses and even the final 
 boss don't quite fit in. There were some boss fights which I thought were pretty challenging but 
 they weren't extremely hard like some people make it out to be and especially the last few boss 
 fights at the end of the game were straight up easy. The biggest flaws in the game are the storyline 
 and the setting. The storyline (if in fact it can even be called a storyline) is one of the most 
 linear and obvious you'll ever find. The bigger problem is the setting. This game makes you go 
 around the same place over and over again. The environments you see is basically the same thing 
 throughout the whole game. The graphics are not spectacular being a remake of an xbox game but 
 it is decent. This game is definitely not for everyone as it can get frustrating at times but it 
 is a good, solid action game with some of the best combat I've seen. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kashiki07
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 9, 2007 4:15 pm PT
Review:  This game.... is awesome.. plain and simple. i want to marry it and it can have my babies. the minute 
 it was placed into my ps3 i had a massive orgasm.. not a joke.. buy it now.. if u don't.. die.. jk.. but 
 seriously its fantastic
  
  the graphics are superb
  the gameplay is orgasmic
  the rachel is hot
  the weapons are beast
  the intense, long, hard, extendable, storyline is 
 balllin
  if u want to party like a rock.. party like a rockstar.. buy this game.. now
  
  it is highspeed action, absolutely the best game for a baller to play.. or if ur human cause it's 
 just the best.. around.. no one can ever keep me down 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KAMZdxb
Rating: 4.8
Date: Aug 9, 2007 4:10 pm PT
Review:  The Goods : Listing it first cuz they arent many... the character is nice, being a ninja and all 
 gives u a sense of awe to a certain level i guess... but thats it! The Bads: Controls, the way 
 it handles, the missions, the story, gameplay.... everything is so linear... i mean its not poor, 
 but its not good either. Its outdated! Playing it on the PS3 was supposed to be a new experience... 
 i think tons of games on ps2 are far more advanced than this game. wont make it long.... but in 
 conclusion i think the ps3 needed a game with a 9 or above score, and therefore the score was pushed 
 so high up there.... it doesnt deserve the score it got! and lastly, i dont write reviews, mostly 
 read them, but this time i had to... seeing so many 8s and 9s being given to the game... i fail 
 to understand. For the past 3 yrs, i have always relied on gamespots reviews and ratings, and they 
 have been almost dead on for me, ( i play all kinds of genre of games on 5 different platforms) .. 
 but this time.... it was a shock!
  
  cheers~
  -K 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Pepperlander
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 26, 2007 6:33 am PT
Review:  Ninja Gaiden Sigma is a very good game. The graphics are with the best I've seen. but one thing 
 that is bugging me is that the primary attack button and te action button are the same and if you 
 stand next to a door and you are in a fight then the door opens and you walk through. when you 
 go back the fight starts over. You'll start with a Katana . the game offers an Ultimate Attack 
 and that is one of the coolest things about this game. This game is in lot of ways like Devil may 
 cry and Prince of persia. Like Devil may cry this game has a lots of multiple combos which makes 
 the game a lot more fun than it would be. the combo system probably has the biggest part in making 
 this game so active and alive. the characters you play are Master Ryu Hayabusa and Rachel. Ryu 
 is a ninja and you play him most of the time. Rachel is a fiend hunter and she is in few chapters 
 and few extra missions. with her large War Hammer she can shop fiends head off with an axe blade 
 that is attached to the hammer. I love this game and I recommend this game to all those whoa re 
 at least older than 12. the game is olmost as brutal as Mortal Kombat. you can get the demo in 
 Playstation Store. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NandoSupes
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 8, 2007 6:24 am PT
Review:  Ninja Gaiden Sigma is an extraordinary game. it offers furious non stop action, is also one the 
 hardest games you ll ever play, but is hard in the sense of skill, not unbalance gameplay or game 
 mechanics, master the amazing Ninja that is Ryu Hayabusa, and you have a game that is yours to enjoy 
 think of it as a karate lesson it takes practice. once you honed your controller skills and all 
 of Ryu's moves, this game is beautiful to play and watch.
  
  presentation: the presentation wont wow you, but is not dull either, I guess is just normal, the story 
 is ok ,but this game is not an epic novel, is an action game believe me, the action is all in this 
 one.
  
  
  sound: the sound in the game is kind of feudal japanese with some modern stuff, the effects of weapons 
 sound great, the jumping, running, the sound is well done for sure.
  
  controls: very sharp and well done think of it like Dead or Alive in the way you make the moved 
 and combos, the camera is good ,it gets confusing sometimes but you have all the freedom to use 
 it, you also have a zoom in and out view so you can enjoy the locales.
  
  graphics: the graphics were great on the XBOX, and on the PS3 it looks even better, the added better 
 textures, more detailed in the enemies and Ryu himself also, and yes it supports 1080p, just a gorgeous 
 game to look at. gameplay: fast and furious this game is not for the faint of heart, but it offers 
 incredible gameplay if your willing to master it, the games is quite long too, the bosses are awesome!! 
 and so hard you ll be feeling like wow!!, I mean this game will keep you in your toes all the time 
 its just an incredible fast paced challenging experience, buy this game right now id you want value 
 for your hard earned cash, this is one of the very best out there, buy it now. you wont fall asleep 
 playing this. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: imtiaz2k5
Rating: 8.6
Date: Aug 7, 2007 11:41 pm PT
Review:  This is the first Ninja Gaiden series i have played . Controls over the characters are little are 
 hard to learn or control, since this is my first time playing this type of game. Shaking the controller 
 to increase the character's power was little weird but nice touch at the same time. There are some 
 missions of this game are little hard and really need to save it but can't. And the story seems 
 little shorter. And some bosses are really hard to defeat. Rachel characters is okay but her movement 
 and fighter style seems little slow especially with her big hammer and her long legs, but it is 
 still worth playing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Carlito911
Rating: 8.1
Date: Aug 6, 2007 12:57 am PT
Review:  A) Gameplay:-
  
  #Advantages:
  - Powerful combats.
  - Smooth and fast fights.
  - So bloody.
  
  #Disadvantages:
  - It's hard even in the normal difficulty level, that sometimes 
 perhaps you'll find it overweight the fun.
  - The camera angles are simply stupid. In a high standard game like this and fast combats, wondering 
 when you'll going to have the time to adjust the camera!!! believe that you'll face it in the game.
 
  - Also there's a negative which been referred by the game reviewer Kevin VanOrd , which is about 
 increasing the special (Ninpo) attack that you need to shake the controller, needless as he said.
 
  
  B) Controls:-
  - It's good, but you'll need some time to get used to it.
  
  C) Graphics:-
  - One word: Perfect.
  
  D) Sound:-
  - You'll feel the hit and the cut. So 
 overall, I'll give it 8.2 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dsm_guy
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 5, 2007 10:43 am PT
Review:  The fact that an original Xbox game is the best game available for the PS3 has a bit to do with 
 the systems lack of quality titles but it's really quite amazing how well this game has held up 
 over the years. The only time I was reminded that this was a last gen game was the pre-rendered 
 cut-scenes which weren't upgraded from the Xbox version. The rest of the game is superior to everything 
 else in the genre including the great but shallow GOW series. You want action (more than enough) , 
 length (much longer than the average action game) , weapons (check) , tough enemies (check) , massive 
 boss battles (check) , variety of settings (check) , secrets (too many) . Casual gamers may be put 
 off by its difficulty but this is a hardcore gamers dream. Don't hate on it because its a port 
 and don't make the mistake of missing out on one of the top 5 games of the last generation and 
 current top game of this generation for Sony's console. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Keir21
Rating: 8.4
Date: Aug 3, 2007 4:07 am PT
Review:  Ninja Gaiden is a top notch game where you take the role of the bad ass ninja Ryu Hayabusa. This 
 games fighting system is original and adds new features. This games fighting system surpasses those 
 of really loved games such as Devil May Cry. The graphics are superb with good amount of detail. 
 However this game does carry its amount of errors which drags this down from being an instant classic 
 to a game that is just over average why? there are many reasons why which i will explain now.
 
  
  The game play has some superb aspects such as dodging enemies by running on walls, even though 
 its been done before it has been improved on. However there are some big errors with game play 
 such as the extreme difficulty level and at times this can seem like a button basher.
  
  Graphics:
  Absolutely superb character designs are great just a few environments look a bit bland.
 
  
  Game play:
  This was the hardest thing to review. The games fighting system is great with loads of combos and 
 superb improvements on other slashers. The only problems are the very hard difficulty level meaning 
 this game is not for the newbie gamer. Sometimes only sometimes this game can seem rather boring 
 and may seem like a button basher but do not quit the game straight away as it does pick up allot 
 more as you progress. Another minor niggle is the fact you have to shake the controller to increase 
 ninpo attack power is rather pointless, a fatal attempt of using the six axis.
  
  Story:
  Good nothing special, all i can say is that its better than most martial arts films.
  
  Overall:
 
  A great game but is dragged down from being a instant classic to a great game, this is recommended 
 but don't expect too much. One good thing though is the value as you get bonus missions where you 
 play as Rachel this adds more to the story and gives some interesting twists but other than that 
 Rachel's parts aren't actually that fun.
  
  Score:
  7/10 recommended 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sonsoalegre
Rating: 7.7
Date: Aug 2, 2007 4:43 pm PT
Review:  Again and again... i wonder how much money this company makes with the same game. To be fair, i 
 like the game, even when i know that the game is the same from the xbox, and i dont know why. I 
 was waiting this game for PS2, because i hear a lot of things about ninja gaiden. But now i know 
 why ninja gaiden is for PS3, is because the first games for PS3 are not so good, and a game like 
 ninja gaiden makes a good appearances for this new console. We have to wait so much more time for 
 see the real games. There is no good games for PS3.
  
  About ninja gaiden sigma, i have to say that the game is not so great. The game has a good graphics 
 and great movements, but the story is not convincing and the camera is annoying. The game is not 
 ambitious and the new things added to the game its not worth it. BUT ninja gaiden has something 
 addictive, that you cant stop playing. My score, if the game was for PS2, would be 9.0. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: resuto
Rating: 9.9
Date: Aug 2, 2007 3:47 pm PT
Review:  I picked up Ninja Gaiden Sigma just after replaying Ninja Gaiden Black on the 360 to get a feel 
 for the series again, and lemme tell you.. This game is freakin intense. The Graphics are amazing 
 IMO definetely a must for the ps3 owners. This game surely does appeal to the casuals becaues of 
 its sleek gameplay. The game isn't that short and provides your brain with a good challenge that 
 just makes you get more into the game. There arn't really any framerate issues and the game runs 
 smooth. Also, just being able to PLAY as Rachael brought my attention to the game and made me anticipate 
 even more. Ps3 owners get this game. If you don't IMO you miss out on the fun. If you decide to 
 rent it you'll probably rent it 2-3 times. So just go out and buy it. Anywayz, This game is truly 
 entertaining and provides long, hard, intense hours of SOLID gameplay that will keep you goin for 
 a long time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: williamquah
Rating: 9.2
Date: Aug 1, 2007 8:54 am PT
Review:  Two remakes, three versions of the same game. From this anyone would know that this must be some 
 game to garner two remakes. Each time new contents are added to refresh what otherwise would be 
 the exact same game. Yes, this is non other than Ninja Gaiden. Nicely named Sigma in this latest 
 reincarnation, Ryu Hayabusa once again sets out on the journey to get revenge and retrieve the 
 Dark Dragon Blade - for the third time. Make no mistake because this is still one great game and 
 one of the best in its genre.
  
  Gameplay - Fast paced, action packed and suspenseful are the words best used to describe this game's 
 mechanics. As Ryu Hayabusa players will fight through an army of enemies in different levels divided 
 by chapters. Combos are fast paced and response teasing because players will constantly find themselves 
 at the edge of their seats as expert AIs try to kill them. The core mechanic hasn't changed from 
 previous releases which is still as engaging as ever. Perhaps the biggest addition in Sigma would 
 be the inclusion of Rachel as a playable character. Although she can only be controlled in a couple 
 of selected chapters but to finally be able to use what used to be just an 'extra' is something 
 that is worth extra attention. Rachel's moves are exactly opposite compared to those of Ryu's. 
 While Ryu is fast and agile, Rachel is more to slow but powerful so this gives players a change 
 of style and gives the game a Yin and Yang feel. As good as the action and gameplay are, it is 
 not without its flaws. For instance, the camera is still problematic like before. Enemies are still 
 as impossible as before. They are so efficient at what they do sometimes makes fighting them a 
 torture. Ryu is once again given an arsenal of melee and projectile weapons to help him progress 
 through otherwise an impossible journey. To make things fresh again, a new dual katana is added. 
 These two may not be as familiar as the Dragon Sword but they are a nice addition. Despite only 
 being added in this release, they blend in well and moves smoothly without any sign of being forced 
 in just to freshen the things up.
  
  Visual - Everything from Ryu to the environment has been given an overhaul to showcase the power 
 of next gen. Some enemies are given a makeover to look more refined and detailed. Characters are 
 now given more polygons and smoother animations. However, the framerate does tend to slowdown at 
 some points but this slight problem should not affect the overall experience.
  
  Audio - All the sound effects has been retained to give it a classic feel. The effects may sound 
 a little old school but it is perfect when put in this game. A few years ago, the sound was great 
 and still does now. Voice acting is solid and convincing especially when played in its original 
 Japanese version.
  
  Story - Seriously, why would anyone even care when the gameplay is this good?
  
  Overall - 
 Even after all this time, the game still hasn't lost its touch. Furthermore when given a next gen 
 makeover this is truly a must get for any PS3 owners. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vividamage123
Rating: 7.3
Date: Aug 1, 2007 7:05 am PT
Review:  Im not your everyday action player but ive decided to try out Ninja Gaiden Sigma in hopes of somthing 
 to fill in that gap of my gaming experience. I spent 60 dollars, on it and I regret it.
  
  The story is rather straight foward, somthing attacks his village so he must go for revenge rather 
 cliched and boring. Although it is an action game but im sure other action games have had better 
 storys. The game lacks any surprises, twists, or turns. Thankfully NGS is boasting with tons of 
 incredible graphics and styles and such. Ryu can do so much, jump on walls, backflips, lighting 
 fast reflexes, this is a true ninja game. The graphics are amazing, and the game plays well with 
 them. With a fast frame rate and amazing techniques the graphics is almost all it has for it.
 
  
  The gameplay in this game isnt anything to die for though. While the graphics are the gameplay 
 isnt or rather the whole game itself. I made it to the 13th chapter and got bored. I rather not 
 play it anymore, because its to boring and repitive, its the same thing over and over, slashing, 
 slicing jumping and healing. While the Boss battles are fun and exliherating, you dont want to 
 spend a rather large amount of your time going through the levels. Also the Rachel segments are 
 rather boring as well, while she dosnt have any changeable items, nor weapons
  
  As for the music, im fine with it.
  
  Overall the game is great but lacks in gameplay (not controls 
 or such) but when you play the levels, and for such an asian inspired game you spend a large amount 
 of time in urban citys and underground passages. The game just isnt enough for me. The difficulty 
 is rather nice though, its very difficult. My review isnt to spite the game rather for gamers to 
 know that the 9 that it recieved wasnt well perceived. The game is rather average and boring. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jrrchef
Rating: 4.9
Date: Aug 1, 2007 5:53 am PT
Review:  In a nutshell, this is yet another title that was obviously rushed to get on the PS3. It has some 
 very great parts here and there, other than that, it's a bunch of repetitive, fight the same guys 
 over and over crap. For an example, you go through and area and fight a lot of guys, kill them. 
 but when you go in and out of a door (shop for example) these SAME guys magically reappear and 
 you have to fight them all over again. LAME!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! Yeah, in fairness the concept 
 is beyond cool, but for the PS3 this game could have been A LOTTTTTTTT more!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! Maybe 
 by next year my PS3 will be worth what I paid for it!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Xaovagon
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 20, 2007 6:57 pm PT
Review:  ah yes Ninja gaiden sigma, a good game and all but a few problems 1. graphics are good with the 
 people but pretty much everything else could be done on a Wii 2. stupid glitches, weird load times 
 3. the boss designs are about as original as a sci-fi channel original movie 4. dumb levels but 
 the good lies in the animation, with a blistering 60 fps a ninja couldn't run any better on a system, 
 and the addition of rachel is nice, but the best part is the gameplay which in my book is better 
 than god of war 2's, with its super fast paced attacks and smart enemies that actually try to kick 
 your ass every time 
::::::

::::::
UserName: insight2k1
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jul 31, 2007 1:33 pm PT
Review:  Now, in my opinion, there have been few games worth playing on the ps3 ( but thats just me) . this 
 game made me love my ps3 again. i've played the xbox version a while back but this one definitely 
 the best. the controls are smooth, the graphics are amazing and the new weapon is very useful. 
 Now, if you don't like a challenge this might not be for you, even on the easy difficulty it is 
 somewhat hard, although it could be that i suck at the game. the addition of playing as Rachel 
 was ok, but i didn't really enjoy her levels. the addition of the ninja dog mode is useful for 
 beginners but the game takes on a condesending tone with you, saying things like it seems i greatly 
 overestimated you . the thing about the magic (or ninpo as it is called) is to make it more powerfull, 
 you have to shake the controller like an idiot, the result is good but people who see you will 
 be wondering what is wrong with you. One of the issues I had with this game is the camera, sometime 
 it would take a mind of it's own and would refuse to move in the correct position. Ryu has a wide 
 variaty of move in his repetoir witch allows for some pretty cool combos, but many of them are 
 unessecary unless you want to overcomplicate things while fighting bosses or if you want to impress 
 your friend who are watching. So if you own a ps3 and don't mind a challenge, i highly recommend 
 at least trying this game. It is fun and the little flaw don't detract from the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PyroX4414
Rating: 5.1
Date: Jul 31, 2007 9:26 am PT
Review:  Call me crazy if you will, but when I spend over 60$ on anything I expect an enriching, NEW experience. 
 If a game is several years old, extras should be in place to justify the purchase. Does this third 
 port of a classic game fit this explanation? Let's find out...
  
  Graphics 10/10
  
  Come on, did you really expect a problem here? The graphics have been improved dramatically from 
 the original here. Water effects are particularly nice here, as every ripple can be seen. The colors 
 are bright and lush, and overall I couldn't imagine the graphics to have been any better on an 
 older game.
  
  Gameplay 5/10
  
  I purchased this game with no previous knowledge of its extra content (blame a lack of PS3 titles) 
 and I am wholeheartedly disappointed. The added gameplay elements do nothing to change the experience. 
 Two swords... big deal, I'm still button mashing through the game. Rachael... what's the point 
 I get her axe at some point anyways. The gameplay is still years old and it shows. The learning 
 curve is still pretty steep for new gamers. Bottom line the game is hard and adds almost nothing 
 new to draw hardcore fans. A waste!
  
  Sound 6/10
  
  The sounds are alright, but nothing really stands out. The SE are well timed and appropriate, but 
 the voice acting is AWFUL! Sound is not a stand out part of this series. Put away that surround 
 sound, you won't need it.
  
  Value 2/10
  
  Once again for 60 dollars I don't see anything worthwhile about this game, especially since I've 
 bought it two times before. Save your money for more worthwhile ventures. Why spend 60 bucks when 
 you can get the same experience for 20$? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SemiMaster
Rating: 8
Date: Jul 31, 2007 10:40 am PT
Review:  I will say, to be honest, this game is not that much different from Ninja Gaiden on the Xbox, so 
 chances are if you've played it, the only reason to play it here is because of Rachel (who plays 
 differently and has different strengths and weaknesses) . A little more of the story is fleshed 
 out, but it's essentially the same game (at least through the first 7 missions) .
  
  Short synopsis of the story. You are Ryu Hayabusu of the Hayabusa Ninja Clan. You are protectors 
 of the Dragon Blade. An evil samurai by the name of Doku is searching for the Dark Dragon Blade 
 (a sword of evil) and has murdered your entire ninja clan. You are out for revenge, heads are cut 
 off, ninja stars stuck in eye, and a lot of yelling and screaming from the inundation of constant 
 attacks will leave you hoarse. Err... I just broke the 4th wall there huh?
  
  Anyways, let's just get into it.
  
  Gameplay : The gameplay is like Mario 64, but with ninja, 
 swords, and lots of violence. Ryu can run, jump, run on walls, jump off walls and anything you 
 think a ninja can do, he can do it. Combat involves using a combination of heavy and light attacks 
 for different combinations. There are many weapons, ranging from the Dragon Sword (a simple Katana) 
 to a dual Katana, nunchuks, a giant hammer and more. The more powerful the weapon (I. E. it's powerlevel 
 from paying the blacksmith Muramasa) , the more combinations and deadly attacks you can unleash.
 
  
  In addition to melee weapons, you get throwing shurikens, smoke bombs, arrows and more. These are 
 necessary to pick off certain enemies or at least distract them to get close enough. Also, you 
 can use ninjutsu (Ninpo) to devastate your enemies by pressing the activation button and shaking 
 your SixAxis (TM) controller around to power it up. Not really necessary, but it's slightly more 
 interesting than just pressing the buttons. Enemies come at you often and fierce. Many times there 
 is at least one enemy who is stronger than the others and has a strong ranged weapon (not to mention 
 is potent at close range combat) . So you have to dodge and jump and roll to make it to an enemy 
 and attack them. But they don't politely stop, they all keep attacking, so you must be swift like 
 a ninja, lest you get irritated like a badger getting kicked in the rump.
  
  Put it this way... you will die... a lot. After 3 or so deaths, the game will allow you to restart 
 on a lower level (Which I have to stay is still pretty hard) . Granted, it is a nice challenge, 
 but I want to be able to at least enjoy my cool ninja swordsmanship and watch as I lop off heads 
 and impale people, not have to worry how fast I can hit the L1 button and dodge out of the way 
 before I can blink... This is the only reason I give the game a non perfect Gameplay score. It's 
 not just intense, it's aggravating to the point you can't take it all in, that's what I'm saying. 
 The weapons all have different strengths against different enemies and everything is very slick 
 and smooth in terms of gameplay... but you don't get a second to breath at all in the middle of 
 combat. And even no matter how fast you move, someone always manages to jump out of the shadows 
 or from around the corner, or just simply walks up to you and instantly hops to your back and slits 
 your throat. That my friends, is annoying, not clever challenging gameplay.
  
  One last thing is that you get many potions of life, magic and items that increase your overall 
 life total (these often require a great deal of exploring or a difficult trial to overcome) . Other 
 things are amulets that power your attacks or decrease damage. I guarantee you will use your potions 
 very often as a new player. Thankfully on the Ninja Dog mode, your helpers will give you new healing 
 items and bonuses (which with even that may not be enough for the more casual or less experienced 
 player) .
  
  Graphics : I don't know what people were smoking when they said this game was lightyears ahead 
 of the Xbox version, but it I assure you is not.
  
  Where to start...
  
  1.) The cutscenes are horrendous. Not the ingame engine, the FMV versions. They are extraordinarily 
 pixelated and I guarantee don't come in at 1080p resolution. They are also very shiny and plastic 
 looking, I'd much rather prefer to watch the in game cutscenes. Really, I swear they just took 
 what they had from the SD Xbox version and put it on the disc.
  2.) I'm running my PS3 through an HDMI cable at 1080p and I can STILL see massive amounts of jaggies 
 and sharp polygons everywhere. Like just looking at buildings or trees or just anything you can 
 see it.
  3.) This is a minor detail, but the blood is literally applied to this game like a sticker. Yes, 
 a sticker... which floats a good 6 inches off the surface it is applied to. More than once I saw 
 the sticker applied a door, and half of it was sticking out into space like nothing was there to 
 hold it up, yet it as just sitting there happy as can be as a 2d object.
  
  I was expecting some major polishing in every aspect. There was none beyond the new additions, 
 which some are very nice, but anything in the previous Xbox version was not upgraded at all.
  
  In the 2nd mission, you have to rush to a temple which is on fire. This was an intense scene 
 where everything was burning and exploding into hot embers. This scene DID show the 1080p resolution 
 graphics to the fullest and utilized a good graphics engine. Unfortunately, this awesome set of 
 graphics did not carry over to other scenes as of mission 7. Too bad, because if they put that 
 much care into retouching the game, this would have not had such glaring flaws.
  
  Ryu looks great, but much the same as he did in the Xbox version. The game does run at a very smooth 
 60 FPS though, which lends itself to the fluid motions of a ninja engaged in battle. But again, 
 this isn't very hard when the graphics aren't that superior to the Xbox version.
  
  Rachel on the other hand got a tremendous amount of attention. She has 5 or 6 unlockable hairstyles 
 and the sheer amount of time put into her hair and um... Chest physics is boggling. She moves very 
 gracefully, in a different, feminine, but distinctly non ninja way. This does not make her any 
 less deadly. In fact I think she kills human opponents better than Ryu, but he is better against 
 fiends... considering she's the fiend hunter and all.
  
  Anyways, there are a few other nice touches like individual falling leaves and reflecting marble 
 floors, but there is no battle damage to walls or bullet holes or sword marks.
  
  Good graphics, but not great, nothing like people promised that would redefine graphics.
  
 
  Sound : The soundtrack is pretty good. It ranges from traditional Japanese Koto and Shamisen filled 
 tracks to thumping guitar riffs in the middle of combat.
  
  Sound effects (especially the thunder) really boom, the crackle of fire pops and hisses with pockets 
 of sap in the wood. Footfalls change depending on what surface they are on and, mercifully, are 
 not as ever present and annoying as in other games. Well Rachel with her high heel boots on does 
 make more sound, but Ryu as a stealthy ninja does not (although you can't sneak up on people in 
 this game for some strange reason...)
  
  Sword slashes make tearing noises when cutting enemies and sword on sword or rock make a distinctive 
 clang of steel. Guns pop, shurikens woosh, everything just fits into place properly. The voice 
 overs aren't bad, but the accents are a little weird, and to be honest, I don't know why it is 
 isn't in Japanese with subtitles, at least for Ryu. Whatever, it's just some of the voices seem 
 a little over the top or cliched, but not necessarily bad in any way.
  
  Value : 60$ for a little more content of a game I played years ago doesn't scream value to me. 
 Perhaps to a first timer, yea, but for those jaded Xbox owners, this isn't a prime game to get. 
 I bought it because it simply was the best game on the PS3 in my opinion, but like I said, I've 
 played this before. Knock the points up a bit higher for those uninitiated.
  
  Tilt : This game is great though, if not a bit aggravating and already well traveled in the past. 
 The graphics are in no way bad at all, but they are not all they are promised to be, and there 
 are glaring imperfections that aren't hard to notice. Still, you won't have more fun (or frustration) 
 at being a ninja anywhere else. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wmg1299
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jul 31, 2007 12:03 am PT
Review:  Ninja Gaiden Sigma is one of the best games currently available on the PS3. The updated graphics 
 and additional levels added to an already great game. That being said, I am still not convinced 
 the game will live up to the rave reviews it has received from most publications. The game is visually 
 impressive, and opens the door to a whole new realm of possibilities for this generation. Hopefully, 
 the finished product will convince developers that there is a market for graphically updated classics 
 that bring great games to a whole new generation of gamers. The combat controls are responsive, 
 and the game features more platforming than many gamers would expect. The multiple combo attacks 
 add a level of depth to the usual hacknslash fare that is usually found in Ninja games. The use 
 of Ninpo, or ninja magic, also brings more complexity and excitement to what many gamers feel 
 has become a stale format. The only real knock anyone should have on this game is the camera. While 
 it responds well to user commands, the action often moves too fast for the camera to keep up with. 
 Even though the camera is responsive, players will often find themselves unable to control the 
 camera while engaged in the intense combat. The plot is somewhat interesting, but is quite frankly 
 a little too involved in obscure Japanese myths and culture that will be lost on many American 
 and European gamers. I think too many critics instantly assume that any plot they cant keep up 
 with must be incredibly deep, and I think that many critics were unwilling to admit that they found 
 the plot confusing. I applaud developers from bringing an Xbox game to the Sony audience, I didnt 
 find the game to be a totally unique experience. The plot, basic item collection and simple puzzle 
 aspects are almost identical to the Onimusha series. This is a great game, but it is not necessarily 
 something that PS2 owners will not have seen before. Developers added a Ninja Dog option that 
 allows gamers to play through on an easier difficulty level. While this is helpful and opens the 
 game up to a larger audience, it fails to address many of the aspects that are at the root of the 
 games legendary difficulty. Much of the difficulty comes from the fact that level design is often 
 tricky, and enemies regenerate if you have to backtrack. A great deal of the original difficulty 
 also came from the lack of save points. This problem has been amended, but not completely fixed. 
 All in all, this is a solid game that all PS3 owners owe it to themselves to play. IT is fun, but 
 not flawless, and may fall short of some of the high marks other reviewers have set for the title. 
 Ninja Gaiden Sigma is a solid, fun experience, but dont expect it to change everything you know 
 about video games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: luigismansion101
Rating: 7.1
Date: Jul 30, 2007 9:11 pm PT
Review:  This game is good, not great though. I picked it up thinking it would be amazing, but I was thoroughly 
 dissappointed. The gameplay is fun for a while, then repetitiveness kicks in. The enemy diversity 
 is terrible, probably not even 30 different enemies. There are many times you fight bosses in one 
 chapter and again 8 or 9 chapters later. Were they that hardpressed for characters?? Seriously, 
 that is sad. I don't want to fight the same 5 bosses 3 times. The camera is one of the worst I 
 have ever used. I would recommend renting this, but I wouldn't recommend buying it unless you loved 
 NG or NGB. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zouhou
Rating: 7.7
Date: Jul 30, 2007 1:56 am PT
Review:  ninja gaiden sigma is a ninja game im am nt usally into those kinda game but still i wanted to 
 give it a shot and wat a good shot it was. u r a ninja named ryu ur village was burned and u r 
 seeking revenge the story is a liitle hard to follow but is very good and detailed voice acting 
 is chessey. graphics r really good ryu animates very well and move great same wit the girl chracter. 
 flaws its hard and save system sucks u might find ur self repeting boss fights or many other thing 
 but its not so hard that u chuck the controller at the tv also the whole wepon thing is hard because 
 its hard to upgrade them wen u have to sprnd most ur points on elixrs to heal ur self but this 
 game was a little weird to me i thought at first i hated it then loved it over and over but over 
 all it was ok thank god i rented it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: joemerchant2006
Rating: 7.9
Date: Jul 28, 2007 10:09 pm PT
Review:  This game, overall, is pretty good. I'm glad they decided to make this a PS3 exclusive.
  The graphics are AMAZING! Details are really brought out, even if you have a regular definition 
 TV, like me. And the fact you get to play not only the main charactor, but you play as a hot babe.... I 
 forget her name right off the bat. And the detail is so fine, you can see her boobs bounce and 
 jiggle. I knwo I'm gonna get docked for that, but you can't deny it guys, you like it. And the 
 fact that it's true, is why I'm saying it. If you don't like it, deal with it. The only problem 
 that I have with this game is the fact that IT'S EXTREMLY HARD!!! The boss battles are immersive, 
 but the fact that everytime you DIE, you go back to the last save is EXTREMELY ANNOYING!!! (and 
 also the fact you die really really easy and you have to hold down the block button 90% of the 
 time)
  
  I love this game just the fact that's it's REALLY REALLY hard, pushes me away from playing it. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Digital_DJ_00
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jul 28, 2007 3:44 am PT
Review:  Ninja Gaiden Sigma is the second remake of the original Ninja Gaiden on XBOX. But even after a 
 second remake, this is the most challenging, most fun action game around, just like it's predecessors. 
 The graphics are obviously what stands out the most, playing this hard hitting action game on 1080p 
 is definately awesome. The fiends and other enemies have been revamped to look really good on the 
 PS3, plus there are some new enemies to fight in Sigma. Plus, you have a new weapon at your disposal; 
 the Dragons Fang and Tigers Claw, which is a set of twin katana blades that Ryu dual wields. You 
 can also play as Rachel in this installment, which is fun but at times feels uneccessary. The missions 
 that you can take on are pretty much the same as Ninja Gaiden Black's missions. There isn't much 
 of a costume selection even after beating the game on other difficulty levels, which is a bummer. 
 Puzzels that were in Ninja Gaiden and Ninja Gaiden Black have been taken out, which is really nice 
 since they were pointless and annoying in the first place. This is an all around awesome game for 
 people who own a Playstation 3. But if you own Ninja Gaiden Black then you're really not missing 
 out on much. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ironcreed
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 9, 2007 1:34 pm PT
Review:  Quite simply a masterpiece in terms of gameplay. Yes the acting and the way the story is played 
 out pretty much is dated and lackluster, but that is not why you play this game..... trust me. The 
 controls and overall gameplay of Sigma is smooth, tight, and deadly responsive. Team Ninja did 
 a masterful job remaking this game for the PS3. It feels like it truly belongs on the Playstation 
 platform. Considering the graphical overhaul, along with the added content, and perfected gameplay, 
 it is easy to conclude that Sigma is the definitive version of the game. Only retarded fanboys 
 would dare argue otherwise. Team Ninja unbelievably improved upon an already nearly perfect game.
 
  
  The added content is much welcomed, and made the game more than worth a purchase for the PS3. From 
 the dual katanas 'Dragon Claw and Tiger's Fang', to decapitating fiends with Rachel, Sigma is an 
 edge of your seat, bruatally difficult, but massively rewarding gameplay experience that improves 
 upon the experience of the older versions. All the way from the throes of frustration, all the 
 way to the undeniable sense of satisfaction that progressing further and further brings..... you 
 will ultimately dig the hell out of this game. Make no mistake that you will come to HATE it at 
 times, but ultimately, you will relish in getting through this one, as it is a feat. Just do not 
 wuss out and go Ninja Dog, and you will be left trying to beat this one for awhile, lol. Very much 
 worth it's 60.00 price tag.
  
  All in all, if you have a PS3 or are a fan of the older Xbox versions, and /or you love action/adventure 
 games, then you would be making a HUGE mistake by not picking up a copy of this game. It is just 
 one of those classics that you absolutely must have in your game library. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Eyal8
Rating: 8.5
Date: May 5, 2008 5:58 am PT
Review:  Ninja Gaiden Sigma is a very challenging Action game that shows magnificent qualities that will 
 not be forgotten however I'm very lucky to play NGS since the demo really sucks. But I bought it 
 after all and it's great I hope this review will give you all the information you're looking for 
 about this game
  
  The Good
  Solid storyline and an amazing voice acting makes it very special, You would enjoy from beautiful 
 visuals most of the time, Great boss fights and most important well made cut scenes.
  
  The Bad:
  Sixaxis' motion sensor has no special use, I wish NGS would last a bit longer, no online 
 neither offline multiplayer
  
  Gameplay: The verity of weapons is simply awesome which is Important cause you fight against a 
 smart IAs and EXTREMELY hard bosses.
  although fast movements and fast acrobatics are necessary to beat your enemies too
  
  Graphics: 
 Well made visuals and great characters design however in some environments they didn't make the 
 most of what next-gen Graphics is capable of and usually graphics aren't repetitive
  
  Sound: Incredible voice acting however background music might not be suitable sometimes but it 
 doesn't a big deal cause most of the time you'll be busy with the important elements in the game 
 that it doesn't even matters
  
  Conclusion: Ninja Gaiden Sigma is an astonishing game who should not be forgotten and it's one 
 of the best games the ps3 has to offer right now but wait till RE5 and MGS4 comes cause I'm sure 
 they'll rock too anyway have you ever thought that MGS sounds VERY similar to NGS ?
  
  Oh well maybe there is something behind that... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SupremeNITEHAWK
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jul 26, 2007 11:35 am PT
Review:  When Ninja Gaiden came out on the Xbox, I was very impressed by the way it looked and played. Sad 
 to say though that I never bought it or played it, just observed others playing it. I then saw 
 Ninja Gaiden Black which was a harder version of the game with more content. Now to all the 360 
 owners' dismay, Ryu has made his way onto the Playstation 3, with Ninja Gaiden Sigma. The game 
 is very fun and immersive from the start, especially if you are new to the series, just as I was, 
 when I got this game. The game has very tight controls, making it true that whatever a ninja does 
 you can do it. Also the extra content, and new locations and weapons make it even better. The edition 
 of Rachel as a playable character is good touch and she holds up well, although she is not fun 
 as Ryu by any means. The music is very up to beat, and gets you into the mood when your trying 
 to take multiple enemies. The games graphics are not amazing, but the game runs solid at 60 frames 
 per second, and looks great in 1080p.
  Overall, this game is worth it if you are trying to get some action out of your PS3, or are wanting 
 to take a break from Resistance: Fall of Man. This game will allow to you kill time, and with the 
 edition of online rankings, you will keep coming back for more, until you can prove your standing 
 in the world. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: himankz
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jul 26, 2007 11:26 am PT
Review:  Ninja Gaiden Sigma proves that if you keep re-making an excellent game, it continues to be an excellent 
 game. Since I first played Ninja Gaiden, I knew this game was something special. And actually, 
 my connection to Ninja Gaiden continues to this very dayI used to write under the tag of Fiend, 
 and my gamertag has a modified version of Fiend as well. My predisposition to liking this re-made 
 Gaiden cannot truly be put aside, however; the game just is that good.
  
  The visualsimpressive for the original Xboxare, of course, stunning on the PS3. Everything moves 
 insanely quickly, with virtually no in-game loading times. And thats all at marvelous 1080p 60fps. 
 It may not be the absolute best-looking next-gen title; we may have to wait for Team Ninjas next 
 original I. P. Still, seeing Ryu Hayabusa move so quickly, with such vivid detail around him, makes 
 me all warm and gooey inside.
  
  Sigma lets you play as buxom beauty Rachel the Fiend Hunter, who has her own distinct fighting 
 style as well. Even though its kind of cool to play as this uber-hottie, most people over the 
 age of 15 will realize shes inferior to Ryu Hayabusa in most ways that matter. It doesnt really 
 matter, though. Fans of the Ninja Gaiden franchisecan one game re-made three or more times be 
 a franchise? will still enjoy these new levels.
  
  The game is still stupid difficult. Thankfully, I actually knew how to get around, and I remembered 
 most of the tricky puzzles and ways to kill the bosses. I credit a fellow gamer as effectively 
 my sensei for the original Xbox Ninja Gaiden. Now, its not thoroughly impossible to just start 
 playing and get the hang of it. But if you are looking for a cool looking pick-up-and-play, this 
 isnt going to be it.
  
  Rather, if you are looking for an insanely deep, combo-driven, puzzle-facing, quest-accepting, 
 blood-spilling decapitation festwith a little magic, to bootwell, then, youre in luck. Ninja 
 Gaiden Sigma will deliver for all the gamers who have been complaining about the lack of original 
 titles on the PS3. Yes, I know its not completely original, but there are enough PS2-only people 
 who havent played the Xbox version for this to be basically a new game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wheelerj92
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 26, 2007 10:19 am PT
Review:  i got my ps3 about a week ago n i could only afford one game so i put ninja gaiden in front of 
 resistance: fall of man and i havent stoped playing it since. when i first played it i found it 
 very hard and still do now but u get used to the fighting and it gets so much better once you have 
 found new weapons that u can upgrade. what makes it hard is that the enemies are quite smart and 
 do take time to kill, you dont just run into them and get one hit kills they can outsmart you and 
 cheat by using guns-slightly unfair seems as you only get swords, sticks etc but having 3 hard 
 enemies is much better then having 20 easy enemies. also some enemies can pop out from no where 
 and start attacking.
  also, even though hints are given through a kunai knife with a flower on it, the game makes u think 
 a little for example say to get up to a high area there isnt just goin to be platforms to jump 
 on you will have to run up walls and go to new areas to find other areas so basicaly nothing is 
 given to u straight.
  boss battles can be hard at times but even if u loose u jus feel like u want to play again until 
 u beat the boss. whats good is that there is always a shop and a save point near a boss battle 
 so that you can stock up on health items and save your game.
  
  there arnt realy any downsides besides dodgy camara angles and a few glitches.
  
  if i were 
 u go out and get this game now! u wont regret it unless ninjas and fighting arnt ure thing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gamer443
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jul 25, 2007 1:12 pm PT
Review:  NG is by far the best action/ hack and SLASH game to date. The graphics are amazing the story is 
 compelling the remake is absolutly......... well you get the piont. If you are thinking about getting 
 Genji over this well then your stupid. I like the new features they put in this game and the combo 
 moves are just brilliant. over all get this game i am having such few words to say about this because 
 its just so great and and and and i lost my words. so stop reading this and just get the game already. 
 gosh man.. (get the collectors edition) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: superiorNilly
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jul 25, 2007 12:38 pm PT
Review:  I wasn't sure whether to get this game since im not really a hack and slash type of person. Still 
 I went through and bought it, this has to be one of the best games ive ever played. The graphics 
 are amazing and the gameplay and story are very engaging. The only bad thing about this game is 
 that there is no multiplayer, but there is always room for improvement in ninja gaiden 2. So if 
 your looking for a game that is fun, good looking and almost perfect this is the game for you. 
 If you have a ps3, get it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BRUCE112399
Rating: 7.2
Date: Jul 25, 2007 1:22 am PT
Review:  With some what of a different expirence playing with the ps3 system and the added content the game 
 packs in is a real plus for the PS3 library. A must have if never played. Controls not that much 
 different from the Xbox 360 control. The graphics are pretty much the same and as for the ps3 being 
 in its rookie year, it is pretty amzibg that it is matching the power of the Xbox 360. There is 
 no telling what the future holds for the PS3 when it matures and learns to reach its full potential 
 in the next couple of years. This is just the beggining of the road to victory of the playstaion 
 3. Hooray!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bars17x
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jul 24, 2007 7:17 pm PT
Review:  As a stalwart fan of the ninja gaiden series but a Playstation owner, I was utterly depressed when 
 ninja gaiden was produced on the Xbox. I was very close to buying an Xbox solely for the ninja 
 gaiden game but just couldnt bring myself to put down the money. Luckily I made the right choice 
 as I now get a beefed up version of the Xbox games on my PS3. The original Nintendo trilogy was, 
 and still is a fantastic action platformer. They were the cream of the crop back in the side-scrolling 
 days. Sigma is clearly in the upper echelons of 3-d action as well. I would also like to point 
 out that this review is coming from a casual gamer. I can handle difficult games, but I dont study 
 the damn thing like its my job - I play for fun. Some of my complaints exist simply because I 
 dont play a lot. Disclaimers aside, here goes:
  
  I like to start with the cons first so here is what did not impress me. First off, I thought Rachel 
 was a total joke. I know we are in a new era of technology but the design of this character made 
 it impossible for me (or anyone watching) to take her seriously. No warrior would walk around 
 like that. Over-the-top looks aside; she was clunky as hell and quite boring to play aside from 
 a few cool head lopping combos. Luckily, you dont use her very often. She just looked stupid  
 given the context of the game of course. Another nitpicky thing was that the subtitles were never 
 on the screen long enough to read at some points in the game. I like to play with Japanese voice-overs 
 on simply because it sounds so much better with ninjas so I missed a few quips here and there.
 
  
  Another nuisance were the save points/shops. They were often placed quite a hike away from the 
 boss (although not always) . Most new players will get owned by the bosses in this game a number 
 of times before figuring it out  so having a quick save feature would have been nice. This becomes 
 glaringly apparent at the end of the game. I had to reload an entire chapter back because I ran 
 out of potions not realizing I would not be treated to another shop for the rest of the game.
 
  
  I also wish there was some sort of training arena to practice combos with all the various weapons 
 you acquire. I found myself relying on the Dragon Sword most of the way simply because I never 
 could find easy enough enemies to practice on with any new armament.
  
  My biggest criticism however would be the camera. Far too often I got smacked down by enemies with 
 projectile weapons simply because I didnt even know they were in the room with me. I also had 
 a hell of time in any corridor areas fighting close combat. Every time I would manually steer the 
 camera to a good angle, the enemies would move around a corner or get to some annoying angle to 
 where I essentially just had to guess where they were and swing. And many times, entering a new 
 room, it shows Ryu walking in, then immediately you get nailed with a grenade or exploding shruiken 
 because the camera is looking at you and the door. The camera ultimately killed a lot of the entertainment 
 for this game. And yes I know R1 auto adjusts, but I still got railed plenty of times even when 
 pressing it right away in a new room. I eventually just started rolling every time I entered a 
 area, and even that didnt always work.
  
  My final gripe (promise) is having the square button default as the 'interaction' button as well. 
 Now you might be able to change this in the options (I should get on that) but far too many times 
 did I accidently exit a room while in the midst of a fiend challenge or just fighting randoms because 
 I was using the PRIMARY attack button a little to close to a door. Couple that with the shoddy 
 camera and you can find a new world of frustration quite quickly.
  
  Now onto the GOOD!
  
  The level design was immaculate  without being overbearing. The pacing was also splendid. 
 Just as I was getting bored with the city levels, I get to go underground, or into a military base, 
 or into some caves. The way everything ties together is quite remarkable as well. I never got stumped 
 for long either. This game is clearly about fighting, not running around trying to open a door.
 
  
  What is an action game without bosses? There are PLENTY to be found in NGS, and they get quite 
 challenging towards the end of the game. They were quite satisfying to kill as well.
  
  The gameplay is what got me through this game; I usually get bored with an action game after a 
 bit, but NGS held me in my seat the entire way. The beautiful, yet simplistic, combos were a real 
 treat to pull off. The enemies were all interesting in some way or another, and lopping off heads 
 left and right never got old. I personally believe that gameplay is the backbone of everything 
 that is gaming; all the other stuff is just frill and icing. The gameplay makes all of my above 
 complaints insignificant in the long haul. I just couldn't get enough of some the combos you can 
 pull off - especially towards the end.
  
  The story was classic ninja gaiden, straightforward and laden with revenge.
  
  I really dont 
 give a crap about graphics; I still play old NES games more than a lot of the new stuff simply 
 because the entertainment value is still there. If I had to rate them though, this game stacks 
 up with anything else I have seen recently.
  
  The sound was not extraordinary, but by no means was it bad. I still wouldn't mind hearing some 
 of the NES themes redone with full production.. but that is just me being nostalgic.
  
  Replay value exists  although why they removed the original NES unlockables is beyond me. Im 
 not really a glutton for punishment, so I dont know if Ill brave anything beyond the Hard difficultybut 
 there is plenty of challenge for those looking. The mission mode also adds extended slice n dice 
 goodness.
  
  All in all, this is a must-have for every PS3 owner. While no game is without flaws, the pros definitely 
 overshadow any complaints I have. NGS is an excellent all around action title and a fantastic addition 
 to a classic series. Cant wait to see where they take things next. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PapaGlide
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jul 24, 2007 6:25 pm PT
Review:  I never really played the past two Ninja Gaidens cause all my friends complained about the difficulty 
 and how they were pretty much all stuck on the 5 level. That is a bunch of crap. The game really 
 isn't hard once you start to progress throughout the game and every minute of it is enjoyable.
 
  
  The story was kinda confusing but there are two playable characters Ryu and some blond busty chick. 
 Ryu is way better and faster but the blonde is also pretty good with attacks and dodging. Ryu has 
 all the sick weapons like a spear, big sword, a medium sized sword, numchucks, and two dual swords. 
 Each weapon has there own techniques you use to dominate your oppenents. The best one in my opinion 
 is the spear b/c its insanely fast while attacking. Anyway you are probably going to have to block 
 almost all the time so its your best friend for sure. There is some platforming in it like running 
 on walls and jumping on platforms.
  
  The game also has great boss battles each being fairly diffult with each type of attacking. The 
 game's main probelm is that they need more save points b/c sometimes you'll have to fight through 
 hordes of enemies and then a boss till you get to the boss battle which is annoying.
  
  The game's graphics are underatted. They look next-gen and there really pretty. The sound is what 
 you would expect from a Ninja game but the music is nothing special but it isn't bad or good. The 
 controlls are perfect but you have to shake your controller to improve a special attack you creat 
 to gain more power which I think is completely retarded. There is no online play which is kinda 
 expecting cause idk how you would make the game online but you can post your level score online 
 for rankings. Bottomline- The game is great and there are only two flaws but it doesn't matter 
 at all. The game is a must buy espicially since the lack of games for the ps3. Its probably in 
 my opinioin one of the best action games ever made. Play it and you'll understand. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: inciteechc
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jul 24, 2007 11:18 am PT
Review:  If you have a PS3 you should have this game, its that simple. In depth story line, great graphics, 
 good music/sound. Best game in its genre for the system. This game will not let you down. I like 
 the Easter Eggs (there could be more) . Multiple weapons and attacks to choose from, puzzles and 
 strong fast paced action. Its like an tasty combination of Prince of Persia, Resident Evil, and 
 Onimusha. Oh Ninja Gaiden Sigma, what a love-hate relationship we have. Youve read the lovehere 
 is the hate. It can be a bit button mashy and becomes repetitive at times. I also hate the sound 
 of those motorcycle tires screeching. Some of the bosses take forever to beat. Lastly, if you are 
 low on health potions go back and kill more enemies or you are screwed against the bosses (unless 
 you are Vampire Hoard who has videos of himself beating every boss with out taking a single damaging 
 hitI hate that guy.) Buy This Game. 8.5 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FirestormMk3
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 24, 2007 1:18 am PT
Review:  It's not completely fair to call Ninja Gaiden: Sigma a remake of the classic Ninja Gaiden or Ninja 
 Gaiden: Black for the original XBOX, but it is relatively easy to see why people would say this. 
 It does indeed have the contents of the original game packed in here, but it's wrong to call this 
 game a simple graphics upgrade. Here you'll find new things to keep you busy. There are additional 
 new missions, expanded segments to the main story, new weapons (most notably Ryu's ability to duel-wield 
 katana) , and Rachael as a playable character. In addition the gameplay had been tweaked with the 
 addition of new boss fights, an upgraded enemy AI (especially on bosses) , and further adjustments 
 to the camera like between the original and Black.
  
  It is of course also true that the graphics have been upgraded, in some cases by as much as 30x 
 from the original. If you have the high definition TV to play this on, you'll be incredibly impressed 
 at how lifelike the game looks. The screen shots you've seen on the ads are rendered gameplay footage, 
 not pre-rendered cutscenes. And, of course, Ryu's powerful Ninppo is gorgeous.
  
  This is also a game that plays with an unbelievable level of tightness. When you mess up you never 
 feel like the controls cheated you, just that you actually messed up. The characters are very responsive 
 and the controls are intuitive. In no time you'll be performing all sorts of ninja acrobatics.
 
  
  That's not to say that the game is easy. There's no difficulty reduction from the previous title. 
 Furthermore, easy mode is an unlockable. You can earn it only by dying repeatedly on the default 
 level of difficulty. After enough bad play you'll be prompted to abandon the ninja way. The game 
 does not hide its disdain for your lack of skill - but if you can't handle it it will let you get 
 into it at your own pace.
  
  Ryu's huge list of moves and (well-animated) attacks and acrobatics cause you to chalk up each 
 death to you failing him, not the other way around. If you want to do it, chances are you can. 
 Everything from wall-running and rolling to using enemies as a spring-board (stunning them in the 
 process) is present.
  
  The sound is as amazing as the graphics with a great score and good sound effects for your weapons 
 hitting metal or flesh. The ninppo castings also sound good. While I've heard better voice-acting, 
 this game's surely isn't phoned in.
  
  This game is definitely worth your money and unless you absolutely hate action games, a genre I'm 
 not particularly fond of, this is a must-have tittle for that PS3! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 281538960
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jul 23, 2007 10:28 am PT
Review:  After having little in way of variation for my PS3 (owning Resistance, Vegas and FEAR, all of which 
 are FPS) i decide i needed a change, so traded in Vegas and bought this instead.
  I enjoyed the demo, but deleted it to make room for more, I had heard of the first ones on Xbox 
 and i had been unimpressed with early images of this game.
  But me being easily swayed by reviews (especially IGN) and this scoring a big fat 9.3 i thought 
 i should give it a try. So when i first set it in my PS3 It blew me away!
  It starts in the same way as the demo only with fewer weapons and a different costume. I was surprised 
 at the steep curve in the diffculty from the demo.
  Still the action was hardcore, down and dirty kinda stuff. Responsive buttons, intelligent AI make 
 this swift and deadly fighter among the best in the genre. My firsts concerns of the game lacking 
 visual were put to rest by the demo, but the game also seem to avoided the PoP clunky combat (IMO) 
 and the platforming is great (wall running never gets tiring) .
  The story makes little sense really, but it doesn't need to, focus on the nuckle bending action! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: meharu
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 24, 2008 7:37 am PT
Review:  Ninja Gaiden Sigma is one of the best action games ever made .You will be more proud of your PS3 
 when you get your hands on it. It is not an easy game, Sigma got lots of weapons and moves, responsive 
 controls and many intense boss battles that will keep you at the edge of your seat. When you play 
 this game you have to be focused and make use of Ruy's fast acrobatic and evading moves or you'll 
 see two words Game Over. The graphics are stunning you can see how realistic the black shiny leather 
 customs for Ruy and Rachel, the  and weapons are all super sharp 
 and high detailed because Sigma got the full advantage of the PS3's powerful capabilities, so you 
 can play it in 1080p and you don't have to worry if you don't have an 1080p set because it looks 
 gorgeous in all HD video output including 720p and 1080i. Sigma got lots of challenges to test your 
 skills, when you beat the game on normal difficulty a higher difficulty will be unlocked and so 
 on: hard, very hard, master ninja, so it is not a game that you will play it only once, you'll also 
 have a whole 45 missions to beat ,still not satisfied? then don't forget to input the secret code 
 on the missions mode screen to unlock 5 extra missions. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tofushreds
Rating: 8.2
Date: Jul 22, 2007 2:52 pm PT
Review:  If you're currently battling a bleeding ulcer or have a family history laced with heart problems 
 then this game is not for you. The gameplay for those of us who have not played one of the earlier 
 incarnations of this game can be very difficult and frustrating. Even after the learning curve 
 is dealt with you may, like me, become increasingly frustrated by the lack of an autosave between 
 levels so if you beat a chapter and turn it off or die before finding a save beacon you're S. O. L. 
 and have to endure another round with the last boss you vanquished. This game is a lot of fun though, 
 once you get past these two issues. It looks beautiful and plays smoothly. Though at times it feels 
 like a button-smasher , there are better methods to clearing a room full of mobs. I just didn't 
 see a lot of replay value though... Absolutely worth renting, even twice but I'm not sure it's 
 worth $60 if you're only gonna get about 30 hours out of it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lupoianflaviu
Rating: 7.1
Date: Jul 22, 2007 9:24 am PT
Review:  I was awaiting this game for some time. It has beautiful gameplay and feeling, but the graphics 
 in general are very outdated, with very narrow spaces and boring textures, very 2d blood and much 
 more. Lots of levels in the game are boring, especially if you play 4 times through the same level 
 with different goals. Its stupid that enemies don't leave one room to follow you and respawn every 
 time you enter the room.
  In fact the only good thing about the game is that ninja feeling with sword cutting. You will have 
 some interesting time with button smashing, but this game does not deserve such high scores, just 
 because there are not other interesting games yet on the ps3. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sony_FreaK
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 21, 2007 11:14 am PT
Review:  I love this game, it's not the best but, you can have fun just killing enemys. You can cut there 
 heads clean off, arms also, combos are awsome, if you can play right you can take enemys out so 
 professionally you'll look like like a master. The only problem with this game is it is a bit challenging. 
 There's not enough tips the map doesn't give direction to what you need to do. And the girl character 
 is slow, can't run across or up walls, or run on water, but besides all of her downfalls she is 
 hot and strong. I'll give this game a 9.0 
::::::

::::::
UserName: piemister
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 21, 2007 8:38 am PT
Review:  Ninja Gaiden is great it has magnivicent gameplay, decent graphics it is jsut overall great. It 
 has good laoding small loads here and there but nothing at all fustrateing. a problem it has is, 
 it's ment to be a hard game but some of the enemys are fustrateing for example the ghost fish are 
 extreamly annoyign and any proper method to kill them barely works. and speicial moves enimy have 
 can jsut be an annoyance but you learn to avoid them. It is a very long game the extra character 
 can be annoying but also can be good if you learn how to use her. (excuse any spelling mistake 
 i may have made. thank you for reading. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: oni_black
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jul 21, 2007 5:27 am PT
Review:  This is my first Ninja Gaiden game, and so far, I love it! Alot of the time when im playing, i 
 get completely lost and have to watch youtube videos of people clearing the levels in Ninja Gaiden 
 Black. That, is a bad thing. Somtimes you have to find an item that you dont even know about, or 
 even know where to find, which gets really annoying.
  
  The graphics are great. Everything looks beautiful, but i have noticed problems with the blood. 
 I dont know if this happens in other games too, but somtimes the blood is near the edge of somthing 
 and you can see the blood just floating, which is kind of odd, but not too notice able. There are 
 alot of jaggies in this game, they arent that noticeable, but if you look close enought you will 
 find alot. I dont know why every PS3 game HAS to have jaggies!
  
  Im more into the fast paced gameplay, so i loved this! I hated Oblivion for its slow gameplay (thats 
 why i sold it) , but this game is perfect. Theres alot of ninja moves to do on the walls and cool 
 flips to do that makes the game alot more enojyable.
  
  This game is really great and i absolutly love it! I havent finished it yet, but i think im close. 
 There arent that many weapons to collect, but every weapon is really cool and has its own nice 
 moves. Im on Chatpter 12 and bought it today, im addicted to this game! Even though i really suck. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: allenionredline
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jul 20, 2007 7:37 pm PT
Review:  This game is fun in every aspect of the word. If you like moves, weapons, challenges then this 
 game is for you. I bought it as soon as I could just from the past editions. The game has expanded 
 it's play by way of fighting techniques, uses of a variety of weapons, enemies, both human and 
 fiendish. Then you also play a second person in the game. I found this to bring more interest and 
 enjoyment to the game because it offers you a chance to break up the game into segments but keep 
 the flow continuous. I found the most difficulty in the beginning due to the lack of knowledge 
 about the different fighting styles. I have played a lot of slash and dash games but this one offers 
 a challenge because if you just try to rush in and start cutting away without a strong defense 
 and knowledge of the enemies you will soon meet your end. If you really watch and learn your foe 
 it will show you the best tactic to defeating them, also using the right weapon against the right 
 foe will make things a little easier. I also think that due to the advancements to the consoles 
 graphics have made this game so much better. All in all this game is worth every penny that I paid 
 and then some. I am currently on chapter 13 of 19 playing on the normal difficulty and enjoying 
 it very much. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Stevie19
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 11, 2008 6:44 am PT
Review:  Action packed game filled with lots of violence and blood. Great weapons (with upgrades) , combos 
 and boss fights. I find the game is actually somewhat difficult which can be annoying at times 
 since everytime you die you have to go back to your last save point which could be far off (this 
 is most annoying when you die on a boss battle) . The graphics are a little bit on the cartoony 
 side (i said a little) but they are very well designed. Also, Ratchel's chest is just too big. 
 They should have given her more of an athletic build like the girl in heavenly sword. Her outfit 
 is kinda comical for someone who is suppose to be a bad @$$ hunter. Anyway, its wasnt a big deal, 
 just thought it had to be said. There are camera issues aswell, although, a quick tap of the r1 
 button repositions it behind you. I have never played the xbox version so i cannot compare the 
 two. The added levels where you play as Ratchel are fun but not as good as using Ryu. She is a 
 bit slower but i suppose thats because of her heavy axe. I would have still been satisfied if she 
 was not playable. I 100% recommend this game to anyone who enjoys 3rd person adventure/action type 
 games. This is one of the best. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shazaila
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jul 18, 2007 4:06 pm PT
Review:  Let's get this out of the way first, Ninja Gaiden Sigma is a kick ass action game, and if you have 
 a PS3, you should defiantly pick it up. Now, I was one of those people that never played Ninja 
 Gaiden last generation. Being a Playstation owner all my life, I never got to experience this truly 
 magnificent game, but now I have, and it's totally awesome.
  
  Ninja Gaiden Sigma is an action game through and through. You won't find any difficult puzzles, 
 or get stuck a lot. Well, you will get stuck a lot, due to the sheer amount of difficulty the game 
 is set to. Even though it says normal , I beg to differ. Although you'll get better as you progress 
 through the game, your TV will get the occasional yelling. There are many boss fights in Sigma, 
 in which you will try and defeat with your many weapons, and Ninja magic. Although shaking the 
 controller does get annoying, Very irrelevant if you ask me. When you complete the game, youll 
 get extra missions to play. These are great, but again, difficult
  
  The graphics in NGS are great, nothing that'll truly blow you away, but will surly impress. The 
 visuals and just about everything else is very slick. Although the cut scenes are kind of fuzzy, 
 it's alright. The game truly looks great on an HD TV, but still looks nice on a SD TV.
  
  Now, what does NGS offer in the sound department. The weapons defiantly sound great, and the voice 
 acting, IN JAPANESE. Granted the voice acting isn't bad in English, it's nothing to write home 
 about.
  
  So at the end of the day, NGS is something you should check out, period. Don't be put off by the 
 difficulty, because it is truly challenging, but in a good way. If you haven't experienced NG before, 
 I truly recommend you do, after all, this is my first one as well. Slick graphics, awesome gameplay, 
 and replay value as well, what more can you ask for. NGS, the best of what the PS3 has to offer 
 at the moment. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GspotDeluxer
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 18, 2007 3:26 pm PT
Review:  The Good: Graphics are amazing; Story is satisfying; Swordplay is beautiful; Addictive game play; 
 Multiple difficulty settings; many weapons
  
  The Bad: Camera angle gets messed up some times
  
  These is a very addictive game. With many 
 difficulty settings you won't ever find the game too hard or too easy. The boss fights can get 
 very challenging and frustrating sometimes, but it is such a great feeling when you finally overcome 
 them. There are many other modes to unlock. I am giving this game a difficulty rating of very hard 
 because when on the hardest game setting the game is excruciatingly difficult, and don't be afraid 
 of the game if you are new to the Ninja Gaiden series because this game will have you hooked in 
 10 minutes. This is a must buy for PS3 owners. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: knicknut17
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jul 18, 2007 3:08 pm PT
Review:  Let me preface this review by saying that I love Ninja Gaiden. In fact, I love it so much that 
 I bought the original, then bought Black, and now own Sigma. If you do not own an Xbox or Xbox 
 360 and have never played Ninja Gaiden (with Hurricane Packs) or Ninja Gaiden Black, then stop 
 reading this review. Just go to the store and buy this game. Ninja Gaiden is quite simply one of 
 the best action games ever made. You play as Ryu Hayabusa, a really badass ninja. You are on a 
 quest to retrieve the Dark Dragon Blade from the evil Vigoor Empire. A Greater Fiend by the name 
 of Doku steals the sword from Ryu's village and burns the village down. Early in the game, Ryu 
 dies at the hand of Doku... but then he comes back to life. As you can imagine, he's pissed off. 
 The overall tone of this game is that of vengeance. Overall, the story is pretty good. Along the 
 way you meet Rachel, a Fiend Hunter. Rachel has big breasts, is scantly clothed in leather bondage 
 gear, and sports a powerful war hammer. Towards the middle of the game, you play a couple of missions 
 as her. These missions are an addition from the first two Ninja Gaiden games. They help to further 
 flesh out the story the same way Ada Wong's Separate Ways missions did in Resident Evil 4. You 
 get all sorts of awesome weapons in this game ranging from swords, to nunchuks, a lunar (staff) , 
 a flail with blades, to dark dragon blades, to a wooden sword called the Unlabored Flawlessness. 
 Each weapon has its own distinct style. Each of them kicks a whole load of ass. In addition to 
 bad ass weapons, Ryu is also empowered with Ninpo, or magic. There are numerous Ninpo that can 
 be found in the game; they can be powered up with SIXAXIS controls. Ryu's greatest asset on the 
 battlefield is his agility. You can run up and across walls, you can run across water, jump on 
 enemies' backs, roll, climb almost anything... Trust me, you're going to need to use your environment 
 to get through this game. This game is notorious for its difficulty. Nothing has changed in that 
 regard. However, there is no doubt that Ninja Gaiden Sigma is the easiest version of the three 
 due to extra save points and stores found around the world. This is especially true on default 
 settings. Purists may be put off by this, but I welcome the change. This game is meant to be played 
 on Hard or higher difficulty settings. The addition of such save points and stores balances the 
 game a little more and makes the game a little more fair. It makes getting your ass kicked by the 
 enemy AI more bearable. The graphics in this game are very good. The HD enhanced textures are readily 
 noticeable and help this game POP out graphically, when compared to its' predecessors. Everything 
 with light on it is shinier, brighter. In contrast, darker areas have better contrast and color 
 saturation. Team Ninja did an excellent job upping the visuals for this game. This game looks especially 
 stunning in 1080p. Keep in mind though that the backgrounds in this game come from an original 
 Xbox game... Those textures get beefed up to 1080p not, native 1080p textures... There is a difference 
 and my rating notes that. Finally, last but not least, the game runs at a rock solid 60 frames 
 per second. I have no memories of any slowdown during combat. The soundtrack and sound effects 
 in this game are excellent, though they are not of God of War caliber. Controls are also excellent 
 and highly responsive. In my opinion, I think this game plays better on a SIXAXIS than it does 
 on an original Xbox S controller. However, I do like the Xbox 360 controller better than both of 
 them. After you complete the game, you can play Mission Modes. These are tough challenges that 
 pit you against tons of foes AND/or bosses that you must defeat. Once you get good at this game, 
 Mission Mode is a ton of fun. It greatly enhances replay value. New difficulty settings are unlocked 
 are each play through. This game is worth beating more than once. I have taken time to heap praise 
 on Ninja Gaiden Sigma. You might be asking yourself why I said that Ninja Gaiden Black plays best... Here's 
 the answer... One of the most awesome things about Ninja Gaiden Black was that despite looking good, 
 playing fast, never slowing down, and having super responsive controls, it never had any discernible 
 in-game loading screens. It would take a little bit of time for the game to load up a level, but 
 after that, you would very seldomly see a loading screen. If you did, you saw it load for about 
 3 seconds tops. I have Ninja Gaiden Sigma installed on my hard drive. It takes up about 3.3 GB. 
 That should keep load times to a minimum in my mind. The only problem is, there is a lot of loading 
 during the levels... I can't explain why it does this. It loads all the time. A couple of seconds 
 here... a couple of seconds there... Sure it helps me to catch my breath a little, but I think it 
 is kind of ridiculous compared to how this was NEVER an issue with Ninja Gaiden Black. I like how 
 when Ninja Gaiden Black was released on Xbox, it did NOT carry a full price tag. I believe the 
 game sold for $39.99. It was an absolute bargain! Paying $59.99 for this game is a tough sell in 
 comparison. At the end of the day, this is still a FANTASTIC game. It's just that for $60, anyone 
 who owns Ninja Gaiden Black should probably pass... If however, you have only played the original 
 Ninja Gaiden (minus the Hurricane Packs) , check it out. There is a LOT more content compared to 
 the original. If you have never played Ninja Gaiden, then RUN TO THE STORE AND BUY THIS GAME! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gtafighter0
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 18, 2007 11:57 am PT
Review:  this game is so perfect. bosses are tough even on normal mode comming from a newb like me. but 
 although they are, i wonder.. how hard the bosses will be on hard mode and on? ill tell you how, 
 nearly impossible for me. but just besides that this game is unbelievably fantastic. and rachael 
 is more hotter then ever too =P The fps is very smooth and the gameplay is fascinating with a large 
 variety of different combos. using UT's look very pretty owning everything =P a nice variety of 
 weapons too. the graphics are absolutly marvelous. this game pwns any other game out for ps3 atm 
 but when Home and GTA 4 come out, cya Ninja Gaiden Sigma for a bit =) this game is totaly worth 
 the money so buy it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Janosz_Poha
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jul 18, 2007 6:33 am PT
Review:  This is a very solid game for the PS3. It has a good story and exciting gameplay. The mix between 
 puzzles and action is perfect. The game looks amazing as far as the animations and all the locations 
 that you will cover thoughout.
  
  You play as Ryu, of course, but you also play a couple missions as Rachel as she gets worked into 
 the story. That is fun but she is not as agile as Ryu and doesn't have as many moves.
  
  The only thing that is a bit tricky and takes some getting used to is the camera angles sometimes 
 difficult to follow intense action and most of the time the camera is real tight on Ryu so it is 
 hard to tell what surrounds him. Luckily the R1 button centers the camera behind Ryu serving basically 
 as a camera reset, use of this is imperative.
  
  Although you will kill a lot in this game it is mainly about blocking then counterattacking. If 
 you go through the game just hacking away you will die A LOT.
  
  Buy this game if you haven't already, I feel it is one of the better ones that the PS3 has to offer.... right 
 now.... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: elowyn89
Rating: 7.9
Date: Jul 17, 2007 8:56 pm PT
Review:  When I first got Ninja Gaiden Sigma a few days ago I was like this is pretty good but nothing 
 special. I was so wrong, 5 hours later it is still refreshingly satisfying to slice and dice enemies 
 with blood rushing combos. I had never even played a Ninja Gaiden game before and instantly fell 
 in love despite its controller smashing difficulty. Dont let this unforgiving difficulty put you 
 off buying it. If you really want to play it I say its a must buy. Dont hire it unless you are 
 waiting for a game you are interested in is coming out shortly. Believe the critics and the fans. 
 Some of the best actions and combat a pure action game can have. One tip though, block a lot and 
 roll around whilst blocking to dodge and then come from behind to attack. Also walls are your saviour 
 when it comes to AOE, you will see. This game is a MUST BUY.
  
  BTW my PS3 online ID is Danherc89 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dawngrrl
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jul 17, 2007 9:44 am PT
Review:  Ryu found vengeance as he brought down the final boss and rescued the breast bouncing Rachel last 
 night. The triumphant last slash of the sword does not come without a slight disappointment, however. 
 With the completion of Ninja Gaiden Sigma; my newest favorite adventure the game comes to an end. 
 After BG and I put in our final hour last night, bringing the total time played to an shamefully 
 high 77 hours, I can truly say that it was a remarkably fun game, and with the now unlocked missions 
 and difficulty levels, I still have hours of unique play left. Games in general have about 5 minutes 
 of initial play time to grab my interest enough for me to continue. People will say Just get through 
 the first few levels and you'll really like it . Alas, I have no patience for that. I want to be 
 engaged in game from the beginning, and NGS got me in the first minute of the demo. So for what 
 it's worth, here's my 2 cents. I did not play the original for the Xbox so this review is an uncomparative 
 Ninja Gaiden Virgin's perspective. Though, I have heard many NG fans claim that its predecessors 
 left big shoes to fill which Sigma did very well. The game is visually stunning. The colors are 
 so brilliant and rich that I was immediately drawn into the vibrant scenes and brilliant detail. 
 From the intricate shadowing to the lighting effects, it was a continuous buffet of eye candy. 
 From scene to scene, the bosses and the environment stay graphically creative and unique, eliciting 
 reactions from awe to disgust. Game play: this is by far the biggest contributor to my foray into 
 the depths of a game. If the controls are clunky, or the movements of my character are sluggish 
 or erroneous, then put the controller down and back away from the console. For me, no story or 
 graphical representation is going to overcome bad movement flaws. NGS is on the mark throughout. 
 Actions are fast and accurate with an entire arsenal of fighting moves and special attacks that 
 are simple in execution - no button fumbling required. Ryu can run and jump walls while sporting 
 Crouching Tiger Hidden Dragon ****ninja moves that really make the game fun. The only exceptions 
 to this are the scenes where you play as Rachel. She is a bit slow comparatively and has a hard 
 timing swinging her weapon around. For such a visual bad ass, sexy thigh high boots and giant swaying 
 rack and all, her ability to kick-ass was less then I would have expected. In fact, even when she 
 won fiend challenges, she was rewarded with a new hairdo, instead of a new weapon like Ryu. I think 
 theintent of her character was to be the helpless hottie. It did add a bit to the whole damsel in 
 distress tone of the story and ultimately her rescue was very sweet, even though Ryu leaves here 
 standing there in a puddle of Please take me with you in the end. The game is not complex by any 
 stretch. Locating maps, doors, hidden objects and areas to farm (bore hunting for all you WOW players) 
 are easy to come by and figuring out puzzles or next moves doesn't take much thought. Its reputation 
 of being a toughie comes directly from the boss fights. There are some hard bosses to beat in the 
 game for sure. The first time you fight Alma you might consider throwing in the towel; I was more 
 than frustrated with that wench! Oddly enough, the weapons, the strength increases, the ability 
 to carry more life, along with becoming more acclimatized to the moves and controls as you play, 
 aren't really balanced towards the end. Meaning the boss fights get easier, instead of harder, 
 as the chapters fly by. There are lots of challenges where you slash and hack numerous ninjas and 
 monsters that spit green blood. In fact there are lots of bad guy characters that keep the game 
 freshy fresh throughout; from blood sucking ghost fish to zombie like dead guys, even a few possessed 
 cat women to behead. In the theme Tomb Raidery toned games, NGS gives you a good story, and a hero 
 that does everything you would think a Ninja should be able to do, and sends you on a fast paced 
 adventure through underground eygptionesque tombs, darkened city streets, angelic cathedrals, creepy 
 depths of hell, and bountiful fields of flowers (Ryu lands in floral utopia right before all hell 
 breaks loose - awesome touch.) With a final fly up into the sky in very Neo-in-Matrix manner, Ninja 
 Gaiden Sigma gets a definite dawngrrl thumbs up. Dawngrrl Gametart 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Poopsmagee
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 16, 2007 11:01 pm PT
Review:  The last generation of Ninja Gaiden has already established itself as one of the best looking, 
 most challenging, and satisfying games available for the Xbox. This version for the PS3 carries 
 the same spirit, but with a major facelift. Not only to every single texture in the game, but also 
 to a bit of the gameplay and puzzles tossed your way. A new alternative to the dragon sword is 
 the twin dragon blades, Tiger Claw and Dragon Fang. They offer a nice change to the swift single 
 stroke attacks of the dragon sword, with more flowery attacks that show off a beautiful new visual 
 effect for the trail of the blades. Even a couple new bosses kept my return to this story interesting 
 and sometimes suprising. But dont kid yourselves, this game is tough. The higher than average 
 difficulty is good and bad. The good is that while its hard, its not impossible, and even the 
 most challenging bosses can be overcome if you just keep at it and figure out their patterns. Plus 
 this added difficulty adds an extra satisfaction to the entire gameplay experience. Beating a game 
 is that much more satisfying if its universally understood that it is a difficult game that have 
 left disheartened with a wasted blockbuster rental. The bad is that you sometimes feel cheated 
 by tiny quirks to the gameplay that end up being just frustrating. For instance; the game doesnt 
 autosave at the beginning of a chapter, so if you happen to die before you reach the next save 
 point (trust me, its easier than it sounds) then youll be forced to suffer the same boss you 
 just defeated, which can be irritating. Another aspect that I disliked was during a certain boss 
 fight you are required to fight two previous bosses, as well as 2 groups of demons before you are 
 even allowed a chance to fight the main event. After being defeated 3 or 4 times, it can easily 
 discourage most gamers from going through that same monotonous, 10 minute prologue battle. These 
 are minor details, but to me they feel like a cheap addition to the difficulty. In the end, the 
 major reviews pretty much say it all. The reason you bought a PS3 is truth for me, at least currently. 
 But Ninja Gaiden got its chance to shine as the only triple A PS3 exclusive of the summer, allowing 
 it for extra attention. No matter what, whether youve played through it on the Xbox or not, this 
 is worth playing if you own a PS3. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 01keegan
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jul 15, 2007 7:23 pm PT
Review:  To begin things off with N. G. Sigma for the PS3, its a remake of the original xbox version. Which 
 mean you will still be playing as RYU HAYABUSA, who is a very skilled and awesome ninja. The story 
 goes kind of like this, there is a dark samauri (bad guy) that steals a secret sword, and burns 
 down your village. Which is even more of a reason to kick his butt. So you (the good guy) has to 
 set off on a quest to find and defeat him to regain the sword. The story may sound simple and basic 
 as far as the whole good guy, bad guy thing. But it's not. There are some great suprises and a 
 few new story mission that have been put in only for the PS3. So I want tell you any more about 
 the story and spoil it. Lets go on to the good things.
  GOOD THINGS: the game is completely action packed and the action itself is top notch. There are 
 combo, counters, special moves, anything you can think of is in this game. Which makes the whole 
 experience deeper and more realistic. The graphics have been polished up for the PS3, and everything 
 looks really great. beautiful cut scenes and great environemnts. Great looking characters and bosses. 
 The game also challenges you to get better with the controls. WHich is a great thing, because you 
 don't see a lot of game that really challange you any more. You also get to play as Rachel in the 
 few new story missions. Which makes the game longer, and that s always a good thing. THere are 
 also some good bonuses after you beat the game. To tell you the truth , this is the best ninja 
 game I have ever played. You can really tell the time and effort that have been put into this game. 
 BAD THINGS: ever once in a while, not often. a camera will get in your way when you are trying 
 to do some jumps, but not often. Thats all that I can find negative to say about this game.
  OVER ALL: If you have a PS3 system and you are looking for a great game, this is it. I can honestly 
 say it is worth every penny you pay for it. Which is about time. Sinse all the games that come 
 out seem to be rushed and fall short of the goal and hype. THis game is a must have and a keeper. 
 Of course, there is always Resistance too. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MoragArkadia
Rating: 7.6
Date: Jul 14, 2007 2:27 pm PT
Review:  Sigma offers up a good plate of ninja slashing fun. Numerous enemies and beautifully designed levels 
 make this a fun game both to play and watch. Boss battles are fun and become more challenging as 
 the game progresses. There is some mild puzzle like moments where you have to find an item to unlock 
 a door for example but on the whole the game progresses from one fun battle scene to the next. 
 In terms of performace the PS3 runs this like a champ. No visible slow downs even with numerous 
 characters on the screen at once. While long term playability may be limited due to the lack of 
 a multiplayer this is an old classic brought to new life which warrants a visit. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sal1903
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jul 13, 2007 11:25 pm PT
Review:  I bought this game today and I am glad I did, being a big fan of adventure games, especially games 
 with swords, bows and arrows and potions etc. The graphics are really good, great storyline with 
 pretty cool voice acting. The sound is very good also as you slice and dice your way through enemies. 
 The game is pretty difficult, it's not a walk in the park, the boss battles are hard and you need 
 play smart and battle well. Overall a solid game and a must try for any PS3 owner. So go out there, 
 buy it or rent it, just make sure you play it and enjoy 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dentyne
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jul 12, 2007 8:38 am PT
Review:  YEP, its that damn good. Graphics are stunning, clear cut crisp visuals. Gameplay is a lot of fun. 
 especially when there are so many different weapons to use (dragon sword, nunchucks, lunar staff, 
 dragon claw, etc...) and its not just buttom mashing. the combos are really cool and fun to look 
 at. The level of difficulty in this game is actually pretty high. you won't get through this game 
 without constantly die at certain spots of the game (or maybe i just suck at this game) but ninja 
 gaiden sigma will give you at least 25 hrs of play. The storyline is cool with great voice acting. 
 The sound is convincing enough where you'll actually think that you at the movies. There is some 
 replay value after u beat the game. if offers you mission modes where you have to complete different 
 opjectives, or u can play the game again at a higher difficulty.
  
  all i can say is 'i wanna leave work right now and go home and play' 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GameCrazy22r
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jul 11, 2007 9:17 pm PT
Review:  SONY'S best so far for the ps3, even though its a remake of the xbox version but 10x better, Just 
 a beautiful solid game. The graphics aren't the best but they look sharp and clean which is good. 
 I dont want to kill the game for anyone so ill stay outside the auctual story. If you got a ps3 
 this is a must have!! The game play is awesome its like a cross between Devil May Cry and God of 
 War its insane of some of the combos you can do its crazy. The best part is the better you finish 
 off your oponents (a. k. a ultimate attack) you get rewarded more points which go toward upgrading 
 your weapons and other items. The story is good so you guys dont have to worry about being disappointed 
 in that department. The sound is good and it sets the mood for the story depending were you are 
 in the game. At some points in the game some of the situations get hard and you might actually 
 have to die especially for some of the bosses and Yes they are hard!! the only thing i have to 
 say that is a drawback sometimes the camera angles can annoy you. Yes u can rotate the camera with 
 the the right analog and you can also push the R1 button to set it behind you character. Sometimes 
 when your fighting a mob of 10 monsters u dont have time to rotate :P maybe its just me!! Over 
 all its a good game and all you ps3 fans would enjoy!! happy killing :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 319ni
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 11, 2007 1:43 pm PT
Review:  gonna try and give you my qucikest and shortest review eva for a quality game
  
  it was great on xbox amd ots awesome on ps3
  
  nice and hard so you wont finish it to soon 
 and its got plenty to keep you going.
  
  its a damned ruddy hard game but it is worth playing and as the drought on ps3 games presnetly 
 is bad go 4 gaiden and enjoy it. you wont regret it
  
  overall a very good game buy it
  
  oo er my reviews to long so cant finish, good gameplay, hard but good hard, lots of cool combos 
 fancy moves and genuinely a good bit of fun that the average gamer wont finish to soon 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sarges24
Rating: 9.8
Date: Jul 10, 2007 7:03 pm PT
Review:  Introduction:
  
  Ninja Gaiden Sigma is a revamped and overhauled version of Ninja Gaiden and Ninja Gaiden Black 
 with additional content. Its one of the pinnacles of the action genre totally rehauled for next 
 generation presentation.
  
  Gameplay: The gameplay in Ninja Gaiden Sigma is dead on. Either you fight with skill and intelligence 
 or die frantically swinging your weapon around. At the end of the day the gameplay comes down to 
 pure action which includes slicing, dicing, and decapitating enemies. The controls are spot on 
 and every bit as accurate as they should be in an AAA title. From combos, fighting to running, 
 jumping and wall running the controls are quick, responsive and perfect. While some have their 
 complaints with the use of the SIXAXIS controls, I found that shaking the controller while using 
 Ninpo to be a very effective and a good use of the new controller.
  
  One of the only downfalls with Ninja Gaiden was it's camera. This is still somewhat of a problem 
 but one that's easily overlooked because it rarely hinders the experience or gameplay. You can 
 manually move the camera with R3 or center it with R1.
  
  In addition to the great combat Sigma also offers a nice touch with the great boss battles and 
 good puzzles. After beating Sigma you also unlock Mission Modes which are a blast to rip through; 
 assuming you have the skill to. The addition of Rachael as a playable character is a bonus in Sigma. 
 While her style is much different than Ryu's, the insight into the story and the change of gameplay 
 is a nice touch.
  
  Graphics: The graphics in Ninja Gaiden are astonishing. While I could act like I know what I'm 
 talking about while referring to the self shadowing, 60 FPS, 1080p, and other technical jibberish 
 there's really no need to. This game speaks volumes for itself. Team Ninja did a great job in upgrading 
 the graphics to 1080p and often even adding content and colors that weren't present in the original 
 releases of Ninja Gaiden. The only complaint I have about the graphics are that the cut scenes 
 aren't quite up to par with the rest of the game. Despite that the cutscenes are still decent.
 
  
  Story &amp; Sound:
  
  The story is what you'd expect from an action game. While it isn't anything spectacular it's certainly 
 decent enough to make you want to continue playing. I always say sound is an overrated score in 
 gaming reviews. Either it's great, good, or it sucks. With that said the sound effects, music, 
 and surround sound are all very good-great. While there's a lack of tracks for the game, the simple 
 music that is played is appropriate for the game.
  
  Closing:
  
  Ninja Gaiden Sigma is easily one of the best action games ever made. It's gameplay is addictive 
 to any fan of the genre. The boss battles are grand, level design and layout are both very well 
 executed, and the story is reasonably good. Based simply on the fact it's a true classic, Ninja 
 Gaiden Sigma gets a 10 from me. Its a game worth owning for years to come, or at least testing 
 the waters in to see if you enjoy it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: haohmaru11
Rating: 6
Date: Jul 10, 2007 2:55 pm PT
Review:  well, another childish game ... and not worth much , why do ppl like fighting with naked monsters 
 ? where did they came from ? is it a horror game ?
  keep asking yourself ... i am sick with games where the enemyes are monsters ... can't you just put 
 brave human ninjas or any other type of monsters that looks more human ... we are not on a final 
 fantasy game to fight with baloons , i will never buy a ninja gaiden game if they keep it like 
 this for whom ever made that game ... put HUMAN enemyes or i will not buy that stupid game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: samleon05
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 10, 2007 9:57 am PT
Review:  Ninja Gaiden Sigma is the remake of Ninja Gaiden Black for the Xbox remastered with new content, 
 level designs and polished graphics. This is one of the best action games ever made. It has all 
 the traits a hardcore gamer will be looking for such as smooth controls, challenging enemies, sick 
 combos and crazy weapons. You play as Ryu Hayabusa who is entrusted to protect the Dragon Sword, 
 his village is attacked and burned down. You have you starter weapon the Dragon sword which is 
 balanced is all aspects. You can cut down enemies in many ways as you progress using the walls 
 as you weapon or the enemies themselves, there are a variety of projectile weapons shurikens, arrows (many 
 kinds, explosive, regular etc) . The controls are straightforward and very easy to pick up with 
 and with a little practice you'll master them. The graphics never looked so good extremely polished 
 environment and character detail, however the frame rate is a little of as the blood in the game 
 you see when you kill enemies seems as if it is above the surface and not on it. Overall the game 
 is incredible, using magic (Ninpo) , crazy weapons and devastating combos. It will take you 25 to 
 30 hrs to beat but be warned the enemy AI is very challenging and you will die often especially 
 if you've never played the series. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MChammertime05
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jul 9, 2007 7:38 pm PT
Review:  This game is absolutely amazing. Tecmo and Team Ninja did a great job re-making this game and adding 
 content onto an already awesome game. First of all, the new and updated graphics are gorgeous. 
 I can never get enough of the amazing cutscenes in this game. Some of the best I have ever seen 
 in a game. The action in this game is exciting and never gets old. You can learn so many different 
 combos or techniques. Along with that, you can get new and various types of weapons and upgrade 
 them. You can also learn different magic types of moves that you can use when you are fighting. 
 There is also many different types of enemies in this game. They get more and more difficult as 
 the game progresses. The AI is very intelligent in this game and you will definitely not beat this 
 game is you don't properly block. The amount of action and content in this game makes it a title 
 that you must pick up if you own a Playstation 3. If you don't pick up this game, you are definitely 
 missing out! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zombieman666
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 9, 2007 1:46 pm PT
Review:  If you're into games like God of War and Devil May Cry and you're looking for a fix in that department. 
 Well look no further this is the game that will fill your needs for the moment until both of those 
 games come out. NInja Gaiden was a game I missed out on for the original xbox era. If you're that 
 gamer like myself than you should check this game out.
  
  The game starts off Ryu is finding out there's a evil clan invading his village and as you go out 
 to find out what's going on. You find out your village has been burn down by this Superior Ninja 
 God like demon called Doku. Once you find out what he did to your clan and peaceful village. All 
 you want is to go out and get revenge for what he did to your village and your people. The graphics 
 and animation in this game are just simply stunning. Even thou this is a ported game from a last 
 gen game. It still looks and plays amazing good on the playstation3. The indoor environments don't 
 look as great and beautiful as the outdoor.
  
  The controls are tight and satisfying when you cut off your enemies head off. This game up there 
 in the difficulty department but just like devil may cry and god of war once you die a couple of 
 times it gives you an option to bring it down a notch but you'll be force to wear a purple ribbon. 
 If you're a fan of the old ninja gaiden games from the nes and xbox you should definitely check 
 this game out with 18 chapters, 25 missions, new bosses, and a new playable character there's a 
 lot packed in to this game. If you never played a ninja gaiden game and are into god of war/devil 
 may cry type games than you should definitely check out this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Vegeta-SS4
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jul 9, 2007 7:22 am PT
Review:  This game is great. It's a remake but it's better than the one on xbox. you can controll much better 
 and once you wield 2 swords that's just awsome. they improved on the camera angles and the graphics 
 are just stunning. oh and they also added some new moves plus the new run on water feature. playing 
 with rachel is kinda kool too. and most of the ninpo moves are way better. A great game for the 
 PS3 and worth playing for any fan of ninja's or if you like brutal blood and gore games. This is 
 the game for you. :-) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: IceDefenseGod
Rating: 8.3
Date: Jul 30, 2007 10:24 am PT
Review:  Even this graphical next-gen. powerhouse has its share of flaws. There are very few combos, more 
 than Genji, but still not a lot. When you play as the ninja Ryu, it's very fun, but when you play 
 as Rachel, it's a joke. Neither of them as many combo's, but Ryu's still fun to play as. The beginning 
 with the Dark Samurai actually seems to rip off Genji a little bit, and the Fiends are taking the 
 name from FFX in my eye's. I won't go on about personal things, as I haven't had the game but a 
 day when I wrote this. I will say it's very overrated.
  
  For the serious review...
  Gameplay: It's a basic action game, just more well done. You fight through waves of enemies, using 
 one of two chars., Ryu or Rachel. Ryu is very fun to play as and is very agile. Rachel is a joke, 
 and I honestly don't have one good thing to say about her. As I stated, neither char. has many 
 combo's, however Ryu a great deal more. If you've played a couple of action games, this one ranks 
 slightly higher than average, but no where near the best. It's nearly pointless to carry on about 
 it. You can upgrade your weapon's, so that's a plus (It does have some interesting ones, too) .
 
  
  Graphics: Ninja Gaiden Sigma looks pretty next-gen. , however has many terrible animations. The 
 character designs (for the most part) are very well done, and almost all have nicely done facial 
 expression's. Overall, smooth graphics, and you probably won't be all that disappointed.
  
  Audio: The background music is generally nice, and suits the mood. The battle music is ok, nothing 
 all that special. Sound effects are usually nice, and I haven't really found anything extremely 
 out of place.
  
  Value: High, many people want a PS3 to play this game, and many reviews, including GS', gave it 
 very high reviews, AND it's the current number one ranked game for PS3 in popularity (although 
 it did recently come out) .
  
  My Tilt: Moderate. Not high, not low. Lower than all the other categories because they don't mesh 
 completely, resulting in a greatly produced game, however highly doubtfully a replayable one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fantasy_cheater
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jul 8, 2007 6:48 pm PT
Review:  Since my 360 does a bad job at emulating NGBlack I figured Id rent this one (No use spending $60 
 on yet another iteration of the game you know) and im glad I did. I dont remember this game being 
 as cheap as a Harlem dimewhore. I tend to get hit by every single cheap attack in the book. Either 
 a hit didnt register correctly or someone off screen hits me. That brings me to my next point, 
 the camera. Three years since the first iteration of this game came out and the camera is still 
 just as bad. Some times the camera just locks on to the boss and I cant get a bead on the other 
 enemies around him. So im constantly getting cheap hits from the grunts around the boss making 
 it extremely frustrating. This game nearly brought me to the brink of insanity when I fought the 
 ghost Doku. The reason why was because the camera kept sticking to him and I could literally walk 
 off screen. Also Rachel sucks. It just seems like im at a disadvantage with her. Shes slow, doesnt 
 have as much health as Ryu, all the enemies are much quicker than she is, and she takes some getting 
 use to after playing with Ryu most of the time. I just could never get use to her. Oh yeah and 
 Ryus jumping still isnt that great and its as bad as the camera. So whats new you might ask. 
 Well theres, shiner graphics, the Dragons claw and Tigers fang weapon, some new chapters and 
 Missions with Rachel, its easier to walk on water, newer bosses, and I think thats it. My controller 
 broke during the Ghost Doku fight so I couldnt see if there was anything else. The game still 
 has the same pre-render graphical cut scenes, which is disappointing cause they could have just 
 used the in game engine. I would say this game is worth the buy if you dont have the other NG 
 games or if youve never played it, but if youre the type to break a controller cause the game 
 makes you really mad then past on this one. The steep learning curve isnt so forgiving. If youre 
 a NG freak then rent it and check it out first. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Rigyabliss
Rating: 6.6
Date: Jul 8, 2007 4:41 pm PT
Review:  Much like the previous Ninja Gaiden games, brutality is the key to entertainment. This game is 
 bloody, and by bloody I don't mean blood spraying at each slash of your katana, but rather heads 
 and body parts flying bloody. Unfortunately, after about the 100th head rolling away in a glorious 
 kill, Ninja Gaiden begins to rely on aspects beyond the gore; this is where things fall apart. 
 Ninja Gaiden features one of the least intuitive cameras implemented in a game for a long time. 
 In an attempt to keep the camera at pace with the gameplay the camera is changing about every half 
 second. This would be fine and dandy if every time it changed it optimized your view; unfortunately, 
 much of the time the camera goes to such extremes as to not even include your character in the 
 view. The action in Ninja Gaiden is fun, especially when the camera is under control; however, 
 it is far from innovative or mind blowing. The biggest thing Ninja Gaiden has going for itself 
 is that it is one of only a handful of games on the Playstation 3 worth playing. Despite this, 
 do yourself a favor and rent this game, because you will be well over it by the time it is due 
 back. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JillV
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jul 8, 2007 1:55 pm PT
Review:  What is to say! you get to use the new duel katanas and Rachel, especially Rachel, some of the 
 puzzles were change. The CG have been completely
  change as well, new areas were add it, Ryu now has the ability to run on the water Naruto style, 
 3 bosses were added to the game. Rachel's chapters are really easy though only one boss in her 
 3 chapters Gamov, this game is a must have for all Dead Or Alive and Ninja Gaiden fans. This is 
 a reason why I bought a PS3, also Genji Days Of The Blade, Heavenly Sword, Lair, and MGS4. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Snake565
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 8, 2007 12:21 pm PT
Review:  The controll is much better on PS3 then the Xbox. The camera is much better work with to. It is 
 good that they took some new moves in the game to and the new double sword weild to. Then is much 
 smoother to run on water to. The graphic is very beautiful. The music is good to and I love the 
 new extra things they have done in some of the chapters.
  
  Then is little bit fun to play with Rachel to in they game. But it is more fun to play with Ryu 
 Hayabusa. Hayabusa have more moves then the other gamers with makes it more fun to play it. Then 
 I like they idea to shake the controller to makes the ninpo attack stronger but you can get tired 
 in the arms of it.
  
  But it is one of the best games I have played in my life. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: amourkiss
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 8, 2007 2:12 am PT
Review:  Ninja Gaiden Sigma is awesome !!! Simply a well-designed intense action gameplay showcase for PS3.
 
  The graphics are crystal clear, it runs on all the resolutions up to 1080P, and runs at 60fps, 
 that together with smooth animations for either ourself and the enemy characters.
  This game is very challenging, you will find yourself on the edge of being wacked any moment in 
 the game, the boss is tough of course, but for all those lower class enemy ninjas, they still kicking 
 your butt easily.
  to me, the best games in this genre are God of War, Devil May Cry, and Ninja Gaiden Sigma, so if 
 you like either GoW or DMC, you will find this game interested you as well.
  for online, you can upload your Ki score to compete with other player's record, it's not a gameplay, 
 but just something to keep you slicing your katana
  NG: S is a great game, even though it's not a new game, but if you never play a NG b4, now is your 
 chance to get the feel and walk the way of ninja !! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: carneyfolk
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 21, 2008 4:15 pm PT
Review:  I had read all the hype and was a bit skeptical of whether NGS could deliver on inflated expectations. 
 I am very happy to say it has delivered. Now, i have not played ninja gaiden or NGB for xbox so 
 this was a brand new game to me.
  
  The graphics are top notch, a wonderful face lift to an older gen game. The action is fluid and 
 responsive with a plethora of moves and weapons. Some of the boss fights will have a learning curve, 
 but even with the frustrations of figuring out a fight a few times, the boss fights are fun and 
 larger then life. A few things i would have liked to be a bit different... one is story related 
 the other is technical. First, i wish the game would have been more feudal japan rather then present 
 day, but that is more personal preferance. The other however are the odd load times, sometimes 
 even during standard parts of the game you will encounter load times, but nothing devastating. 
 These are the only two "complaints" i have, they are very small complaints in an excellent must 
 have game. Since picking up the game the only thing that has pulled me away has been work and the 
 girlfriend. Definitely a must have for all ps3 owners. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: simon_levane
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 7, 2009 2:17 pm PT
Review:  This next-gen port that was specifically made for Sony fans who didn't get play it on the XBOX. 
 And overall, the XBOX versions were better (especially "Ninja Gaiden Black") . Why? Because they're 
 more difficult, have bigger character (and location) models and feel somewhat tighter in the controls. 
 However, if you hate ultra-hard games but have always loved "Ninja Gaiden", than you'll definitely 
 prefer this version. Team Ninja has toned the difficulty down, but has upped the coolness factor. 
 Ninja Ryu Hayabusa is even more of a badass. He can now dual-wield swords (take that Dante of DMC 
 3!) and can shoot arrows in mid-air!! Even better, Rachel (the hottest girl ever in a video game) 
 is playable and provides some very "God of War"-like action segments courtesy of her, err... weapons. 
 Most of the levels have been redesigned and so have the enemies. You'll notice new segments of 
 action added to Ryu's portion of the game as well. Which is a definite plus and so is the inclusion 
 of extra save points. The action itself feels faster as well as the pacing due to the omission 
 of certain puzzles that were prevelant in the XBOX games.
  
  If you've played the XBOX versions before, than "Sigma" will definitely feel like a port to you, 
 but if you loved those games and want to whet your appetite before the most-likely-to-be-great 
 "Ninja Gaiden II", than you can sink your teeth into this really good action-adventure. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nflking4691
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 7, 2007 10:44 am PT
Review:  I have never played NG or NG Black, and I am very glad because NGS is both of them molded together 
 into the ultimate NG experience. The gameplay is great, the characters Ryu and Rachel are great, 
 and well the visuals are just flat out amazing. It makes for a great mix up in style going from 
 Ryu to Rachel. Ryu is nimble and well ninja like while Rachel is just a beast. She bashes any and 
 everything. I much prefer playing with Ryu, but the switch is a much needed break in fighting style. 
 Anyone who hasn't played the Xbox versions (because they had PS2 like me) then this game is a must 
 have especially if you're a fan of GOW and DMC. I can't say how for sure how NG and NG Black players 
 see this game, but I am sure even they would enjoy this version. Come to think of if you were willing 
 to buy NG Black which was an upgraded version, then I don't see any reason why you wouldn't buy 
 this much upgraded version/MASTERPIECE 
::::::

::::::
UserName: loyski29
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jul 6, 2007 5:48 pm PT
Review:  best ninja gaiden ever, i like what they did on the graphics, extra mission and playable character. 
 very good game overall. i like playing with two katana's, movements little tricky but will get 
 use to it in time. I own all 3 series and i like all of them. the challenge is amazing and keeps 
 me busy in all level. hope to see a part two, but with all new missions and more dish on the plate 
 and maybe couple of more playable character like a Hayabusa clan member or something in that effect. 
 i know that this has been asked before but hey one more wouldn't hurt, yes a new Ninja Gaiden would 
 be nice. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kool3eat
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jul 6, 2007 11:54 am PT
Review:  This game is a must have for ps3 owners. I was in blockbuster one day to rent rainbow six vegas 
 and they didn't have it. So I decided to rent this because it alright and when I got home it turned 
 out to be awsome.
  
  I would have gotten a 10 if it were not for the difficulty!
  
  Trust me you will be spending a lot of hours on this game because it is really good but really 
 really hard!
  
  The look of the characters and enviorments is flawless.
  
  The weapons you use are also very good and help in sticky situations.
  
  Well I gotta go
 
  
  Game On! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jacintos09
Rating: 8.3
Date: Jul 6, 2007 10:28 am PT
Review:  Prior to buying Sigma, I'd never played a Ninja Gaiden game. I must say that I've been greatly 
 impressed with the game.
  
  First, it's gorgeous. I love the graphics. The gameplay is sweet, especially if you're a fan of 
 the action/adventure and fighting genres like I am. Who doesn't like decapitating annoying ninjas? 
 :P
  
  Be prepared to die though. Those annoying ninjas won't be nice to you lol, and some of the bosses 
 are serious headaches... but it's all in good fun :D. If you find yourself dying too often, there 
 is a lower level that you can play on by abandoning the ninja way when it gives you the option. 
 Just keep in mind that there are 3 levels higher than the normal level that the game starts on 
 heh. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fftgaraa
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 6, 2007 6:07 am PT
Review:  It's still a very good game, and the new content that has been added to the game is amazing, and 
 the game play is way better then the Xbox version.
  The only thing the game is lacking is new cutsceens, if they added some new cutsceens instead of 
 the one's ported st8 from the xbox, the game would have blowin the xbox version out of the water. 
 The controlls are wai better, they are better because playstaion has a controller that can actually 
 fit in your hands. If you have a ps3 get this game it's worth the 60 bucks, and it will tide you 
 over untill the new titles come out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: carlitos05
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jul 5, 2007 7:29 pm PT
Review:  The graphics of this game are astonishing! But that is the obvious strength of this gem. This game 
 really tests your skills and if you think it's all about hacking and slashing, well think again. 
 This game forces you to develop a technique for fighting different enemies, and if you decide to 
 just press buttons and don't put any real effort: you're dead. I really like how challenging it 
 is and it really makes you feel like you are a true NINJA! The diversity in weapons is awesome 
 as well, letting you choose between four primary weapons, which you can easily upgrade, and you 
 also have long range weapons to choose from. This variety, plus the interesting enemies that you 
 encounter, makes this one of the must haves of the ps3 gaming library. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dragonrell
Rating: 9.8
Date: Jul 5, 2007 4:38 pm PT
Review:  Ninja Gaiden Sigma is a remake of Team Ninja's Ninja Gaiden and Ninja Gaiden Black. This edition 
 has the same content as Black with some new additional contents. One of the new addtitions Ryu 
 can do is heal himself in battle. To make more clear, You can now use the directional pad to replenish 
 your health or your ki. In previous versions you had to pause the game and do this process. Another 
 new thing is Ryu can now jump and use his bow at the same time. This makes it alot easier for foes 
 that are distant from you that projectile attacks. Ryu also has a brand new weapon to use in Sigma 
 the dual swords, Dragon's Claw &amp; Tiger's Fang. These two swords allows Ryu to pull off some 
 amazing moves. In previous versions of Ninja Gaiden Ryu could run on water by tapping the A button 
 on the Xbox controller but not many people knew this or thought it was very difficult. In Sigma 
 they make it easier for you by allowing Ryu to run on water when coming in contact with water. 
 Ryu can also attack while running on water. Another new addition that is in Sigma is the ability 
 to play as the Fiend Hunter Rachel. Rachel has her own set of moves rather than being a clone of 
 Ryu. The graphics have been improved alot. They are alot more realistic now. Some of the areas 
 in the game have been changed or removed from the game but it doesn't have a drastic impact in 
 the game's storyline. The camera in the game can be bothersome at times but it will grow on you. 
 Plus you can move the camera around if the angle isn't to your liking. The difficulty in the game 
 ranges from Ninja Dog being the easiest and Master Ninja being the one hardest. In the collector's 
 edition of Sigma you get a bonus cd detailing some of the Team's life and codes to unlock 5 exclusive 
 missions in mission mode. Overall this is a really fantastic game. If you haven't played Ninja 
 Gaiden then it's a good time to play it but if you already have it for the Xbox then there is really 
 no point in getting it unless you're a really big fan of Team Ninja's work or if you want to see 
 the new features in the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fibitosan
Rating: 9.9
Date: Jul 5, 2007 4:07 pm PT
Review:  Ninja gaiden sigma is one of a kind, this new o remake whatever you call it, is one of the best 
 accion games ever released an for ps3, you can joy all the magnificent of a ninja, but not a ninja, 
 ryu the best games ninja and his partner rachel that let you suspiring for the perfection on the 
 level of graphics that they are showing us, whitout lying this game has the best models and animations 
 in the next generation games, and not only that the sound is incredible and have a very good cuality, 
 the gameplay is the best you can find in a next-gen acction bet'em up game, whit its difucult but 
 adictive gameplay and a cool history to see. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mauriciogattas
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 24, 2007 2:21 pm PT
Review:  NINJA GAIDEN SIGMA!!!:::One of the best action games in recent history (close to God of War II) ; 
 beautiful graphics (the shadows are incredible well made) , the game is very addictive, its make 
 you want to play again and again. The sound is great but not perfect. The game play Its fun but 
 a little bit hard, but you get used to it, because the controls are perfect. One of the best features 
 is the boss fights, for some of them, you have to use very interesting tactics. What else can I 
 say Its a must have for PS3 owner!!!, I really recommend this game!!!!
  
  P. S. The only problem is camera sometimes doesn&acute; t help and the crappy downloads in game time! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: siferalmazy
Rating: 8.3
Date: Jul 5, 2007 12:55 pm PT
Review:  In a way, it is and in a way, it isn't.
  
  I'll start off with the graphics. The graphics in this game are great, and are much better than 
 NG and NGB. The graphics also has very few flaws, and flows pretty well. There are also CG cutscenes 
 that look great, with bright colors similar to the final fantasy series in a few ways. A major 
 plus is alot of Ryu's moves look great.
  
  The sound is also great. This game features great voice actors, and great weapon sounds. They aren't 
 all realistic though, like Ryu's swords makes a loud click when he raises it. The music in the 
 game is great, but can get really old, really fast.
  
  The gameplay is where the game falls short. A lot of times when your fighting, you'll hit a random 
 load screen that really brings it down. Also your enemies use the same attack over and over. For 
 instance, one type of enemy keeps throwing bombs at you and you won't be able to move until you 
 die. Also, when you die you are taking to the last time you saved, these are the only checkpoints 
 you get. The boss battles are great, but are extremely hard and require some quick and strategic 
 button mashing to make it through. A down point is that you'll fight the same 3 or 4 enemies during 
 the whole mission but as a new mission begins, more enemies are added. A big plus for the game 
 is that it has extra missions and content that wasn't in the original xbox games. Plus you now 
 get to play as Rachel in certain missions. But you'll find her missions, uninspired and boring 
 compared to Ryu's. She is also very slow, and makes it nearly impossible to kill the faster enemies 
 unscathed.
  
  For those of you that are new to the Ninja Gaiden series, this is a VERY HARD game. As such, you 
 will probably see a huge amount of game over screens which gets very frustrating. Another bad thing 
 is that very often you'll find yourself unable to move because your ememies keep using the same 
 attack over and over. Its very cheap and very unispiring.
  
  All in all this game is definitely worth a rental. It should only be bought if you are a hardcore 
 NG fan looking for some new content. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cameio
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 5, 2007 10:12 am PT
Review:  I can't belive it only gets 9 !? it should get more than this but as usuall GS
  unfair score for the PS3!!!
  this game is so fun to play although it's difficality, But you can 
 choose the difficality level this time. the gameplay is so addictive this will make easy to replay 
 any stage and you must play some of the stage many times so you can save money and potions as much 
 as you can, about the graphics using a HDMI it will blow your eyes with a crazy graphice especially 
 the shadows and the lights it's the best grapgice i can see until now i have all the consoles but 
 this one IS the best ,it's a must have for PS3 owners you will not regret it and for me it's the 
 first game that make the ps3 worth to get for this game  
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: odecastro
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jul 5, 2007 9:47 am PT
Review:  I have to say this is the cleanest most crisp game I have played to date in over 20 years of gaming. 
 It plays like cinema scenes from the original NES version. As a veteran of the previous three NES 
 versions I only have one complaint, and that is the excellent score those games contained are lacking. 
 Also, it is often hard to complete combos as you would like, especially when battling multiple 
 enemies. This gets rather frustrating and definately takes some of the fun out of it. When done 
 properly however the combos are beautiful to watch, and the game does hold a bit of a chill much 
 like the original Resident Evil mansion. The variety of moves, weapons, and change of styles between 
 both playable characters gives you hours of replay ability and head chopping fun. Must have for 
 PS3! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Haseokicksass
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 20, 2007 2:08 am PT
Review:  This is my first Ninja Gaiden game, and so far, I love it! Alot of the time when im playing, i 
 get completely lost and have to watch youtube videos of people clearing the levels in Ninja Gaiden 
 Black. That, is a bad thing. Somtimes you have to find an item that you dont even know about, or 
 even know where to find, which gets really annoying.
  
  The graphics are great. Everything looks beautiful, but i have noticed problems with the blood. 
 I dont know if this happens in other games too, but somtimes the blood is near the edge of somthing 
 and you can see the blood just floating, which is kind of odd, but not too notice able. There are 
 alot of jaggies in this game, they arent that noticeable, but if you look close enought you will 
 find alot. I dont know why every PS3 game HAS to have jaggies!
  
  Im more into the fast paced gameplay, so i loved this! I hated Oblivion for its slow gameplay (thats 
 why i sold it) , but this game is perfect. Theres alot of ninja moves to do on the walls and cool 
 flips to do that makes the game alot more enojyable.
  
  This game is really great and i absolutly love it! I havent finished it yet, but i think im close. 
 There arent that many weapons to collect, but every weapon is really cool and has its own nice 
 moves. Im on Chatpter 12 and bought it today, im addicted to this game! Even though i really suck. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: b_newsome
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jul 4, 2007 2:06 pm PT
Review:  Great Action scenes, insane boss battles, great weapons. Everything you could ask for from a brutal 
 action game. The story isn't too in depth, but the game truly isn't meant for story lovers. Its 
 a pure bloody, pulse beating action game that you will have tons of fun, and hours of enjoyment 
 with. Being new to the Ninja Gaiden series i must say Tecmo has something good going with it. Cant 
 wait for the next chapter in the series. A definite must buy for Ps3 fans and fans in general who 
 love action and great games. The only thing i have found so far that i could see wasn't needed 
 was the shaking of the controller during ninpo attacks, its pretty pointless and could've been 
 done without, but when you busy kicking ass of ninja and samurai thats the least of your concerns 
 ;) great game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cmpepper23
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 5, 2008 9:38 pm PT
Review:  I have never played NG or NG Black, and I am very glad because NGS is both of them molded together 
 into the ultimate NG experience. The gameplay is great, the characters Ryu and Rachel are great, 
 and well the visuals are just flat out amazing. It makes for a great mix up in style going from 
 Ryu to Rachel. Ryu is nimble and well ninja like while Rachel is just a beast. She bashes any and 
 everything. I much prefer playing with Ryu, but the switch is a much needed break in fighting style. 
 Anyone who hasn't played the Xbox versions (because they had PS2 like me) then this game is a must 
 have especially if you're a fan of GOW and DMC. I can't say how for sure how NG and NG Black players 
 see this game, but I am sure even they would enjoy this version. Come to think of if you were willing 
 to buy NG Black which was an upgraded version, then I don't see any reason why you wouldn't buy 
 this much upgraded version/MASTERPIECE. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hellwitlife
Rating: 8.2
Date: Jul 4, 2007 11:31 am PT
Review:  Let's start off with the first 3 Ninja Gaidens. Ryu Hyabusa, a member of the Hyabusa clan is out 
 to stop all evils in the first 3 games, I forget why but someone's kidnapped in the first one i 
 think the second he's investigating the dark origin and a plot the villan Ashtar has to release 
 the power behind these demon statues and the 3rd i forgot. All of them were amongst the best games 
 ever to come out in the 8-bit era that were both challenging and gave you a sense of accomplishment 
 for being able to whiz through them because they were hard but not Ninja Turtles for nintendo ridiculous. 
 More like alotta challenge but not impossible so you felt good about beating a level. When Ninja 
 Gaiden came out for the XBOX i think in 2004 I was like, wow, this is amazing!!! It was so visually 
 stunning I mean from 8-bit to this amazing, just freaking awesome. Played it for hours and hours 
 on end even unlocked all it's extra content including the classic games, Awesome. Sound was great 
 but the music not so great. Anyway later on they released Ninja Gaiden Black which was an amazing 
 upgrade to this Xbox one, new characters, weapons, enemies, and other stuff plus a big upgrade 
 in difficulty, because it was really really challenging!!
  
  Ninja Gaiden Sigma, oh Sigma you old dog, why couldn't you learn some new tricks!? Well to say 
 the least, graphics are outstanding. The ads say 60 frames per second. I'll take their word for 
 it but it is visually enhanced and this is where they win if anything, but the thing is not many 
 alterations were made if any. I mean being that it was visually enhanced they could've made alleyways 
 seem more vivid or something, because it's alot of that stuff over and it's a next-gen console 
 now, so c'mon. CG cutscenes are still the same and in fact are not cleaned up, they are the exact 
 same formats from before so when you're playing this new and improved Ninja Gaiden the screen dims 
 they take a step back by showing you this old clip that they just pasted in there while you stay 
 looking for more. I did however like the new Doku battle in the beginning because Ryu get's sliced 
 by a sword and the next scene he's putting on some outfit making you think, wait a minute, didn't 
 you just die and they at least explain a little more how he gets to the blimp because I never knew 
 how. Karma is back ranking you on how you beat enemies using speed and other elements and new weapons 
 such as Dual swords were added called Dragon's Claw and Lion fang which are good but you have to 
 level them up before the become lethal at all because by the time you clear the scene of enemies 
 you go past the time you have to beat them. Enemies are basically the same but revised such as 
 the black ninjas and the armored thugs with motorcycles and old enemies and bosses have new abilities.
 
  
  Sound is the same but one thing i didn't really like about Ninja Gaiden is the music during boards, 
 for the most part is boring and i don't know what would have been good in its place but i know 
 I never really cared for the music and since they didn't improve or change it i am unhappy with 
 that. The sound effects are great. Gameplay is very friendly and intimidating at first for first 
 time players but there are some editions in here that make it so much better like the in game item 
 selection which before you had to press pause to use health but now the D-pad allows you to cycle 
 through them while fighting and use whatever you need to which is very good since i hated interupting 
 game play for an elixer or anything before! The evasion has been changed like if you evade back 
 he actually does a backflip, little stop like that makes you feel like your actually doing something 
 and gets you into it more. Weapons can be upgraded as you go along and make you get into it more. 
 There are new battles, and a big addition is playing as Racheal the big boobied fiend Slayer which 
 is really cool because it adds story plus does not take away from the original story because these 
 are extra boards not instead like a certain Metal Gears Solid I know where I played as a character 
 I didn't even care about being at all and had to play as him for the rest of the whole entire game!!! 
 GOD!!! Sigma's gameplay is very pleasurable to the eyes, and still amazing for a first time player, 
 but for me I'm tired of seeing this package re-wrapped especially since i've beat it a few times 
 over now, and they even took away the classic Ninja gaiden extra i think because the arcade machine 
 in the game where you played them at in Han's Bar is gone, but I could be wrong maybe they give 
 them to you for beating the game? This game is not as challenging as black and is much easier, 
 but like I said if you never owned the one for Xbox or it's Black upgrade then you definitly should 
 have this one, I will update this when I beat the game because I don't know the unlockables yet 
 or if you can make this game harder after you beat it like the original two, I will revise later 
 but in any case great game must have for first timers if not and you are like me waiting for a 
 sequel you might be able to skip this one, depending on your wallet size and if you own a PS3, 
 but till next time.... Peace fan boys 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sigchi222
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jul 3, 2007 9:38 pm PT
Review:  This game gets the royal treatment on the 3. Crisper visulas, steadier frame-rate, more STUFF... overall, 
 this is the definitive version of the series. Once the fact that you must learn how to block and 
 attack off of your surroundings (by scalling and jumping off of walls etc.) has been pounded into 
 your head, the game begins to open up and a new world of ninja goodness starts to flow. I still 
 think that Ryu is a little too meaty to be a ninja (he still appears to be muscle-bound) but I 
 think that they got all of the aspects of a female ninja just right.. wink wink nod nod. If you 
 don't have this game go rent it, play it for about 4 hours and then you will be compelled to go 
 and get it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: iMacBot
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 8, 2007 3:25 pm PT
Review:  WOW. This remake of the XBOX version of Ninja Gaiden Sigma is just amazing. Now in HD, immersive 
 graphics, high quality sound, and inhumanly cool moves and combo attacks, Ninja Gaiden Sigma packs 
 in a big punch for PS3. Finally a real good game on PS3 which is exclusive to the console. I personally 
 prefer this new version which offers many new features. Most of the weapons are simply fun to use. 
 You'll find yourself spending your days on PS3 playing this game: the reason is this game is just 
 so addictive. If you played the demo and you liked it, you'll love the game for good. Overall, 
 NGS is just plain fun, but it's no walk in the park, you really have to concentrate and focus to 
 advance in the game. You'll need good reflexes, fast thinking, and lighting speed maneuvering and 
 precision in you timed attacks (or charged attacks in that matter) . And if you just want to blow 
 everything up, just select Triangle and Circle, you'll see what happens! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tpowl
Rating: 8
Date: Jul 3, 2007 5:06 pm PT
Review:  PPl who have already played NG Black to death will find that there ARE issues with NG Sigma - most 
 notably of which are:
  
  1, Versatility of loading - Unlike NG Black where you will experience prolonged loading time only 
 upon starting the game for the very first time, NG Sigma delivers you a loading here, there, and 
 everywhere!!!
  
  I mean, you'll often find yourself in a loading situation when you open item boxes, going from 
 place to place, and oh my gawd.. even when you are fighting little demons!
  
  2. Difficulty jolt down - If you play very hard diffulty or higher level, you will meet the so-called 
 berserker (which I call it) towards the end part of the game. These armored guys carry broadswords 
 and like to scorch you by firing up the ground you are standing on. Anyway, in NG Black these guys 
 could not be killed using counterattacks, but in NG Sigma things are different. They CAN be killed 
 using counterattacks, which sux for us NG Black players BCZ of the tremendous drop in difficulty 
 level due to this.
  
  3. Bugs - I've heard rumors that there are very minor bugs in NG Black in certain locations which 
 I have yet to find myself, but NG Sigma has more bugs that are really annoying and frustrating. 
 In certain parts of the game if you are standing near the wall you cannot use 2 essence critical 
 combo attacks... and there are others.
  
  4. Recycling of old movie CGs - You guys all noticed how NG Sigma movie CGs in the midst of the 
 game resembles that of NG Black in more than a subtle manner? Well, it just so happens that this 
 is not even a rehash of CGs from NG Black. Tecmo, for whatever their intentions are, decided to 
 simply cut and paste the movie CGs from NG Black and transport these non-HD quality movies to NG 
 Sigma.
  
  Thanks Tecmo!!! We sure needed that from you guys!!
  
  In the end, I could never give this Sigma version 9 or 10 or a score in the vicinity of original 
 NG and Black. Giving such a high score simply would not be doing justice to the original versions 
 of what could possibly be the most spectacular action game of all times. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: high_flier429
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 3, 2007 11:32 am PT
Review:  Like it says on the back of the box: The reason you bought a PS3 and that phrase could not be truer. 
 (at least im my case)
  When I first got my hands on the original NG on the xbox, the game revolutionized action adventure, 
 as well as what I though a difficult game would be. The original was great, then Black was even 
 better, and now with Sigma it has reached perfection. I still have the other two but I doubt I 
 will be going back to them since the PS3 is by far the best (granted the others were on last gen 
 hardware) . If you have never played the xbox versions and own a PS3, you NEED to own this game. 
 Once your reflexes get up to par, the game plays extraordinarily well, the fluent mechanics of 
 the fighting system are unmatched by any other game. The revamped graphics and level design make 
 this iteration an improvement over the last, and with the core action packed battles still intact, 
 the addition of new weapons, characters, and quick item menus make this game a must have for any 
 Gaiden fan.
  
  Just to sum up my feelings for this game: It is the only reason I bought a PS3 last week, and the 
 total cost of damn near $700 (collectors Sigma is $75) , was totally worth it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: alex33x
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 3, 2007 8:30 am PT
Review:  I didnt play the Xbox versions because I didnt have an Xbox, after I got the 360 I thought about 
 getting this countless times, but instead I just choose to wait for the PS3 version after the demo 
 came out.
  
  This game is perfect the improved graphics are gorgeous, not to mention the 1080p resolution, if 
 you have a TV with this resolution your gaming experience will be perfect.
  
  I loved the boss battles in this game like gamespot said, they are very challenging and actually 
 force you to think instead of just hack and slashing though them. Since I didnt play the original 
 game this is a whole new story from me.
  
  I would recommend this game to anyone, even if you have played the original ones. But for those 
 who havent this is a must buy for the PS3. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: iBlackboi
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 3, 2007 5:32 am PT
Review:  You can hate forever but this game is a must have, end of story, period, the visuals are great, 
 the action can't be beat, it's long in content, you a ninja everybody wanted to be one growing 
 up but quit when trying to run across water or something. This game gives you that and some, Buy 
 this game when it comes out you will play it till GTA IV hits stores heck I played the demo every 
 day before I played everything else, it will never get boring at all and you will be very happy 
 with your ps3 so don't listen to busters and go get you some Ninja, did I put down a hundred words 
 yet? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DominicanAG
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jul 3, 2007 5:21 am PT
Review:  If you're into games like God of War and Devil May Cry and you're looking for a fix in that department. 
 Well look no further this is the game that will fill your needs for the moment until both of those 
 games come out. NInja Gaiden was a game I missed out on for the original xbox era. If you're that 
 gamer like myself than you should check this game out.
  
  The game starts off Ryu is finding out there's a evil clan invading his village and as you go out 
 to find out what's going on. You find out your village has been burn down by this Superior Ninja 
 God like demon called Doku. Once you find out what he did to your clan and peaceful village. All 
 you want is to go out and get revenge for what he did to your village and your people. The graphics 
 and animation in this game are just simply stunning. Even thou this is a ported game from a last 
 gen game. It still looks and plays amazing good on the playstation3. The indoor environments don't 
 look as great and beautiful as the outdoor.
  
  The controls are tight and satisfying when you cut off your enemies head off. This game up there 
 in the difficulty department but just like devil may cry and god of war once you die a couple of 
 times it gives you an option to bring it down a notch but you'll be force to wear a purple ribbon. 
 If you're a fan of the old ninja gaiden games from the nes and xbox you should definitely check 
 this game out with 18 chapters, 25 missions, new bosses, and a new playable character there's a 
 lot packed in to this game. If you never played a ninja gaiden game and are into god of war/devil 
 may cry type games than you should definitely check out this game. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
