-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Overlord: Raising Hell
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/ps3/action/overlord/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Great macabre dialogue.
 Controlling minions is fun.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Broken camera.
 Sluggish controls.
 Inconsistent frame rate.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Jul  1, 2008
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 6
Critic Score: 7.5, 34 Review (s)
User Score: 7.6, 259 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Codemasters
Developer: 4J Studios
Genre: Fantasy Action Adventure
Date: Jun 24, 2008
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Overlord: Raising Hell may be the most feature-rich version of the game yet, but an unpredictable 
 frame rate, sluggish controls, and a clunky camera detract from the minion-controlling fun. 
 

  Overlord and its mischievous minions fought their way onto the Xbox 360 in mid 2007. Almost 12 
 months and a downloadable content pack later, the game has finally arrived on the PlayStation 3. 
 The question is, have the flaws that shipped the first time around been addressed in the meantime? 
 Unfortunately, the answer is no. While the original game's premium downloadable content has been 
 rolled into the single-player campaign and a couple of minor new features, such as an in-game minimap, 
 have been included, Overlord for the PS3 is a frustrating experience with dated visuals and awkward 
 controls.  

           Those halflings never stood a chance.      

  For anyone who missed Overlord in its original incarnation, it's a third-person action adventure 
 game with a liberal sprinkling of puzzle-solving set against a fantasy backdrop. After waking up 
 and finding your tower and your reputation as the overlord in shambles, you set about rebuilding 
 your empire. To regain your former glory, you'll need to take control of a group of acquiescent 
 gremlin-like minions as you roam the countryside helping or hindering the locals. You'll also accumulate 
 gold and life-force energy -- the game's minion-creation currency. Along the way you'll battle halflings, 
 unicorns, and a generally inhospitable environment filled with challenges waiting to be overcome 
 by selecting the appropriate minion unit for the job.  

  You have four different-coloured units at your disposal in Overlord. Brown minions -- the most common -- are 
 pure brawlers. Red minions aren't very useful at melee range and instead rely on ranged damage 
 with fire spells. Setting up flanking manoeuvres with your browns as you keep enemies at bay with 
 your reds can be a great tactic. Reds can also absorb environmental fires and in turn allow you 
 to explore otherwise inaccessible areas. Blue minions are the swimmers in the group and are able 
 to traverse water obstacles. These jolly little fellows deal magical damage and can also resurrect 
 fallen comrades. Green minions play the role of stealthy rogues, and while they can't take the 
 same kind of beating as browns, they can deal hefty damage if you're able to sweep them into a 
 position at the rear of your target. Given the clearly defined roles of your minions, you shouldn't 
 ever find yourself wondering what to do with a particular unit.  

  As great as the concept behind Overlord is, the experience is hampered by a clunky control system 
 and a fickle camera. For a game that extols the value of evil and uses evil jokes at every turn, 
 you're rather limited in the evil you can perform. Sure, you can massacre livestock to steal their 
 sweet soul innards, invade the homes of halflings, and rough up the local farmers, but you're left 
 wanting for a way to really put your evil mark on the Overlord world.  

  As the overlord, your strength lies not in your own melee attacks -- although these can be used to 
 deal additional damage -- but in your team of ragtag subordinates. Born of the earth and spewing 
 out of coloured craters, your minions like nothing better than completing your unspoken orders 
 and returning to you with gold, with flasks to replenish your health and mana, and with a range 
 of weapons and outfits from vanquished foes. They're an entertaining bunch, and for the most part 
 they function well with general "go smash that" orders, which you issue by aiming and pressing 
 the right trigger. More complex pattern holding and sweeping moves are possible using the right 
 analog stick. Left to their own devices, your minions will gladly defend you by assaulting attackers, 
 and the AI is smart enough to automatically upgrade minion weapons when they're found in crates 
 and chests.  

  Controlling the four different minion types during battles requires a lot of micromanagement, and 
 it's here that the control system (as well as the free-floating camera) comes unstuck. The camera 
 perspective can be set higher over the battlefield by clicking R3, but even in this view it can 
 be tough to make precise movements. While the minions are acrobatic fellows, the overlord himself 
 isn't anywhere near as nimble. The overlord's slow speed and truck-like turning circle become even 
 more of an issue in split-screen multiplayer modes as you try to negotiate obstacles.  

           Control minions by sweeping them to their target with the right analog stick.      

 
  Overlord's visuals are pleasing enough, though they definitely look dated. Colour plays a huge 
 role both aesthetically and functionally. The lush green outdoor areas and fiery-red hell zones 
 are represented well, and shader effects like mist and fire indicate the appropriate minion for 
 each situation. Minions look good and are at their best when pilfering and when equipping items 
 such as chef hats and pumpkins as makeshift helmets.  

  Overlord: Raising Hell has rolled in the seven multiplayer maps and three modes (Slaughter, Pillage, 
 and Survival) that were previously sold as downloads for the Xbox 360 game, as well as new single-player 
 levels, legendary difficulty mode, and two-player split-screen cooperative play. Split-screen multiplayer 
 on the PS3 is at times almost unplayable as a result of the poor frame rate. With both players 
 loaded up with minions and meeting to complete a mutual objective in Survival mode, the controls 
 become sluggish, the camera becomes even more unmanageable, and the visuals approach something 
 nearing a slide-show performance.  

  Sound is a high point for this game, especially the voice-over work that brings the game's macabre 
 dialogue to life. Explosions from fireballs are chunky, and there's something enjoyable about igniting 
 a dry grass field full of halflings and listening to them scream as they writhe in agony. Gnarl -- your 
 minion master and occasional Yoda stunt double -- does a great job as your guide to evildoing, and 
 he offers some comedic relief with snappy one-liners. Impressive 7.1 surround sound is supported, 
 and while it's not a deal maker on its own, it's a nice extra inclusion for those who like the 
 idea of evil firing from all directions.  

  The major differences between the Xbox 360 and PlayStation 3 games amount to the new onscreen minimap 
 and 7.1 surround sound support. Given that the Xbox 360 downloadable content is thrown in for nil, 
 the PS3 version of Overlord is the best value for those who have yet to give the game a try. However, 
 considering the unpredictable frame rate, sluggish controls, and fickle camera in the PS3 version, 
 if you're after a serious crack at ruling the peasants, you may want to wait until the game hits 
 the bargain bin. Alternatively you could pick up the technically superior Xbox 360 version and 
 spend a little extra to get the downloadable content.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (4 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: OneShot45
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 1, 2009 7:14 am PT
Review:  As I said before, I don't think this game deserves the 6.0 that Gamespot gave it. It is a very 
 good game and there are many good qualities in it. Some of which is the both online and same system 
 multiplayer, the story mode and the qualities and ablities you can use inside the story mode. 
 
  
  To start off, the thing that really made me want this game is the way you can chose so many things 
 in the game! You have to chose one of two choices at many points in the game and your choice reflects 
 on wheather you are good or evil and also affects the game in the future. 
  
  Another thing I love about Overlord is the minions! You cna carry around a pack of minions that 
 range from four different types ( You have to unlock three during the story and one type is the 
 default ) and each has it's own special strengths and weaknesses. At first you can only carry around 
 10-20 minions ( I am not sure on that number ) but as you go through the game, you can expand you 
 pack number by finding stones that allow you to do so. There's nothing like storming a town and 
 destroying and killing everything in sight with 50 minions at your desposal. 
  
  The enviorments, enemies, graphics and sounds are great! There are so many types of enemies and 
 the graphics of them are very cool. There is a variety of enemies and their apperances are very 
 enjoyable. The enviroment graphics are great too and there are many places that are both creepy 
 and exciting! The sounds are great too and and they mix with the enviroments well!
  
  One last thing that makes Overlord awesome is the crude humor and comedy of both the Overlord, 
 the minions, the enemies and the innocent peasents that you can tease and play around with! There 
 is som much joy in wiping out an entire town, burinig the houses to the ground and killing the 
 innocent towns people that try to rebel against their master!
  
  All in all, I definatly don't think this game deserves a 6.0! I love this game and I am looking 
 forward to the sequel, Overlord II! There are many great things in Overlord Raising Hell and, even 
 though there are a few bad things, the good things take your attention away from them! 
  
  8.5/10 or B+
  
  Graphics: 8
  Sound: 7.5
  Gameplay: 8
  Storyline: 8
  Replay Value: Moderate 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MagicHat1
Rating: 7.5
Date: Feb 10, 2009 3:59 am PT
Review:  This is game that won't win awards but is solid in all departments. The graphics are deliberately 
 more towards cartoons then realism but are well made though not superb, the camera angle is usually 
 excellent but can easily be fixed on the few occasions were it isn't by use of right analogue stick. 
 The overlord doesn't speak but the voice acting for all the other characters is very good, sometimes 
 the voice acting is used for humour to good effect but when being serious as it is for all the 
 main characters, they all fit the relevant character and the game. Storyline isn't great but it 
 is a decent effort that links everything up nicely, the part the two mistresses play in the story 
 is entertaining and the ending's in the abyss section is superb. 
  
  The gameplay is unusual and it is perhaps worth getting a demo or renting it first to get a feel 
 for it, minion control and the way you fight works well most of the time but some people may prefer 
 games were your character does the fighting. There are some problems, the recall system with the 
 minions needs to be better as you have to do it individually (the all recall doesn't work) which 
 can leave a significant amount of dead minions sometimes. It isn't always easy to use the guardmarker 
 properly, sometimes not all the minions get placed on it and other times the flag isn't where you 
 want it. Overall though, as long as you avoid endangering the overlord, it is a good system, the 
 minions are adorable but also good killing machines and if you take losses, the dungeon easily 
 allows you to build your reserves. Equipment is easily gotten back by going quickly through previously 
 completed area to open chests/smash barrels, or by continuing on with the current section so it 
 avoids the danger of being repetitive. One last frustrating thing is the addition in the abyss 
 of directing minions using a machine, a nice idea but it requires precision controls that the right 
 analogue stick struggles with, to be fair this only is a problem twice in the whole thing.
  
  Where it shines is that it combines all the solid parts and the unique gameplay into a fun 
 game with a great sense of humour. Comments from your minions, people you meet in the game and 
 your mistress often raise a chuckle and once you get used to the gameplay, the changing environments, 
 tasks, characters and situation keeps it from getting stale, it is very enjoyable sending the minion 
 on a rampage through a section then seeing something amusing. If you get used to the controls, 
 this is a game well worth playing, after all it fills the most simple need of games, to have fun. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Soundwarp
Rating: 7
Date: Jul 3, 2008 10:08 pm PT
Review:  OK i got this game on Tuesday, it's now Friday and i've taken it back and swapped for another. 
 This isn't to say i diddn't have fun with it though. I did really get some good laughs from the 
 little character quirks of the Minions but they eventually died off. Using minions instead of my 
 axe diddn't bother me too much thanks to the previews of the game here at Gamespot i knew that 
 was how the game played. It does seem (To me) to take the mickey out of The Lord Of The Rings series 
 which added to the humour of the game. After several hours i did find myself just playing it to 
 finish it though : (
  
  I do beleice that kids will get more of a kick out of it than a 29 year old did. There is some 
 upgrading that can be done to both your Overlord and to your domain but it does fall way short 
 of what you would need to keep you glued to your set just so you can get enough cash and life forces 
 to uprade everything. 
  
  So a 7.0 from me due to the laughs i got out of it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: alhazim
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 26, 2008 2:22 am PT
Review:  this game in last year may be less than i don't know excacly the date , anyway this game ( ( ( overlord 
 raising hell ) ) ) real great game for type fantasy action advntures , this game making challenging 
 between players all you why this ? lets beginning every body i will start with the score specily 
 eral score on this game ( ( overlord raising hell ) ) , first thing storyline not bad in all sides 
 but not perfect in the same time and thats score 8.8 , and second thing the effect on this game 
 realy lovely effects specily for this game and thats real score for this is 9.1 , and third thing 
 is speed for this game is good !! no but very good this speed for this game is make great game 
 fantasy action adventure yet and real score for this is 9.7 , and last thing for this game is great 
 lovely graphics is soft for see its a lovely game for me and real score for this game is 10.0 last 
 word for me this game not bad in all sides but in other side great lovely game yet 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
