-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Prince of Persia
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/ps3/action/princeofpersiaworkingtitle/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Intricate level design.
 Beautiful art direction.
 Platforming is entertaining and looks great.
 Cinematic combat moves are cool to pull off and impressive to watch.
 Elika's presence leads to unique gameplay mechanics.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Really, really easy.
 The new prince isn't a good leading man.
 Some combat and platforming annoyances.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Dec  2, 2008
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 8
Critic Score: 8.4, 46 Review (s)
User Score: 8.5, 1,663 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Ubisoft
Developer: Ubisoft Montreal
Genre: Fantasy Action Adventure
Date: Dec 2, 2008
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Prince of Persia's shimmering veneer and joyous platforming will cast a spell on you. 

  In many modern games, you rain death upon your enemies; how refreshing, then, that your main task 
 in Prince of Persia is to breathe life into a darkening world. That doesn't mean that the forces 
 of evil aren't on your tail in this open-world platformer, but the most indelible moments of this 
 enchanting journey are uplifting, rather than destructive. Similarly, the latest iteration in this 
 long-running franchise is a rejuvenation for the series, and it's an ambitious one, offering up 
 a new titular prince and casting certain game traditions aside in favor of player immersion. And 
 for the most part it succeeds, eliminating illusion-breaking mechanics like game-over screens and 
 long loading times in the process. This re-imagining comes with a few caveats, however, and if 
 you're a longtime series fan, you'll quickly discover -- and possibly resent -- that Prince of Persia 
 is, far and away, the easiest game in the series. But if you can clear your mind and let the game's 
 magic wash over you, its easygoing joy and visual beauty will charm you into forgiving a sprinkling 
 of flaws.  

           The prince's sword is sharper than his tongue.      

  In some ways, Prince of Persia represents a return to Sands of Time's storybook vibe, which had 
 been somewhat lost in that game's two sequels. Yet our new hero isn't exactly Prince Charming, 
 but rather a wisecracking nomad interested only in his donkey (named Farah, in one of several nods 
 to previous games) and the riches she apparently carries. His royal status is referenced but never 
 fully explored, though his companion Elika is clearly a princess, and as the game progresses, you'll 
 become much more invested in her past than the prince's. Together, they seek to imprison the evil 
 god Ahriman, who has been inexplicably set free by Elika's own father. To do so, they must restore 
 a series of fertile grounds to their former fecund glory, thereby banishing the inky black corruption 
 that has enveloped the land. Storytelling isn't the game's strong suit, and the dismissive, often 
 unlikeable prince is hardly beguiling, a poor fit for the captivating journey ahead. Thankfully, 
 Elika exudes enough charm for the both of them, and the relationship they slowly forge lends plenty 
 of emotional impact to the game's final moments.  

  This relationship enriches the very core of the experience, given that Elika is not your standard 
 game sidekick. She isn't just a helpless companion, but an important part of a number of gameplay 
 mechanics. As the prince, you will pull off moves familiar to franchise fans: jumping, climbing, 
 scaling, and wallrunning among them. There are also a few new acrobatics to play with, such as 
 the aptly named roofrun, where the prince scuttles along the roof in a vaguely simian manner. But 
 if the moves are familiar, Elika's presence enriches and enhances them. She will jump on your back 
 as you scale across vines, reach for your helping hand as you climb, and perform an elegant pas 
 de deux with you when you need to pass her on a narrow beam. In some ways, this relationship recalls 
 that of Ico and Yorda in 2001's ICO.  

  While in ICO Yorda was totally dependent on her companion, here Elika is far more helpful to the 
 prince than he is to her. She is, in fact, your constant savior, because she will not, and cannot, 
 allow you to die. Should you fall, Elika will grab you by the wrist and whisk you to safety -- meaning 
 the last checkpoint. There is a checkpoint at almost every platform, so aside from possibly having 
 to repeat a few seconds of gameplay, there is absolutely no penalty for plummeting to your doom. 
 You will never see the words "game over," and you won't need to save and reload before difficult 
 sequences. Nor will you need to ever puzzle over how to make it from point A to point B: Elika 
 can fire off a magical homing orb that will show you the precise way of getting to your destination. 
 Combined with simple platforming controls that require a minimum of button presses, these facets 
 make Prince of Persia one of the easiest games you'll play all year.  

           Some moments are absolutely magical.      

  This ease of use makes each individual 
 action seem relatively meaningless as you string moves together. For many, this will translate 
 to a diminished feeling of reward; aside from a few exceptions, there is no sequence that feels 
 remotely challenging, certainly not for players familiar with the old-school difficulties wrought 
 by the early games in the series. Yet while the unique satisfaction of overcoming hurdles is missing, 
 it is tempered by other kinds of rewards. The platforming is fluid, and seamlessly chaining a number 
 of moves together is simple but visually appealing, making for some silky-smooth motion that you'll 
 get a kick out of. Additionally, as you progress through the game and explore some of the more 
 intricate environments, you'll find some truly impressive level design. Each area flows organically 
 into the next, and while the overall design feels a bit more synthetic than it did in Assassin's 
 Creed, platform placement and other architectural features don't feel overtly artificial.  

  The stupendous level design becomes more apparent when you begin to unlock Elika's various powers -- though 
 calling them powers is a bit of a stretch. As you unlock new explorable areas by collecting glowing 
 orbs called light seeds, you will be able to utilize the various colored plates that dot walls 
 and ceilings. There are four types of plates, and each kind initiates a high-flying feat. Red and 
 blue plates are functionally the same (though visually unique) , propelling you automatically toward 
 the next plate or platform. Green plates turn you into a sort of Persian Spider-Man, causing you 
 to quickly scale up walls and ceilings while avoiding obstacles. Finally, yellow plates initiate 
 on-rails flight sequences that give you limited room to maneuver around obstructions, sort of like 
 a 3D version of Nights Into Dreams, the Saturn platformer. Many of the sequences combining plate 
 jumps and standard platforming are exhilarating, and the manner in which some of them utilize all 
 three dimensions make the level design all the more impressive. And amazingly, the camera is rarely 
 a liability, which is quite an achievement. Unfortunately, the flying initiated by leaping from 
 yellow plates is a clear weakness. The constant camera movement and overwhelming visual effect 
 used here make for a few annoying sections, and it is never clear whether you need to go left or 
 right, up or down to avoid certain objects. Given that most of the plate-initiated bits are terrific 
 fun, it's a shame these particular flights of fancy were so poorly crafted.  

  There is some combat, and while it's hardly Prince of Persia's focus, it looks mightily spectacular. 
 You fight only a single enemy at a time, including the four main bosses, which you'll take on multiple 
 times. Battles are on the simple side: you have four main attacks -- sword, gauntlet, Elika's magic, 
 and acrobatic vault -- that you can string into various combos. Enemies can change states, making 
 certain attacks ineffective, and there are some other occasional twists. Yet like the platforming, 
 it is on the easy side; even if Elika is bound by corrupted tentacles or rendered unconscious, 
 she's always there to pluck you from death's cold embrace should you miss an important quick-time 
 button event (of which there are many) . But battles are still uniquely satisfying and look fantastic. 
 The prince throws Elika into the air with ease, stringing throws, slices, and magic attacks together 
 as the camera zooms in and out to showcase the slashes and backflips. The stringent enemy-focused 
 camera and odd scuttling motions of the prince feel confining but work just fine in most of these 
 battles, though they're a bit less successful during certain boss fights that require some environmental 
 manipulation.  

           With Elika along for the ride, two is never a crowd.      

  Combat's not the only thing that looks spectacular. Prince of Persia is beautiful to look at, thanks 
 to vibrant cel-shading and some sumptuous environments. Tendrils of corruption reach toward you 
 as you navigate the cold, colorless caverns of infertile regions. The contrast between these areas 
 and the beautifully lit vistas and thriving vegetation of healed locales is palpable, and the transformation 
 of a fertile ground from darkness to light may remind you of similarly impressive moments in Okami. 
 There are a few rough spots here and there, in the way of glitched animations and tiny frame rate 
 stutters, but they barely detract from the lovely visual design. While there are some minor differences, 
 all three versions look great and well represent the capabilities of their respective platforms. 
 And all three feature the same lovely ambient music, which sounds more Persian than the very American-sounding 
 prince.  

  Most will be able to finish Prince of Persia in around a dozen hours, though if you want to collect 
 every scattered light seed and avoid quick travel (you can teleport from one healed ground to another 
 instantly) , you could add a few more hours to the total. But while a few unlockable skins may not 
 seem like enough reason to return, this game is so enjoyable and delightful that you may want to 
 return to it as you would return to a favorite fantasy novel or film. While its lack of challenge 
 may lull fans, its ease of use will delight newcomers and draw in anyone who appreciates a touch 
 of magic.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (127 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: demck85_basic
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 18, 2009 9:46 pm PT
Review:  The game was pretty straight forward. Unlike the other series, there was no weapon upgrade and 
 no special powers to deal with the main character. Overall, the game is pretty much, beat the bad 
 guy in the area, and move on until you get to the end. You start to enjoy the main character more 
 due to his wise-cracks and smart remarks. Though, he hardly shows any compassion for the situation, 
 you still get behind him 100%.
  
  The main plot is okay, not riveting or twisting, pretty straight forward. Though, it was more than 
 likely the easiest Prince of Persia game, it was still fun. Though, has you play you kept waiting 
 for the "hero's" donkey to come back.
  
  Visually, it's amazing!! Enough said there, it worth playing to see the bright colors, and dim 
 and dark areas throughout the game. The new style of the game is truly the best of the series. 
 The characters and levels are beautifully done.
  
  The game is worth playing. You don't even need to be a fan or know anything of the other series, 
 since this is a whole new story and new "prince." 
::::::

::::::
UserName: theIDENTITYof
Rating: 7
Date: Apr 11, 2009 2:03 pm PT
Review:  well, it was ok... personally, i wouldn't say that it was a rip-off, but not exactly worth it either. 
 it only has 8 hours of gameplay, and it may seem like a lot to explore, but it really isn't. the 
 graphics are ok, but i guess it's not too hard to animate because it's just, like, plants and rocks 
 and stuff... compared to some others, like assassin's creed, which was made by the same people. 
 well, same company, but whatever. i think i finished Prince of Persia the week i got it, actually. 
 so, um, not too much to do. defeating the enemies isn't something that's hard to do. you can just 
 do the same move over and over again three times and you'll be done. but seriously, don't waste 
 your money on buying the epilogue. it was ten bucks or something for maybe only an hour and a half 
 of gameplay, (or maybe just an hour, since i was pretty slow.) i think i finished it in one sitting. 
 i'm not saying that PoP was a bad game, just that it probably could have been more... i wish he 
 had more weapons. : ( having elika just wasn't enough. and i thought that it was kind of stupid 
 that he never really died since elika could save him every single time that he would almost-die. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: blue4avenger
Rating: 7.5
Date: Apr 7, 2009 9:59 am PT
Review:  Today, my sister will be doing her first review for Gamespot and a review of her first PS3 game- 
 Prince of Persia
  
  The long-running series Prince of Persia has returned to its original title with no subtitle (we 
 actually had to call this "Prince of Persia 2008") and no number (it would actually be 
  "7") . I didn't know you were allowed to do that But hey, it's fair enough as they went with a 
 whole new look, fundamentally changed gameplay, and a female companion whose constantly by your 
 side and whose name fully deserves to be in the title as much as Daxter, Kazooie, or Clank.
  
  In fact, according to the manual, the Prince is not even a prince at all, just a smart-aleck 
 adventurer or possibly a thief who is looking for his donkey that he claims is laden with gold. 
 One magical sandstorm later, he finds himself in the middle of a celestial war, teamed up with 
 a hottie named Elika who actually is a princess.
  
  Once upon a time, the magical land in which the "Prince" now finds himself trapped was balanced 
 between the god of light, Ormazd, and the god of darkness, Ahriman. But Ahriman got greedy and 
 there was a terrible war. Ormazd tricked Ahriman into the Tree of Life, where he became trapped; 
 however, Ormazd was so disgusted by the whole thing that he just took off sulking into the universe, 
 leaving his brother bound. 
  
  Of course that never lasts, and Ahriman is beginning to escape his prison as evidenced by the "corruption" 
 spreading everywhere. The Prince, of course, must battle that corruption and slam the cell door 
 closed again. True to the game's roots, he does this by leaping, swinging, running along walls, 
 and performing other acrobatic feats that are just this side of slightly impossible. 
  
  However, this time he's not alone. Have you ever wondered why you could double jump in games? Get 
 up and try it. You can't do it. But now I've figured it out. In all those games, you had a partner 
 Elika along with you, only she was invisible. Yes, Elika is your double jump, your magical weapon, 
 your power-up at certain glyphs dotting the landscape, but more importantly, your savior.
  
  You cannot die in Prince of Persia, not under any circumstances, because Elika always saves 
 you. Falling off a cliff? She flies in and grabs you. Sinking into corruption? She pulls you out. 
 About to get stabbed? She blasts the enemy off you. Ran out of toilet paper? She never mind.
 
  
  It's a nice game mechanic because while it fundamentally is no different from the die-try-again, 
 die-try-again, die-try-again game (Mirror's Edge, I'm looking at you) , it feels different. With 
 no loading time and no "you just failed" attitude, it makes the whole thing a happier, more fun 
 experience.
  
  And you can count on Elika to save you time and time again, especially if you try and play like 
 previous Prince of Persia games. While there may be two or three paths to get to where you are 
 going, and you can tackle the game's challenges in any order you choose, the path you end up choosing 
 only has one exact way through it. So if it's Run, Jump, Swing, Double Jump, Swing, Wall Run, Taa 
 Daa!, that's the only combo that will get you down the hallway. Try it until you succeed.
  
  This makes PoP play a lot like a three-button rhythm game with environmental clues coming at 
 you instead of colored dots. Imagine Bike Hero except without all the ground markings, which then 
 I guess is just like imagining a Bike Ride. Not all that exciting, is it? 
  
  The only other gameplay element is the combat, which is fairly infrequent and entirely duel-based. 
 Yes, the Prince's battles are always one on one. Actually, it's two on one if you count Elika, 
 and of course since she's around, you cannot die. If I were Ahriman, I'd cry foul. Like the wall 
 running, it's also timing intensive and revolves around enemies going into particular "states" 
 which can only be broken by a specific button press particular kind of attack. It's not brilliant, 
 but it allows for some cinematic moments.
  
  Speaking of which, the whole game is very, very pretty. Ubisoft remade the look with a semi-cel-shaded 
 effect that makes everything look like a combination of a cartoon, a stained glass window, and 
 a painting. It doesn't work quite as well as Okami, but it works very well indeed. Both the Prince 
 and Elika look great, as do the varied environments, especially after they've been cleansed of 
 corruption.
  
  The sound also excels, with a terrific score that varies from vaguely Middle Eastern soft tones 
 to vaulting symphonic pieces clearly inspired by the soundtrack of Laurence of Arabia. Also there's 
 great voice-acting for the frat-boy sense of humor Prince and the more earnest Elika. There's even 
 a talk button for people who want more dialogue with their action.
  
  Unlocking areas is one of the places where the game breaks down a bit. In order to get to every 
 area of the map and restore all the fertile grounds, you'll need to collect all of Elika's four 
 magic powers. In order to get those, you need to collect the "light orbs/seeds/stationary spherical 
 fireflies" that appear after a land has been cleansed. It just feels like a cheap way to get you 
 to run through the same paths a second time. And they're exactly the same too, with all the same 
 jumps and falls, just prettier since all the corruption is gone. So it's still less of an open 
 environment and more like that game you played as a kid where the floor was poison and you all 
 had to run around the house on the furniture (and your house was only two hallways leading to the 
 same door) .
  
  And why am I helping to cleanse these lands anyway? (Other than to perhaps impress the hot chick.) 
 There's nobody in them. They're empty, so who cares if they're corrupt? The crumbling city has 
 been abandoned for a thousand years. Let it go.
  
  And with no multiplayer, PoP is about a 12-hour single-player experience, and only masochists will 
 try and find all 1001 light orbs (you get new costumes) .
  
  Even if there's no particular reason for it, Prince of Persia is a fun romp through a desert temple. 
 The parkour-heavy gameplay looks impressive and is satisfying without being too frustrating. So 
 head on over to your local store and pick up a copy of Princess Elika and That Nameless Drifter 
 Guy Looking For His Donkey.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: bella1970
Rating: 6
Date: Mar 29, 2009 10:17 am PT
Review:  Graphics: The game is beautiful, enough said. There are luscious colors in every environment and 
 nothing can be said to say that the graphics earn a 10. Good Job!
  
  Gameplay: The game play is super easy. My counter on my PS3 said that I had played for about 12 
 hours with the breaks I took and the pauses. They have all the old moves from the other Pop's, 
 but there is nothing fun about it. This is like a Bio Shock game where there is one on one combat 
 and you will never die.... might as well just stand there and get beaten up because you wont die 
 thanks to Elika. She is your girlfriend throughout the game basically because they flirt all the 
 time if you talk to her. Basically the game play gets a 5 for it being too easy and cheesy. 
  
  Extras: The trophies are the easiest to get on the system.
  
  General: This game looks 
 nice, but doesn't give anyone a challenge when played and will get boring since you never die or 
 get challenged. 6/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mInDsHiFtEr
Rating: 6
Date: Mar 26, 2009 1:39 am PT
Review:  Well, I rented this game b/c I thought the critics insight was enough to persuade me into thinking 
 that it might be worth trying out. They said the graphics were stunning with the environment background. 
 I don't think it is from the blocky frame rate of the character movement, and the simplistic (almost 
 childlike) atmosphere you're supposed to be indulged in. I could've used a little more detail in 
 the environmnent, especially with the lack of any sort of plot. The game is based on a princess 
 whose in need of help to eliminate the black blob threat (the corruption) in order to save her 
 kingdom. It has you to unlock a group of 4 levels in order to get to the sub-boss, eventually unlocking 
 4 sub-bosses to get to the main boss. The basic premise of a video game sequence. 
  
  The dialogue was close to being an anime meets chronicles of narnia with the same 'ol do-good attitude 
 of the hero whose main priority is to tell kids to "Be cool, stay in school". I mean, come on, 
 I get it. You want to save the world with a mindless button mashing, except there's really not 
 even that many buttons to press. The controls are EXTREMELY limited. You're having to jump or crawl 
 across cataclysms pretty much the entire game. The only time you're able to wield the one and only 
 sword is against the same black guey-blob of a bad guy. 
  
  Ok, I would rather play Tomb Raider with its old-fashioned gameplay mechanics than this game. Mainly, 
 b/c you almost get the feeling that the developers copied off some of Tomb Raiders level design 
 and character movements, but only to the extent that a 10 year old child would appreciate. The 
 only reason I'm not giving it a 5 is b/c the main boss battle had its own unique style. 
  
  When it's all said and done, the graphics aren't anything to rave about, the controls are sticky, 
 the campaign is short, and the plot is boring. Not even worth renting in my book. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bofish
Rating: 7
Date: Mar 15, 2009 12:23 pm PT
Review:  It's fun moving around and running against walls doing acrobatics, however, there's no story in 
 this. The sword fighting is weak to me too.
  
  Pros: My first gameplay was pretty fun. It's fun climbing around and making leaps from one ledge 
 to another. I thought it was a very different type of adventure game, never played anything like 
 it. The character design is very strong and there were some breathtaking backgrounds. 
  
  Cons: I don't think anyone put any thought into the storyline. It's like someone probably spent 
 20 minutes writing this thing. The story goes like this: you have a hero, a princess, light vs 
 darkness, there's bad guys, and that's it... The fighting goes like this: you walk up to one enemy 
 at a time with your sword, you hit, you block, and use different combos. The game is very easy 
 too.
  
  Conclusion: I had a nice experience playing this, the game was only $39.99 right off the shelf, 
 but after the first week of playing this I haven't touched it for months. I would rent it...
  
  I 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AzelKosMos
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 15, 2009 5:47 am PT
Review:  I will say this before i start this review, I hated the first three Prince of Persia games on the 
 PS2. I got to them late in the systems life span which i don't think did them any favors, so i 
 decided to pick up the newest installment as early as i could to give it a better chance. I loved 
 it for the most part though i notice from reviews a lot of fans of the series hate it. Coincidence? 
 I think not, but then Prince of Persia (PS3) is quite a departure from previous installments.
 
  
  The game starts with a man shouting out the name "Farah" while stumbling though a sandstorm. After 
 falling into a ravine, then having a woman fall on him, then having a dark god released trying 
 to destroy the world, it really isn't his day. And to think he was just looking for a donkey.
 
  
  One of the best parts about Prince of Persia is the character interactions, Elika (the aforementioned 
 woman) and the Prince are both surprisingly likable and full of witty banter that can be activated 
 at any time with L1 or L2, with more dialogue opened up as you proceed through the game.
  
  The premise for the title is very simple, Arhiman the dark god has been released, and it's up to 
 you to put him back, to do this the Prince must use Elika's recently found magic to seal all the 
 fertile grounds that hold the power to keep him imprisoned. Of course getting to them is never 
 easy, the Prince will have to run along walls, climb poles and even scamper along ceilings to got 
 to where they are in the secret ruined city he stumbled upon. Fortunately though due to the control 
 scheme though this isn't a problem, with the touch of a button the Prince will flip around like 
 an acrobat, always interpreting your moves through brilliant design.
  
  When a fertile ground is healed it turns the barren looking landscape into a lush paradise in a 
 colour changing wave reminiscent of Okami. Once the power has cleared there will be these objects 
 called light seeds floating around the level that need to be collected to unlock a new power for 
 Elika. To finish the game you need about 540 though there are 1001 total, and most are easy to 
 get with a few sneaky ones hidden around here and there for the perfectionists to hunt for. The 
 power Elika gains activates the corresponding coloured plates hanging around every stage, some 
 of which give access to light seeds and others to more fertile grounds. Depending on the power 
 the plate may bounce you from plate to plate, make you run along ceilings, or even briefly fly.
 
  
  Arhimans followers the "corrupted" and his soldiers have also been released unfortunately and are 
 ready to stand in your way while Arhiman gains his power over time. So every Fertile ground will 
 have to be fought for. This in itself would be great except that over 20 fertile grounds you only 
 fight 4 bosses and a couple of soldiers in between. It's not game breaking and i can see why they 
 did it as Elika gives some back story to each as you progress should you talk to her but a bit 
 more variety would have been nice.
  
  Death has many meanings and interpretations throughout human history. Ubisoft Montreal decided 
 to remove it completely from Prince of Persia however, at least at a base level. You do still die, 
 if you fail a jump, or if a corrupted pummels you but when this happens Elika saves you. What Ubisoft 
 has done is remove the game over screen to keep the flow going and i love it. That failed jump? 
 Elika grabs you and takes you to the last platform you were on so you get to try again. That boss? 
 Elika uses her magic last minute to save you however as punishment the boss recovers some health 
 making you think about being more careful next time. For a game with so much platforming and fighting 
 it is so relaxing, that element of frustration has been removed and it was so simple.
  
  Visually Prince of Persia is just stunning, absolutely stunning. The game is cell shaded but so 
 detailed and colourful with amazing environments. I saw an interview with one of the makers of 
 the game who said they were trying to make the game look just like the concept art and they really 
 succeeded. However it doesn't end there, with the amount of climbing the Prince does, these visuals 
 would be for nothing without decent animations, and once again they are brilliant, almost like 
 ICO in many ways, grabbing Elika"s hand to throw her to a ledge, scrambling along walls, every 
 single thing is perfect. 
  
  The sound is also spot on, with some haunting scores in the fights, but some uplifted more relaxing 
 tunes in the healed fertile grounds, though oddly maybe once or twice (in 12 hours) the music cut 
 out for quarter of a second though i'm not sure why. The voice acting is also near perfect with 
 Nolan North (Uncharted's Nathan Drake) playing the Prince, in which his sarcasm rolls in waves, 
 very entertaining.
  
  The game lasts for about 12 hours give or take, I got every light seed and all trophies in one 
 run in under 12 hours so you could do it quicker if you explored less. Outside of collecting trophies 
 though it doesn't have a hell of a lot of re-playability except for a few extra costumes to unlock 
 of Altair from Assassins Creed and Jade from beyond good & evil.
  
  I really can't recommend POP enough to fantasy adventure fans, it has brilliant level design, humour, 
 and amazing visuals that i think will impress still for years to come. Unfortunately some repetitive 
 boss fights and an ending that should have been cut at a certain point imo hold it back, while 
 these are small flaws they harm the overall experience but the good certainly out weighs the bad.
 
  
  The Epilogue - 6.5 / 10
  
  When i started to play Prince of Persia some DLC for it came out called "The Epilogue" which obviously 
 i bought as i'm writing about it :P 
  
  Gameplay wise It is essentially the same except for a couple of differences, it's more frustrating 
 and there is a new purple plate power to mess with. 
  
  The Epilogue lasts for about 2 hours, but in that time i saw more black blobs of corruption traveling 
 on walls in the Princes path then in the entire main game. One touch and it's death, start again. 
 It was pretty infuriating really that they made it so much harder to move around and the camera 
 angles didn't help, a problem that i didn't have in the main game once again.
  
  The new Purple plate at least was pretty cool, once touched it would launch you wall running but 
 often on walls that weren't there, ones made of energy from the plate, they don't last long though 
 so the prince has to haul it over them. A nice touch.
  
  Like in the main game there are enemies of Arhiman to fight, like in the main game... they are the 
 same ones! Ubisoft recycled the "corrupted" into a "shapeshifter" that swaps between them when 
 beaten though i only saw two changes, even one new enemy would have been nice.
  
  To top it all off the interactions between the Prince and Elika lost most of the humour they had 
 with Elika being pretty pissed off and emo which didn't impress me to much as i had enjoyed their 
 conversation so much in the main game.
  
  Wait, there's more. The epilogue ended on a cliffhanger which if there is a sequel that resolves 
 it all I can handle but if they just end it like that i won't be impressed, overall the Epilogue 
 was really not anywhere near as good as the main game, though if you want a bit more wall climbing 
 and a bit more of an extra challenge then this is for you.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: HarrisDo
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 18, 2009 9:24 am PT
Review:  This new prince of persia game, isn't as the other games in the serie. It's an alternative game 
 with a lot more effects and awkward graphics.
  
  It is sure that the game will appeal to you especialy in the firts stages. However when you reach 
 50% of the game you will understand that there isn't a lot of fun doing the same things again and 
 again and that is when the drawbacks start.
  
  Let's start from the battles. Although there is a wide variety of combos to do the battles are weak 
 and very little. You get annoyed fighting with the same enemies all the time. Moreover the game is 
 extremely EASY. You never die, as Elica (your partner in the game) saves you always.
  
  All the above doesn't make POP a bad game. It is a worth playing game that is reffered mainly to 
 the people who search something different. The whole game is a succeed. The enviroment is excellent 
 designed. Some moment are magical. Although the graphics are like cartoons they are a result of a 
 lot of work and that can be seen. The acrobatic moves are wonderful and there are also some very 
 smart puzzles. The plot is very good and it sometimes reminds you ''the sands of time''.
  
  This game is in my point of view wonderfull despite some dissadvantages. A PS3 MUST!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: trevman7
Rating: 7.5
Date: Mar 11, 2009 9:18 am PT
Review:  The environment was absolutely stunning. The combat combo sequences were really cool. Unfortunately 
 I found myself doing the same ones over and over again once i figured out which ones did the most 
 damage. Also, you fought all 4 of the minor bosses in almost the same way, except for the big rock 
 dude. Still, I enjoyed exploring the awesome environment, and by exploring I mean jumping from 
 walls to rings to force plates to whatever. Also, the voice acting and script were entertaining 
 and funny even when it was somewhat cliche. While the inability of the main character to die is 
 preferable in the travelling/light seed collecting sequences, I found the fact that the bosses 
 cannot defeat you slightly dissapointing. It took away that sense of accomplishment you get after 
 attempting to defeat a boss several times then finally doing it. When you fight bosses here you 
 always win on your first attempt. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Subterranean500
Rating: 6.5
Date: Mar 11, 2009 5:18 am PT
Review:  The original Prince of Persia was about rescuing a princess and you had an hour to do so. The series 
 was given a reboot in 2003, by Ubisoft, called Prince of Persia: Sands of Time. It was praised 
 for its go everywhere style of platforming and it spawned two sequels, popularly referred to as 
 the Sands of Time Trilogy. Now the Prince is back, cell-shading style.
  
  Story
  ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  The game follows the Prince, as he's caught in a sandstorm. He stumbles into a canyon and finds 
 a woman named Elika, who's on the run from her dad and his soldiers. Unfortunately, Elika accidently 
 leads her dad into the Temple of Life and he destroys the Tree of Life, releasing Ahriman, who 
 then plagues the land with darkness and now Elika and the Prince must work together to save the 
 land. The plot is nothing special, but it's not a bad plot, just decent. Nothing surprising here, 
 except for the ending which feels like a kick in the balls, after all you've done in the game. 
 There are not a lot of characters either and the character development is mixed, it all depends 
 if you listen to one of the many optional conversations the Prince and Elika have. No matter what 
 though, the Prince is annoying and a jerk... Also for some reason, nothing is mentioned of the 
 Prince being.... well a Prince, and it should be noted that this is a reboot, for some weird reason.
 
  
  7.0
  
  Gameplay
  -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  The 
 gameplay is similar to the Sands of Time trilogy, though with a few changes. The Prince now has 
 a claw, so whenever you have to go down, you just hold down the R2 button and he'll stick the claw 
 to the wall while he's going down, kinda reminds of pair of sharp nails, scraping across the chalkboard, 
 just less painful to hear. You also have Elika, who will help you get across a few large gaps and 
 pointing out where you have to go. Then there's the combat, which involves blocking, attacking, 
 the usual stuff, and you can use Elika's magic to help you out. Outside of combat, your goal is 
 to visit the fertile grounds and heal the lands, after which certain parts of the land becomes 
 unlocked and the collecting of light seeds begins. After a certain amount, you can go to the temple, 
 get a new power and move on.
  
  Exploring is fun, but the gameplay brings a lot of complaints forth. The game is simply too easy, 
 the game tells you when to double jump, when to block and so forth. Combat has been drastically 
 reduced, gone is the acrobatic Prince's attacks, replaced by blocking, magic, simple attacks and 
 a very slow moving Prince. The combat quickly becomes annoying. When your low on health, you get 
 thrown into a quick time event, and if you win, you get all of your health restored. There's some 
 small quick time events triggered by the bosses themselves, but their hard to master completely, 
 as they fail, even if you quickly press the right button, at the right time. The camera is really 
 annoying, often showing a bad view of where you need to go and obscuring the controls, so you'll 
 die, a lot. Actually that's a lie, everytime you're even close to dying, Elika comes in and saves 
 you, removing all of the game's challenge. Fall into a hole? Elika saves you. Fail a quick time 
 event? Elika saves you.
  
  Another problem with game is, that it's too repetive. Each of the 4 bosses have to be fought 6 
 times in total before their killed and each time it's the same stragety. You have to heal 20 fertile 
 grounds and after that you have to backtrack the levels for light seeds, which becomes boring after 
 a while.
  
  The game takes around 8-12 hours to complete, after that there's no replay value whatsoever, unless 
 you love throphies/achievements. 
  
  6.0
  
  Graphics
  -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  The 
 graphics are beautiful, the character design and movement is impressive and seeing a land getting 
 restored back to normal, is stunning to look at. More impressively is that your able to go to a 
 high place and see what land has been healed and which lands aren't healed, it looks beautiful. 
 The frame rate doesn't take a dip during this, though it did take a bit hit during the ending.
 
  
  9.5
  
  Sound
  -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  The 
 voice acting is good, even for the Prince dispite him being annoying. The music is good, but it 
 get's repetitive too, after hearing the same theme over and over again.
  
  8.5
  
  Overall
  ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  Prince of Persia's biggest problem is that it suffers from the casual gaming syndrome. The game 
 is too easy (dispite camera and control issues) and the gameplay is very repetitive and becomes 
 boring in the end, dispite the exploring being fun as always. It's a downgrade of the old Prince 
 of Persia games, as such; fans of the Sands of Time Trilogy have to embrace the changes, in order 
 to enjoy this installment. Here's hoping that the sequel (if there is one) will be better and a 
 return to the acrobatic combat, and a bit harder.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: misterhumbug
Rating: 7.5
Date: Mar 9, 2009 11:35 am PT
Review:  This is the first Prince of Persia game I've ever played, so I don't have any baggage from the 
 earlier franchise that I'm bringing to bear here. With that said, while I found the new Prince 
 of Persia game to be beautiful to look at and fun to play, after a while certain aspects of the 
 game became somewhat repetitive, and others became downright frustrating.
  
  The game looks fantastic. The artistically-hand-drawn graphics and textures were really impressive, 
 and the character modeling for the Prince and his lovely cohort, Elika, were equally so. The city 
 was architecturally very interesting, and once you cleaned the Corruption from a region, the rich 
 colors stood out, and in a couple of instances the panoramas were truly breathtaking. The animation 
 was crisp and clean, and some of the combat-maneuvers were pleasantly cinematic. The characters 
 and story were compelling enough to keep my interest, though we hardly learn anything about the 
 Prince and his past. Elika is a very strong character, and you really tend to feel more in tune 
 with her than the Prince. The background story was very interesting, and I found myself wondering 
 more about the past of this fallen city and dying population than about the current plot. The voice 
 acting was good, but the real achievement was in the soundtrack. I found myself looking to purchase 
 the soundtrack on iTunes or Amazon, but sadly all I found was the music for the older Prince of 
 Persia games.
  
  The gameplay was easy enough once you got the hang of it. Maybe too easy, in fact. The control 
 scheme was simple and straightforward, with only a few basic moves that you could combo together 
 for more complicated maneuvers. Throughout the game, you could always rely on Elika to save your 
 bacon if you get into trouble. Actually, that was one of the annoying bits of the game. Elika would 
 save you even when you didn't necessarily need saving, like sometimes when you were in combat. 
 Like in other similar games, when your opponents would rush you or perform a special move, and 
 you would be prompted to hit one of the face-buttons on the controller to counter the move. In 
 my opinion, though, the execution of this was quite annoying, because most of the time you would 
 have nary a microsecond to see the prompted button and hit it on the controller. Who has those 
 kind of reflexes in real life? I presumed there was some sort of pattern that would help you predict 
 which button to push, but I certainly couldn't discern it. And in some of the running/action bits, 
 when Elika used a power to magically launch you to your next goal, you would have to string your 
 way through a chain of events, and if you were even a nanometer off target, it could annoyingly 
 launch you back to the beginning.
  
  Aside from those gripes, however, I found the game to be enjoyable and compelling. It looks beautiful, 
 sounds fantastic, and can provide anyone with several hours of gaming pleasure. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hameedox2
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 8, 2009 8:11 am PT
Review:  Prince Of Persia new sibling has born. Many new features have been introduced in this sequel.
 
  
  
  Starting with motion, it is almost like previous versions. You can run on walls, climb to trees, 
 etc. The new great thing is the coop jump that is between the prince and Elika. This is useful 
 for long jumps as it gives you the ability to jump longer and longer. 
  
  
  About graphics, the game is not that well accepted graphics design. To be honest, I imagine myself 
 playing PS2 instead of PS3. The graphics are not the much clear and it becomes worse and worse 
 whenever you arrive to a darker area. Even character's graphic is not that much good. This thing 
 makes it little bit unacceptable in comparison with uncharted or metal gear or any other games 
 that have great graphics.
  
  
  
  No weapons are used here you only have a sword and multiple combination. The prince can perform 
 different combos with his partner Elika. This makes it a great feature in the game. Prince can 
 execute different combos; air, grab, etc. Also light seeds introduced here. After healing any land, 
 light seeds will come out.
  
  
  The good thing about the game is that you are not playing in a sequence i. e. you can play from 
 whatever land you wish. just unlock the area and go to heal it. This makes it very flexible and 
 interesting to play.
  
  
  Trophies are some how easy to earned. You may face difficulties at the beginning, but you will 
 see it is easy.
  
  
  Nothing more to write about POP. That is if folks.
  
  
  
  Regards, 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dj_omid1
Rating: 7.5
Date: Mar 6, 2009 11:32 pm PT
Review:  Prince of Persia....
  Yeah I don't get the name... the guy's not Persian, and the "prince" name is just a nickname, and 
 the story got nothing to do with Persia... yeah so if anyone knows the story please tell me.
  This game wasn't as good as I expected, well all you did was jump around, kill people, jump around, 
 collect beam lights, jump around, kill people.
  Yeah that was pretty much it...
  Everytime that you are dying are falling or something that is going to end up dying.... guess what?! 
 you WON'T DIE!
  Yeah how's that for a game? Even if you want to suicide Erika won't let you...
  I think she should 
 be hired for the 9-1-1 services, she can really help people...
  Well anyway the game was ok, but as I said, it was like a routine...
  The cutscences were actually 
 pretty good, and about the story...
  The story seemed ok, it wasn't that surprising...
  Anyway I'd say rent it before you buy it... 
  Thanks and BYE! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: parryr
Rating: 5
Date: Feb 26, 2009 3:07 pm PT
Review:  Nothing special about this game except for it's fantastic graphic... really, that's it.
  
  There's hardly any fighting, and it barely can claim more than button mashing.
  
  The characters 
 never upgrade so what you get in the beginning is what you have all the way through to the end.
 
  
  Objectives are the EXACT same for every level. Chasing orbs is fun for the first level, but I got 
 sick of it within an hour.
  
  You can never die so it's INCREDIBLY easy. Every time you fall or get wounded enough or run into 
 the black goo Elika just grabs your hand and saves you.
  
  Story line is un-thrilling and not very compelling.
  
  Besides the initial little fun of running 
 around and jumping off things, the game gets old very very fast. My hopes were so high for this 
 one as I loved the previous games. I think they should have stuck with the theme of bending time 
 around the will of the main character as this made the game play much more interesting and the 
 story much more compelling. I'm hugely disappointed and am going to be very careful when buying 
 another game in this franchise. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MyopicCanadian
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 21, 2009 12:27 pm PT
Review:  I wasn't sure what to expect with a reboot of the Prince of Persia franchise. I liked the art style 
 before playing the game, but I wasn't sure how the game itself would play out. I was a huge fan 
 of the Sands of Time and wanted something fresher while still providing a similar experience.
 
  
  Prince of Persia was exactly what I hoped for and more. The entire game plays out very well and 
 very easily held my interest. I get bored from a lot of games, but that didn't happen at all with 
 this one. It was always interesting.
  
  The change in acrobatics/traversing the level is really cool, and very well done. Some great moves 
 and they're very easy to use. I have a couple complaints, though. Most of the acrobatics are really 
 easy.. there were only a couple times that I was challenged. And there were some areas and some 
 parts in which it was difficult to get my character to go where I wanted. But that was the exception. 
 Most of the time it was very smooth. 
  
  Also this system is a bit linear at times.. you don't really have the option to choose where you 
 want to go or how to move through a level. You only have one way, and you can go through it all 
 really quickly. It would've been nice to have some more options to move through a level.
  
  The combat is excellent. It's not too deep of a fighting system, but it's enough to keep you involved, 
 and you can learn as many or as few combos as you like. It all works very well to provide a seamless 
 gameplay experience, and if you learn the fighting system well, the enemies become a lot easier 
 to beat down.
  
  Graphics and sound are both amazing. The soundtrack is great. The main song played throughout the 
 game is a really cool piece, all the sounds are fantastic in the game, and the art direction is 
 stellar.
  
  Overall this is a beautiful game. Interesting ending, much better than that Assassin's Creed crap 
 while still leaving the game open (I'm glad they learned from AC) , and everything about the game 
 was done well to provide a great, seamless gameplay experience. If you play it, you'll understand. 
 Everything about the game flows perfectly.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: pushkar90
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 10, 2009 7:24 pm PT
Review:  The game was too easy, there is no difficulty, YOU CAN'T DIE!! and all the puzzle solving and conquering 
 landscape is made too easy with Elika who shows you exactly where to go and how to get there ( 
 i was expecting she would tell me how many steps i will need to take...)
  
  The combat is too simple. There is a button for sword, gauntlet, elika. The prince stays the same 
 throughout the game, no added weapons, no added abilities, just the plot thickens, and you get 
 a better understanding of what is going on.
  
  But anyway, the game is not really a game but an experience more like a movie, a journey that you 
 see the Prince and Elika take. I love the story, and hate it at the same time.
  
  The best thing i like about the game was the graphics. The cities, landscapes are beautifully designed. 
 The whole place has a magical feel to it. The cell shading technique really pays off. Though it 
 would have looked more realistic without it, who cares, its not supposed to be realistic but rather 
 a magical fantasy.
  
  All in all, not really a game but still in love with it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: benleslie5
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 9, 2009 4:54 pm PT
Review:  With the Sands of Times series being a huge sucess back in 2003-2005. 
  Story is completly different where the Prince is out in the desert with his donkey farah carrying 
 riches of gold. But it turns out that his donkey is missing and finds out that there was this princess 
 wondering the desert her name is Elika but you get to know her more about her past and how she 
 got her powers. But Ahriman who is the evil god settern free from Elika's father and all of the 
 land is covered in Darkness and Shadows. So it's up to the Prince and Elika to restore the land 
 and stopping Ahriman from making the world dark and misable. 
  
  Gameplay- If you played through a Prince of Persia game before you should have no problems on controls 
 but however during battles and wall climbing and running it's all just button mashing through out 
 the game. Like the last Prince of Persia games you could rewind time if you died or fall of a cliff, 
 this version of Prince of Persia there is no game over what so ever. If you fall Elika will just 
 grab and send you back to where it is you left of can be annoying at sometimes. But if your trying 
 to jump over this big gap Elika can give a boost to get across. 
  
  Prince of Persia has alot of platforms on walls where the Prince and Elika can get across to high 
 places like the Yellow plate can make you and her gliad or a Green plate can make the Prince run 
 across walls like a ninja. Most people would say it's kind of a rip of to Mario Galaxy if you think 
 about based on the coloured plates. But to get these powers you will have collect life seeds you 
 will have to collect in order to earn more powers to get to other places. 
  
  Battleing enemies during gameplay is alot simular to Assasin's Creed if you have played it the 
 combat is simluar and has easy button mashing and re-action commends like pressing X to dodge. 
 After beating bosses, Eilka has to resotre the land once again your just pressing the triangle 
 button repetaly and the land is restored simular to Okami if you've played it on PS2 or Wii.
  
  Graphics and Sound- The grpahics for Prince of Persia are impressive but they just look the 
 same as the graphics from Rogue Galaxy but brighter and cleaer for a next gen game. Also has alot 
 of elements on graphics comparing to games like Okami's landscaping and Shadow of the Colossus's 
 dark landscape's and enimies. 
  But comparing to those 3 games altogethor Prince of Persia looks quite good but I just think that 
 the graphics for Prince of Persia feel alot like an Anime RPG/Adventure game.
  
  The voicing for Prince is kind of annoying and trys to be a show off in the game but done by the 
 same actor who did Nero from Devil May Cry 4. But the voiceing for the other charcters are impressive. 
 The music has been compossed quite well making it feel like a summer blockbuster film but it would 
 look good if they got rid of the Prince's cheesy voicing.
  
  Overall- To be honest Prince of Persia is one of the easiest games you'll probably play either 
 if your new to the series or a fan of the series you will probably get this game done by 12 hours 
 but it is short. There is throphy support for Prince of Persia if you want to earn all throphies. 
 
  You can change clothing for the Prince and Elika if you have codes which you can use if you head 
 to the Ubisoft site. You could have Elika dressed as Jade from Beyond Good and Evil and the Prince 
 dressed as the old prince from the Sands of Times. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dan6433
Rating: 7
Date: Feb 8, 2009 3:40 pm PT
Review:  Prince of Persia boasts some of the best graphics and most lush and vibrant in game settings in 
 next-gen gaming. The platforming is also quite innovative.
  
  Unfortunately, those may be the only two things it has going for it.
  
  While the combat system 
 at first seems amusing and different, it quickly becomes an extremely repetitive sequence of blocking 
 and attacking, with very little remarkable combat elements when fighting bosses.
  
  The enemies you face are pretty standard as well, and most of the bosses just seem like slight 
 variations of the other black, oily monsters you fight throughout the game. Yet again nothing too 
 noteworthy here.
  
  The banter between the two main characters is charming at first, but the constant talk icon that 
 appears in the corner of the screen grows annoying at the very least.
  
  The platforming might be the most original part of Prince of Persia, but as innovative as it is, 
 you utilize the jumping, climbing, and general acrobatics so often (almost constantly) , and the 
 platforming is so thoughtlessly simple to employ, that even that begins to lose it's luster.
  
  Another complaint I had was, though I had only played through the game on it's normal difficulty 
 setting, the game seemed much to easy, and provided barely any challenges whether in combat or 
 by way of puzzles.
  
  The "open-world" of Prince of Persia is not very expansive, and what little traveling that you 
 will do is mostly backtracking through areas that you've already covered. Also, the small world 
 means a pretty short game with little replay value.
  
  Prince of Persia may be worth a go, but GOTY it is not. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jip_the_third
Rating: 6
Date: Feb 5, 2009 3:33 pm PT
Review:  The worst thing about the game is the characters. They're flat, with interchangeably random moods, 
 and have barely anything worhwhile to say, and talk A LOT. 
  
  The main point of the game is to get to certain areas marked with a circle and explode like light 
 from out of yourself that heals the land. Fine. But usually when you get there you could just head 
 straight to the spot and do that exploding healing, but instead your characters will stop for innane 
 banter and wait for a villain to come.
  
  The game consists of doing this some twenty or so times, over areas that all look about the same, 
 and you can only access about 5 areas at a time, then you have to stop go over the areas you've 
 just beaten and collect small glowing star-like things. Like a hundred of them, then the next 5 
 areas are unlocked. And, that's all you'll be doing, collecting star-things, and playing what looks 
 like same same level 20 times.
  
  Oh, and you fight the same 7 or so villains over and over and over. And I don't mean they look 
 the same, I mean they are the same. There's no real sense of accomplishing much.
  
  Now, on to the good. It's kind of fun for about an hour. The platforming is overly simplistic, 
 sometimes not even listening to your command (doing something ridiculously dumb instead) , but usually 
 working okay to well enough. And, the day scenes are a beaut'. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GameObserver
Rating: 7.5
Date: Feb 1, 2009 12:48 pm PT
Review:  One had to wonder what logic Ubisoft used to justify a remake of Prince of Persia so early into 
 the last trilogy's run. I personally didn't understand the need to revamp a working formula. After 
 having played the 2008 version it all became clear: it's not the franchise they revamped, it's 
 the fan base. In the last few years I noticed Ubisoft's flagship title had a strong casual gamer 
 following -- women in particular. Many of my female friends included at least one of the last three 
 Princes in their library (usually the first one) , along with games like Myst and The Sims. The 
 latter are hugely successful franchises so it was only natural that Ubisoft decided to further 
 tap into the female market, probably one of the most loyal in the industry. 
  
  Prince of Persia always had a certain appeal to the fair gender with its ease of play and love 
 theme. The last two titles attempted to give the concept a more action-oriented feel but that strategy 
 generated rather disappointing results. It appears Ubisoft realized where the game's strength lies 
 and decided to virtually scrap action and puzzle elements in favor of what made the first Prince 
 of Persia a hit: wall-running and bonding. Veteran players will find enough action here to keep 
 them interested but extra steps were taken to incorporate much-neglected female gamer preferences.
 
  
  
  AND THOSE PREFERENCES ARE?
  
  Prince of Persia 2008 isn't much of an achievement in terms of gameplay but it lets casual players 
 enjoy the game without too many headaches. The game is very easy to get into and does a wonderful 
 job developing the relationship between both protagonists. It features a healthy does of dialog 
 about dreams, goals, parents, duty, love and sex -- the last one usually approached subtly enough 
 to pass under most male radar screens. The entire game flows freely with the player simply tagging 
 along on a ride designed around Elika, the heroine. 
  
  Dialog can be ignored, which in a sense also makes the plot optional considering the story is told 
 through the various conversions between Elika and the "prince". A bubble appears when one of them 
 has something to say. It's a great feature considering some will not care about the profuse "bonding" 
 taking place. I personally would advise against ignoring the plot. The ending might seem a little 
 strange (correction: stranger) if you skip all the chitchat. 
  
  
  WHY I AM LETTING THIS THIEF TAG ALONG WITH ME?
  
  Because he is the only playable character. 
 And because he's got awesome abs, a great sense of humor, is charming, witty, adventurous, independent, 
 confident, caring, cheers me up when I'm down, has a nice butt, cool scars, deep azure eyes, accepts 
 me for who I am, treats me like a lady, has "experience", is a bad boy and I can probably change 
 him. That's the one-dimensional MySpace "who I'd like to meet" ideal male for ya. The only thing 
 missing is information on whether he's a good dancer. 
  
  The female protagonist, Elika, on the other hand, is far more fleshed out. On the surface she is 
 a goodie-two-shoes princess whose dad unleashed the god of corruption, Ahriman, from his prison. 
 She is also endowed with special powers that include teleportation and various "light" abilities. 
 On the inside, though, she is the personification of most girls wanting to make an imprint in today's 
 crazy world of constraints. Together with her companion they attempt to lock Ahriman back into 
 his prison by purging the land of corruption. The land itself is the prison but it has weakened. 
 Now his minions are running amok, infecting the rustic countryside with black goop while the threat 
 of their boss escaping looms over our heroes (literally) . The threat is only implied because action 
 is laidback and open-ended. 
  
  Why Elika lets the thief tag along with her (and do all the action) is a valid question since she 
 doesn't need to climb walls and jump from pole to pole to get the job done. She can teleport, fly 
 and is the only one who can purge the land of corruption. Her love interest is merely there to 
 let us experience the game through human eyes. Players control the male character while Elika supports 
 him in various ways. The "prince" can't die. As soon as our man slips Elika teleports to the rescue 
 -- it's her answer to the old time rewind feature. The hero (when will this guy get a name?) can't 
 even die during the scant one-on-one boss battles. In short, anybody can finish this game.
  
  
  IS THERE ANYTHING TO CLIMB BESIDES WALLS AND PILLARS?
  
  No. But there are vertical 
 and horizontal poles, and surfaces our male hero can slide on. Four different types of "plates" 
 are also spread out in the levels giving players access to specific locations. The concept is good 
 but creativity seems to have run dry at Ubisoft because three of the four plates simply make you 
 fly. The fourth one lets players run on vertical surfaces, which is cool, but changing one of the 
 "fly" plates to something else would have reduced repetition, which the game has plenty of.
  
  The ability to use each plate is unlocked when enough "light seeds" are found. The corrupted 
 land is divided into zones, each one containing "fertile ground" (shiny target) that purifies the 
 surroundings when stepped on. Players must first traverse the perilous, corrupted levels to reach 
 the fertile "targets" then redo each level to find light seeds. Levels can be completed in no particular 
 order, which might explain why the entire game is uniformly easy. A few obstacles are added further 
 into the plot but in general gameplay is rather simplistic until the very end. 
  
  Players will be asked to do a fair deal of wall-running, climbing and pillar-jumping. The mechanics 
 around the aforementioned actions are decent but gameplay might be a bit too straightforward for 
 veterans. The "prince" automatically attaches to the nearest surface despite miscuing a jump. Wall 
 surfaces even have scratch marks, hinting where you should run or glide. This "assistance" can 
 get on your nerves at times when our stud does what he's not supposed to, like jump up instead 
 of wall-run. Unlike previous Prince of Persia games, levels don't have any spikes or traps. Furthermore, 
 there are but two or three puzzles in the entire story. It's all wall-running and bouncing off 
 plates. Things are so easy much of the game can be played with a single hand. The only challenge 
 will be finding carefully hidden light seeds. 
  
  
  THANK ORMAZD YOU'RE THERE TO WATCH MY BACKSIDE, ELIKA
  
  Prince of Persia doesn't suffer from 
 trial-and-error, which plagues many games of the genre. We have straightforwardness "embellishing" 
 gameplay instead. I say that with a hint of sarcasm because gameplay is absurdly easy while "parcouring" 
 through levels. One doesn't even need to see what's ahead; the game practically plays itself. Still, 
 seeing your character prancing around like a ninja is a gratifying feeling. Too bad it's artificial 
 
  
  Combat, enjoys the same scripted formula. Combos are great to perform and watch unfold but fighting 
 is stiff. On-screen reflex button presses make up most of the fighting though after a while I actually 
 stopped playing along with this stupid feature, opting for getting beat up instead. Why? Because 
 taking damage is irrelevant: you can't die. Getting knocked around simply refills your opponent's 
 life meter a bit -- a strange gameplay feature if you ask me. I've actually left the game running 
 in the middle of a boss fight while taking a bathroom break. 
  
  Block, dodge, deflect and attack animations lock your character up, leaving you open for attacks 
 between moves. The entire spectacle turns fighting into a beautiful ballet of rigid action. One 
 can't, for instance, perform an attack midway into a roll. You have to watch your character dodge, 
 get up and get ready before performing a move. 
  
  Combat has spectacular animation but it can be repetitive, especially when fighting bosses. Seeing 
 Elika get punched fifty times in the face the exact same way by the end-boss got a malevolent laugh 
 out of me because well, she should have learned her lesson not to approach the action after the 
 first forty-nine times! Unfortunately for her, she was the victim of constrained animation and 
 surroundings. Speaking of which, battles usually take place on clear ground, and though decorations 
 during fights are rare (you can push opponents through them) , I still had occasions where a single, 
 unique, lowly pillar blocked my view 
  
  
  NO, THAT'S NOT THE TORTURE ROOM, THAT'S THE GARDEN
  
  This brings us to the camera. It's decent! 
 There were times where action zoomed out so far up I got a glimpse of the floor above me, but it 
 happened rarely. Not that you will care; the levels are exquisite, so seeing more of them is always 
 a plus. I used to think previous Prince of Persia games had great level designs, but this version 
 tops them, at least from an esthetic point of view. From afar the local architecture gives the 
 impression the kingdom was inhabited by real people. From up close, though, Elika literally has 
 to explain what the rooms were used for. The next Prince of Persia might need to model its ground-level 
 realism after Assassin's Creed. 
  
  Speaking of realism, the thief's voice doesn't seem to match his look. Granted, the guy sounds 
 great -- some of the best voice acting of the series -- but the gentle, boyish voice doesn't match 
 the "I'll stab you in a dark alley" look. Other than that, dialog is perfect. I personally could 
 listen to both characters all day long. The game features some of the best lines I've heard title 
 to date and music is also on par with what you might expect from a Ubisoft product. It's good enough 
 to make me want to "find" some of the tunes. One small blemish has to be the overly-repetitive 
 main theme song. 
  
  
  SUMMARY
  
  Prince of Persia took a definite step backwards in terms of gameplay but considering Ubisoft is 
 looking to attract casual gamers, the change can be deemed a success. Repetition, on the other 
 hand, is no excuse. A few more innovations would have definitely done the game good. Combat could 
 have also used more fluidity. It's stiff and pointless, considering you can't die. This new Prince 
 is a great game for people who like watching polar opposites bonding; it's not-so-great for players 
 looking for a challenge. The game is absurdly easy. 
  
  
  GRAPHICS 81
  Clean and beautiful graphics. The landscape is worth gazing at but interior levels feel artificial. 
 The new murderer-look doesn't become the "prince".
  
  GAMEPLAY 70
  Repetitive action and stiff combat. The plates feel like a wasted gimmick. The game practically 
 plays itself, though it's fun "parcouring" through levels.
  
  PRODUCTION 75
  Great lines and a nice plot, though I'm not convinced the game should have ended the way it did. 
 I was expecting a better intro and buildup.
  
  SOUND 88
  Very nice tunes. Captures the Persian feel. Dialog is clearly the game's strong point. Best sounding 
 "prince" of the series. 
  
  LASTING APPEAL 72
  Repetition sets in very early and doesn't get better with time. The only extras worth finding are 
 alternate costumes. A solid 15 hours.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: 2eachhisownmask
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jan 31, 2009 7:18 pm PT
Review:  I would like to begin by saying that I am a huge fan of Prince of Persia. 
  
  I would like to write of how once more Ubisoft delivered a ground-breaking adventure packed with 
 superb action, challenging boss fights and clever puzzles . I would also like to write about how 
 Prince of Persia engaged me into countless hours of puzzle solving, death defying game play, exuding 
 that well-known zest for competition that only a well-delivered game can exude. However, as much 
 as I might want to, I simply cannot. 
  
  In its non-linear fashion, Prince of Persia merely managed to keep the interest high enough to 
 keep you further advancing through the game in search for culmination that is nowhere to be found. 
 The non-linear game play format has irreversibly diminished the game's overall difficulty, so present 
 in Prince's previous incarnations (i. e. 'Warrior Within' or 'Two Thrones') . The monotonous game 
 play, helped with the not-so-smart developer's decision to strip our hero of the ability to die 
 has simply reduced the game to a boring endeavor of repetitious collection of light seeds through 
 beautifully rendered landscapes. Add to the mix that very little incentive is given to the player 
 for replay and what we are left with is a very disappointing Prince.
  
  We're also left to see if he can turn back time and change his fate next time... 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: ian_fisher
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jan 31, 2009 1:18 pm PT
Review:  When new hardware is released not only does it provide a fresh start for gamers in terms of content 
 but it allows developers to reinvent or breathe fresh air into long running franchises. With the 
 power of the PS3 and Xbox 360 Ubisoft decided it was time to reboot the long running Prince of 
 Persia franchise. While many loved the first installment, Prince of Persia: Sands of Time, the 
 series went towards an almost unnescarrily turn into an edgy angst-ridden Prince for the final 
 two installments in the Sands of Time trilogy which some thought lost the charm of the original. 
 So does the newly revamped Prince of Persia go back to the series roots and present and enjoyable 
 platform action title for players?
  
  First off, this installment in the PoP series is a reboot. It doesn't pick up after the events 
 of the Sands of Time trilogy or before it. Instead of playing the dignified, yet sometimes angry 
 Prince, players assume the role of a nameless thief who while searching for his missing donkey 
 Farrah (a nod to the fans) stumbles across a mysterious and beautiful woman who is being chased 
 by armed guards. After a few fisticuffs and jumping around some chasms you find yourself in the 
 middle of an ancient power being unleashed upon the land which could cause the end of the world. 
 Just another typical day right? And to make things a bit more complicated, the guy who caused all 
 this trouble is the father of the lady you saved. That's certainly a bit awkward. As Elika, the 
 lady you saved, tells you her father unleashed the power of Ahriman, essentially the big all powerful 
 evil, which has unleashed the Corruption on all the surrounding, lands, turning once lush landscapes 
 into barren and dark locales.
  
  You of course find yourself being an unwitting hero who is forced to save the land from the clutches 
 of Ahriman. While that may sound a bit much for a thief you thankfully find out Elika has several 
 powers to aid in your journey to cleanse the land from the Corruption, one of which includes saving 
 you from perilous falls or any other occasions you find yourself falling to your death. While that 
 certainly sounds like a cool gameplay element at first it does almost in a way take a bit out from 
 what the Prince of Persia series has been about, intense platforming and navigational puzzles.
 
  
  We all know the old Sands of Time trilogy for featuring a bevy of platforming scenarios ranging 
 from navigating temples to avoiding various spiky death traps of doom. And of course to successfully 
 complete those areas you had various powers such as a brief time rewind amongst others. But in 
 the new Prince of Persia you really don't have any of that. Instead you just have Elika grabbing 
 your hand once you botched a jump and simply placing you a few steps from where you messed up. 
 Now on a game development level this is in a way a clever way of redesigning a Checkpoint system 
 to make it a bit more streamlined as opposed to constantly clicking "Yes" on the "Do You Want to 
 Continue" screen. Sadly having this element in the game does take away a lot of the challenge from 
 the since you never have a sense of urgency whilst navigating the land. In the previous PoP games 
 you had a limit to your Sands of Time power but in the new PoP there's no limit to how many times 
 Elika saves you.
  
  Aside from Elika's infinite save ability the platforming as a whole in PoP seems to be scaled back 
 in terms of difficulty. Not only is it easier to control the Prince while platforming but the layout 
 of things is extremely simple and is blatantly in your face. Gone are the days where you find yourself 
 in a massive room trying to figure out how to reach the exit and avoid the various wall and floor 
 traps. Nor are there any particular sections in PoP that will leave you with a slight frustration. 
 While that may be somewhat of a silly criticism it's just that titles like Prince of Persia were 
 always about trying to succeed a particularly hard platforming section and having the wave of satisfaction 
 overflow you once you completed it. Will you get that feeling in the new PoP? No, not really. There 
 are definitely parts where you'll be like "Oh that was a cool little section I did. Slid down the 
 slope, wall climbed up the wall and then jumped perfectly on the pillar." But the thing is that 
 due to the overly simplistic controls that don't require precise timing while platforming, veterans 
 of the previous PoP games or platforming games in general may be a bit bored by the 2nd hour. Never 
 once will you be confused in figuring out an area or find your area blocked with the exception 
 of areas that require power-ups. And while the concept of power-ups sounds interesting they open 
 a whole another can of worms to players.
  
  So instead of having the Sands of Time to help aid the player along their way to stop Ahriman the 
 player of course has the help of Elika's power as well as several power ups which allow the Prince 
 and Elika to access plates in the world which gain them entry to areas once inaccessible. Now there 
 are two problems with this concept: 1. they require the player to do fetch quests, 2. the power 
 themselves really don't add anything to the game. In order for the player to get one of the four 
 powers they must search out and collect a certain number of Light Seeds. Light Seeds are made available 
 after you cleanse a land of Ahriman's Corruption and in terms of the story the Light Seeds give 
 power to Elika. In the beginning you may not be that bothered with searching for the Light Seeds 
 since they give you a chance to see more of the environments and fully appreciate their beauty 
 but in the later stages it gets a bit tiresome of having to go back and search them out. The Light 
 Seed concept essentially breaks the flow of the game instead of allowing the player to go straight 
 through the story. And when it comes to how these powers affect gameplay they're simply a bit 'meh' 
 as they again don't require any skill or timing on the behalf of the player to pull them off. And 
 one of them, the Wings of Orzmad, will surely leave players frustrated due to the somewhat clumsy 
 nature of the mechanic.
  
  Along with some of the changes Ubisoft did to the new PoP one of them included revamping the combat 
 system. In the previous PoP games the combat wasn't really a major part and to some of the veterans 
 of the franchise it was one of the weaker elements of the series despite the progression in each 
 iteration. With the new PoP the player only faces one foe at a time in battles that have a much 
 more cinematic nature due to the camera effects and the non-stop QTE's (quick time event) . The 
 combat of course has its fair share of problems. While the combat is fun at first due to the combos 
 you can pull off with the help of Elika it quickly grows to be tiresome, which seems to be a running 
 theme with this game, since the combo system isn't that deep and since you fight the same enemies 
 over and over again. As you progress the boss battles do become a bit more intense and require 
 a bit more skill from the player but it's still the same old same old. Add that with repitive QTE's 
 that don't match the scope of those found in a game like God of War and you find yourself with 
 something that has good mechanics but really could've been fleshed out a bit more.
  
  At this point you may be thinking "What is the good part, if any, in Prince of Persia?" The answer 
 to that question is simple: the visuals. The visuals in PoP are simply beautiful. And while you 
 may have seen or read the countless interviews with the developers that said it looks like the 
 concept art in motion and they weren't kidding. Once you've cleansed a land of the Corruption the 
 world just fills up with color which will really make you want to at least do one pass of the level 
 so you can see all the details and various color uses. Each section in the game of course has its 
 own color palette but everything still seems like it belongs in one world and there isn't any mis-mash 
 of visual elements. Prince of Persia is one of the best looking games in terms of visual style 
 and if it's used in upcoming installments it should even be more breathtaking.
  
  When it comes to it Prince of Persia is a solid title but it falls due to the problem that happens 
 to most Ubisoft games, it has a good concept but the actual gameplay mechanics aren't fully realized. 
 The developers at Ubisoft Montreal are really talented when it comes to doing visuals and design 
 but perhaps they should hire a few more people to design the actual gameplay. If you played Assassin's 
 Creed and loved the visuals, concept and the world it was set in but quickly grew tired of the 
 repetitive missions and overall lack of variety than you may feel the same when you play Prince 
 of Persia. I highly suggest people play the game at some point but it's definitely not a must have 
 in your collection and is missing the content that warrants you paying full price for it.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheTenth10
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 29, 2009 12:20 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay : 9/10
  Yes I put a high score to gameplay as i like very much the "cannot die" thing and I think it's 
 more a storytelling way than a real game mechanic. I've played a lot of Tomb raider and adventure 
 games and always hated to have to die and do a long part of the level again. In PoP you get back 
 to the last solid platform you were on and it's great as the game is more fluid and it doesn't 
 stop the whole story and anger you. The platforming difficulty is well balanced, as when you get 
 near a boss, it's a bit more difficult and the boss fight is very long and with some dialogues, 
 wihich adds to the story.
  
  Art direction / graphics and music : 10/10
  The graphics are really splendid, for the characters or the scenery. The architecture and wildlife 
 puts you in another world, that of the 1001 nights, and the music is faithful to the atmosphere.
 
  
  Story : 8.5/10
  Yes, I did only put 8.5 for story, as I'm quite angry we'll have to pay for a download to get the 
 real ending. But the whole story is faithful to the 1001 night tales, with twisted characters (even 
 the Prince and Ellika - which has a dark secret about how she's still alive) and a story with difficult 
 choices for some secondary characters (Ellika's dad, all the bosses) .
  
  Game length : 9/10
  Since it's very story driven I don't think it's too short, as there are some 
 very good movie that only last 1.5 hour or awesome TV series that only have about 10 episodes 12 
 episodes (Daybreak, Surface) or 1 season (Invasion, Vanished) .
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: nico83
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 7, 2009 11:24 pm PT
Review:  Prince of Persia (POP) is a well-crafted and aesthetically gorgeous game that rests on its laurels 
 of the past, but with a refreshing new coat of paint over its aging exterior.
  
  Like the POP's on last generation's consoles, the game play relies heavily on gravity defying, 
 acrobatic platforming cut in with segments of sword fighting. The prince ostensibly has a background 
 in humanly impossible circus performing and effortlessly wall runs, ceiling crawls and pole hops 
 across landscapes and up obstacles with such grace that the actions almost seem plausible. Additionally, 
 thanks to the prince's female companion, his repertoire of abilities is extended even further.
 
  
  One of the more clever changes to the POP canon is Elika, a princess that crosses paths with the 
 protagonist and traverses through the game with the player. She is always visible during game play 
 as she follows the prince and has special magic and teleportation abilities that contribute to 
 the platforming elements of the game. She grants the prince the ability to second jump by magically 
 appearing underneath him and physically thrusting him back into the air. Additionally, when a jump 
 is missed and the prince falls to his theoretical doom, Elika flies in and saves him, dropping 
 him back on the last piece of solid ground he stood on (essentially acting as a checkpoint) . She 
 has many other contributions, but those will be talked about later.
  
  In past POP games, the prince's visually complex movements were executed with a gratifying combination 
 of ease and control, leaving a great balance of difficulty and finesse. However, Ubisoft felt that 
 the controls required further simplification as most actions now revolve around single button presses 
 through lengthy scenes of acrobatics. Thus, the player feels less like he/she's the performer, 
 but instead the spectator. Even the theoretical powers the player receives later when he/she lands 
 on different colored nodes are nothing more than interactive cut scenes.
  
  To make things even simpler, in case the player makes a mistake, there are fail safe measures implemented 
 to pat the player on the back. Imprecise jumping from the player is slightly auto-corrected to 
 reposition the prince to go where he's supposed to. Elika has the ability to chart out the correct 
 path that the player should be going if he/she gets lost by emitting a ball of light that travels 
 the EXACT route that should be taken. This can be a folly as it is too helpful and abandons the 
 sense of exploration, which is one of the more entertaining aspects of the game. Of course, the 
 latter is only an option and does not need to be used if it is not desired.
  
  The sword battles are also stream-lined to become more like cinematic sequences by implementing 
 combos with timed button presses (starting to see a pattern in the way the game controls) . There 
 is a parry and dodge system, along with attack by sword, your hands or the use of Elika's magic. 
 All of these can be combined in sequence to perform varying levels of combos; the player has to 
 discover the better and longer combos through experimentation. The visual choreography for these 
 battles is great and stringing together combo attacks can be satisfying, but avid action fans will 
 probably be thrown off by this simple design. However, fighting takes up a very small portion of 
 this mostly platform-oriented game.
  
  The game's story takes place in an imaginary kingdom set in a fictional middle-eastern desert. 
 Elika is a princess struggling to regain control of her broken empire, forsaken by the dark gods 
 of her kingdom's mythology. Her plight is to revitalize all the "fertile grounds" under her kingdom, 
 which have been overcome and cast in a dark and dead gloom. Though the over-arching story is clich 
 and forgettable, it is forgivable as the focus is not in the back story, but the character dialogue.
 
  
  As there are really only two characters in this game, it was important for Ubisoft to nail the 
 chemistry between the two; I was surprised by how well they accomplished this feat. Elika is a 
 mature and diplomatic character that is committed to her royal duties to her shattered kingdom. 
 Though she has little comprehension of the wayfarer lifestyle of the prince, her charm and wit 
 pairs well with the snarky sarcasm of the prince.
  
  The prince is a wandering, free-spirited bandit whose royal lineage is never really disclosed and 
 leaves a lot of conjecture up to the player. He falls into helping Elika in a chance meeting when 
 he's looking for his lost donkey packed with booty from a recently raided tomb. What is originally 
 a motive of royal rewards, the prince slowly becomes entrenched in Elika's strife as he grows more 
 fond of her. His boorish, yet often times clever lines to Elika lend well to their cohesion as 
 she always has a good follow-up comment to his. Their interactions are built to be flirtatious 
 and build chemistry, and it works for the most part as it gradually builds up to the conclusion 
 of the game.
  
  This POP takes an un-orthodox approach to story telling where the player can get as much (or little) 
 of it as he/she desires. All the pertinent plot points are unavoidable and are triggered at a select 
 few points in the game. These segments are very short and stick mostly to the facts. If the player 
 wishes to divulge more in the game's lore and supporting story to the issue at hand, they can opt 
 to enter into a 15-second snippet conversation between Elika and the prince at any point in the 
 game play. This process can be repeated for more original dialogue between the characters, and 
 it is generally witty and well-written. Eventually, dialogue will repeat, but it takes awhile and 
 as soon as the plot has moved forward, the banks of conversation topics change again to update 
 to the current situation.
  
  Though the simplicity diminishes the satisfaction of the game's experience, the enjoyment from 
 the level design and artistic style is plentiful enough to compensate. The prince's move-set never 
 really expands with further play in the game, however the level design is so expertly crafted that 
 the way in which his moves are implemented is surprisingly varied. Additionally, it never gets 
 old watching the fluidity of your character performing his superhuman abilities.
  
  The cel-shaded, artistic environments that the prince moves through are quite captivating as well 
 and further enhance the game's enjoyment. All the settings are open canvases, vibrant with color 
 and moving parts that leave an organic sense of life to the world. Adding to the visual design, 
 the orchestral composition of the music is top notch and blends perfectly with the free-spirit 
 and organic tones of the game. The scenes are captivating and some of the game's greatest moments 
 come in the environmental set-pieces such as one where the character is flying high into the sky, 
 bouncing off of hot air balloons in the setting of a cloudy, windy mountain side.
  
  The only problem with the levels is not their artistic design, but the game's pacing and layout. 
 The entire game consists of traveling to a new fertile ground and finding the focal point where 
 you fight a short boss battle and purify the landscape (which looks great as plant life spreads 
 across the landscape dowsing it in greenery, akin to Okami) . This procedure is then repeated many 
 times over until the eventual conclusion. It doesn't help that the only extra abilities earned 
 feel less like a game play addition and more like getting a key to open a locked door as they have 
 no use except for in the specif areas they're needed to proceed.
  
  The game is ultimately repetitious, but the immaculate production values in well-crafted and aesthetically 
 beautiful level design along with the games compelling characters makes for a journey well worth 
 taking. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: tentagil10
Rating: 5
Date: Jan 28, 2009 8:45 pm PT
Review:  This game is beautiful. From the platforming, to the combat, its a joy to watch. Unfortunately 
 as pretty as it is I didn't find it nearly as fun to play.
  
  The platforming is incredibly easy, other than combat and a few attempts to jump to places I didn't 
 actually have access to yet the chances of dying are fairly low. Once you got twenty minutes or 
 so of time in you shouldn't die at all during the platforming portions. They are simply that easy. 
 And of course even if you do you jsut bounce back quick with no penalty other then possibly losing 
 out on the achievement for keep the deaths down.
  
  The combat on the other hand frustrated the hell out of me. It's not that it's all that hard, I 
 mean you can't really die here either. And it looks beautiful, but it's really not that interesting. 
 If you mange to move about without dying you'll never have to fight the soldiers. And the Boss 
 battles although all using different tactics really aren't that exciting. And the fact that they 
 all take place in little square arenas gets rather boring, especially since with all the acrobatics 
 you show off you really don't get to do much with the environments during the combat.
  
  Add in an ending that leaves me wonder what the point of the 12 previous hours I spent playing 
 were for and I'm very disappointed with this title. Lots of potential here, but it jsut let me 
 down.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: bigd575
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 28, 2009 11:55 am PT
Review:  I have always been a big fan of the Prince of Persia series and have loved basically everyone. 
 This Prince of Persia is no different than all of the other one's I like it basically just as much 
 as the others and it's a great addition to the series, one that no fan should miss out on.
  
  Things that I liked:
  The story is really great, in my opinion it isn't as great as say Sands 
 of Time but it still good and you'll really get into it, and most likely enjoy it.
  
  The combat is nice and the controls are just great, there really smooth and you'll like the moves 
 and stuff that you will pull off.
  
  The graphics are also simply great and some of the best I would say, there not the best that you 
 will find but there great. Nice looking characters and environments.
  
  The sound is also really great, especially the voice acting that's in the game some of the best 
 that you can find. Very impressive on how good it really is.
  
  Some of the things I didn't like:
  You can really die which I don't know why they would want 
 to put that in the game, which overall it isn't horrible.
  
  The game is easy really easy I guess I wished it would have been a little bit harder. And it's 
 short which I also wish that it would have been a little bit longer than it was.
  
  Overall Prince of Persia is a great addition to the series and one that most people will really 
 like, especially if you're a fan of the series.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: pspitus
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 25, 2009 7:01 pm PT
Review:  The Prince lives for adventure, shiny glittery bundles of gold, and women, lots and lots of women. 
 One day he finds himself lost in a desert searching for his donkey with a cartful of gold. A brutal 
 sandstorm knocks the Prince into an underground cavern where he meets a beautiful princess named 
 Elika. The Prince soon discovers that there's a lot more going on then what he expected. A dark 
 god named Ahriman escapes and plans to destroy the world. Having no way to return to the surface, 
 the Prince decides to help Elika to re-imprison Ahriman and return him back to the depths of darkness. 
 Prince of Persia doesn't offer any variety when it comes to its story; it's just another good v. s. 
 evil type of plot. However, the relationship between the Prince and Elika that builds as you progress 
 through the game keeps you hooked onto the game's plot, even if it is a bit clich. 
  
  Prince of Persia is essentially a platformer. You will spend most of your time running on walls, 
 jumping from platform to platform, climbing up enormous buildings, sliding down sky scrapers, and 
 battling monsters. If you've played other Prince of Persia games, you should know what to expect. 
 The platforming is the main focus of the game, and it is executed extremely well. Who would have 
 thought that running on walls, and climbing up buildings would be so much fun. Sure it doesn't 
 sound like a lot of fun, but you have to experience it to know what I'm talking about. 
  
  The in-game combat on the other hand is not all that great, it is presented well but overall it 
 quickly becomes tedious and repetitive. Unlike the other Prince of Persia games, this game does 
 not use a real time battle system. When you approach a monster you are confined in a tight little 
 space, and you must use certain button combos to defeat your foe. You can combine your attacks 
 with Elika's to create combos that look as good as they are deadly. But after you've done the same 
 attack for the 100th time, fighting can become rather dull. 
  
  In Prince of Persia it is impossible for you to die, and I mean it literally. Every time you fall, 
 get mauled by an enemy, or simply get sucked into darkness, Elika will always be there to pull 
 you up. The game is pretty much holding your hand as you play, whether that's a good or bad things 
 depends on the player themselves. 
  
  One thing that I did not enjoy in Prince of Persia was light seed collecting. Every time you complete 
 a level you are given the horrible task of collecting light seeds. It would be fine if this was 
 just an optional addition to the game play, but sadly it isn't. In order to advance to the next 
 set of levels you have to grab a certain number of light seeds, which means you have to essentially 
 run each and every level twice in a row. What's up with that? 
  
  Prince of Persia brings cel-shaded graphics to a whole new other level. I couldn't believe my eyes 
 as I ran through the levels, everything was simply gorgeous. Watching the landscapes turn from 
 corrupted to pure was just breath taking. The levels were nicely constructed and easy to maneuver 
 around, the animations of the Prince's movements were very detailed all the way down to the last 
 pixel, and the character designs were fantastic. If you are looking for some eye candy, Prince 
 of Persia will not disappoint.
  
  The in-game sound design was also phenomenal. Prince of Persia had a great soundtrack that could 
 be both soothing, and blood pumping depending on the circumstances. The voice acting was superb, 
 and very believable. The Prince, however, did have a little too much to say, seriously. He would 
 ramble on and on, and give off a bunch of cheesy one liners such as "Do corruption stains come 
 out?" or "These pants are new" I mean come on, who says stuff like that. 
  
  Overall: Prince of Persia is definitely a work of art. Smooth gameplay mechanics, beautiful level 
 designs, ear warming in-game soundtrack, Prince of Persia has it all. It may not be as good as 
 its predecessors, but fans of the Prince of Persia series will not be disappointed with this game. 
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Achaean728
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 25, 2009 1:22 pm PT
Review:  Prince of Persia, for me, was a bit of a roller coaster. There were times where I found myself 
 loving the game and there were times where I found myself cursing it with the greatest frustration. 
 Overall, however, the game will leave most with a fairly satisfied feeling. I've also decided to 
 change how I do my reviews (for those who read them) and make them easier to read. Enjoy!
  
  
  PROS
  - Platforming is really fun: Basically you cant die (Elika "saves" you every time 
 you fall) . The controls for platforming are easy to grasp.
  - The graphics are beautiful. The cell-shaded water color art style really emphasizes the game's 
 theme of myth and legend. The colors are very vibrant!
  - The musical score is wonderful, it perfectly fits the game. The voice-acting and sound effects 
 are above average. 
  - Collecting Light Seeds is fun. Because platforming is rather enjoyable, collecting light seeds 
 (little orbs you collect by running through an area after you've cleared it) is fun! It adds some 
 replay value to the game. 
  - The use of the game's magical plates (allows you to run on walls and fly through the air in certain 
 areas of the game) adds some spice to the normal platforming regimen of the game. 
  - The fact you cant die is (arguably) a good thing. For me, it made the game less frustrating and 
 more enjoyable and relaxing. 
  - The story is done pretty well, although at times it might seem you've just been thrown in the 
 mix. The end was definitely surprising (in a good way) . 
  
  CONS
  - The combat aspect of the game is broken. The controls are stiff. The moves that require you to 
 be "in-range" of the enemy are inconsistent. The combos are practically pointless (other than for 
 the purpose of getting one trophy) . Overall, I found the combat to be really shallow and frustrating 
 at times. Its a good thing the game focuses more on platforming than combat.
  - The game had quite of few of technical hic-cups toward the latter half. Texture rendering issues, 
 bad lighting effects, and a stuttering frame-rate plagued the last half of the game for me. At 
 one point, it got so bad, it really detracted from the story and the atmosphere the game was trying 
 to create. 
  - The game is very repetitive. Essentially the game consists of "go to that place, do some platforming, 
 fight a boss, "heal" the area, rinse and repeat" You'll be doing that formula about 20 times (literally) . 
 
  
  FINAL THOUGHTS
  Overall, I really enjoyed Prince of Persia. I would say the pros definitely outweigh the cons. 
 The game does have its issues, but what game doesnt? The issues the game does have are outweighed 
 by the game's overall entertainment value. I wouldnt really recommend buying the game (although 
 I did, thats just what I do) , I'd recommend renting it first. I was able to complete the game in 
 about 14 hours, although many have finished it in under 12. Other than trophies, the game doesnt 
 really have much replay value either. So in conclusion, if you enjoy platforming and action-adventure 
 games, with a pretty good story and memorable characters, then do yourself a favor and pick up 
 Prince of Persia. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: standarddamage
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 24, 2009 7:45 am PT
Review:  Prince of Persia.
  
  Just hearing the title of the game brings back memories of nostalgia and beauty for a lot of gamers. 
 Whether you think back to the original PC titles of old, or the more recent titles like Sands of 
 Time, the games have always been graceful, beautiful, and unique.
  
  And Ubisoft's latest installment is no exception to this. Sure, there are some differences to past 
 installments: The prince is no longer a prince by any means, but rather a nomadic fortune-seeker 
 whose tongue is as sharp as his sword. Cel-shaded graphics have taken the place of the softer, 
 more realistic visuals that we grew accustomed to with Ubisoft's last-generation installments, 
 and you now have a constant companion by the name of Elika who is anything but a damsel in distress 
 (she'll actually save you several times throughout the game, and is extremely helpful) . But the 
 game is still as beautiful and graceful as we've come to expect from other installments in the 
 series.
  
  Almost everything you could ask for is here: Wonderful sound design, musical score, and voice acting, 
 plentiful cutscenes that provide a real connection to the storyline and the characters, and spot-on 
 controls help set the game up right. The storyline is also very well-crafted, and features an ending 
 that you probably won't expect. But the two stars of this game are the swordplay and the camera.
 
  
  Where Ubisoft ran into some problems with the swordplay in Assassin's Creed, they fixed all of 
 these issues with Prince of Persia. The fighting is incredibly smooth and your character no longer 
 walks around with a stick up his tail; that is to say that everything the Prince does looks and 
 feels a lot more natural compared to their past efforts. Pulling off combinations is an absolute 
 blast and is incredibly fun to watch.
  
  The camera deserves equally high praise, because if any game had an excuse to have a camera glitch 
 or two, it would be this one. You are constantly running, jumping, doing flips off of poles, scampering 
 around corners, and being thrown through the air. Not once did I have a problem seeing where I 
 was going, or miss a jump just because the camera was out of whack.
  
  Now you'll notice that I said almost everything you could ask for is here, and I mean that. But 
 there are two problems with the game that you should be aware of.
  
  Problem one is the game's length. While I managed to stretch the gameplay out to 13.5 hours, that 
 would not be your typical game as I did a lot of extra exploration trying to pick up little collectibles 
 in the game. Your average game will take you anywhere from nine to eleven hours, which simply isn't 
 enough game time to warrant a sixty-dollar price tag.
  
  The game's other problem lies in its difficulty. Believe me when I tell you that this game is absolute 
 cake, and this could completely ruin it for some. But also believe me when I say you may completely 
 forgive this flaw, as a lot of this ease is a combination of how natural (and solid) the controls 
 are combined with Ubisoft Montreal's obvious design choice to sacrifice difficulty for the sake 
 of immersion. So while you'll be completely sucked into the game, you'll walk away from it feeling 
 completely unchallenged.
  
  So my suggestion on this one? Rent it and try it, no matter who you are. Even gamers such as myself 
 who can't stand shorter, easier games may actually find this is one of their favorite games after 
 experiencing its smooth, immersive beauty and actually purchase it. Everyone else will be able 
 to walk away from it having only paid $4.99 to their local rental store, and will still have at 
 least experienced an easy, but also very fine, game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: stevencompton
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 20, 2009 12:35 pm PT
Review:  The new Prince of Persia is supposed to be a fresh start for the series into a new direction, with 
 it's new open world design and cell-shaded graphics, but ironically it's hard to recommend it to 
 anyone other than fans of the previous games. 
  
  The core platforming of the game is still much as it was with the 'Sands of Time' trilogy, but 
 with slightly simpler controls that allow for faster pace. So you're still jumping from platform 
 to ledges and wall-running in impossible ways to reach your destination. 
  
  This time though, you also get a companion, Elika, who accompanies you and uses her powers to help 
 with combat and platforming. She also saves you from dying everytime you're almost killed by an 
 enemy of fall of a ledge. This certainly reduces some of the fustration in the game, some may say 
 to the expense of reducing the rewarding feeling of pulling off a series of jumps just right, but 
 personally, I think it feels more like a series of very close checkpoints and actually helps to 
 keep up the pace of the game.
  
  The game is structured much differently from the previous games. There are four corrupted zones 
 that you have to go to and defeat the boss. Each boss has five areas in the zone that you have 
 to drive it from, which means fighting each boss five times. The bosses are good, as is the combat 
 system, but fighting against them so many times gets a bit much, eventhough the final fight evolves 
 from the first four and is a bit more dramatic.
  
  The overall gameplay though, has much less fighting than the previous games. The focus this time 
 is on exploring and collecting; as after driving the boss from an area, the corruption is gone 
 and you're free to explore and collect light seeds to increase Elika's powers. The increased pace 
 to the platforming (from the simpler controls and Elika saving you) , actually makes collecting 
 the light seeds quite compelling and I found it surprisingly enjoyable. This exploration is certainly 
 enhanced by the attractive new art direction and long draw distances. 
  
  The storyline is very simple - basically an evil corruption has been released and you and Elika 
 have to purge the lands from this corruption. There is more of a focus on the actual characters; 
 specifically Elika and her farther. Elika is a likable character and her interactions with the 
 Prince do a good job of providing depth to the world. The Prince initially comes across as a bit 
 of an idiot, but his character developes as the game progresses and is a good character overall. 
 
  
  Though it really isn't for everyone - some people who aren't so keen on the core platforming and 
 don't enjoy exploring are likely to find it a bit repetitive/boring - if you can get into it, this 
 an enjoyable and memorable 8 hours. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: versiononev1
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 19, 2009 2:58 am PT
Review:  As soon as you start playing you are submerged into the adventure element of the game and you can 
 get hooked although the game is quite short and can easyly be completed within half a day, the 
 trophy completion aspect keeps you wanting to keep playing the game, collecting light seeds and 
 running between the areas to achieve the trophy you desire is great, great game to buy, you wont 
 be sorry you bought it, The game also feature a special skin mode so when you complete te game 
 for the first time you will obtain a special skin which can revitalise the game playplay if you 
 choice to start the game again and playing as that character, One more great thing about the game 
 is the usage of the power plate and the various abilities you unlock from blasting through the 
 sky with the red plates, flying around the sky using the yellow plates, jumping through the air 
 with the blue plates and running up, down and across walls dodging obsticles is cool 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fatmike2127
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 18, 2009 3:47 pm PT
Review:  Prince of Persia was a good game that was definitely worth playing. It had good graphics using 
 the cartoon animated style. The game was easy but it was decent all the way until the end. I liked 
 how it was impossible to die in that game. That made it a lot easier when you would be fighting 
 a boss because since you can't die, you don't have to start over to face the boss again. That proved 
 to be really helpful. I thought that the story had a very weird ending when the Prince activated 
 Ahriman again to save Elika and it ended where Ahriman covered the desert in darkness. What kind 
 of crap is that? The one annoying thing about this game was the Prince's lines. He had to be so 
 freaking annoying where everything he said was a crappy joke. I have no idea why the game producers 
 made him that way. Other than that, the game was solid throughout. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Amir29
Rating: 7
Date: Jan 17, 2009 12:45 pm PT
Review:  Graphics are a unique blend of anime and traditional high polygon counts. The audio is nothing 
 spectacular, but it does it's job well. Voice acting is fine but the characters accompanying animations 
 for their voices are generic, and don't go along with what they are saying very well. The character 
 animations during action sequences and gameplay are top notch though. The addition of Elika brought 
 some concern before the game came out. But, she's actually a lot of fun and a great addition to 
 the game.
  
  Prince of Persia was always a healthy blend of 3D platformer, Hack N Slash, and mind bending puzzles 
 were thrown in for good measure as well. In that formula we found our fair share of frustrations 
 and voiced them. But overall, no one can say that the previous Prince of Persia games weren't fun. 
 Unfortunately, we CAN say that for this one. 
  
  They have nearly done away with puzzles completely. In the whole game, I've encountered two. As 
 far as action, you'll fight one enemy once in a while. It's always one enemy, and the fighting 
 mechanics are bland making most combat a boring breeze to get through. The platforming part remains 
 and this game does it VERY well. But, the level design destroys the fun of it all by making you 
 back track to collect light seeds which are needed to advance to the next area. I personally felt 
 the game could be completed within 5 hours if it wasn't necessary to run back and forth throughout 
 the game.
  
  Playing Prince of Persia was more about watching it in action then getting excited about the gameplay 
 itself. Replay value is also non existent here. I would suggest a rental if you're curious. But, 
 you definitely should not waste your money on buying. Not even at it's new price tag of $39.99. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thrubeingcool13
Rating: 7
Date: Jan 15, 2009 7:50 am PT
Review:  Prince of Persia had loads of potential, but fell short of greatness. 
  
  The controls were over simplistic. One button is pressed to do all of the princes acrobatic moves, 
 and there is very little timing involved. For example, if running up a wall and trying to jump 
 to another, after X is pressed to jump you can press it again almost immediately and the Prince 
 will respond as soon as he hits the next wall, which can sometimes create a problem if you accidentally 
 press the button more then once, you may find yourself plummeting to your death. Combat is very 
 easy because the Prince only faces one enemy at a time. Even though the enemy has a health bar, 
 often times it doesn't have to be lowered completely to kill said enemy. What really tops off the 
 easy difficulty is that The Prince's partner Elika can save him from any impending death. If the 
 Prince is about to be killed by one of the game's bosses, Elika saves him and the penalty, is that 
 the opponent regains a minor strand of health. The graphical style is one of the best parts of 
 the game, but it's still not very impressive. The Prince loses the realistic look of the Sands 
 trilogy for a more stylized look., but the color schemes tend to repeat themselves, blue and gray 
 while corrupted, and green and brown after the lands are healed. The game is a short one that can 
 probably be finished in under 10 hours, and is arguably not even worth it seeing as UBISOFT left 
 an obvious cliffhanger to show that they are making a sequel. 
  
  Despite its flaws, Prince of Persia is a decent game and is worth a play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NateThompson114
Rating: 6
Date: Jan 13, 2009 7:29 pm PT
Review:  Ah yes, the part where mindless people love beautiful mindless games... What happen to the days 
 of games like Final Fantasy VII, where beautiful meet brain. If your looking for all wow (looks) 
 without any phew (challenge) , then you've picked the right game. So you know its pretty oh so pretty, 
 and not so witty, then whats left, well story. The story thanks to little part of the prince, if 
 fairly good, I'd say 7/10 (that's a c, or c- if you had evil teachers like mine) . So good story, 
 very pretty, whats the bad? Ok so remember that good ole prince, you know the side scrolling prince? 
 Well this game is very similar, your pathways are lit, there are but only one or two ways to get 
 there, unless you get lucky and your companion dosen't grab you to save you from the five foot 
 drop. Your stuck to pathways, with one button timing, don't even need the direction stick. Linear 
 + one button = bad 
::::::

::::::
UserName: marywait
Rating: 3
Date: Jan 13, 2009 10:42 am PT
Review:  EVERYTHING about this game except the art style is completely disappointing. The characters are 
 offensively americanized and poorly voice acted. Action-wise the game is so different and so much 
 easier that I found it a complete waste of time. Someone else said it - if you like doing exactly 
 the same thing over and over for hours, you will love this game. Gamespot requires longer reviews, 
 but there's not much more to say, so:
  EVERYTHING about this game except the art style is completely disappointing. The characters are 
 offensively americanized and poorly voice acted. Action-wise the game is so different and so much 
 easier that I found it a complete waste of time. Someone else said it - if you like doing exactly 
 the same thing over and over for hours, you will love this game.
  EVERYTHING about this game except the art style is completely disappointing. The characters are 
 offensively americanized and poorly voice acted. Action-wise the game is so different and so much 
 easier that I found it a complete waste of time. Someone else said it - if you like doing exactly 
 the same thing over and over for hours, you will love this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kodmani
Rating: 6
Date: Jan 12, 2009 10:27 pm PT
Review:  This game is so bad it made me swear constantly for about 4 hours and yet still I regret what I 
 had to put for it and also waiting for it for months and unfortunately getting the preorder edition.
 
  
  Graphics:
  The only reason I rated this game a 6.0. The environment and the map look fantastic, magical and 
 breath taking. Need I say more ?
  
  Game play:
  Its okay for the first hour or two then it gets seriously boring and very very very very very repetitive (more 
 than Pac Man!) . The fighting is all you should look forward to because all you in this game is 
 fight and collect seeds, run, jump, repeat. The fights are so limited you tend to forget that this 
 is an action game. 
  
  Story:
  PLEASE !!! its soooooo bad im crying here !!! It starts off pretty intense and amusing till you 
 reach boredom half way and stop giving a damn. 
  
  No offense but I should go complain to ubisoft about this game I mean the studio is only a couple 
 blocks away from where I live. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Creed1191
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 12, 2009 2:25 pm PT
Review:  This game is an instant classic ,great story great graphics a few minor bugs here and there but 
 it doesn't take anything away from the gameplay. Right from the start Its a magical world the you 
 want to go explore. To make it better you have a knew ally Elika. The prince has most of his moves 
 from the old POP games which makes the fans of the old series want to play. Also the game is divided 
 into four beautiful landscapes each with its own boss. Each battle you face will be an epic struggle 
 against light and dark. The game is so addicting right after you heal the first fertile ground 
 makes you want to play for hours on end. The wall climbing action and jumping from pole to pole 
 is along the lines of the game Assassins Creed but believe me this is better. This is my game of 
 the year i recommend it for anyone who wants one of the best gaming experiences ever! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pesa11
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 11, 2009 5:55 am PT
Review:  Just to get this straight, I wasn't a Prince of Persia fan and I'm still not. Though I enjoyed 
 playing the last few games, they just didn't appeal to me as much as others. This installment doesn't 
 change anything.
  Don't get me wrong, this is a great game. The graphics are astonishing and the game-play's very 
 good, and the flow of it all left me drooling, but there were quite a few problems that didn't 
 really let me commit to the Prince and his new game.
  The most apparent change is the graphics. The artistic design is magnificent, and I'm not surprised 
 that since the graphics are based on the Assassins Creed engine they're extremely detailed and 
 beautiful all around. The environments are gigantic and breathtaking and the character models look 
 excellent.
  While the graphics were the most apparent change, the biggest change (and I mean BIG) is the game-play. 
 While there's still the fast-paced free running of the last game, the combat and the riddles have 
 undergone massive changes. You can no longer decapitate victims with a slash to the neck or run 
 up walls, jump, land behind the foe and slice him in half. No. In this one the fighting is in the 
 form of sequences of attacks chained together. This is a huge change and is probably gonna throw 
 off the massive fans of the series. Another problem: Riddles abounded in the worlds of the last 
 three games, but now they can only be found occasionally among very few levels, as most of the 
 time will be spent running to the next area and trying to get to the next foe, which brings up 
 the topic of the story.
  The story sounds like it was based on ancient Arabic or Persian (or whatever) myths. You have to 
 aid Princess Elika in her struggle to imprison the Dark God Ahriman by defeating his four minions. 
 It's an alright premise but there will be times where you will forget exactly what you're fighting 
 for.
  Last but not least, the sound. The music is good, with memorable tunes following your adventures 
 from start to finish, but the voice-acting... eh. I had expected the voice acting to be a little 
 more... how should i say it... Persian? Instead the Prince is portrayed as a wisecracking, cocky 
 graverobber with a wierd sence of humor and Elika... well she's not too bad.
  Overall, this is worth playing at least once, and though it'll probably be done in 10-11 hours, 
 there are achievements that might keep some coming back for more. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ironguy410
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 11, 2009 2:58 am PT
Review:  Just to get this straight, I wasn't a Prince of Persia fan and I'm still not. Though I enjoyed 
 playing the last few games, they just didn't appeal to me as much as others. This installment doesn't 
 change anything.
  Don't get me wrong, this is a great game. The graphics are astonishing and the game-play's very 
 good, and the flow of it all left me drooling, but there were quite a few problems that didn't 
 really let me commit to the Prince and his new game.
  The most apparent change is the graphics. The artistic design is magnificent, and I'm not surprised 
 that since the graphics are based on the Assassins Creed engine they're extremely detailed and 
 beautiful all around. The environments are gigantic and breathtaking and the character models look 
 excellent. 
  While the graphics were the most apparent change, the biggest change (and I mean BIG) is the game-play. 
 While there's still the fast-paced free running of the last game, the combat and the riddles have 
 undergone massive changes. You can no longer decapitate victims with a slash to the neck or run 
 up walls, jump, land behind the foe and slice him in half. No. In this one the fighting is in the 
 form of sequences of attacks chained together. This is a huge change and is probably gonna throw 
 off the massive fans of the series. Another problem: Riddles abounded in the worlds of the last 
 three games, but now they can only be found occasionally among very few levels, as most of the 
 time will be spent running to the next area and trying to get to the next foe, which brings up 
 the topic of the story.
  The story sounds like it was based on ancient Arabic or Persian (or whatever) myths. You have to 
 aid Princess Elika in her struggle to imprison the Dark God Ahriman by defeating his four minions. 
 It's an alright premise but there will be times where you will forget exactly what you're fighting 
 for.
  Last but not least, the sound. The music is good, with memorable tunes following your adventures 
 from start to finish, but the voice-acting... eh. I had expected the voice acting to be a little 
 more... how should i say it... Persian? Instead the Prince is portrayed as a wisecracking, cocky 
 graverobber with a wierd sence of humor and Elika... well she's not too bad.
  Overall, this is worth playing at least once, and though it'll probably be done in 10-11 hours, 
 there are achievements that might keep some coming back for more. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheMattShow
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 9, 2009 12:17 pm PT
Review:  Having played the entire Sands of Time trilogy, I found myself getting bored. Although I LOVED 
 Sands of Time, the Warrior Within fell into crappy game routines with it's addition of a crap metal 
 soundtrack and slutty girls. By the time Two Thrones came out I had pretty much forgotten about 
 the Prince. When I beat Two Thrones, I loved how it completed the trilogy, but I was still bored.
 
  
  Now years later I have a new Prince to love. Or hate. His character is flawed and I don't like 
 picturing Nathan Drake when I hear the Prince talk. Should he be prideful and annoying? Maybe, 
 but not as much. Regardless of the flaws in character, I enjoyed the conversations between him 
 and Elika.
  
  Elika was a nice addition to the game. I'm not convinced she needed to be used as a "saves you 
 every time" character, but she also helps to flesh out the story in a way that is more complete 
 than the other Prince adventures. She's also not TOO bad to talk to. Fun and funny dialogues.
 
  
  On to the game. I really wanted to give it a better score but I can't for several reasons. First, 
 the camera did get in the way a few times and made it nearly impossible to collect all the seeds. 
 I also had an issue with the branching system of combat. Rarely did I find myself able to pull 
 off a longer combo without getting blocked. Couple that with a need to complete up to a 14 hit 
 combo for a trophy/achievement and it leads to one frustrated gamer. Lastly, the game was pretty 
 easy. One reason I like that is because maybe I can talk my wife into playing it. With one button 
 for one type of move, it's something new gamers can get into. One reason not to like that is that 
 I've come to expect more out of games.
  
  The story line is awesome and the graphics are amazing. If that is the only reason you play games, 
 pick it up yesterday. If you're more of an elite gamer who wants really hard games, maybe rent 
 it. I for one am looking forward to seeing where this series takes us. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: khoofia_pika
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 8, 2009 7:54 am PT
Review:  When I first played Prince of Persia: The Sands of Time, I was awe-struck. I had gone through the 
 game in about ten hours, and not even a minute had gone by where I wasn't thrilled. Either there 
 was a cool move that looked and played awesome or there was an epic puzzle design, or there was 
 an action packed exciting cutscene or all of the above. 
  
  Prince of Persia: The Sands of Time was a dream game. Ubisoft had done wonders with the dead franchise 
 and turned it into one of the most thrilling experiences ever. The same goes for Warrior Within 
 and The Two Thrones. 
  
  Prince of Persia had taken a direction which was very God of War-ish (or vice versa) , and had turned 
 into one of the most hardcore franchises ever. After the massive success of this ultra-violent 
 formula, Ubi wouldnt want to change the track. At least that was what we thought. 
  
  This time around, Ubisoft brings us a completely different adventure. If you are used to the maddeningly 
 insane platforming sections of The Sands trilogy, or the highly gruesome combat that we had come 
 to love by the time The Two Thrones had come out or the ultra-heroic Prince of the previous trilogy, 
 then change your view about Prince of Persia. 
  
  The only thing that connects this game to the other Prince of Persia games is the name. Nothing 
 else- when I say nothing, I mean NOTHING AT ALL- is similar. Neither is the story as fast paced, 
 neither is the presentation as action packed, neither is the combat as gruesome and violent, neither 
 are the platforming sections insanely tough, neither is the new Prince as heroic (he's a beggar- 
 literally) , and neither are the graphics fully blown 3D graphics you were used to till now. 
  
  Forget everything you know about Prince of Persia. Everything. Play this game as if you're 
 playing a Prince of Persia game for the first time. Only then will you understand the beauty of 
 this game. 
  
  Ubisoft has given us an adventure so epic, so beautiful that many masterpieces we have come to 
 love will seem superficial and pathetic. 
  
  But our new hero isn't exactly as charming as the older Prince was, but rather a wisecracking nomad 
 interested only in his donkey who is named Farah and the riches she apparently carries. It is, quiet 
 a few times, hinted that the new Prince has a royal status, but there isn't any elaboration, though 
 his companion Elika is clearly a princess, and as the game progresses, you'll become much more 
 invested in her past than the Prince's. Together, they seek to imprison the evil god Ahriman, who 
 has been inexplicably set free by Elika's own father. To do so, they must restore a series of fertile 
 grounds to their former fecund glory, thereby banishing the inky black corruption that has enveloped 
 the land.
  
  The new Prince Of Persia introduces a great new gameplay engine. An engine so spectacular yet easy 
 that its a great surprise that no other developer had thought about it before. To each type of 
 move, a certain button has been dedicated. One for combat moves, one for acrobatics, one for gauntlet, 
 one for Elika's magic. Everytime you press one of these buttons, the game's intuitiveness forces 
 it to perform the move that you need to perform, depending upon the situation. or example, the 
 acrobatic button might be used to jump while running if there's a huge gap in front of you and 
 that same button might be used to climb walls. Just press the button, and leave the rest to the 
 game which is far more intuitive than most of the games you've played till now. 
  
  In this game, you cannot die. When you fall into a pit, Elika grabs you by the wrist and takes 
 you to a place of safety, which is the last checkpoint. There is a checkpoint in this game in almost 
 every room, so you needn't worry about playing through a lot of stuff again. Which means, there 
 is no penalty if you fall into a pit and the words, "Game Over" will never flash across your screen 
 throughout this game. There is no need for you to save before a tough section is this game (which 
 are less in number) and you dont even need to worry about getting from one point to the other- 
 Elika can always do a magic trick and you'll find yourself at your destination in no time. Combined 
 with simple platforming controls that require a minimum of button presses, these facets make Prince 
 of Persia one of the easiest games you'll play all year. 
  
  Yes. Prince of Persia IS one of the easiest games I have ever played. And the reasons have already 
 been told to you. You never die in this game. Elika is useful and can do everything and can solve 
 any of your problems in no time at all. There is a checkpoint in almost every other room. And you 
 have to simply press a single button to perform a move. No combo or button mashing is required. 
 
  
  The sound, sound effects, presentation and story of this game are simply spectacular. They are 
 done so brilliantly that... well, I can't describe it in words. Its just beautiful and makes this 
 game the best Prince of Persia game ever.
  
  Ultimately, this game is a masterpiece, from every aspect. No gamer, be it hardcore or casual, 
 should miss it. For newcomers, this is a pleasant breeze. For the hardcore fans of Prince of Persia, 
 it's still a pleasant breeze, but only if you let go of what you think of the series. Go and buy 
 this game NOW! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: solidsnakelegen
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 7, 2009 11:08 am PT
Review:  i was shocked to see that game spot only gave prince of Persia an 8/10 as in my opinion it deserves 
 at least a 9. the way the story is told is fantastic and really immersing and i found myself caring 
 about the characters and looking forward to seeing how it progressed. even the general idea of 
 the game is amazing and in my opinion it is much better than the previous prince of persia SOT 
 games. so what.... you lost the ability to have upgrades in weapons, i find it funny when i read 
 peoples reviews moaning POP took a step back from others in the series! games offering upgrades 
 of weapons are just trying to hide the fact that the game is not very good so retarded people will 
 just get over focused on maxing out pointless weapons to hack and slash a horde of pointless bad 
 guys, but not prince of persia! this is a game that is designed to just be great fun with a compelling 
 story and fantastic graphics and game play.. with no need to mask problems with pointless upgrades 
 as there are none. the battle mechanics that people are moaning about are fantastic, as it is really 
 engrossing to have to press the right button with the right time with any mistake ruining you completely. 
 
  
  the fact that you cannot die is fantastic because in gay games where you go to a load screen it 
 feels unrealistic... but in this game it is realistic to the story that the prince does not die 
 and makes it through to the end. 
  
  conclusively i give this game a 10/10 because i enjoyed every minute of its fantastic story and 
 game play. i am really looking forward to replaying it to get the experience all over again and 
 try to get all of the trophies. 
  
  Chris 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cahadras
Rating: 1
Date: Jan 7, 2009 2:08 am PT
Review:  this game is the most horible pop game ever. it isn't original, the camera angles distort your 
 acrobatics and the button mashing sequences make the game a total nightmare because no matter how 
 rapidly you tap the buttons it is mainly luck. i know this because i got the warrior to the edge 
 20 times and no matter how hard or fast i mashed the button i was never able to push him over. 
 the game is unnecessarily hard. fighting each boss could average 30 or more minutes also the game 
 itself grow repeative much like assasin's creed made by the same company i don't know if the company 
 scours websites like this to ganer feedback but games are for entertainment not work out session's 
 if you get cramps in your hands from mashing buttons as i did all to defeat a boss then it eliminates 
 all the fun. its not for a casual gamer i have played and finished all pop products so i know what 
 to expect in a pop game this falls below expectation with zero fun factor and unnecessary frustration 
 good thing i rented it first please if u play games for enjoyment as i do heed my warning its not 
 for you 
::::::

::::::
UserName: metroid_dragon
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 6, 2009 12:05 pm PT
Review:  Picture a painting you love, Perhaps a Van Gogh, maybe Da Vinci; Turn that painting into a moving 
 image, flowing beautifully and keeping its art fully intact, take that image and turn it into a 
 game and you have the re-imagined Prince of Persia. There are a few quirks with the gameplay and 
 the story takes a little while to get truly involved in, but this is a game definitely worth checking 
 out.
  
  You play as the Prince, who is not actually a prince but rather a tomb-raider who has earned that 
 nickname. You are quite literally dropped into the middle of a celestial war between a God of Light 
 and a God of Darkness, and you pair up with a local Princess by the name of Elika who has many 
 useful magical powers at her disposal in order to reseal the God of Darkness back inside of his 
 prison which has been weakened.
  
  True to the old style Prince of Persia games, the re-imagined game still contains all of the same 
 gravity and basic laws of physics defying movements and motions. You will find yourself going for 
 minutes on occasion without setting foot on solid ground, but rather wall running, jumping between 
 pillars, climbing on ceilings and making use of magical power pads which start various sequences 
 from a simple jump from point A to point B, to an extended wall run that can last for minutes, 
 traveling upside down or sideways. Combat is also a very beautiful affair, with the Prince tossing 
 Elika in the air with ease, combing attacks between the buttons to create some amazing affairs 
 of magic, throws and sword swings. Combat is almost like an interactive movie at times, with dozens 
 of times button presses each time you fight an enemy.
  
  One of the key elements of gameplay in Prince of Persia is that you cannot die. If you happen to 
 be in a situation where death would seem inevitable, Elika is always there to shove the enemy off 
 of you before he shears off your head or to catch you and whisk you back to the last platform should 
 you fall, regardless if she is constrained or even unconscious. The worst penalty is that the enemy 
 regains a small amount of health, or you may have to redo 30 seconds of platforming. This gives 
 the game an incredibly relaxed feel to it. You can appreciate the art and sounds more without the 
 fear of the death looming over your head as you shimmy along the ceiling or jump from broken pillar 
 to broken pillar suspended what seems like kilometers above the earth. It's an original idea that 
 I believe paid off and works well with the relaxed and beautiful feeling of the game as a whole.
 
  
  The graphics as mentioned earlier are superb. The game feels like art in motion and even the pseudo-rotted 
 skeleton of the alchemist's corrupted body still looks beautiful in its own way. Every area is 
 originally corrupted once you enter it, appearing almost black and white at times, and a gooey 
 black sludge called corruption coating many walls and areas. It's up to the Prince and Elika to 
 find the 'fertile ground' in each area, and restore it back to the beauty it once had, and the 
 explosions of life and colour are nothing short of amazing, very reminiscent of Okami.
  
  The Prince has a very un-Persian and not from the era voice and personality, and employs a cocky-funny 
 attitude. Though nearing the end of the game he grows on you greatly, and you see a lot of humanity 
 in him in the last scenes. I still wonder what I might have done in his situation at the end. Elika 
 is also likeable, though her personality doesn't develop much other than the bond that grows between 
 her and the Prince. The story is mainly told through short cutscenes that can be triggered at anytime 
 by pressing the L2 button. Thus if you're not playing for the story it is almost entirely skipable, 
 though I wouldn't ever recommend doing so.
  
  The music is good, though you will likely encounter very few memorable songs, and rarely take notice 
 to the background music and ambiance, but some would argue that's a great thing. It helps to immerse 
 you on a subconscious level, and it is never noticeable on a bad level, only good. The sound effects 
 are well detailed, from the scraping sound employed when the prince uses his gauntleted hand on 
 a wall run, to the sound of your sword colliding with the enemy. It's all believable and well done. 
 
  
  My final thoughts are that this is a game that could not have been improved on the artistic front 
 at all, the gameplay could use a few tweaks in the expected sequel and a more detailed story is 
 never amiss. This is a game that took a risk, changed its formula and created something remarkable. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kconn1101
Rating: 5
Date: Jan 5, 2009 6:28 pm PT
Review:  I've been playing this game for a few hours now and I'm about 3/4's of the way through and I have 
 to say that I'm somewhat disappointed. Note there are many spoilers in this review. 
  
  Biggest disappointment? The lack of any challenging game play. There is no sword play. There are 
 no mini game fights to do. The number of moves allowed against enemies is extremely limited and 
 the ability to fight enemies is greatly hampered in a number of ways - you spend more time blocking 
 and defending than actually fighting!
  
  Elica is useless. Aside from taking the brunt of the Prince's jokes and SoCal wit, she doesn't 
 do anything. Sure, she jumps you further and constantly saves your life. But she's getting on my 
 nerves now. She's pretty useless against enemies - always too far away - and most of the time she's 
 thrown aside and becomes a distraction to the Prince. Better to have left the Prince chasing her 
 through the game to add some suspense and mystery to the game. 
  
  The game is short. Short. Nuff said about that. 
  
  Yes, it's beautiful to look at. If you 
 play the game on 1080p LCD or Plasma you're going to be impressed by the landscape and the detail. 
 The game shines. But I don't want to necessarily look at the ill formed pecs or biceps of the Prince 
 in such ungainly detail. Get the smoothing and shading right on the people. 
  
  Fighting the enemies goes on too long. Fight, fight, fight. Block, block, block, block, block... 
 etc. You push them off or into things. And because there are no mini fights you're fighting the 
 big enemies each and every time you fight. Sometimes there's only a few minutes between fights, 
 as well. More tedium. Fewer puzzles to solve, just bosses in your face all the time. 
  
  This game is a long way from the last Prince of Persia installment. I gladly played that one over 
 and over. This one? It'll be at the trade-in as soon as it's done, so I can get something else 
 that will be worth the money and give me the game play I was expecting from this one in the first 
 place. 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: DemonGal711
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 5, 2009 4:01 am PT
Review:  Being my first PoP game, I was a little skeptical about how I would like it. I've heard things 
 about how they are kinda like LoZ in a sense but that the puzzles are more in depth and the bad 
 guys are much better. This game certainly was more then what I expected.
  
  The controls were great, though I kinda got annoyed that everything related to fighting was on 
 the right hand and just moving was left. Would have preferred the block to be the L1/L2 buttons, 
 but that's just me. There were the occasional hiccups where I would want the Prince to run along 
 the wall and he would instead climb it, thus resulting in Elika having to save him (have to play 
 it again if I want that trophy) , but when I got moving, I had no problem with the controls.
  
  The fighting, if done using combos, can be very hypnotic to watch. They do a great job combining 
 sword skills with acrobatics so that the game isn't simply one sword swipe after another. I'll 
 admit, I sorta stumbled into one combo and used it for most of the game, but it was nice that the 
 combo list was very similar instead of just a random assortment of varies button strokes. To me 
 there was something very rhythmic about the patterns that didn't seemed forced or rushed. Easily, 
 someone could just pick up a control and perform a combo without having a list of keystrokes right 
 in front of them. Towards the end, the boss fights became mostly: Prince deflects, Prince attacks, 
 Enemy deflects, Enemy attacks, repeat. I suppose that's probably to make you use different key 
 combo's, but it was sad when I needed to use my sword to end the enemies attack and couldn't get 
 a single hit in for almost a minute.
  
  The graphics were amazing. Really helped bring a sense of actuality to the game. Graphics are something 
 that really make or break a game for me, seeing as I've come across some that I could do better, 
 but these were spot on. They did a great job making things seem big and expansive. I found myself 
 a lot of the time stopping and just moving the camera around so that I could see what the place 
 I just saved was suppose to look like. There were a few minor glitches here and there, like once 
 when the Prince and Elika were both occupying the same spot on a bar or when their switch on the 
 beam had them pass through each other. Other then those two instances, I didn't see any other graphic 
 related mistake.
  
  Character wise, I liked the match up of Elika and the Prince. They balanced each other out nice 
 without one being over the top all the time. It was nice seeing that Elika wasn't just some wimpy 
 sidekick that stands there and offers no help whatsoever. She plays a major part in this game, 
 even more so then the Prince IMO, since the story revolves around her and her homelands. Plus, 
 I just enjoyed the fact that she has to "save" the Prince whenever he was about to die. Didn't 
 really learn much about the Prince, which from what I hear is odd, but I really didn't notice. 
 Apparently I've played too many games where the main characters back story is summed up in four 
 lines. But still, I don't think with the Prince's personality in this one that you would really 
 get much out of him about his life.
  
  Now, people complain about Elika's saving ability, but I found it to be a nice little feature in 
 the game. It gets rid of the tedious loading screens and game over screens which do little towards 
 the gameplay anyway. Plus, new gamers don't fret over the fact that they finally got to the boss, 
 died, and now have to get through all those jumps and tricks again just to get another try. Yes, 
 it does make the game easier cause you don't put so much emphasis on not dying, but this feature 
 doesn't make or break the game.
  
  All in all, minus a few hiccups, I found this to be an amazing game. It is a little on the easy 
 side, but it certainly drags you in and keeps your interest. It offers many factors in one nice 
 little package, such as the story line being a mix of action, exploration, and a bit of romance 
 where as gameplay offers puzzle solving, timed actions/attacks, fighting combos, and speed challenges. 
 Most likely if you try this game, there will be something about it you enjoy. I would definitely 
 buy this again (I'm even looking into the other PoP titles now because of this one) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: finalcross
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 5, 2009 1:19 am PT
Review:  The re-imagining of the Prince of Persia franchise for the PS2 and Xbox were in the eyes of many 
 as one of the best games available in the last five years. The game took the puzzles of the original 
 series and offered a great addition with the inclusion of the Sands of Time, an in-game function 
 which allowed you to rewind portions of the game to fix a mistake you had, such as dying or missing 
 a key jump. For the HD Prince of Persia, the same idea is brought into the mix and in the end, 
 determines how much you will actually enjoy playing this game.
  
  For this branch of the PoP series, you play as a crook rather than prince. Very little of your 
 back-story is given to you except for the fact that you just obtained some loot and have lost your 
 donkey, who is carry your cash. As you walk through the desert looking for said donkey, you stumble 
 upon a beautiful young girl who is being chased by some armed guards. Your character intrigued, 
 quickly follows her. You find out the girl is a princess and by accident, her father has released 
 the imprisoned God. By releasing the God Ahriman, it begins to devourer the land. In order to stop 
 Ahriman's corruption, you along with the Princess, Elika, must travel to various locations and 
 restore the fertile land.
  
  Your progression through the game revolves around you and Elika traveling from location to location 
 in search of key spots where Elika can restore the area. In order to get to each location, you 
 will have to run, jump, climb and perform other various manoeuvres to get to certain spots on the 
 map. Where in Sand in Time, the key feature was the ability to rewind time when a mistake was made; 
 this time around Elika acts as your saving grace. Since she possesses magical powers, if you make 
 a mistake, such as fall off a ledge or miss a jump, she can quickly grab you and bring you back 
 so you can try again. This mechanic is a key feature in the game and will ultimately determine 
 your enjoyment of the game. Those who might find games like this a bit demanding will enjoy the 
 fact that her assistance will make things easier for you. You won't actually die, so if you make 
 a mistake, it's simply try and try again. But those who want a challenge may end up finding this 
 as a crutch and will be put off by the easiness it makes the game feel like. 
  
  Thankfully, this key feature of Prince of Persia is a great addition to the game and for the most 
 part, Elika is a great character that it doesn't feel like a cheap-game-play mechanic. Elika is 
 a key part to the game and in fact, she is the more important character of the two. 
  
  The game focuses solely on the puzzles of each locale. For the most part, once you get to a location, 
 there is really one way to get to the main point, but the game doesn't force you into playing the 
 game in sequential order. Upon restoring fertile land, special 'orbs' will appear that must be 
 collected to help Elika's strength which are then used to unlock additional abilities and progression 
 through the game. 
  
  The first few levels are basic, but as you unlock plates, each with special functions to them that 
 acts as the key to completing the game. You can select whichever plate you want to unlock first 
 and that will open up parts of the area for you to complete. Some levels require only one plate 
 to complete, but later on in the game, you will encounter spots where two or more of the plates 
 will be used to reach key spots. The four plates are each significantly different. One acts a teleportation 
 plate which takes you automatically to another point. Another one turns your character into a speed 
 demon, where you will literally run along a path to reach your destination. If you hit a wall or 
 an obstacle, you'll have to start again. 
  
  The game's actual combat more or less only occurs during stage battles. With each of the fertile 
 lands contains a boss that must be defeated numerous times, once per each of the four sub-sections 
 and then once more to rid them of Ahriman's possession. The combat in game is a bit hit or miss. 
 In the beginning, the combat is simple and taking care of your enemies is a breeze, but that quickly 
 changes and boss battles end up becoming a long series of quick-time events. This is the weakest 
 part of the game as the combat feels out of place from the great platforming you do throughout 
 the rest of the game. Often, you will be spending a good chunk of your time deflecting attacks 
 before you actually manage to strike your opponent. There also seems to be a problem with the sensitivity 
 of the controls, where you will be certain that a button was pressed, but nothing occurs.
  
  This touchiness with the controls also occurs during the platform puzzle portions of the game. 
 Because you essentially use only one button for majority of your actions, depending on the camera 
 angle and the position of your character, he might end up doing an incorrect action forcing you 
 to restart a long series of moves. It's not too bad, but it happens enough that it will frustrate 
 most people. 
  
  Because of Elika's saving ability, the game is easy, but not easy enough that you can breeze through 
 this in one sitting. The game does take a long time and even with the saving and assistance she 
 gives you, you will be playing this for a while. There is plenty to collect and admire that you 
 could end up spending a lot longer than you'd think. 
  
  Prince of Persia contains some of the best looking graphics I have ever seen in a long time. The 
 game uses the once popular cell-shading art style exceptionally well and everything from the characters 
 to the environments are breathtaking. The animations of both Elika and the 'Prince' are very fluid 
 with almost no noticeable hiccups. Yes, I did encounter some weird graphically glitches, including 
 once in which my Prince ended up running on air which forced me to restart from my last save. Other 
 than that minor malfunction, I often would stop playing only to admire the art design. Some might 
 feel that cell-shading should have been stopped years ago, but Prince of Persia shows that it can 
 still be done effectively.
  
  The sound is nearly on par with the game's graphics. All the voice-work, be it Elika, the 'Prince' 
 or even the enemy characters are very convincing. The game's score is also one of my favourites 
 in recent years. The music during points in the game where you unlock the plates is something I 
 will surely not forget for a very long time. 
  
  Outside of the rare control issues and the weird combat mechanics, this is an absolutely incredible 
 game that will appeal to fans of the Prince of Persia series, especially those of the Sands of 
 Time series, and fans of adventure games. I can't stress enough that this is one fantastic game 
 that should be played by even those who might not be attracted to this type of game. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: XFireWalkWithMe
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 4, 2009 9:45 pm PT
Review:  I just got finished playing this game and I am in complete awe at how stunning a game this truly 
 is. Regardless of all the negative gripe this game is recieving for lacking difficulty, this game 
 stands alone as one of the best games I have played in 2008. The artistry stands leaps and bounds 
 over anything released on the ps3 thus far, the gameplay is flawless albeit it does not require 
 much to control the prince, the level design is amongst the best I have ever seen, and there is 
 a genuine sense of amazment around every corner of this game. 
  I will agree it is a tad easy but one of the biggest reasons for this is the fact that there is 
 no death, which in itself is somewhat innovative and a clever risk on ubisofts part to incorporate 
 this into the game. This game shows you that with all the GTA and COD games out there there is 
 still room for a good old fashioned fairy tale style of game that not only tantalizes the imagination 
 but is a breath of fresh air from all the blood and guts that video games have to offer today. 
 Don't get me wrong I am a COD feign but this was a nice change of pace to play in between rounds 
 of COD 5.
  To anyone who appreciates a well put together fantasy game and anyone who might like a good platformer 
 this game should not be missed. You will get over the fact that it is sometimes a to easy game 
 and get lost in the artistry that is Prince of Persia. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: diamond_king23
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 4, 2009 8:21 pm PT
Review:  The Good:
  1. The graphics in this game are simply amazing; you won't find a game with better ones out there.
 
  2. Combat is hard to come by, but the smooth controls and awesome ninja-like moves the Prince 
 has makes you wonder why they didn't include more "Corruption" thugs.
  3. Great voice acting. Could of sworn I was in a movie theater.
  
  The Bad:
  1. Who wrote 
 the subtitles for this game? It kind of reminds me of "text message style typing." There are missing 
 sentences and phrases that just get to bugging you after a while.
  2. Some unbelievably ugly animated bosses that make you wonder what the game makers were aiming 
 for them to look like.
  3. Elika has to be right up close and personal to use her magic powers which almost always leads 
 to the Prince lying on the ground in pain.
  
  Bottom Line: Pretty much anyone, at any age, will enjoy this well laid out game as long as they 
 are not too much of perfectionists. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TAMFFVII
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 4, 2009 3:52 pm PT
Review:  Ok lets jump straight into this one. You take the role of a nameless young gentleman who has a 
 fetish for drawing around his muscles with a felt tip pen and, for the record, is not the same 
 guy from the previous series. On his travels he comes across an upfront shoeless woman and appears 
 to be fleeing from the local guard. Of course as always you, the hero, decide to follow her and 
 therefor end up in a heap of trouble in which you're forced to help your damsel in distress reinprison 
 an imortal god in a magical tree temple. Par for the course if you really think about it. This 
 basically involves a well structured adventure in which you travel to four lands to, inturn, heal 
 each lands' four seperate areas that the evil mean god has corrupted. Simple yes? Well no. Ok yes 
 it is simple. Very simple.
  
  As you probably know quite well ubisoft are the creators of assassins creed and that game got slated 
 for being highly repetitive, well to be honest this game isn't any different. After about the 20th 
 area you heal and the fourth boss you kill you begin to wonder whether the end of the game is actually 
 neigh, then you think to yourself "omg it actually is!", But not without feeling satisfied I might 
 add. 
  
  Some people think that the game is too easy but i on the other hand must have died a million times... 
 well when i say died i mean I should have died a millions times. I actually didn't die once. This 
 is because your female companion, AKA elika, has magical abilities, one of which allows her to 
 save you just in the nick of time. If this means falling to your imminent doom then she will zoom 
 to you, pick you up and safely drop you back on the last piece of ground you were standing on allowing 
 you to retry the jump. If it means you're about to take your final hit then she will push the enemy 
 over with magical force powers. The price of this of course is that the enemy regenerates a certain 
 amount of health everytime this happens meaning it is possible to be there quite some time fighting 
 an individual boss. I find this system a lot better than dieing and starting again from a chechpoint 
 for a few reasons. This means no loadtimes at all, it is just a continuous flow of gameplay that 
 never ends. It also decreases the difficulty a tad bit but therefor makes the game slightly less 
 frustrating than the previous games which in my opinion is a good thing.
  
  Now I liked the previous prince of persia series, especially the wall runny, wall jumpy, wall climby, 
 pole grabby, pole climby, pole jumpy acrobatics etc but since this is a next-gen console in addition 
 to the above you now have the ceiling runny, ceiling jumpy, ceiling swingy on hookys abilities, 
 which is just as much fun. There're also power plates dotted about the walls which provides you... 
 well Elika with special jump abilities which allow you and her to superfly, superswing, super jump 
 and super wall run to what would be some super unreachable locations. These powers do come with 
 a price. You need to collect a certain amount of glowy light balls, AKA life seeds, that only appear 
 every time you heal an area. Gaining these powers opens up other areas and therefor allowing you 
 to heal more lands and collect more life seeds. Each land also has its own guardian which acts 
 as the lands' boss. You meet and fight this boss in each area you go to and when you heal all of 
 th areas of a particular land you figt the lands' boss one last time in a huge climactic battle 
 that always ends in a massive explosion and the tower like building colapsing and you making a 
 desperate escape with your desperate companion. Some may say you seem to fight the bosses more 
 often than the plebby dark army members that you come across every now and again and are possible 
 to defeat in one hit if you manage to get to them before they fully spawn and try to decapitate 
 you. Is this a problem? Not really. It just adds to the bosses character development i guess. Either 
 way in the end its up to Elika to use her special healing powers to errrr kill each lands boss, 
 sorry Guardian.
  
  I have no idea why they called this game "prince of persia" because you don't take the role of 
 an actual prince, just a random tomb raiding traveller that happens to come a cross a girl in the 
 desert that happens to ironically be a princess. So really the game should be called "Member of 
 public" or "Princess but you take the role of a random guy of persia" but i guess that wouldn't 
 sound so catchy.
  
  Aside from all this the game is actually real fun and highly enjoyable. I recommend buying this 
 game since you may need quite some time clock it and therefor may not decide to rent it. It is 
 addictive enough to have high replay value and also has a nice touch of unlockable skins for both 
 you "The Prince" (he says rolling his eyes) and Elika. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lynchmisfit99
Rating: 4.5
Date: Jan 4, 2009 1:10 pm PT
Review:  Prince of Persia looked amazing, keyword looked, but just failed to deliver. The graphics are the 
 only thing I like about this game, because the art style is one of the best since Wind Waker.
 
  
  The gameplay is repetitive, boring, and everything looks the same. You fight the same generic enemies, 
 you fight 4 of the bosses three times each, you don't gain anything new except trophies/achievements, 
 because there is no customization besides if you want to be the new prince, Sands of Time Prince, 
 or Altiar. Another thing is, YOU CAN'T DIE! Making no challenge what so ever, I mean i like how 
 you can't die from falling since that would get annoying if Elekia couldn't save you, but at least 
 make it able to be killed in boss fights and make higher difficulties.
  
  There is no point in buying this game unless you like the gameplay enough to do the same thing 
 for about 10 hours. The only thing left to do is hope the next two games in the trilogy isn't the 
 same stuff over and over again. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tryagainlater
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 9, 2009 6:12 am PT
Review:  Prince of Persia for the PS3, Xbox 360 and PC is the first installment of the new Prince of Persia 
 series. It is a separate story from the Sands of Time Trilogy which ended in 2005. As well as a 
 new story, there's a new prince, a new land, a new ally, new enemies, new graphics and a changed 
 set of platforming and fighting mechanics to keep the gameplay fresh.
  
  The protagonist of the story is of course the Prince. This is only a nickname though as he isn't 
 a prince of any lands. He is only an adventurer, who travels through lands looking for treasure. 
 He had just found himself quite a bit of gold which his donkey, Farah (which you may remember as 
 a name of a character for the earlier trilogy) was carrying. As he was going to an unknown place 
 to buy everything he desired, he got caught in a sandstorm and lost Farah. He forces his way through 
 the storm calling out his donkey's name which is where the game opens. It's not long before a woman 
 bumps into him, hiding from pursuers. Being the curious person he is, the Prince decides to follow 
 her and help her escape. He later discovers that this woman who is called Elika is a Princess of 
 a land and is trying to escape from her father. It's not long before he gets involved with an evil 
 god called Ahriman who is trying to spread darkness throughout the land.
  
  The Prince, originally reluctant, attempts to help Elika rid the land of Ahriman's darkness or 
 corruption. Ahriman has 4 main followers. These are the Hunter, the Alchemist, the Concubine, and 
 the Warrior. Your objective is to heal the 5 fertile grounds which that each of these bosses try 
 to protect. Then there is a final stage of each boss where you have to finish them off once and 
 for all. So basically, you will battle each of this 4 bosses 6 times. As you go about healing these 
 fertile grounds, you can talk to Elika by the press of a button. In doing this, you can learn about 
 all the character's back story and the history of the land. This is a great way to progress the 
 story without bogging you down with a ridiculous amount of information all at once. It's also a 
 good way of showing you Elika and the Prince's personality as every now and then the Prince cracks 
 a joke and seeing Elika's reaction can be genuinely funny at times. There's a particular conversation 
 strand where they both play a word game which I thought was very funny.
  
  The Prince and Elika are brilliant characters. Some people may find the Prince a bit annoying with 
 his big ego but that's what makes him funny. Elika's back story is quite interesting which you 
 learn about more if you listen to the conversations. The same can't be said for the Prince as he 
 doesn't really have much of a story. They both interact well together throughout the story. Their 
 interaction in gameplay is quite impressive as well as all their movements together are designed 
 so you see the Prince help Elika do something like climb up a ledge but she never gets in your 
 way. It's clear Ubisoft put a great deal of thought into designing the gameplay this way.
  
  Plain and simple, the platforming is fantastic. If you played the previous installments of 
 Prince of Persia, you may recognize familiar moves such as the famous wall run, and beam walking, 
 column jumping but there are few new additions to the new Prince's acrobatic repertoire. There 
 the roof run which scurrying upside-down on the roof. There's the ring swinging which basically 
 grabbing a ring in a wall or roof to help prolong your run. Although the wall run isn't new, this 
 is the first time you could jump from a wall while wall running straight to another wall continuing 
 the wall run. Also, Elika can use magic to make the Prince do a double jump. One thing I have to 
 say about these moves is that the controls are little too simple. The Prince does a lot of things 
 by himself. Ubisoft could have made you press a few more buttons to do the acrobatics. You are 
 mainly using x and the analog stick to do most of the moves and then you only use circle to grab 
 a ring, triangle to do a double jump and R1/R2 to drop (PS3 controls) . As you go about using these 
 moves, there are different forms of corruption trying to kill you. It is a thrill trying to avoid 
 them by timing movements properly.
  
  Another aspect of the platforming which helps the Prince and Elika reach a fertile ground is the 
 power plates. There are four power plates in the game. You have to unlock them one-by-one by collecting 
 light seeds. Each of the four plates has a different power. The orange plate makes you perform 
 a giant leap and the blue plate gives you the ability to use an invisible grappling hook. They 
 may sound a bit different but they look the same and they basically achieve the same thing. The 
 green and yellow plate give the game a bit of challenge. The green plate gives you the ability 
 to do a super run across walls. There are obstacles that you run into though causing you to fall. 
 The yellow plate allows you to fly through the air. You have to move out of the way of buildings 
 and pillars though or of course, the Prince will fall. As I said earlier though, this game is very 
 easy. You won't tear your hair out trying to keep the Prince from falling to his death. Also, there 
 is no game over screen. Just before the Prince falls to his apparent death or gets engulfed by 
 corruption, Elika uses her magic to grab your hand mid-air and returns you to the last solid ground 
 you stood on. This acts as a death scene but has been the topic of criticism towards the game.
 
  
  Fighting has completely changed from previous Prince of Persia games. Instead of fighting multiple 
 enemies at once, you only fight them one at a time. This was to make each battle more dramatic 
 and memorable and Ubisoft definitely achieved this. The boss battles look fantastic as they go 
 in and out of slow motion. The combat system is fairly simple but it was well implemented. You 
 only use four buttons to control your sword, your acrobatics, your gauntlet and Elika. You can 
 string combos together by using these different commands during a battle. You can slash enemies 
 with your sword, get Elika to use her magic to attack an enemy, launch an enemy into the air with 
 the gauntlet or jump over enemies with your acrobatics. For such a simple system, it is fairly 
 deep because I was still discovering new combos near the end of the game. It is quite fun to experiment 
 with different moves to make something that just looks really cool. Quick time events are also 
 used in these fights which adds to the drama. Usually a button pops up on the screen when your 
 opponent is about to deal their final blow and you have to dodge or if you have to push them off 
 a ledge. Like with platforming, if a enemy is about to kill you, Elika uses her magic to save you 
 just at the nick of time. It is mainly battle with the 4 bosses of the game but there are other 
 generic corrupted fighters dotted throughout the game. The corrupted enemy regenerates their health 
 when this happens though.
  
  Differing from the old formula of Prince of Persia, this game uses a cell-shaded graphic style. 
 The game looks absolutely amazing with this engine which you will notice the second your start 
 the game. The characters are very well designed and the color used in their clothes really adds 
 to their personality. One thing you really can't say a bad thing about is the animations. Everything 
 that the Prince and Elika do looks great - whether it be climbing up a fissure or Elika throwing 
 the Prince towards an enemy during a battle. Also, facial animations are done quite well. During 
 a battle you can sometimes see the strain on the Princes fight. It even zooms in on this during 
 a quick time event every now and then. The lip-syncing isn't particularly good but it's forgivable.
 
  
  There a lot of good things to be said about the sound. Well first of all, I have to comment on 
 the music. It is well orchestrated and definitely suits the tone of the game. It's also quite catchy 
 and you may find yourself humming it even when not playing the game. This could be just the PS3 
 version as that's all I have played but it cuts out for a second or two randomly but it doesn't 
 happen very often so it's nothing to be concerned about. Sound effects are find and the appropriate 
 sound is timed well with the action that you are performing. The voice acting is great which is 
 helped by the well written dialogue. The Prince is voice acted by the same man who voice acted 
 Nathan Drake in Uncharted who is a very talented voice actor and is well suited to the Prince's 
 personality. The rest of the cast is quite flawless as well.
  
  As you approach the end of the game and start finished off the 4 bosses, there is a sense of anticipation 
 of defeating Ahriman and locking away all the corruption that has taken over the land. I won't 
 give away the end but there is quite a twist that you probably won't see coming. The also decided 
 to make the ending very open so there is definitely going to be a sequel. The open ending and the 
 twist has been getting quite mixed responses but you're going to have to watch the ending and make 
 up your own opinion about it.
  
  All in all, this is an absolute amazing game. It has fun gameplay, great characters which help 
 create an intriguing story and the impressive graphics and sound are the icing on the cake. Unfortunately, 
 it's very easy and a little on the short side but I would recommend this to anyone who enjoys action 
 adventure games and it's a must buy for Prince of Persia fans.
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: IplayEA
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 3, 2009 4:43 pm PT
Review:  The first thing people tend to notice of this game is the graphics. "Wow, that's different." I 
 personally, at first, did not find much of the graphics too be very appealing (before release.) 
 But after having played the game, you see how vast and great the world of this game takes place 
 in, the graphics are stunning. Next is the story: corruption takes over palace of princess (Elika) 
 she needs to get rid of corruption so beast-like creature (Ahriman) doesn't get out. In doing this 
 she must un-corrupt the fertile grounds, and get rid of the four "corrupted." She meets "The Prince" 
 (who many don't like due to his cockiness, but I kinda like it) and he follows and helps her, it 
 seems confusing but when playing it's easy too understand and a decent plot. Now the most criticized 
 aspect of this game - the length - and I must agree, the game will not last you very long and you 
 probably won't go back to play it again when finished unless you play to get more trophies. It 
 is slightly disappointing [length] , but none the less it is game that should be bought. 
  
  Some of the other important things too know are that you can not officially die and most of the 
 people you fight *especially at beginning* don't die (run away) If you are in a situation in which 
 in a usual game you would be killed (Elika-with her magical powers) will help you through it.
 
  Also, the stunts (acrobatics) that you are capable of doing are very impressive and fun too watch. 
 You will notice a lot of time has been put in to the game and every detail perfected.
  The last issue I had with the game was that it was slightly repetitive, you know what you have 
 too do and exactly how you we're going to do it an hour into playing, there also aren't very many 
 opportunities to fight, which may deter people from purchasing "Prince of Persia"
  
  Pros - Great Visuals, Fun combat, Vast world, good story, Fun to watch his acrobatics. GREAT potential
 
  
  Cons - Short, Easy, Slightly Repetitive, no replay factor, Not very much combat.
  
  Overall - good game, 8/10 
  
  For ages 13+
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Azragar1
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 3, 2009 4:28 pm PT
Review:  Now, before reading my review, I'm sure you've seen other people's reviews and seen the average 
 review for this which has been either disapointing or too easy. Let me clarify before I start this 
 review. I have NEVER played another Prince of Persia game, this being my first. I found the game 
 amazing and here is why:
  
  Graphics:
  The graphics are stunning, the artwork displayed, and the textures shown are amazing. Along with 
 graphics comes animation, and this certainly has it. Slowing down battle scense, amazing motions 
 with the sword and Elika's magic. The bosses each have their own model, and they are great. The 
 bad side to the graphics, is that they def. didn't use all the PS3's power to use the best graphics, 
 but went with the universal art style, which probably could have been used on the PS2. 
  
  Characters:
  The two main characters of the story are The Prince, and Elika. Both characters 
 def. have their own personality, and view on issues. Throughout most of the adventure there will 
 be a bit of a love story starting to form between them, depending on how much you use the conversation 
 button (If you plan on getting the most out of the story you're going to have to.) While the Prince 
 seems to have a bit of an Maturity issue, as far as lines, his personality is enough to balance 
 it. Elika on the other hand is close to perfect, being able to keep a mysterious but in need of 
 help character.
  
  Fighting:
  This is where the game can either lose points or gain points for you. The fights are ALWAYS, 1 
 on 1 (Like Assasin's Creed, except there is literally only one guy at a time, not a crowd of people 
 waiting for you.) The game throught the entire story focuses on what you can do in 1 on 1 situations, 
 like Wall Mini-Games, where you have to rapidly tap the button faster than your AI oppenent. Amazing 
 combo system. However, later on in the game to increase the diffuculty, they make the enemies take 
 on forms, for example, you can only attack with magic, sword, or gauntlet. One thing I HIGHLY dis-liked 
 about the game, but it wasn't enough to lower any points in my rating, is that the boss battles 
 (minus the final one) are all the same, just more health and maybe one or two tricks up their sleeves. 
 
  
  Adventuring:
  The adventuring is rather basic in this game, it's a simple Point A to Point B and then fight the 
 boss, heal the land, rinse and repeat. However, each zone (4 in Total) has one area that has a 
 puzzle you have to figure out, these can actually be time consuming, because not only do they make 
 your mind work, but their are normally stages to them. For example, you move the switch to open 
 to platforms on the first floor, second floor move 2 switches to open 3 etc... As far as dying in 
 the game, you can't. Elika will ALWAYS save you, no matter what. Checkpoints in the game are any 
 flat surface, for example, run along the wall for a bit, in the air a bit more, platform (checkpoint) , 
 run on the wall again, fail and die, Elika will put you back on the platform. As far as progressing 
 through the levels, after each set of 4 areas you unlock, you will need Light Seeds, to unlock 
 more, at first I thought, oh great one of these games, but actually getting the lightseeds can 
 be really fun and addicting.
  
  Story:
  Last but not least, there is the story. The story is really where the game shines. It provides 
 an addicting storyk, that is enough to make you want to endure the repetivness of the game. Leaves 
 a lot of room for a sequel, and leaves you begging for more. If there was one reason to get the 
 game, it would be the story. 
  
  Conclusion:
  Great Graphics, Great Story, Great Game. Put simply that's what it comes down to, I would spend 
 the 60 bucks, and get this game over a lot of current adventuring titles (for example: Mirror's 
 Edge) . For all you PoP veterans, bare with the game, I know it may be tough for you to change what 
 PoP has become, but trust me, give it a chance, and you'll really like it.
  
  Azragar signing off. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kar_91
Rating: 6.5
Date: Jan 3, 2009 1:50 pm PT
Review:  The new PoP is an OK game, however it does dissapoint on many factors.
  The visuals are nice to look at, and an interesting change, and definatly the best part of this 
 game.
  
  First, the combat. There seems to be very little combat in the game, ive been playing for about 
 10 hours, and it seems like theres one enemy per hour. You never seem to be fighting more than 
 one enemy at a time, and the combat itself is easy, simple, unimaginative and quite simple, boring. 
 You only really have 4 attacks, so combos are just a mixture of these. Also, it never really feels 
 like your doing anything, its unsatisfying, there is no sense of achivement and no satisfaction. 
 It may as well be a QTE sequence.
  
  Second, the platforming. It is a lot easier than the original games, and you only ever need to 
 use the analouge stick, X and O. For wallruning, or climbing, you just hold down X, and the prince 
 will jump automatically. Also, it is pretty much imposible to die, as whenever you fall, you will 
 be caught and 'flown' to the last safe point. In fact, dying is probaly a greater achievement than 
 not dying, as it is a lot harder to do. 
  
  Finally, there is the prince himself. Well, you don't really play as the prince. You play as Nathan 
 Drake from Uncharted. They look the same, they have the same attitude, and they are voiced by the 
 same person so they sound the same, and if your going to play as Nathan Drake you might as well 
 stick to where he belongs because Uncharted is a better game on every level. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chaosisover
Rating: 6
Date: Jan 16, 2009 6:54 pm PT
Review:  Prince of Persia looked amazing, keyword looked, but just failed to deliver. The graphics are the 
 only thing I like about this game, because the art style is one of the best since Wind Waker. 
 
  
  The gameplay is repetitive, boring, and everything looks the same. You fight the same generic enemies, 
 you fight 4 of the bosses three times each, you don't gain anything new except trophies/achievements, 
 because there is no customization besides if you want to be the new prince, Sands of Time Prince, 
 or Altiar. Another thing is, YOU CAN'T DIE! Making no challenge what so ever, I mean i like how 
 you can't die from falling since that would get annoying if Elekia couldn't save you, but at least 
 make it able to be killed in boss fights and make higher difficulties.
  
  There is no point in buying this game unless you like the gameplay enough to do the same thing 
 for about 10 hours. The only thing left to do is hope the next two games in the trilogy isn't the 
 same stuff over and over again. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gamereviews2008
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 3, 2009 7:32 am PT
Review:  Despite Prince of Persia's ancient setting, there's something very modern about the game design 
 that could well be used as a template for many games to come. In Ubisoft's latest you can't die. 
 Jump off a cliff, get stabbed by a dark demon or fall into a pool of dark corruption all you like, 
 because you'll get saved and returned to safety. It might sound like a gimmick destined to make 
 for an entirely forgettable, unrewarding experience, but it's not. Prince of Persia does away with 
 one of the most fundamental game design rules and is all the better for it.
  
  The Prince is a cocky guy, no doubt aware of his rippling muscles and rugged good looks, so when 
 an attractive young lady appears in the middle of the desert it's no surprise that he takes an 
 interest. Elika, clearly a girl from the rich side of town, appears to be running from her father, 
 and she's important enough to have guards trying to stop her escape. All isn't quite as it seems, 
 with Elika's father being the King and some kind of deal being made between himself and Ahriman, 
 the evil dark lord. After a fight inside an ancient shrine, corruption (a kind of dark matter) 
 is spread throughout the land, and the once beautiful kingdom is thrust into darkness.
  
  Being the good guy he is, the Prince takes it upon himself to go with Elika on her quest to rid 
 the world of this corruption, revitalising one area at a time. Inside each of these 20 zones is 
 a patch of fertile ground on which a magical tree sits. Elika is able to use her own magical energy 
 to restore life to the area, ridding the corruption and releasing 45 light seeds into the surrounding 
 area. These are used to unlock new magical powers which are needed to reach certain parts of the 
 game world.
  
  This wouldn't be too tricky if it wasn't for the way the city has crumbled (with platforms often 
 being held up by narrow pillars and broken away from each other) and the evil corrupted beings 
 that now live there. The game world is essentially split into four, with each zone ruled by one 
 of Ahriman's slaves - enemies so corrupted that they now possess an incredible amount of power 
 - with your goal being to make it to each boss' 'lair' before dispatching them for good.
  
  Although Prince of Persia is most definitely an action game, combat is only ever against single 
 enemies. As you make your way through the open, albeit fairly linear landscape, attempting to find 
 each of the fertile patches of land, you'll come across plenty of standard corrupted enemies. These 
 are pretty easy to kill, with the Prince able to perform some rather spectacular combos in conjunction 
 with Elika - you can even kill them before they've been spawned properly. Each of the four face 
 buttons perform a different attack (sword, gauntlet, Elika and air) , and these can be chained together 
 in many different ways.
  
  Finding an opening is more or less about timing a block (which results in a flash of white light) 
 in order to then counter with a string of devastating blows. It's not quite as simple as it sounds 
 though, with the state of an enemy determining what attack type you need to start off with. For 
 example, when an enemy is completely transformed due to corruption you need to start an attack 
 with Elika, with all other forms of attack proving completely useless. You can't die, of course, 
 but if Elika needs to save you from the jaws of death (usually if you press the wrong button during 
 one of the enemies' QTE attacks) your foe will regain some, if not all of its health.
  
  Boss encounters, which crop up before you are able to cure each area, are far more impressive, 
 often requiring you use the environment as well as your primary attack options. The final encounters 
 are even better - they require more thought than just what attack type to use and take place across 
 numerous locations. The beginning of one boss fight, which confuses you with a number of fake Elikas, 
 stands out as a real highlight, and, while the solution is very simple, requires an understanding 
 of game's core mechanic.
  
  Fighting actually takes up a fairly small part of the game, with acrobatic exploration, platforming 
 and puzzle solving being the core of the experience. You might think that the inability to die 
 would lessen the thrill of leaping about high above the ground, but it doesn't. Instead it liberates 
 you, making you feel free enough to do whatever you want, safe in the knowledge that Elika will 
 grab you and return you to a sure-footed position if it doesn't work out. Ubisoft has gone to great 
 lengths to make moving about as fun as possible, giving you the illusion of control and skill while 
 often doing things for you.
  
  You have three basic moves: jump, interact and use magic. Jumping is pretty self explanatory, allowing 
 the prince to leap onto ledges, wall and ceiling run and flip off poles. Interacting is more or 
 less limited to using large gold rings as holding points during long wall and ceiling runs, with 
 a tap of the button being all it takes. Magic can only be used when you reach one of the many plates 
 in each area, with god Ormazd giving Elika power to reach new areas. The Prince is also able to 
 slide down walls using his gauntlet, allowing him to reach seemingly inaccessible areas. Your final 
 tool during platforming is essentially a double jump with the aid of Elika. By tapping the Elika 
 button while in mid air, she'll grab you and propel you forwards onto whatever platform had been 
 just out of reach. This looks brilliant and simply never gets old.
  
  At times during the platforming sections it feels like you're in a glorified Quick Time Event but 
 without the pop-up button commands. The prince almost always positions himself so you can move 
 from one platform/ledge/pole to another without doing anything but press jump, and things like 
 wall and ceiling running effectively only need you to press a single button. Somehow this actually 
 works, injecting pace into the platforming - a gameplay mechanic that is usually quite laboured 
 and slow. It's hand holding in the extreme, especially when tied to the generous Elika checkpoint 
 system, but it's great fun and never a chore. The Prince even moves across ledges while hanging 
 from his hands at a faster pace than most game characters walk.
  
  To make use of the superb platforming engine Ubisoft has developed there's a considerable amount 
 of collecting to do in Prince of Persia. Each magic power requires a certain number of light seeds 
 to unlock, with more and more needed as you progress. With 45 released after each area is cleansed 
 (plus a bunch for each main boss defeated) and with our end total being bang on 650, you get an 
 idea about the time you're going to need to spend leaping about trying to reach remote locations. 
 Although compulsory to an extent (you don't need to collect all the light seeds) , this never became 
 a chore, with the enemy-free locations being a joy to navigate. It seems Ubisoft learnt a lot from 
 the rather pointless flags you had to collect in last year's Assassin's Creed.
  
  Breaking up the action and platforming are puzzles, usually built around the idea that the game 
 world is in fact a working city with various cogs, levers and switches being part of the inner 
 workings, not just objects placed there for the sake of the game. These also represent the only 
 part of the game in which you could conceivably get stuck, as Elika doesn't give you anything more 
 than a few slight hints. Considering she'll save your life repeatedly, point you in the right direction 
 if you're lost and generally be on hand to offer info, this comes as quite a shock, but some careful 
 thought should see you through.
  
  If there's one area of the platforming that lets the side down it's two of the magic abilities 
 you gain. Of the four, two of these essentially send the Prince and Elika along a set path, either 
 to another magical plate or to a platform with very little interaction required on your part. The 
 other two try to do something a bit different by being far more interactive and at the same time 
 often extremely annoying. One sees you climbing up walls and the other sees the Prince fly like 
 Harry Potter on his broomstick, except without the broomstick, and on rails. The problem with both 
 is that they are about avoiding obstacles, with one bad move resulting in a return to the last 
 checkpoint. This wouldn't be so bad if it weren't for the fact that there are some quite lengthy 
 sections that combine all the magical plates, without a mid-way checkpoint, and the camera angle 
 is often so bad that you can't see obstacles until it's too late. While these sections look quite 
 dazzling, they fit rather uneasily into the game as a whole and we'd have quite happily traded 
 them for more traditional platforming sections.
  
  And that brings us to the second main sticking point: the relationship between the Prince and Elika. 
 Elika is extremely likeable, voiced well and with a character that's easy to care for. The Prince 
 isn't. To be fair, he grew on us, with his jock-like dialogue slowly fading as he became more aware 
 of the situation and his relationship with Elika blossomed, but by the end he was still just a 
 guy who we cared very little for. Part of this is down to the choice of voice actor, which happens 
 to be the very same guy who played Nathan Drake in Uncharted on PS3.
  
  In Uncharted he pulled off the cocky modern day Indiana Jones very well, and he does a good job 
 here too. It's just that for the relationship to work here he needed to be a more rounded character. 
 At the end of the game there are a few scenes that would have gone down in video game history had 
 that relationship worked, but they fell slightly flat. It's by no means a complete failure, with 
 much of the dialogue from the Prince, Elika, and the supporting cast of enemies being exceptionally 
 good, but what is a great game could have been elevated to classic status had this key relationship 
 been perfected.
  
  If the relationship had been told entirely through the actions of the characters rather than their 
 spoken words (perhaps in a way similar to Ico and Shadow of the Colossus) there'd be no question 
 that Ubisoft had done a good job. The way to the two leads interact with one another is quite magnificent, 
 from a physical point of view, with the Prince catching Elika as she leaps onto ledges, carrying 
 her on his back as he moves across vines and switching places with a hand-held spin if they cross 
 paths on a tight beam or ledge. The interaction during combat is equally spectacular, with the 
 combos you're able to pull off being real visual highlights.
  
  It's the environments and boss characters that stand out the most though, with the sights on offer 
 here rivalling the best we've ever seen in a video game. The painting-like visual style gives the 
 game a unique appearance perhaps only comparable to Okami, but it's so much more impressive here. 
 The environments are truly epic in scale - so much so that you'll want to spend time simply taking 
 it all in, especially once the area has been healed and returned to its beautiful natural state. 
 Best of all, the frame rate (Xbox 360 version tested) is flawless for the most part. We experienced 
 the odd moment of tearing and some very minor frame rate drops, but they were rare occurrences.
 
  
  Ever since Ubisoft revealed its reboot of the Prince of Persia franchise there have been whispers 
 of "game of the year", and it's to Ubisoft's credit that it has delivered a game that absolutely 
 delivers on its promise, trumping Assassin's Creed in every way. Game of the year is perhaps a 
 stretch too far, but Ubisoft Montreal has come tantalisingly close to creating a real masterpiece. 
 There's no doubt that a sequel is coming; we only hope that the Prince and Elika have some time 
 to work on their relationship in the time being.
  
  Overall, 8.5/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tariq393
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jan 2, 2009 1:17 am PT
Review:  first of all i want to say that the best thing about prince of persia games was that there's nothing 
 you have to collect to unlock something (ability, power, whatever) i was a big fan of this game 
 especially the warrior within but this new prince i don't like so much. the fights are frustrating 
 with no varity of enemies (the corruption and the bosses) the power plates aren't too impressive (OH 
 i liked the time rewinding more than elikas magic) , the story feels so familier (2 gods fighting 
 and corrupted land you have to heal to save the world WOW) , the music is not that good. the concept 
 of the game based on jumping, running on walls and collecting the light seeds which is very fun 
 for 10 years old boy and which the only thing the game succeded in. rent the game but don't buy 
 it because it's dose not worth it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: blindclown2000
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 1, 2009 10:06 pm PT
Review:  Prince of Persia is a beautiful game and it's a lot of fun to play. The controls are simple and 
 make all the well animated jumping and running easy to pull off. The graphics are very beautiful, 
 almost like playing in some kind of painting.
  
  The game is rather easy, since you can never die. If you fall or miss your jump, your partner Elika 
 will pull you back onto solid ground. If you start to lose in a battle, she will pull you to safety, 
 knocking the enemy back. However, the enemy will regain some of it's lost health for doing so. 
 To me, this is a really great option. Sometimes games are just meant to be fun, and not so much 
 to provide a hardcore challange that will only end up frustrating.
  
  Combat is fun and smooth, with great attack animations. You can attack with your sword, you can 
 grab an enemy, and you can let Elika attack. You can combo all sorts of beautiful moves together 
 to make for an awesome fight scene. None of the bad guys should really give you too much trouble, 
 especially since right before you would "die", a button will pop up and if you press it in time 
 you avoid the "final" blow, so that way Elika doesn't have to save you and the enemy's health stays 
 where it's at.
  
  The environments are great to look at. The world starts off all dark and dreary with corruption, 
 but as you heal the lands, everything becomes bright and green and lush again. 
  
  Most of the time you'll have to go through an area twice, once to get to the fertile ground so 
 you can heal it, and then you'll probably want to go through it again after it's been healed so 
 you can collect all the Light Seeds lying around. You collect Light Seeds in order to "buy" special 
 powers that Elika can use for platforming, which allows you to get to new areas.
  
  Most of these powers are pretty simple and fun, with two of them basically doing the same thing 
 and jumping you to the next power plate. Another, and my favorite, has you running along the walls 
 and you have to avoid running into objects. However, my least favorite, is one where you fly through 
 the levels and you have to avoid flying into objects. Sometimes with the camera angle, it's just 
 hard to tell whether you're supposed to go left or right to avoid a column or a wall or whatever. 
 
  
  I know a lot of people complain that the game is too easy, but like I said earlier, sometimes games 
 are just meant to be FUN, not challanging. I'm certaintly not going to hold it against this great 
 game for being too easy. It just made it more fun to not have to go into a menu and load a save 
 game because you missed a jump or because you got killed by an enemy.
  
  Prince of Persia is one of the best looking games and really shouldn't be missed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: adamrich81
Rating: 6.5
Date: Jan 1, 2009 4:34 pm PT
Review:  I HATE that reviewers in magazines and sites rush out these reviews, in many cases based on hype, 
 most often surrounding a sequel, a series reboot or an especially ambitious undertaking by a company. 
 These reviews are just that, rushed. 
  
  That said, this game is not good, and after the novelty of running on walls wears off, it's not 
 even fun. it's a button mashing free for all (even with the 'combo' system.) Combos are a way of 
 chaining together flashy magic or aerobatic attacks that certainly look cool as hell, but ultimately 
 add little to the substance or the challenge of the game. 
  
  Regarding the challenge, there is none... not even a little. It's a game where you can't die. You 
 can't be beaten in battle, and in a game where daring jumps, and wall running is commonplace, you 
 can't even fall to your death. What happens is the princess you're traveling with, saves you with 
 'magic from the gods'. 
  
  You've heard the story before too, evil god escaping must stop him before total darkness, blah 
 blah. 
  
  Ubisoft Montreal, the incredibly talented people behind Assassin's Creed churned out a pretty game; 
 the cell shading of the character's and the almost watercolor backgrounds look amazing. The writing 
 for the prince is witty and entertaining... the story is blah.
  
  If you're a fan of the series, this is a departure... but worth a check. If you've never played 
 a Prince of Persia, go back and check out the earlier games they are much more satisfying in all 
 aspects. 
  
  This game falls WAY above Tomb Raider: Underworld, and WAY below Assassin's Creed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PSFreak1
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 1, 2009 2:28 pm PT
Review:  When we meet the new Prince, he hardly seems princely at all. Little more than a smooth-talking 
 thief, the Prince gets lost in a sandstorm while searching for his donkey, Farah. Of course, this 
 is no ordinary sandstorm. This mystical phenomenon transports the Prince to another land, one seemingly 
 made more of myth than reality. It's here where he fatefully runs into Elika, a beautiful barefoot 
 descendant of a clan sworn to guard the prison of the evil god Ahriman. As bad luck would have 
 it, the two meet just in time to witness Ahriman's release from his prison inside the Tree of Life. 
 His escape releases corruption across the four areas of the world. This corruption will spread 
 further unless the Prince and Elika can heal the infected lands. And so begins your adventure. 
 
  
  This is a story about love. Not the love between the Prince and Elika, but between you and Elika. 
 She is your constant guide, able to cast a spell at any time to show you the path to your goal. 
 Come across a gap too great for the Prince to leap? Elika can assist with a double-jump move. Want 
 some help in combat? Elika patrols the arena, ready to attack at your command. Miss a ledge and 
 about to fall to your death? No sweat. Elika will always save you. Elika teaches you about corruption 
 and the battle between Ahriman and Ormazd, about the history of the four infected areas and the 
 tragic tales of all four bosses you must battle. She's your greatest asset and far more likeable 
 than the boorish Prince. If Elika were just a little bit more real or I was just a tad more insane, 
 I'd marry her. 
  
  Elika is so significant to the story and gameplay that I found myself caring far more for her safety 
 than that of my own character, the Prince. And the real genius is that Elika is as easy to control 
 as pressing a single button. That's all it takes. Double jumps, combat moves and magic with Elika 
 are all assigned to one button. Her AI is perfectly designed so that she never takes the lead and 
 never gets in the way. And that's saying something, considering how quickly the Prince moves about 
 the world. 
  
  In truth, Elika is really just a manifestation of actions we've been performing in games for years. 
 We've all seen a double jump before and heroes who mix in magic with their swordplay. All Ubisoft 
 did was take these very standard gameplay elements and give them a physical form. It's because 
 Elika is such a natural extension of the gameplay that it's easy to care for her. 
  
  The rest of the Prince's actions are just as simple as commanding Elika. Each is assigned to its 
 own button. There's one for acrobatics, your sword and your gauntlet. These work both while free 
 running about the world and in combat. So when you are battling the Warrior -- a massive creature 
 made of stone -- you instinctively know that if you want to slide between his legs, you're going 
 to use the acrobatic button. Ease of use is a primary focus of the Prince's design. In fact, it's 
 so easy, some may subconsciously overcomplicate things. 
  
  When you're running about the world, performing acrobatic sequences, it's difficult at first to 
 shake off years of training in action platformers. But Prince is actually simpler (and in many 
 ways better) than previous iterations of the series or other action games. You never need to hold 
 down a button -- there is no pre-loading your jumps. That's because you can jump off a wall at 
 any time. So if you jump to a wall and then hold down jump as you are landing, you aren't preloading 
 the next jump, you're actually going to jump again. 
  
  Combat follows a similar philosophy to acrobatics. This is not a button masher. In fact, button 
 mashing is a sin in the world of Prince of Persia. Instead, combat is a rhythmic chaining of combos. 
 You're not meant to be tensed up and leaned forward during battle. You're supposed to be relaxed, 
 absorbing in the environment, the look of the enemy, and the Prince's incredible animations. 
 
  
  There's a fairly deep combo tree in Prince of Persia that can branch off from any of the four buttons 
 (sword, gauntlet, Elika and acrobatics) . Discovering how to keep a combo branch from closing allows 
 you to string together a dozen hits for an amazing attack sequence. All combat is one-on-one (or 
 one-on-two if you count Elika) allowing Ubisoft to manipulate the camera freely for a more cinematic 
 experience. And just because you are only battling a single enemy, don't expect combat to be easy. 
 The AI is tough and adapts to your play. Do well and the AI blocks more often and becomes more 
 aggressive. Get your butt handed to you too often and the AI eases up. There's no way to individually 
 manage this (no difficulty setting or other options) , but I found the combat most rewarding when 
 the AI was taking it to me. 
  
  The only trouble with facing the harder AI is that they more readily engage in quick-time-event 
 attacks. These cut-scene attacks stutter the flow of combat when you get three or four in a row. 
 And since each enemy only has three or four types of attacks, it quickly begins to feel repetitive; 
 especially when you consider that you will fight each boss five or six times. I enjoyed the progression 
 of the bosses, how they become more difficult with each battle and how the arenas themselves made 
 each combat feel a little different, but the QTE moments start coming far too often. 
  
  Getting the flow of combat is more difficult than getting into the acrobatics. It's going to be 
 difficult -- perhaps even impossible -- for some to break their old habits. For those who can't 
 get into POP's flow, the experience may be short-lived. Prince of Persia isn't for everyone. You 
 are either going to love it or just not get it at all. If you can embrace the idea that this is 
 more about an experience than about the traditional "beating the game" mentality, then you are 
 in for something special. 
  
  If the combat or acrobatics prove a challenge, don't worry. You can't die. At all. Ever. Elika 
 will always save you. If you fall, she'll grab your hand and pull you back to safety, depositing 
 you at the last solid ground you were on. If you're going to get squashed by an enemy, Elika will 
 yank you to safety. This gives the enemy a chance to heal, but it keeps the combat moving. This 
 steals some of the challenge from Prince of Persia, but it also offers some freedom for exploration. 
 You can make leaps of faith in an attempt to get at a Light Seed knowing that failing won't penalize 
 you. 
  
  I'm okay with removing any serious penalties from a game like Prince. After all, the more you stress 
 about death, the harder it would be to enjoy the scenery. But I do hold issue with some of the 
 other ways Ubisoft has made Prince consumer friendly. When you need to double jump, the color bleeds 
 out of the world. When an enemy is about to counter attack, the block button flashes on screen. 
 There's no way to remove these prompts for those who want to add some challenge. At times, Prince 
 feels a bit like Mister Toad's Wild Ride. Sure, you have your hands on the steering wheel, but 
 you're being guided along. I'm all for making things accessible to a broader audience, but there's 
 no reason Ubisoft couldn't also service the hardcore gamer at the same time. 
  
  Prince of Persia can best be described as an open-world platformer with boss battles. It's clearly 
 been influenced by Shadow of the Colossus. Within an hour of starting up a game, you'll be able 
 to run from one end of the world to the other, examining the four very different locations. You 
 won't, however, be able to cure every area right off the bat. Each of the four areas is comprised 
 of six sections (or levels) all of which can be explored from the periphery. But to give players 
 a sense of progression, the majority of these sections can only be cured after obtaining a specific 
 magic power for Elika. 
  
  You do, however, get to choose the order in which you unlock Elika's four powers. And the order 
 in which you heal the various locales has a direct affect on gameplay. Each area has its own boss, 
 whom you will face off against repeatedly as you slowly work to heal every section of the land 
 they protect. And each boss has a unique corruption trap to release into the world. The Warrior 
 creates columns of corruption that shoot out from walls and grab at the Prince; the Concubine releases 
 bat-like creatures that chase after the Prince, forcing him forward. Even after beating a boss, 
 the trap sent into the world remains in all of the other corrupted areas
  
  When moving through corrupted areas, you may feel funneled into a certain direction, repeating 
 similar sequences, but even then there's something fulfilling about making those jumps. After reaching 
 the healing ground, Elika can rid that section of the world of corruption. The corruption is pushed 
 away, replaced by lush grass, dandelions and butterflies. The sickly area you just ran through 
 is now transformed. Walls of corruption that prevented further exploration have evaporated. And 
 this is where Prince of Persia stands out from other games. 
  
  Often the "healed" areas of are pretty boring to travel through. It's often a necessary evil of 
 poor design to backtrack through a completed level. But there's a reason to explore the healed 
 areas of Prince of Persia. After healing a level, 45 Light Seeds appear. These seeds are used to 
 unlock new magic powers for Elika. The majority of these luminous orbs can be gathered just by 
 traveling back through the area. However, those looking to gather all 1001 Light Seeds will have 
 to search every nook and cranny of the world. The payoff for doing so is unlockable skins, which 
 can be used to put the Prince and Elika in different looks. But the bigger reward is seeing the 
 game world. 
  
  As pretty as the world of Prince might be when covered in corruption, it's absolutely magical when 
 healed. There are moments when I felt like I was running through a watercolor painting. The four 
 areas of Prince are wholly unique in look and each manages to find the perfect balance between 
 fantasy and reality. If you don't take some time out of your quest to stand on a plateau to admire 
 the vista, you're missing out on POP's greatest gift. 
  
  It's not the best game ever released on PC, PS3 or Xbox 360; it's not even the best game released 
 this year. And yet Prince of Persia is that rare game that has managed to tap into that part of 
 me that would die defending. It has its shortcomings, but I already sense that Prince of Persia 
 will be one of the few games from this generation that I carry with me for the next decade. 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Zorlac0666
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 1, 2009 12:43 pm PT
Review:  I was probably what you would call a mild fan of this series, and I decided to pick up Steam's 
 Prince of Persia deal pack (all the recent games) . So after downloading this overnight last night, 
 and starting play today, I only have one real word for this game so far. WOW!
  
  Now keeping in mind that I've only unlocked one power so far (so I'm not very far in yet) , this 
 game is nothing short of simply gorgeous. Every single move of the prince, and Elika is nothing 
 but pure art in motion. From the blue trails of magic that Elika leaves, her flowing blouse, the 
 spark from the Prince's gauntlet as it scrapes across walls, it's pure eye overload as you watch 
 these two run from place to place.
  
  Controlling them is beauty in motion as well. Keep in mind with my writing this I use a wired Xbox 
 360 controller to play this on the PC with, and it works wonderfully. Every time I die (or get 
 rescued rather) I feel like it's my fault, and not a fault of bad game design. From running, and 
 climbing walls to crawling across ceilings in a very Spiderman-esque fashion it all feels very 
 natural, and very fun. Honestly one of my reservations was how well controlling the two characters 
 would work with the way the PoP games normally play, but that was blown away as soon as I started. 
 Elika isn't cumbersome in the least bit, if you're hanging on a narrow ledge, and need to get to 
 the other side of her, it's accomplished by the Prince simply flipping her to his other side, and 
 moving on. Using her to double jump is also poetry in motion. All in all the traveling is some 
 of the most enjoyable I've done in a game in a long time. It's simply fun to explore the levels, 
 even with no real purpose in mind.
  
  
  Combat is also entertaining, simple, but still fun. Bosses, and most other enemies all have certain 
 strategies (which I won't divulge into here) , but suffice to say once you figure out how the combat 
 works, it's simply joyful when you run across an enemy. If there's one gripe I could make here 
 it's simply that there isn't enough combat. With that said though, what combat is there feels pretty 
 epic, and I'm guessing that was the way it's intended.
  
  
  
  
  Overall I'm extremely pleased with the game, and I recommend it to any fan of the series and to 
 any fan of action/adventure games in general. I'll be enjoying this game for a long time to come. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BIGGDOGG91
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 31, 2008 2:33 pm PT
Review:  I loved the sands of time trilogy they were some of my favorite games last gen. when i heard theres 
 was gonna be a new entry in the beloved series i was very excited. however in the end i was left 
 with lukewarn feelings.
  
  story:
  in the previous trilogy storytelling was one of the strongest and driving forces of the sands of 
 time trilogy. in this newest adventure the story is rather decent and lacking many of the strong 
 elements that made the SOT trilogy so amazing. the latest adventure tries its best to return to 
 the enchanting storybook vibe of the sands of time yet doesnt quite pull it off. i wont spoil the 
 story for you play it to for yourself to find out.
  
  7.5/10
  
  graphics:
  beautiful cell shaded graphics make every character and landscape beautiful to look at and are 
 some of the best around
  
  10/10
  
  music:
  beautiful orchestral tunes mixed with fine arabian undertones make for a compelling atmosphere 
 to explore and have fun in.
  
  10/10
  
  Gameplay:
  while the platforming is incredibly fluid and a constant joy to do with your old favorite moves 
 from previous installments and new gravity defying tricks. the combat is constantly repetitive 
 and kinda falls flat overall. you would rather scale up the beautiful landscape then fight any 
 enemies. you also must do alot of back tracking and old fashion collect enough of something for 
 next power up gameplay which is something of thew dinosaur age. and due to elika's awesome powers 
 guiding you where to go and pretty much giving you infinate lives the game is so easy a 7 yr old 
 could complete it. overall
  satisfying platforming, flat on combat.
  
  8.5/10
  
  value:
  you can finish the game in 10-12 hours but it could take 20+ to collect everything and 
 unlock all the different skins. however after completing the main story you may not have it in 
 ya to play it again.
  
  6.5/10
  
  overall alot of refreshing new elements came out of this new legacy. beautifully crafted characters, 
 landscapes and immersing soundtrack and fluid wicked sick platforming make the game an overall 
 joy to play however a lack of any accomplishing difficuulty dull, weak storytelling and overall 
 repetive combat and ancient concepts ultimately take away from a very charming game. i really do 
 like the game and i definately recommend it as a rental but it ultimately falls flat to be worth 
 60 bucks in these hard times.
  
  overall score: 8.5/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ShootTheCore
Rating: 1
Date: Dec 31, 2008 12:10 pm PT
Review:  Wow, this game is awful. I can't tell you how awful this game is. If you're thinking of getting 
 this game, I implore you, don't. If you don't believe me, then do yourself a favor, rent it first.
 
  
  So, I was a huge fan of all 3 of the previous PoP games, and was waiting with much anticipation 
 for this new one. The last 3 games were challenging, graphically mesmerizing, dark and gritty, 
 and succeeded were many games failed by having both solid platforming and combat elements. So if 
 you haven't played the 3 previous games, I implore you to get those, you'll be much happier with 
 those then this new one. I figured that because the previous 3 games were so amazing that there 
 was no chance the new one could be bad, and I went out and bought it on the day of its release, 
 not bothering to rent it first or anything, big mistakes, I sold it back the next day. The new 
 one fails in every category that made the 3 previous games so fun. 
  
  So what's so bad about this game? For starters it's basically a game for newbs. Everything about 
 this game screams "casual gamer appeal". The control scheme has been dramatically dumbed down to 
 were you basically press one button and the Prince does some incredible acrobatic feet, no talent 
 or skill required. It's the same for fights; one or two buttons do some amazing attack that can 
 easily ring out your enemies; and while we're on the subject of fighting, there are no fights were 
 you have to take on more then one enemy at a time; you heard me right, all fights are one on one! 
 If you played the previous games this should come as quite a shock to you, as a large part of those 
 games involved you having to fend off huge hoards of enemies. But here's the worst part, as if 
 the previous failings weren't bad enough, you can't die in this game. I'm not joking, if you get 
 defeated by an enemy or you fall off a ledge you don't die, you just respawn exactly were you just 
 were and it's like nothing happened. This has the stench of casual gamer appeal all over it; I 
 actually read one review were the moronic reviewer said something like "but not being able to die 
 is a good thing; this way you don't feel stupid when you get the game over screen; I wish more 
 games were like this". My god, what is happening to gamers?
  
  A lot of people are saying that even with the lack of difficulty this game is still redeemed by 
 it's graphical splendor; and I admit, this game is very well done, and the graphics are quite breath-taking. 
 However, it does not make up for the games other failings. In addition, the graphics, although 
 beautiful, are not in-keeping with the series. The other PoP games were dark and gritty, whereas 
 this one is, generally, bright and colorful with a world that looks like it would be more be-fitting 
 a kids game, something like a next gen "Disney's Aladdin: The Game". If you want to know exactly 
 what I mean just look up the video of the Prince's new flying ability; that crap looks sooo retarded.
 
  
  So, please, heed my warning, this game is a disgrace. Some would say I am being to harsh, or that 
 I'm just bitter because I wasted money on a game I didn't like; well, they might be right, I am 
 pissed that I spent money on this atrocity of a game; so don't make the same mistake I did. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CamiKitten
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 30, 2008 10:42 am PT
Review:  I got Prince of Persia as an early Xmas gift this year. I had been really excited since it's announcement 
 simply because I enjoyed all the other Prince of Persia games in the series. Granted this wasn't 
 from the series before you dig into me about that. I realize that, I just simply mean since I loved 
 the others I would enjoy this one. And I did, to an extent.
  
   Story ~ Basically our main protagonist "Prince" is missing his carrier of fine unsaid goods lol. 
 He runs into a pretty woman who seems to be trying to escape from a gang of soliders. Curiosity 
 kills the cat and he finds himself following behind this woman (named Elika) and becoming part 
 of her epic journey to cleanse her homeland of the courrupted evil god Ahriman.
  
  An interesting feature in the storyline, but not directly in it, is the commentary between the 
 "Prince" and Elika. Granted you have the options to talk to her anyway to learn more about her 
 people and kingdom, but after the fact if you continue to utilize the chat function it becomes 
 comical. It definately made me laugh a time or two.
  
   Gameplay ~ It's a very simplistic gameplay in my opinion. They've taken the traditional PoP game 
 where it's an even mix of platforming and fighting and narrowed it down to mostly platforming. 
 You run, jump, balance, climb, swing and slide around a very vast but beautiful kingdom and on 
 occasion pull out your sword to kill a bad guy. It's a shame that there's not enough fighting in 
 this game. Basically there's your main minion, Ahriman, and his 4 cronies of which whom you'll 
 fight a few times each to unlock new areas in the kingdom. Maneuvering around is easy, unless you 
 have a perception problem (which lol sometimes I do if I'm in a hurry and not paying close attention) . 
 You can not die in this game, which is almost particularly annoying to me. Instead of dying, you're 
 rescued by the heroine Elika and her magical powers from her god. She then just sets you down on 
 the nearest stable platform you were on last. Every single time. And fighting the bosses wasn't 
 very challenging either, to my disappointment. I think for most of the boss battles Elika basically 
 tells you what you need to do in order to finish off whoever you're fighting instead of the game 
 letting you figure it out on your own. Where's the challenge in that?
  
   Graphics ~ I hear time and time again how people complain about cell shaded games. Oh just get 
 over it. I know everyone wants every created game to be sharp and crisp and in incredible detail. 
 But cell shading gives a game a memorable sensation as any. But you have to realize that a lot 
 of developers are either too afraid, or too lazy to delve into the depths of the PS3's capacities 
 to create something almost realistic. Take it out on them.
  
  This new PoP game is almost in the range of Okami, but in richer detail and brighter colors. Watching 
 the lands go from corrupted to cleansed is a very enlightening experience.
  
  Anyway, as a brief over view, PoP is definately a fun game, comical in some spots. It's platforming 
 is relatively easy even for the most inexperienced gamers. Cell shading is still a refreshing outlook 
 towards gaming, whether it's lazy development or not (lol) . It's only real downfalls are the fact 
 it's almost too easy, you can't really die, and it's too easy. Replay value is minimal, but you 
 do have to probably give it a second or third playthrough in order to gain all of the PlayStation 
 3 trophies or Xbox360's achievements. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fmobliv06
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 29, 2008 9:45 pm PT
Review:  I have to admit that I didn't expect much out of Prince of Persia before the game was released. 
 However, after surprisingly positive reviews and a sale at my local game store, I decided to give 
 it a shot. After taking in the gorgeous graphics, going through a few tutorial battles, and restarting 
 the game due to a glitch that caused the ground to disappear from under my feet, I was not too 
 optimistic. Luckily, the game picks up pretty quickly and becomes quite entertaining. Unfortunately, 
 due to a lack of variety in gameplay and the automated nature of the platforming, gameplay becomes 
 a bit dull before the 10-12 hour story mode is finished. 
  
  PoP's merits and demerits are debated by reviewers and fans alike, and with good reason. The one 
 thing that everyone should be able to agree on, however, is that the game is quite stunning to 
 look at. While it may not be as technically impressive as recent releases such as Dead Space or 
 Resistance, it has a style all to its own that looks like a Disney movie come to life. Stellar 
 animations support the excellent graphical style; I haven't seen such fluid movement in a game 
 since Assassin's Creed, and PoP may even top that. The audio package is equally wonderful, with 
 the music especially standing out from the crowd. It is possible to delve deeper into the personalities 
 of both characters, which is cool, but sometimes the dialouge isn't so great and the quality of 
 the voiceovers during these sections varies. Most of the dialouge and voiceovers work out well, 
 though.
  
  It is in the actual gameplay where PoP falters most. Only a few buttons on the controller are actually 
 used during gameplay. The X button handles most acrobatic feats, including jumping and wall running; 
 the O button allows the Prince to extend his wall runs through the use of conveniently placed rings; 
 the triangle button is used to extend the Prince's jumps. That's about all there is to the platforming 
 in PoP, and while new abilities are unlocked later, they are rarely used. Combat is much more in 
 depth than the platforming, and also much more rare. PoP features a very malleable combo system 
 that allocates a certain type of attack to each face button; the square button is used for sword 
 attacks, X for flashy acrobatic attacks, O for gauntlet attacks, and triangle calls in the Prince's 
 partner, Elika, to attack with magic. No matter which buttons are pressed, the results are guaranteed 
 to be sweet looking, but the longer combos are truly things of beauty. It's just a bit unfortunate 
 that the Prince can never actually die. This is perfectly acceptable during the platforming sequences, 
 when the Prince is simply taken back to the last checkpoint instead of seen dying. But in combat, 
 it really is impossible to lose because even if the Prince ends up on the wrong end of a blade, 
 the worst that can happen is the enemy regains some of its health before the battle begins anew. 
 Couple this with some generally easy boss battles (I beat the Concubine boss in about 10-15 seconds 
 one time, although the rest are longer than that) and PoP comes across as kind of a fluff game; 
 a game that you could doze off while playing and still be fine when you wake up. There are no consequences 
 for failure. This is sort of a shame because the bosses themselves are genuinely interesting, and 
 the battles don't really live up to the backstories. The "fluff" feel is more suited to the platforming 
 segments, especially since everything is context sensitive, so the Prince is bound to jump off 
 a cliff when you expect him to wallrun once or twice at least. 
  
  Coupled with a generally unchanging gameplay environment, an overall lack of consequences for failure, 
 and a solid length, the simple gameplay can barely support the game all the way through. Sure, 
 watching and listening to the action unfold is cool, and the simple story is pretty satisfying, 
 but at some point you'll realize that all you're really doing is hitting the X button over and 
 over again. In general, the gameplay that's in the game works beautifully, but I still wish it 
 was more varied.
  
  Graphics: 9.5/10: Maybe not as technically impressive as some other games, but I dare you to not 
 be floored by the art direction.
  Sound: 10/10: The music complements the game perfectly, and the voice acting is generally solid 
 even when the dialouge isn't.
  Gameplay: 7.5/10: Simple and fun, but becomes redundant by the end of the adventure.
  Entertainment: 
 8/10: Very entertaining during the first few hours, but it eventually becomes clear that the Prince 
 needs to learn a few new tricks. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Wedge598
Rating: 7
Date: Dec 29, 2008 5:47 pm PT
Review:  As a long time fan of the PoP series I was looking forward to this game. As far as the story and 
 level design is concerned I got what I expected from this series. But those elements just barely 
 carried me to the end of what turned into a rather poor platformer and mediocre fighting game.
 
  
  Unlike past games in the series this one seems to have been designed right from the start to be 
 a simple adventure game on rails. Travelling about the world is done along clearly defined paths 
 which merely require you to press A or B occasionally as your character seems to guide himself 
 along a set path. I never thought it possible to make a platformer game so much like a rail shooter. 
 And there are some flying sequences that are exactly that.
  
  Unlike past games in the series the combat is more or less confined to boss fights that you must 
 complete several times each. Each boss fight takes place on a small part of the game world and 
 the game literally transforms from a platformer to a fighting game (a la Soul Caliber) temporarily 
 as you fight the bosses. There are a couple other locations in the world where a single generic 
 enemy will spawn but the result is the same as the boss fights. The boss fights occasionally get 
 broken up a bit by cinematics and one of the bosses requires an indirect attack plan which makes 
 it somewhat interesting. The combo list is huge but largely unecessary as you will most like discover 
 one or two multi-hit combos that will get the job done for you.
  
  In the end the game feels like two games in one yet both games feel separate from one another. 
 Fortunately the clever dialog between the two main characters and the jaw dropping environments 
 keeps you entertained through most of the game. The ending is one of the better endings with a 
 twist that'll make you laugh or cry and it is worth sticking with the game to see it. 
  
  The production values are high on this game with a good list of achievements to keep you playing. 
 The gameplay has just been dumbed down far too much for my tastes and you never feel like you have 
 free reign to explore the world. There is always a clearly defined path to get you where you want 
 to go and you'll travel these paths over and over through out the game. Ultimately you'll end up 
 feeling unsatisfied and a little more like an observer than an actually participant in the game. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Raza213
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 28, 2008 12:19 pm PT
Review:  It is different from the other Prince of Persia games in many ways but that what makes it good. 
 No one can complain about its difference from the past games! If you like Final Fantasy you will 
 know that each FF game is different from the last and 12 was way out it the rest (though it was 
 a disappointment of a game) , but the new battle system was ok if not good. FF X-2 is completely 
 different from them all but really good!! The game doesn't have much battles but the battle system, 
 it all being cinematic, makes up for it in all ways. The story line is also very good, its easy 
 to understand and it gets interesting as you go. A feature of the game which i really think is 
 good/funny is that u can keep talking to Elika when your walking/running, you can talk to the monsters 
 in battles etc, along with that the game has some humorous comments made by the Prince. 
  
  Overall i think it is a fantastic *new* game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sakzelda
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 28, 2008 10:43 am PT
Review:  this game had almsot everything ive ever wanted in a game costumesand a sword and the gameplay 
 was awsome all the sweet combo u can pull of in this game and graphics were awsome as well they 
 were like clear but from out of a comic book look to them. But i felt kinda like i was playing 
 majoras mask from zelda because it had four zone coming from one main but bigger and i think they 
 should have a town area or something like that so u could buy combos and the voice acting was ok 
 but the prince his voice should have been more teenager or 21. so over all I will say go out and 
 buy this game. 
  
  BAD: no town area, prince voice
  
  GOOD: combos, other voice acting, costumes/skins, awsome sword
  
  review by sakzelda youtube Acount: negiz5 
 link: http://ie. youtube. com/negiz5
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dollar75
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 28, 2008 1:47 am PT
Review:  I just started playing this game immediately after Call of Duty: World at War, and I found it to 
 be a refreshing change from the intense game of war. A game in which I could switch off for abit.
 
  My first impressions of this game was kinda "meh", especially after all of the hype that it had.
 
  After about 10 hours of gameplay, the game made a little more sense. Whereas I approached it as 
 a God of War type game, with fighting and alot of puzzles to solve, this was a wrong expectation 
 to have. There's alot of climbing and acrobatics in this game and THAT is the puzzle itself, you 
 have to work out how to get to what, and as the game progresses, you have to be more on your toes 
 as, in some areas, you can't stop to take a look and work it out.
  
  Sound
  The sound is nothing too special, it doesn't make the game, but it does contribute quite well. 
 The sounds during the fight do make it quite good and satisfying..
  
  Graphics
  This is the area which makes this game. Someone had said that this game was similar to Assassins 
 Creed (mainly in the gameplay) , and I do agree. But one of the reasons I liked that game so much, 
 is because it was a pleasure to play, the graphics and scenery didn't make the game a hassle to 
 play,. The same applies to this game, the scenery is brilliant. When you save one ground and the 
 colour emerges, its really quite good. The attention to detail, even down to the forna and butterflies, 
 this makes it seem more real.
  The artwork for the characters and the villians are also very good. In a time where realism is 
 creeping more and more into gaming, its nice to see a company take a slightly different direction.
 
  
  Gameplay
  This is another area of the game that has tried something different. After you've gone through 
 alot of the different areas, you begin to appreciate what they've designed. A series of intricate 
 jumps and slides to all interconnect with one another to ensure the machanics of the game work 
 very well and it looks very impressive, even though its simple movements, nothing too complicated.
 
  The fighting at first, I found to be disappointing. However, once you go through and fight quite 
 a few bosses, again to appreciate that its well made. Its all about timing. Although you don't 
 die in this game (even when you fall, Elika catches you and puts you back onto the most recent 
 ledge) , this changes to dynamics of the fighting. Whereas Elika will save you if you mess up a 
 quicktime event, this means that the boss will regain strength and increases the time of the fight. 
 
  
  Final thoughts
  At first, I would be willing to give this game a 7, only to increase it to an 8 due to the look 
 of the game. However, as I've played more and got to grips and understand the game more, I think 
 a score of 8.5 is well deserved.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: sorasheart32
Rating: 7.5
Date: Dec 27, 2008 8:55 pm PT
Review:  Slightly different from the typical prince of persia game, if youve ever played shadow of colossus 
 its very much the same idea. Its a mostly boss game. There are multiple bosses that you must get 
 to and defeat, then make your way through the puzzles and mazes using the traditional prince of 
 persia acrobatics. If you werent a fan of shadow of the colossus but were of the other prince of 
 persias, i would suggest renting this game because it just might not be good for you. Its a beautiful 
 game, but may not be fun for some gamers. The puzzles and mazes to get to each boss i must admit 
 are pretty interesting and can be fun. I would deffinetly suggest this game. There are random low 
 populations of monsters that arent bosses that pop up every once and a while but they it still 
 lacks the random easy to beat enemies most games present. Another thing to note is the change in 
 graphic styles of this game from the last couple in the series, i think it kind of adds to the 
 game. Instead of being a prince of persia series game, its almost its own little game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pigsybum
Rating: 7
Date: Dec 27, 2008 1:45 am PT
Review:  Don't be fooled by the trailers of Prince of Persia, because like assasin's creed, it's repititive. 
 The quests that you do, the bosses that you fight are repeated. Your partner elika seems redundant, 
 the game is better off and less frustrating without elika. That said, prince of persia still has 
 the basic platforming inside it, coupled with animation graphics, it makes for a pleasant experience.
 
  
  Graphics:
  This is probably what the game is good at. All the charactors are nicly rendered. Although it has 
 sort of a cartoonish graphics to it, it's done great. Both main charactor looks lively, that can 
 be seen by the princess elika's hair.
  
  There's some incredible effects to the game, you can see those during boss fights when the animations 
 and surroundings changes. Elements like fire, darkness trees looks good. The one bad thing is that 
 this game is capable of framerate issues, it's not very common but it does happen for a second 
 time to time.
  
  Gameplay:
  The first and last one hour may be the best, like assasin's creed, a lot of platforming and fightings 
 are the same, you probably will grow tired of it. I'm surprised how the same producer did not correct 
 this mistake. Just one more game that appears like that im sure they would get boycott.
  
  To battle the evil that the princess whats to get rid of, you travel to and fro the places in the 
 game. It's all free roam, but there's not much choices you can do. Perhaps you could spent some 
 time collecting light seeds or choose which places you want to fight off the evil first. There's 
 no pedestrians or civilians in the game, the only dialogue is between the princess and prince himself.
 
  
  Platforming has lots of new ideas to it. But elika who saves you at the same time spoils the experience 
 by breaking the rhythm during platforming, often she blocks ur ways and she needs you to help her 
 across some platforms. The camera angle is the second annoyance, it's not bad but sometimes you 
 can't focus your camera on a place you want, like what happens in tomb raider underworld.
  
  The controls are simply but at the same time not refined enough causing frustrations. Many 
 times i input correct where to jump but sadly i would often fall upon death awaiting elika's aid. 
 This happens because of the camera angle moving around causing the game to do things u do not intent 
 to.
  
  Fighting is great, but not varied enough. The combos you can use during the start of the game is 
 all the combos available, he game does not unlock any combos throughout. Second element of the 
 game is collecting light seeds, you will need them to unlock new grounds, a total of 4 to be specific.
 
  
  Audio:
  Dialogues are great, they sound sweet from elika and manly from the prince. Each bosses also have 
 their own voice used. If you're stuck, you can always talk to elika for hints but the game is easy 
 enough for you to assume what to do. 
  
  Sound effects are great, which u could see in some of the platforming. Throughout the game there's 
 background voice, be it the evil haunting, or the screaming of a witch.
  
  Conclusion:
  Prince of Persia isn't a bad game, some things are done excellent, whilst some are done bad and 
 often frustrating. I'm glad you do not die throughout the game, else i would have put my controller 
 down 5 hours in.
  If you do want to play POP, be reminded that it's frustrating like most other platforming games 
 especially Tomb Raider Underworld which made me angry like hell. I would recommand this game to 
 those who are very patient. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheAcejoel99
Rating: 7.5
Date: Dec 26, 2008 3:56 pm PT
Review:  Prince of persia is a hard game to review because the fundimentals of the game are solid, such 
 as acrobatics, controls, sound and camera, but fighting and puzzles take a turn for the worse, 
 as do story, acting and difficulty.
  The controls while doing actobatics are near perfect, but every once in awhile you will fall and 
 feel cheated. This is not much of an issue due to the complete lack of death in the game, but while 
 being impossible to lose still manages to be difficult and annoying due to acrobatic sequences 
 that last far too long with no pauses of which the penalty for falling is you having to do the 
 same long (sometimes 5 minute long) sequence again and again until you nail it. This would be less 
 of a problem if the other 50% of the game were better (fighting and puzzles) but these are much 
 worse, for the acrobatics are very slightly flaud, both fighting and puzzles are annoying and unfullfilling. 
 Fights are ALWAYS against one person, and only one person, which would be fine if it were fun, 
 but its not. While fighting, movement is FAR FAR too slow (for your charecter) while the enemy 
 (even huge enemies) are far more agile which makes no sense what-so-ever. You will move at a very 
 slow pace twords an enemy and swipe at them with your sword, they will move back and you will miss, 
 this goes on for 5 or so minutes until you finish them off. It feels slow, inaccurate, clunky and 
 just not fun. However these fights do look awsome, so theres that. To put the nail in the coffin, 
 enemies later in the game heal themselves if you don't hit them frequently enough, if you miss 
 or if elika saves you, of which happens far too often, but none of it will matter because you can't 
 die, which gives you no reason to care. Puzzles of which are in the game are far and few between 
 (about 3 in the whole game) all of which are way to easy, short and leave you unsatisfied, they 
 work and break up the monotony of fighting and platforming, they just could have been far better. 
 None of the game is broken, but much of it is boring, and unsatisfying. However the sound and camera 
 are picture perfect. When I say sound I'm only talking about music and sound effects, which are 
 big highlights of the game for they are very well put together, but the voice acting is annoying, 
 pointless and seem like pintless filler for none of the conversations have any meaning twords the 
 story and are not entertaining in the least sense of the word, consisting of pointless banter between 
 you and elica such as you explaining to elica how to play I-spy, yes, I-spy, the game you played 
 with your siblings on long car trips to pass time "I-spy with my little eye something green" then 
 someone else would say "grass" and you would say correct! It wasn't fun then and isn't fun now. 
 The camera never gets stuck and keeps up with the action very well, no complaints there. The acrobatics, 
 while I have mentioned them already, still need more explaining, these hugh long sequences while 
 fun and are the reason that the game isn't a total disaster, look amazing but you arn't realy doing 
 anything during these sequences, you and elica will jump across ledges, swing on stuff, fly across 
 hugh caverns and you press maybe 3 or so buttons at the right times for these to work properly. 
 Story starts out fairly well and seems promising, but after maybe 5 minutes makes no sense and 
 the ending is astoundingly confusing and will leave you wondering what just happened, of which 
 isn't neat or cool at all. The final "Boss" looks cool, but is annoying and once again unsatisfying. 
 Now for the long overdue explination of visuals, this game is georgeous, not so much technicaly, 
 but artisticly it has almost no match, is is elegent and fluid and very enjoyable to watch, one 
 of the very few aspects of the game that shine, is about 50% of the reason that the game is fun, 
 of which 25% being platforming and the last 25% being that the game ends (thank God!) As if I haven't 
 had enough things to complain about, the game is single-player only, which once again wouldn't 
 be a problem if the game weren't about 10 or less hours long, maybe 17 or so long if you collect 
 all the orbs and trophies, but you probably won't bother. And there are NO unlockable difficulties 
 after you beat the game, not that you would play is again anyways. If you get the game on the cheap 
 (say $29.99 or less) than pick is up, it is fun, it just could have been SOOOOOOOOOO much better, 
 I had the misfortune of picking the game up for full price, of which is isn't worth. I have complained 
 and ranted about the flaws of the game, but it looks beautiful, sounds beautiful (except voices) 
 and the camera is perfect along with great platforming, the game is just hampered by too many problems 
 to recomend to anyone who can't get the game for a low price (once again $29.99! Tops!) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Red_Dawn345
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 26, 2008 1:34 pm PT
Review:  Prince of Persia is nothing like the other PoP games and I still wonder why they chose to name 
 it that and not just make a new title.
  If you judge this game compared to the others than it is a big letdown and a disgrace to the Prince 
 of Persia legacy. If you judge it as if it where a stand alone title than this review applies.
 
  
  PROS: artistic design is a great idea and fits the atmosphere perfectly, one on two duels instead 
 of multiple enemies is both cinematic and fun (for the first playthrough of the game) Open world 
 style of gameplay is not really a straight forward GTA sand box style, but it works and plays well. 
 On demand dialogue is an absolutely fantastic feature that can show you new perspectives on the 
 story and characters. Good and proficient AI 
  
  CONS: story (if there really is one) is full of boring events, non dramatic cutscenes ,and unappealing 
 characters. repetitive, The gameplay feature that make you not die is one of the worst in the game 
 because it gives you a sence that acrobatics are not dangerous and you can just do anything without 
 consiquence, not really any replay value, game takes only about 18 hours to complete, story elements 
 move to fast
  
  The basics of the game are these: Ahramin (the god of evil) has escaped from his imprisonment by 
 Omozd (god of light) He branches out and corrupts the surrounding lands and it is your job to stop 
 him. To do this you must go to one of the four areas which inside them have four smaller areas 
 called healing grounds and uncorrupt or heal the area. Of course each area is guarded by four different 
 bosses (depending on the region) that you will to defeat to heal the area. All throughtout the places 
 you fight there minions to keep you busy. And That is what you do in this game; nothing else, nothing 
 more.
  
  I am a hardcore Prince of Persia fan (notice my avatar) and I am not some guy who saw this game once 
 and wrote a review on it. I own this game. And I am very disappointed with this game for taking 
 the above epic Prince of Persia name and throughing it down the Drain. This is not a PoP game!!!!!!!! The 
 only reason you should play this game is if you are a PoP fan as myself; but rent it don't buy 
 it. Thank you for reading my review
  
  If you have any questions comments or complaints, please feel free to contact me 
  
  email: red_dawn345@yahoo. com
 
  
  Playstaion network username: Altairian
  
  If you send me a message and I do not answer in a while its because I might not be able to get 
 online all the time not because I deleted it.
  Thanks again.
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: serbumax85
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 26, 2008 2:27 am PT
Review:  Great adventure with lots of interesting scenes and nice scenary.
  Good details on the levels.
  Trophies not so good for this game but still olmost fun.
  The 
 gameplay is very good very similar to old prince of persia but a very good gameengine in no need 
 of modifing.
  Interesting ideea with Elika making a more interesting story the only problem being that she can 
 fly.
  Rich story tih a good sequence of events, olso likeing the options on completing the game.
  Good 
 graphics but still not the best game this year.
  Don't say that i liked the fighting in this game as i use to enjoy very much the old way of fighting 
 with a little more complex moves and more enemyes to fight and larger aray of combos and more sceneary 
 display.
  Had a lot of fun with this release and looking forward to the next one but still a good sequeal 
 to the other Prince of Persia games.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: michaellee604
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 25, 2008 3:38 pm PT
Review:  I have to admit that the look of this game also pissed me off when I first watched the preview. 
 Maybe the same as most of ppl here, I get used to the look of the previous PoPs on PS2. However, 
 I still decided to be fair and gave it a try, and it turned out that I did the right thing. The 
 graphic does look cartoonist, but it goes so well with the story and the music (especially the 
 gentle rhythm after healing the grounds) . Thus, there were some moments that the game actually 
 made me feel like I'm in a comical world of the story "1001 Nights".
  
  Frankly, the combat system is way much better than the previous PoPs, since the combos are beautiful, 
 long, and effective, plus there were some boss fight moments feeling a bit like God of War. In 
 my opinion, at least I don't have to pay extreme attention on my sword to time the Speed Kill like 
 the case of PoP 3. The only problem I found here is the lack of fighting, 'cuz the game focuses 
 too much on solving the environmental puzzles. Having said that, final boss fight is slightly disappointing, 
 as the final guy is just simply a combination of the other 4 guys and it just takes you with a 
 few good combos to knock him off. It's not epic at all!
  
  Last, many ppl here comment that this game seriously lacks of challenges with the excessive help 
 from Elika. This might be right with the hardcore gamers, but how about the casual ones, like me?! 
 The appearance of Elika in this version is the same idea as the system of Sand Time in the previous 
 PoPs. I also played those master pieces, but I didn't want to spend my time to explore every single 
 corner of the game to fill up all my sand tanks. Hence, the consequence I faced was frustrating 
 troubles at the end of the game with the last phase (climbing) of the final boss battle in PoP 
 3. Besides, I do think that keep pressing the L1 many times for Time Reverse is kinda annoying, 
 so why don't I just sit there and let Elika do the job automatically?!
  
  In all, I would give the game 8.5, but the music is just so appealing and emotional, I generously 
 reward an extra 0.5, so the total of my score is 9. Try to beat me with a 10 next time, Ubisoft 
 :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: codalloo
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 25, 2008 9:48 am PT
Review:  Prince of Persia was one of the first games I played on the PS2 and I immediately loved it, great 
 gameplay and puzzles, cool characters and very nice graphics made it an instant classic for me. 
 Now Ubisoft has decided to create an all-new Prince of Persia trilogy on the next-gen systems and 
 it's just as good, if not better than the original trilogy. Prince of Persia casts you into the 
 sandals of the Prince, a sword wielding man with a mysterious past and a habit of getting into 
 trouble. One day, while searching for his donkey he stumbles upon a princess named Elika, and so 
 the journey begins. The story follows these two heroes on their quest to save the world from a 
 dark lord known as Ahriman, they must stop his army of Corrupted warriors and halt his return. 
 The gameplay is very fun and satisfying, while combat isn't as common as it should be, it's very 
 fun while it lasts, the combat is very cinematic and intense, it's all about taking on baddies 
 one at a time with Elika at your side who provides you with protection and magical attacks which 
 prove to be very useful. The acrobatic platforming which made the first trilogy so cool is still 
 present in this title and some new moves such as the roof-run, gripfalls and co-op jumps with Elika 
 look really awesome and are fun to do, you'll be running and jumping along the war-torn world in 
 no time but if you do slip up and start to fall to your death, no worries because Elika will be 
 there to save you, so death is a non-issue in this game. The new Prince of Persia series is off 
 to a great start and I'm very excited to see what they do with the franchise in the future. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DarkKnight957
Rating: 7
Date: Dec 25, 2008 12:13 am PT
Review:  If you are a fan of the past Prince of Persia games there is a lot of new and exciting features 
 that you can get out of this new look on the the franchise. For starters the visuals are amazing. 
 The style has a very distinct look to it, and looks great in every way. The use of the Light and 
 Dark energy fits very well with the overall style. Scenery looks amazing in every area in the game. 
 You'll mostly notice scenery in the city of light, where you can look down on the rest of the city.
 
  
  That covers the graphics, next is something that goes in hand with the visuals. Sound. The game 
 has great music through out the whole game. Music fits the visual style, which is makes the graphics 
 style feel that much better. Weapons sound as they should, and i really have no idea what a Corrupted 
 should sound like. Overall the Sound and Graphics are great. 
  
  Now for the game play. There some new elements brought in for the combat. There is not a big emphasis 
 on the combat portion of the game. You can only fight when there is enemy present on the platform 
 you are on. which is not bad but seems kind of constricting. Attack options given to you are limited, 
 which consist of four different attacks. Sword, Gauntlet, Acrobatics, and Magic. Not to many different 
 attacks to use, but using the four attacks in chains cause some pretty good combos. Most fights 
 consist of one-button counters. You don't get any new attacks, weapons, or combat abilities thought 
 the whole game so the combat gets old fast. Two of the boss battles feel the same. One of them 
 being extremely easy. The other is a bit of a thinking game. 
  
  Jumping your through the map is the best part, and the most rewarding. Even after going through 
 all location at least once, doing it again doesn't get boring when searching for the Light Seeds. 
 Getting around normally containing solving puzzles and timing jumps really well. Puzzles are not 
 hard for the most part, but then a random puzzles pops up that stumps you for a few moments, nothing 
 that you won't figure out. Overall the mechanics of the game work pretty well, and some elements 
 are funner then the other. Another Feature brought into this game is that you can't die. Which 
 is an interesting concept i can't get used to. If you fall off a cliff or a Corrupted corners you 
 and you miss the counter button, you get saved and the target you are fighting gains health back. 
 Works pretty well, but i am just not used to it. 
  
  Every game needs a good story to keep the player interested. When your character arrives on location 
 hes looking for his lost donkey. Here he Happens to run into the female lead in the game. From 
 that point on the story is pretty basic. Nothing really ground breaking happens. Same type of event 
 happens at the last area of each city. Once you beat the first location completely, in essence 
 you beat them all. At the end, there is a huge shift in the story
  
  There really is no replay value. Every location in the game is a required to explore in order to 
 progress. No secrets that I was able to find, and the only extra in the game are the light seeds. 
 you can get more of them or all of them for Trophies/Achievements. Getting them all gets you about 
 four to five extra Trophies/Achievements. 
  
  Overall the game is fun to play and it has it's moments. I'd give it a 7/10. Definitely a good 
 a experience, and would recommend it to any one who just wants to play a fun game. 
  
  ~Vlaka 
::::::

::::::
UserName: HardcoreBunni
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 24, 2008 9:09 am PT
Review:  The new Prince of Persia for the PS3, PC and 360 is quite different from the previous instalments 
 of the series in almost every way. No longer does the prince quest on his own: now he has a female 
 sidekick (Elika) to assist him on his journey to defeat Ahriman. The Prince himself is noticeably 
 different from the one we last saw in Two Thrones (instead of a dark "emo" Prince, we are greeted 
 with a Prince that is much more on the light side cracking jokes and one-liners whenever he gets 
 the chance) , the graphics are also less somber since they step away from realism to portray the 
 game's world and characters as if they were in a watercolor painting. These two changes which I've 
 mentioned are two of the three changes that have been made to the core elements of Prince of Persia. 
 I saved the changes in gameplay for last because these were the only changes that were for the 
 worse, in my opinion. The Prince of Persia games have always been games that have been mostly about 
 challenging platforming. This game still features platforming as the key component of the game 
 but it's too easy. Trust me on this one folks, I play most of my games on Easy mode (or Casual or 
 Novice or whatever you'll call it) and I found this game to be very easy! There was not one moment 
 where I had to stop and think," Hmm, what do I do know" or "Where should I go next?". This might 
 be excelent for some people, but I like being challenged (it's one of the reasons I like Zelda so 
 much) . Not only do you don't have to stop and think, but Prince of Persia is a game where you simply 
 cannot die. If you jump into a hole or dive into a blob of darkness "jelly", Elika will use her 
 magic to transport you to the last ledge you were on. Even in combat, if you die, which is impossible 
 since you have a block button that will endure a "nuke" and 3 easy combos to memorize (e. g. Square 
 x3, X or Square x3 Circle or Square x3 Triangle) Elika will revive you with the penalty of your 
 enemy regaining a little bit of health. Another change in gameplay is that in this game you have 
 to backtrack through levels since you have to rid a level from darkness (by defeating a boss and 
 then press Triangle repeatedly as you watch Elika use her magic to transform the level into a lush, 
 green oasis) and then collect these glowing orbs called "Light Seeds" which will be used to unlock 
 new powers to unlock new levels. Even though the levels change color and tone and you can explore 
 some new areas, the truth is you will have to play through the same level at least twice, if not 
 more, to collect the amount of Light Seeds necessary to unlock new levels.
  As for the story, it's pretty straightforward. Prince meets Elika. Elika's dad frees Ahriman, god 
 of Darkness. Ahriman paints the land black. Elika and Prince purify the land. Done.
  Other than the extremely easy level of difficulty, I really enjoyed this game. It's a beautiful 
 game with amazing graphics both artistically and technically, featuring magnificent watercolor-esque 
 graphics and amazing draw-distances. However, I never for once felt satisfied for reaching a certain 
 area or for killing a certain enemy because it was all really easy. Nevertheless, don't disregard 
 this game just for its difficulty level because it's a beautiful game with some funny jokes by 
 the Prince (voiced by the guy who did Drake in "Uncharted") and a good story.
  -HardcoreBunni 
::::::

::::::
UserName: M-Yu
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 24, 2008 12:59 am PT
Review:  The Prince of Persia franchise has been able to stand the test of time, while it's first outing 
 in 3D was a disappointment, When The Sands of Time came out 5 years ago (that's right!) it was 
 innovative with the ability to bend time and it's all-sided combat system. 
  
  While the other two installments, Warrior Within and The Two Thrones were both great games in their 
 own right, they were darker and lacked the storybook atmosphere of Sands of Time. 5 years later, 
 Ubisoft Montreal has learned from their mistakes and has reinvented the series with a new visual 
 style, a new world, a new character that plays a vital role in the story and gameplay.
  
  The story starts with the Prince getting caught in a sandstorm while looking for his donkey called 
 Farah (an allusion to the SOT trilogy) he falls down and meets Elika (more on her later) whose 
 been chased by some guards. The two reach the temple and her father has destroyed the Tree of Life 
 which has the spirit of corruption called Ahriman. While the temple can hold it back from invading 
 the outside world. The Prince and Elika set out to heal the lands that he has infected.
  
  The gameplay has definitely changed, the Prince can still do the same acrobatics but there's a 
 new ability that he can do called the roof run when he runs the ceilings. which is very stylish. 
 The combat system has been reworked too, instead of multiple foes to vanquish, the combat has reduced 
 to a more cinematic one-on-one (or two if you count Elika) . A degree of strategy has been included 
 to make each fight unique it's own right without each foe being exactly the same and repetitive. 
 The environment also comes into play
  
  The relationship between the Prince and Elika also involves the relationship between the player 
 and Elika, whenever in a sticky situation, just call on Elika to pull you to safety during combat 
 or platforming. She isn't some useless sidekick, she can help out The Prince in combat as well 
 and to get to hard-to-reach spots in the open world.
  
  Platforming is fluid and enjoyable which displays the Prince and Elika's acrobatic grace, the controls 
 are tight and responsive without having to wait ages for it to take effect. The level design is 
 spectacular, especially when looking around the environment which is larger-than-life.
  
  Elika is an excellent inclusion to Prince of Persia. While she can help in combat and platforming, 
 She can help heal the environments which appear desolate at first, but when healed it is very vibrant 
 and beautiful. She is a big help, should you fall down to your demise. Elika will pull you back 
 to safety. 
  
  Now, since the game is accessible to the casual player, it has nothing to cater to the hardcore 
 player. In other words, it's too easy, nothing against anything being simple. But I was expecting 
 a challenge while playing. The Prince this time is somewhere along the lines of a likeable rogue 
 in the vein of Han Solo from Star Wars. He can be a jerk sometimes but Elika's charm compensates 
 for the Prince's attitude.
  
  Still, the outstanding visuals, the cinematic combat and the spectacular level design outshine 
 the minor flaws. Ubisoft Montreal have painted a damn beautiful picture here with Prince of Persia. 
 If there's a sequel, I hope it isn't gonna go down the same path as Warrior Within. I'm just saying 
 :) . It's definitely worth playing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: anann
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 23, 2008 11:17 pm PT
Review:  The Greatness: Innovative One-on-One duels with the enemy, Graphics like none other, and Soundtrack 
 in Persian scale. 
  
  The Flaws: Enemies lack varieties, Not enough combat, and Game's too easy.
  
  The new Prince 
 of Persia is no Sands of Time, but it lives up to the POP title. 
  This game takes a completely new approach unlike the previous titles. 
  
  The POP world is 
 vast, and one will find yourself exploring the same area at least twice, once to heal the land 
 and a second time to collect light seeds. However, after healing the land, new parts of the area 
 become available to explore so the player won't be doing the exact same thing twice. Exploration 
 is about the same as the previous titles as one will multiple wall runs, swing from pole to pole, 
 etc. Few new features in the game are the grip fall where the player is able to smash the Prince's 
 gauntlet in to a wall a fall down slowly, the roof run where the Prince can run on walls upside 
 down, the slide where the prince slides down from ledge to ledge, and the the power plates which 
 allows four super-human feats.
  
  The battle system follows some of the tactics as the last trilogy, but the player fights only one 
 enemy at a time. All the acrobatic moves are retained in this game, while new combos are added. 
 The player is able to perform joint attacks with Prince's companion Elika and chain them into other 
 combos. The battles are very dramatic and multiple scenes occur during battle where one has to 
 press random buttons to stay alive. Staying alive, however, is not a hard part of the game. Prince 
 never dies during the game play as he is always saved by Elika. A save by Elika will revert the 
 Prince to the last check-point during exploration, while during combat the battle goes on, but 
 the enemy recovers some health. 
  
  The game also comes with an all new visual. It's almost as if the player is staring in to a painting. 
 The colors and lively and vivid and Prince's interaction with the environment is well portrayed. 
 The world of POP is vast and the level design is very well done. The audio is also nicely done. 
 The voice-overs portrays the characters perfectly and the interaction between the Prince and Elika 
 is done through many witty conversations. 
  
  Overall, Prince of Persia is a great game to pick up as it's mind blowing graphics and amazing 
 game play will put the player in a fantasy world. With a little more combat, and difficulty, this 
 game would make it in the 9.0 range. Although, I haven't really figured out why it's called "Prince 
 of Persia" as there is no mention of Persia in the whole game, nor is the Prince really a prince. 
 Well may be the sequel will point that out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jedioutkast
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 23, 2008 6:52 pm PT
Review:  I had some old games sitting around and the almost not fun to play cause it is really ultra hard 
 to win a race Midnight Club LA, so I traded it in and some other booty games I had lying around 
 and got Prince of Persia for free SWEET DEAL and a fun game to boot.
  
  I know I wrote a nice write up for MNC La but after like 10 + hours it was more like work then 
 a fun arcade type racer so I traded it in and got Prince of Persia. It might be slightly easy to 
 people who play games 24/7 365 days a year its fun for me. The visuals of this game is awesome 
 compared to other cell shaded games in the past that look very cartoon like. The story is great 
 and I like the relationship between the prince and the princess they seem like they will become 
 extremely close at the end and make in-game babies together.
  
  The mechanics are spot and tight. I have unlocked one of the first areas and it was fun beating 
 the first boss. Its a good game and worth the money. I can really recommend this game to everyone. 
 Ibisoft almost always make great games and they even lower the price so everyone gets a chance 
 to get themselves a brand new fresh copy not some pre-owned junk! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PSgamer99
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 23, 2008 4:09 pm PT
Review:  We've all heard the hype about this one. How great it's going to be, how Prince of Persia is going 
 to reinvent itself. Well, it really didn't, but the game is still extremely fun the first few times 
 through. First thing to know: you will never die. As I'm sure you've read in the gamespot review, 
 when you are about to fall, Elika grabs your wrist and saves you, and brings you back to the nearest 
 "safe spot", which usually isn't far back at all. I found this game to be extremely fun, excellent 
 platforming the isn't particular difficult but still requires some skill, beautifully artistic 
 graphics, a decent storyline, and good voice work. My main problem with the game was combat. For 
 starters, you can only draw you weapon when the game enters "battle mode", which i suppose doesn't 
 make a difference, but it still bothered me. Then when you actually do fight, the battles are simple 
 and mundane. It works off of a combo system which just didn't seem precise, in fact, the whole 
 thing feels almost turn-based. Overall, the fights seemed really repetitive and boring. Other than 
 the combat system though, this is a great game and I would definitely recommend it to fans of the 
 platforming genre. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PiPSmallie
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 23, 2008 9:08 am PT
Review:  Its cool
  Its cool
  Its cool
  Its cool Its cool Its cool Its cool Its cool Its cool Its cool Its cool Its cool Its cool Its cool 
 Its cool Its cool Its cool Its cool Its cool Its cool Its cool Its cool Its cool Its cool Its cool 
 Its cool Its cool Its cool Its cool Its cool Its cool Its cool Its cool Its cool Its cool Its cool 
 Its cool Its cool Its cool Its cool Its cool Its cool Its cool Its cool Its cool Its cool Its cool 
 Its cool Its cool Its cool Its cool Its cool Its cool Its cool Its cool Its cool Its cool Its cool 
 Its cool Its cool Its cool Its cool Its cool Its cool Its cool Its cool Its cool Its cool Its cool 
 Its cool Its cool Its cool Its cool Its cool Its cool Its cool Its cool Its cool Its cool Its cool 
 Its cool Its cool Its cool Its cool Its cool Its cool Its cool Its cool Its cool Its cool Its cool 
 Its cool Its cool Its cool Its cool Its cool Its cool Its cool Its cool Its cool Its cool Its cool 
 Its cool Its cool Its cool Its cool Its cool Its cool Its cool Its cool Its cool Its cool Its cool 
 Its cool Its cool Its cool Its cool Its cool Its cool Its cool Its cool Its cool Its cool Its cool 
 Its cool Its cool Its cool Its cool Its cool Its cool Its cool Its cool Its cool Its cool Its cool 
 Its cool Its cool Its cool vIts cool Its cool Its cool Its cool Its cool its cool Its cool Its 
 cool Its cool Its cool 
::::::

::::::
UserName: UlTimatelee
Rating: 4.5
Date: Dec 20, 2008 7:21 pm PT
Review:  I dont know bout other ppl, but this was one of the biggest let downs for me ever! After all the 
 old games from the series i was expecting awesome graphics ( In the old POP style) I was hoping 
 for more of a darker side like the other games and well Elika just annoys me beyond control!!!! 
 What a failure of a game. The game plays itself- i mean my three year old niece could play this! 
 Nothing to hold me in the game, story is rubbish, game play is too easy and its all the same over 
 and over and over....... I played initally for about 2hrs and was expecting to like open up something 
 different, that NEVER happened  I turned it off and started playing Tomb Raider! As a huge POP 
 fan this has pretty much much given me nightmares... Honestly for me, and i guess my expectations 
 this game could easily go down as one of the worst games ever! Im afraid if i dont return this 
 game to the store it will sit in my draw and rot before i pick it up again...... Dissapointing: ( 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GamesMaster4Evr
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 19, 2008 5:55 pm PT
Review:  Wow. That's all I can say. Wow. At first, when I started playing this game, I was turned off. It 
 was nothing like the Original Trilogy. I thought it was a waste of $60. But then things got intersting. 
 I started getting interested. A wonderful story, wonderful ending, wonderful graphics, wonderful 
 gameplay. The Game should be called Prince of Persia: Wonderful. 
  
  
  Here's the deal:
  
  Good
  -------
  * Good Graphics
  * Good Story
  * Good Gameplay
 
  * The whole Non-liner ordeal is cool
  
  
  Bad
  -----
  * Requires a bit of backtracking.
  
  
  
  
  Old fans may or may not be turned off. It 
 all depends. This game is a must buy for anyone looking into the story. Old fans would find awesomeness 
 in playing as the old prince with Farah. Oh, yeah, there is a couple of things taken from the old 
 games. Well, I got to go , but DEFINETLY try this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: amirbrandon
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 19, 2008 8:44 am PT
Review:  Okay, so this is how I'm going to review the game; It'll start out as a 100% perfect score, and 
 then I'll state the negatives, which will bring the score down. Then, I'll state the positives, 
 which will bring the score up to where it should be.
  
  Negatives:
  -Too much outdoor, too little indoor: (-6%)
  -Combat is great, but there's not that much of it. 
 And when fighting the soldiers of Ahriman, which are very weak, you kill them instantly when they 
 reach the edge of the platform, which ends the battle quickly. Did Ubisoft think battles were a 
 punishment or something? (-7%)
  -The dialogue during gameplay gets pretty repetitive. I lost count of how many times the Prince 
 said "I think you got my back that time!" The dialogue can also be corny at times. (-5%)
  -As funny as he is, the Prince's personality is not very "Prince of Persia" quality. But even so, 
 he grows on you and you'll start to get used to him, just like we did for the Sands of Time Prince. 
 (-3%)
  -Sometimes it would just make more sense if Elika didn't save the Prince from death; if she can 
 wake from her unconsciousness to save you, she should wake from it whenever she wants... (-2%)
 
  -Platforming is too simple; it needed more button pressing. It felt sort of like an X button was 
 all you needed at times. (-4%)
  So far, the percentage becomes 73%. Now let's see the positives which brings the score up.
  
 
  Positives:
  -Beautiful designs and visuals. (+5%)
  -Combat is awesome and fun. Trying different combos with Elika is great. (+5%)
  -Even though 
 there wasn't a big variety of music, the music that it did have was beautiful. (+3%)
  -The new acrobatics such as the roof run, grip fall, and magic plates were great additions. (+4%)
 
  -Collecting light seeds was fun and satisfying. (+2%)
  -The fact that Elika actually spoke Persian at times made me very happy. It made the game feel 
 more "Persian," and I really appreciate that Ubisoft tok the time to do that. For example, whenever 
 you use Elika's compass ability, she says something in persian with an effect added to her voice. 
 Some examples of things she says in Persian are "Light up." or "May my path be right." Also, when 
 using the magic plates, sometimes she says the name of the power in Persian, such as "Dasteh Ormazd," 
 which means "Hand of Ormazd." I thought this was really great and added to the beauty of the game. 
 (+1%)
  -I love Elika. (+1%)
  -The ending left my jaw open... It was an excellent ending for the first game in the new trilogy. 
 (+2%)
  
  So, if you add up the scores, it will get a 95%. This new Prince of Persia game is definitely something 
 new, and succeeded. Even though it had its flaws, everything else made up for them. The Prince 
 of Persia games are my favorite games, and this is something new that is easy to get used to. Honestly, 
 when I saw the ending, I was awe-struck. It was simply amazing and I can't wait for the sequel. 
 Thus, I give this game a 9.5.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: dzatsb
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 19, 2008 12:40 am PT
Review:  I play a lot of games. 
  I play a lot of genres. 
  I have played a lot of Prince of Persia titles, and yet this new vision of the Prince is, by far 
 my favorite.
  
  Sure it is not the hardest game to play, but that does not mean the game lacks the tools for greatness.
 
  
  Too many games give us unbelievable difficulty, yet zero enjoyment.
  
  Prince of Persia is not only accessible, but incredibly entertaining. 
  In my book, that more 
 than justifies the $60 price tag.
  
  Another reason I am glad I decided to own Prince of Persia instead of rent, is because the game 
 features some amazing writing and character development.
  
  I have read all the reviews, and all agree that the female character Elika is the driving force 
 behind, the emotional, and dramatic aspects of the game. 
  
  I completely agree with that assessment. 
  
  However, where I part ways from most critics, 
 is the belief that the new Prince is the weak link in the story.
  
  Most hate the Prince because he is a much more shallow character than the Prince of old. 
  
 
  While that fact is true (yes the Prince is shallow) , he adds a certain rogue charm to the tale 
 like Han Solo added to Star Wars.
  
  Seriously, if you are hard core as a gamer, and require every minute you spend in the virtual world 
 to challenge your fingers to the bone, Prince of Persia will not be for you.
  
  However, if you would like a game that offers story, character development, accessibility, beauty, 
 and great dialogue, get this game.
  
  Like a great movie, you will not b disappointed.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lawrencevanrijn
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 18, 2008 1:42 pm PT
Review:  I must admit that i have been anticipating the arrival of the Royal Representative of Iran (known 
 to insiders as the Prince of Persia) with great interest. Even though the game spi-raled down a 
 little after game 2 (which was definitely not as good as game 1) . But, the first game was so magnificent, 
 that i looked forward to the game. At first, looking at demo's, watching the cell approach was 
 not really my idea of the POP. However, the level that i did see looked pretty spiffy. I bought 
 the game and i have been playing it pretty much non-stop. On the Playstation 3, the cell approach 
 has been taken to a whole new level. the same approach was used in Zelda Windwaker, which looked 
 really good (at the time) , but make no mistake. The graphics of POP compare to Zelda like a Maserati 
 to a Honda Civic. Again, no disrespect to Zelda as it is a great game. I think you get the point. 
 Graphically the game is pretty much a new standard. The levels look pretty amazing, and the open 
 approach to this game makes for a game more challenging then you might imagine. 
  Control of the Prince is pretty good. The game does require you to relax while playing. Should 
 you play to hectic and jumpy, then you will cause he prince to jump (of a cliff) or run off an 
 edge or two. This can be a little unnerving, but soon, as you get the hang of it, you will be off 
 to a great adventure.
  
  Now, each adventure does need an opponent or two (or 1000) . Anyway, these silly little blighters 
 do look the part. Yes, the art of the characters is wicked in many ways, as is the environment. 
 This does go all the way in two versions (no spoilers told here) , so you will be amazed pretty 
 much twice as many levels as you will run in to. The story is not the worst one, but it is told 
 in a nice way, and as this is a 3d platform with fights, you might imagine that these story-lines 
 do not go that deep at times. No harm, no fowl as we say (pun intended) .
  So with all that good. Is there a bad side? Yes there is, which does explain the title here. The 
 boss fights are almost too impossible. Gamers claiming that this is not the case, go hide in a 
 corner. These fights are intense and take too many split second acts, which is often a problem 
 with controllers. So, it almost comes down to button bashing and hoping you will get lucky. The 
 worst part is, that if he hits you, your mobility goes down a lot (1 strike does it) , while hitting 
 him/her/it has no effect, making it even harder, and they get to rejuvenate if they hit you, so 
 you are in for some hard fights. But this part is the only flaw i can come up with. I did see some 
 small bugs with quirky movements of your lady at times, but it does not spoil the fun
  This is the part i do not like at all. I love a good fight, and it needs to be challenging, how-ever 
 UBI-soft missed the ball on this part and it turns a perfect game into a good game. 
  Apart from this one flaw it is a magnificent game to have.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: dogi224
Rating: 7.5
Date: Dec 18, 2008 4:11 am PT
Review:  I bought this game pre-ordered the day it came out as after being mesmorised by the beauty of the 
 Sands of Time Trology, I was eagerly anticipating this release.
  
  My initial impressions were ones of intrigue rather than awe, I distinclty remember after five 
 mins of The Two Thrones three years ago, I could not put the controller down for a second! This 
 game, however, was not quite the same and I was worried that it was going to lose the sparkle of 
 POP games.
  
  Firstly, the graphics need to be immediately clarified, a friend of mine, who is also a massive 
 POP fan actually refused to pay full price for this game because of the 'cartoony' graphics. And 
 he was right, the graphics are very cartoony, it is not meant to be seen as a 'real-life' adventure 
 like Assassins Creed. Moreover, it is more meant to be a world of fantasy and imagination. This 
 however, makes the game slightly fake, The Two Thrones had a solid game engine and the graphics 
 were good for a PS2. I get the impression Ubisoft Montreal are trying to purposely avoid people 
 trying to compare the similarities of Assassins Creed and POP, although both games are very similar 
 and are practically made by the same guy, they wanted them to stand completely apart. Another possible 
 explination is that the POP world is enormous not just in width and size but also height as many 
 times during the game you will have to climb up very high and see some very spectacular views. 
 With advanced graphics this would have been either impossible or very laggy.
  
  Then on to gameplay, I have to admit that I found The Warrior Within one of the hardest games I 
 have ever played in my life. The environment was challenging but the enemies and bosses were almost 
 impossible! The Two Thrones was less of a challenge but was still a difficult enough game. This 
 addition, is so easy its not even funny! The developers have decided to look towards more the moving 
 around the environment than the mass battles and hack-and-slash gameplay that we were used to. 
 Instead you occasionally fight enemies one-on-one, however, I'll rephrase the word OCCASIONALLY. 
 You barely even see an enemy, and if you reach them in good time, you can kill them before they 
 spawn. All in all I think I fought (not including the bosses) 4/5 enemies in the entire game. You 
 fight the bosses 5 times each and there is 4 of them so 20 boss battles in the game. This sounds 
 hard, but the bosses are a walk so you can waltz through this game without a blink of an eye.
 
  
  I finished the game within two days, now i'm no gaming legend who is a god of games, this game 
 is just that easy. The idea of having a second support character is good and it does work well, 
 but the fact it is impossible to die (Elika saves you with her magic from EVERY deathly situation) 
 makes it even easier. They have tried to keep a part of the Sands of Time, where you use the sands 
 to reverse time etc etc. So if you make a mistake instead of reversing time and trying again, Elika 
 grabs your falling body and takes you to a nearby safe place to try again.
  
  Another niggle is that the 'Prince' comically isnt even a prince! Would you believe that in the 
 entire game he doesnt actually say his 'nickname' is The Prince and neither does Elika call him 
 a Prince. He is a theif who just wandered by a Princess who is having a dilema! So this game should 
 have been called The Thief of Persia! The '''''Prince'''''' does fall in love with her during the 
 game so my guess is he will marry her and become the Prince for the next installment, but if they 
 were going to change the story this much, why not come up with a totally new title and let the 
 good name of the Prince of Persia lie with the Sands of Time trilogy? I would not have minded!!!!!
 
  
  Finally, the ending! although I will not spoil it for people looking to buy this game, the ending 
 is not great, you take the whole game to go forwards to then just reverse it all in the last 5 
 mins of the game to go back to the beginning. I was like huh?!?!? I actually did not want to do 
 it, but you can't finish the game otherwise. It opens it up for another addition to the POP world 
 but they need to revise how they take on this story for POP5!
  
  Overall, it is a good game, it still has the magic of a POP game, but the gameplay needs to be 
 severely revised and the story developed to it to be a good POP5 installment
  
  Graphics: 7/10 (Good graphics but the cartoony style can put many people off)
  
  Gameplay 8/10 
 (still a fun and enjoyable)
  
  Story: 5/10 (Needs to be revised, they tried too hard to distinguish it away from the SOT trilogy 
 and got a little confused with the story)
  
  Difficulty: 1/10 (The easiest game on the planet!)
  
  Game Content: 5/10 (Because it is so 
 easy it really does not take a long time to finish)
  
  Music: 7/10 (POP has always had good music and this was no different, however, the main song is 
 played over and over and over far too often to the point it got annoying to hear)
  
  Replayability: 6/10 (once you've played it, you've played it, to play it again with the same difficulty 
 would only make the replay even easier again, almost pointless) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hasaang
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 17, 2008 11:07 pm PT
Review:  I am a fan of stories and narratives. In fact I'm the kind of gamer that hates playing online and 
 simply play the single player campaigns to enjoy the story since I believe games have finally become 
 an amazing medium for it. One word to describe POP is epic. Gone are the incessant deaths and repetition 
 of the old POP games though enjoyable on some parts became a chore. 
  
  This one is defined by the absolute fantastic storyline and fabulous characters, there is actual 
 character development in the game. Its more like an interactive movie rather than a game. Same 
 kind of reason why I'm a fan of the Metal Gear Solid franchise. I actually feel sad for finishing 
 this game (which took literally only 2 sittings) so quickly but I couldn't put the controller down... 
 I even called in sick for work (which I've never done) for this game. If a fan of stories and fables 
 PLAY THIS NOW... god I wish they made a movie or something out of this one.. miles ahead of sands 
 of time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Top-A-Gamer
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 17, 2008 12:12 pm PT
Review:  Prince of Persia Review!!!
  
  Story- Ive heard people talking about how they feel abit let down by the story in prince of persia 
 but for me personally i think its a great one. And it was interesting to see how the prince and 
 elika relationship would unfold during the story and the ending was just heart warming.
  
  New Prince- Dosent the guy look awesome with that long scarf and scar across his face. And nice 
 to bring a guy with abit of comedy.
  
  Gameplay- The platforming on Prince of Persia was nice and free flowing but sometimes boy did it 
 get on my F*CKING NERVES!!! lol. The reason is you would jump on a collum and the idiot would just 
 shuffle along and just jump off. Also when using elika she should atleast try throw you to safety 
 not to your death.
  
  More Gameplay- The fighting was very easy and i would go into that later on in the review but i 
 gotta say it was beautifull when you hit i nice long combo and just looked amazing with blue shadows 
 and curruption flying around everywhere.
  
  Graphics- I dont think i have to say anything here.
  
  The Good- Fun, new and fresh. Great 
 graphics and design.
  
  The Bad- Very easy and way to short. guess everyone knows that.
  
  Overall- Just buy the game and then swap it for another one (like i did now im playing dead 
 space) Lol
  
  thanks for reading the review! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Spherious
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 19, 2008 11:48 am PT
Review:  This was probably my most anticipated game of the whole year. I'm a huge pop fan and was quite 
 pleased by the direction this game was going. So lets get down to business
  The Good:
  This game is beautiful there is no way you can disagree, it is very easy just to stand on one of 
 the viewpoints and just get lost staring into the scenery. Awesome fighting and combo system that 
 led to some really cool cinematic battles. The characters are great, some people complained about 
 the new prince but honestly he adds some nice comic relief to the game. Personally I found that 
 the new prince grows on you and combined with Elika it makes a great character team. Was I the 
 only one that noticed that if you repeatedly kicked an enemies ass in battle the next fight would 
 be harder? The enemies would deflect or dodge more or blind you. Also since I deflected every attack 
 they used failure to deflect a attack led to all four quick time events making precision quite 
 necessary. The game was simply enjoyable, I never found myself just pushing through the game I 
 enjoyed every minute of it. Eliminating loading screens was a great idea.
  
  The Bad
  While the difficulty of fights increase if you do well they are still a bit easy. As much as they 
 aggravated me in other games I did miss some good old Prince style puzzles, there were just not 
 enough. The game did play itself a little bit everything was just a bit to effortless in platforming. 
 Very minor frame rate glitches primarily when escaping from the observatory but thats just nitpicking. 
 In my opinion not enough fights.
  
  How to fix the bad:
  Perhaps a difficulty setting option? This opens up the game to hardcore players and newbies alike. 
 WE NEED MORE COMBAT!!! The thing that irked me the most was the lack of good old fashoned brawling. 
 Make the platforming controls just a little more complicated so it feels like you're playing the 
 game, not the game playing itself. Other than that an excellent video game. Keep up the good work 
 Ubisoft and can't wait for the sequel. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FvaFshX
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 16, 2008 11:23 am PT
Review:  This year, there have been a number of hardcore titles designed to send the player on a punishing 
 campaign to save the earth. After throwing thousands of frag grenades and being chainsawed online 
 for the hundredth time, Prince of Persia fits in perfectly as the video game equivalent of a shiatsu 
 massage. For those who only seek swear-inducing adrenaline rushes, it may be difficult to accept 
 a game with no real penalties. For everyone else, Prince of Persia is a beautiful and relaxing 
 adventure and a perfect reboot for the series.
  
  Prince of Persia takes place in a fantasy setting complemented by a gorgeous cell shaded water 
 color art style similar to the recent Sega RPG Valkyria Chronicles. The story focuses on princess 
 Elika and the fall of her somewhat vacant kingdom. For reasons unexplained at first, Elika's father 
 breaks a seal under the castle that frees an ancient evil god named Ahriman. While attempting to 
 run away from her father, Elika runs into a wise cracking Prince and he becomes swept up in her 
 struggle to seal away Ahriman and restore the kingdom. 
  
  
  The story is well told in its simplicity, almost evoking a Mario feel as the Prince and Elika move 
 from location to location gradually approaching their goal. Additionally, at many points during 
 the game you can stop and push a shoulder button to talk to Elika and get more backstory about 
 her and the world around you. Unfortunately, whenever you talk to Elika you have to stop completely 
 and exchange only a few sentences often forcing you to repeatedly push a button just to finish 
 up the story she is trying to tell. One has to wonder why Ubisoft didn't stick with the real time 
 conversations the Prince and Farah used in the first Sands of Time game, especially considering 
 the platforming sections don't require complete concentration.
  
  Which brings me to the most talked about aspect of the game: The lack of difficulty. You can never 
 die in the game at all. If you ever miss a jump or if you're on the verge of death in combat, Elika 
 will always jump in to save you. That may sound like a bad design decision at first, but after 
 playing for a while you realize how ingenious it actually is. How many times have you played a 
 really cool set piece in an action game only to have the impact ruined the tenth time through due 
 to a cheap death before the next checkpoint? Prince of Persia completely removes that allowing 
 you to experience the world without the jarring nature of a game over/loading screen. Also, Elika's 
 omnipotence feels like a natural extension of the time rewinding aspect of Sands of Time. Later 
 in the game, there are very long sequences of jumps and the thought of having to restart them from 
 the beginning is enough a penalty. Lastly, there is a high trophy/achievement in the game to finish 
 with Elika saving you less than 100 times. Basically, even though you could potentially break the 
 game and be as reckless as possible, there shouldn't really be a desire to.
  
  The controls in the game are absolutely perfect. Instead of having to push the jump button at exact 
 times to barely make a jump, everything is controlled fluidly with timed presses of a few face 
 buttons. The controls in combat are even better. Instead of the hack and slash fest in the sands 
 of time trilogy, every battle is one on one in this game allowing for a more cinematic experience 
 with each battle. Each face button is mapped to a different attack: one for sword, one for grab, 
 one for jumping, and one for Elikas magic attack. The beauty of the combat system is the infinite 
 possibilities. You can literally go through the game without repeating the same combo because different 
 player created combinations can be strung together seamlessly.
  
  The sound in the game is quite good as well. There are only a handful of middle eastern wind orchestra 
 pieces, but each one fits the respective setting quite well. The voice acting is also very well 
 done with special credit going to Kari Wahlgren for injecting so much personality and subtle emotional 
 changes into Elika. If there was one weak link in the voice cast, it would have to be Nolan North 
 (the voice behind Nathan Drake from Uncharted) as the Prince. While there was nothing wrong with 
 his delivery, such a recognizable voice didn't really fit in a fantasy Middle Eastern setting. 
 Adding in the almost identical personalities and facial animations of both characters, at times 
 it felt like someone threw a scarf on Nathan Drake and shoved him in the desert.
  
  In closing, you need to ask yourself what kind of gamer are you if you're on the fence about Prince 
 of Persia. If your main focus is proving your skill and getting a strong sense of accomplishment 
 from barely completing a task, then you should probably skip this game and go for Tomb Raider: 
 Underworld or Mirror's Edge. If you're like me and play games more for the experience than the 
 challenge, then Prince of Persia needs to be in your collection.
  
  
  Cain
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: shufflezoom
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 15, 2008 12:26 pm PT
Review:  In this world of gaming , there are many franchises that always make good games and never stop 
 doing just that . Some examples are : Halo, Mario , Zelda and Prince of Persia . Does the long 
 streak of good Prince of Persia games end here or does it keep on going. 
  
  Story 10/10
  The story in Prince of Persia is like no other, at sometimes though , it doesn't feel like you're 
 playing a Prince of Persia game . But that's fine . You play a nameless thief carrying a king's 
 ransom of gold . Suddenly , you loose your donkey and fall in this different world . You meet this 
 girl named Elika who is a princess , and try to save the world from darkness after Elika's father 
 unleashes the god of darkness Ahriman . The voice acting is good and helps this awesome story experience.
 
  
  Graphics 11.5/10
  One word , WOW doesn't that 11.5 show you something?
  
  Gameplay 10/10
  While the gameplay in Prince of Persia , may be a little bit easy , since you 
 can't die but that's still no excuse for how good the gameplay really is. The controls are really 
 , really tight and really, really good .The combat may be a little bit slow and not fast paced like 
 the other Prince of Persia's but nevertheless it's still amazingly awesome. The game also has a 
 ton of trophies , so trophy hunters should be happy about that . Great gameplay in a great game.
 
  
  Overall 10/10
  This is the best looking , best playing Prince of Persia of all time and also my favourite game 
 of 2008 and possibly bets ever. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mrpear
Rating: 7
Date: Dec 14, 2008 7:31 pm PT
Review:  I dont even know where to begin. I guess I'll start by saying that I've followed the Sands of Time 
 series and have enjoyed the classic Prince of Persia platforming and puzzle elements blended well 
 with the introduction of 3D gameplay. This take on the series however, was not was I was looking 
 for. From the very beginning, you'll notice that the art direction was spot on and had much inspiration 
 from other recent cel shaded games. Unfortunately, this was the only strong point of the game. 
 About 20 minutes into the game, you'll realize that you can't die. No matter how hard you try, 
 from jumping into bottomless pits to never putting up a block against an attack from an enemy, 
 you'll find that the developers never bothered to put in a Game Over screen. Other than the boring 
 factor, this also sucks up the rewarding feeling you get from other platformers when you are able 
 to execute a perfect pattern of combos or smoothly transistion from one place to the next. And 
 concerning the platforming, I never felt like I was really controlling the character. The unresponsive 
 controls would sometimes have delays which would lead me to my demise, which in the end would just 
 end up being a helping hand from my beautiful lady friend. This would also hurt the combo system 
 in fighting because you never really knew when to push the next pattern of buttons. Graphically, 
 it animations look great but if i want to watch some well choreographed moves, I'll just pay 5 
 dollars to rent a good Kung Fu movie. Most of the time I felt like I could walk away from the room 
 and come back with nothing to worry about and eventually with enough button mashing, i could come 
 away with a win. Also, the puzzle elements that I used to enjoy were swapped out with overly simplistic 
 "mini-games" or randomly, unsystematic guessing games, most of which involved gear cranking. On 
 the smaller side of gripes, there were also some very unusual graphical glitches that had my sidekick 
 "warping" to my side when she would stand in one spot for too long without following me like she 
 should. And through all of this, your main goal is basically repetitive seed collecting until you 
 get to the end of the story. 
  
  All of these completely stole away the magic I used to enjoy from the Prince of Persia series. 
 I tried very hard to enjoy the game but found myself forcing myself to finish the game only because 
 getting trophies. I was expecting so much more from all the potential we had seen. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: muji_150
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 14, 2008 4:32 pm PT
Review:  the game could have done more with a history check with the "prince" and the level designs could 
 be alot better! its a cool game but not worth the money they ask for... personally enjoyed it but 
 after i finished the game i wondered why i bot it.. prlly to hav a collection of the series.. and 
 YOU CANT DIE neither can u control the rewinding process like the previous games : (.. i'd be happier 
 if the prince had more moves and if there were lesser magic plates lol... oh well... hope they make 
 the next one more satisfying :) P. S- elika cudve done all that by herself! and what happend to 
 his donkey? i was waiting for that.. hope ubisoft has sumthing planned about the donkey! and even 
 though the levels look amazing, there should have been a variety of different looks to them.. they 
 all look the same :|.. i would say im okay with the game... it is one of the best out on the ps3 
 and Xbox 360 but im left partially satisfied.. the whole thing just misses something.. probably cuz 
 they didnt take full advantage of the gaming console's power... it couldhav been alot better... i 
 personally wanted it to be alot more than assasin's creed.. but i like the prince's way of talking.. atleast 
 this one is funny! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: flyingv16
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 14, 2008 3:59 pm PT
Review:  About time the ps3 has a good adventure game. The only reason i reserved this game is because it 
 came in a limited edition packaging. I didn't know how the game was really going to be. It turned 
 out a h. ell of a lot better than i could ever imagine. First of all the graphics are gorgeous. 
 I seriously couldn't stop talking to myself about how good the graphics were especially in the 
 begging of the game near the temple. But then the game started to escalate. A nice and deep story 
 started to brew and on top of that the game felt really fun and enjoyable. Trust me i'm not a gamer 
 who needs user friendly stuff i'm a very hardcore gamer and this really just caught my attention. 
 The prince can pull of some badass moves like the ceiling run and wall runs. Plus the game felt 
 very natural to me like when the prince jumps for a pull he automatically turns around the way 
 your supposed to be facing. Stuff like that really makes the game relaxing and quite enjoyable. 
 The dialogue between the prince and elika is top notch. They work with each other well and really 
 give the game its constant flow that it always seems to have. the only negative thing about the 
 game is that towards the end of the game the frame rate seems to noticeably drop. Other than that 
 minor flaw this game is really top of its class. On top of all of this, the game supports trophies 
 for the ps3. There easy and really help the game move along. It makes what ever repetition is in 
 the game already almost vanish. THANK YOU UBISOFT FOR FINALLY CREATING A GOOD ADVENTURE GAME ON 
 THE PS3!!!!!!!!!!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nickscho
Rating: 5.5
Date: Dec 14, 2008 1:20 am PT
Review:  If this newest installment is any indication, it seems the Prince of Persia series has taken a 
 dive.
  
  Quite simply, this game is boring. It's very hard to enjoy a game that holds your hand the entire 
 way through. You basically can't die. This would actually not be a problem, had the platforming 
 not been so repetitive. I don't know how many times one can run across a wall, or jump on a pole, 
 without it getting tired. The PS2 / Xbox PoP games at least mixed it up a little. This game does 
 not. At least it looks cool when you're doing it.
  
  The combat, unfortunately, is just as boring and repetitive. There are about 5 enemies in the game 
 that you fight over and over. Sound fun?
  
  The gameplay is also repetitive (I really like that word) . You enter a graphically ugly looking 
 area. Fight a boring enemy, and make the area look less ugly. Now you have to replay the entire 
 area, except there is more green in it this time! You do this about 24 times. You do this by hitting 
 one of four buttons, while you let the game play out for you. Oh, but it's all okay, because the 
 game looks pretty.
  
  You don't really need to buy this game, or play it... it pretty much plays itself. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: neonicshadow
Rating: 5.5
Date: Dec 13, 2008 9:03 pm PT
Review:  well as i said before boring repetitive stiff controls but the story is really nice graphics are 
 nice... but the gameplay... wow really needs work... its got a nice skin system in it you can get 
 an altair skin by linking your psn account with your ubi account... havent heard of any add-ons 
 not the best in the series i gotta say fighting system is ok... still like i said again and again 
 its repetitive yeah sometimes you get it where they change form and you gotta use a different attack 
 but still... and there are quite a few glitches... two examples being if your jumping off a wall 
 and you miss a ledge you sometimes hit the ledge another thing being you can be pulled though walls 
 and floors when being consumed by the black ooze... although you get back to where you started CAUSE 
 YOU CAN NEVER DIE... yeah thats a big stick out isnt it? kinda takes the fun outta a game right?
 
  
  first review 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SpanishPeacock
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 12, 2008 3:45 pm PT
Review:  When you first start up the game and it gets done installing, you gotta wonder how the sudden shift 
 in style from a more realistic looking game like Assassin's Creed and Prince of Persia: Two Thrones, 
 to the cell shaded animation is going to drag it down. After a few seconds of adjusting to this; 
 however, you find yourself in awe of the detail they put into the game. To list a few things that 
 come so naturally you might not notice, switch places with Elika on a beam, or a ledge. They don't 
 always change places the same way. I also appreciated the fact that they knocked it down a notch 
 on ESRB's scale, from M to T. It's more like Prince of Persia: The Sands of Time, not just because 
 of the awesome color schemes, but but you play through the game with the same expectations.
  
  The wall running, ceiling running, jumping, flinging from poles sticking out of a conveniently 
 placed wall are all there, but with Elika's magic, you can use plates to jump, run, and fly to 
 distant places (the flying is on a track like an arcade shooter, and you dodge collapsing objects 
 etc.) . The only thing that really might bug someone looking for a challenge is the fact that you 
 can't die. Elika saves you, and you get teleported to the last ground you were on, or the enemy 
 gets some life back. Now, there is a trophy for her saving you less than 100 times in the game, 
 but that really says how many times you're probably going to fall if you can (or can't) die 99 
 times and still get a gold trophy. The enemy fights are 2 on one, instead of having you against 
 3 or four guys like in other Prince of Persia games. You also don't have a life bar, Elika's not 
 limited on magic, and the enemies are a little predictable ( for instance, when a boss hits you 
 with a certain attack, they do a motion before you have to hit a button) , it's always the same 
 button unless it's a death blow (which doesn't kill you, just gives them life, and adds one to 
 the other 500 times Elika has saved you) . Here's a big hint for everyone, when you wall run or 
 ceiling run, you don't hold the button your press to start it, just the direction, I jumped off 
 walls many times trying to hold down X and then hit O at one of those loops on the wall (the ones 
 that look like door knockers) . You just need to press the button.
  
  Another hint, you didn't need to pre-order it to use the pre-order code to unlock classic the last 
 prince as a playable skin. You do have to get online to unlock the Altair skin though. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Knightangel121
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 11, 2008 10:32 pm PT
Review:  when i consider a good it has, well, been alot during the last few wallet **** months, ever since 
 fable 2 i"ve cramed money out my ass to play all the best games, and now i fork over another $60 
 for another game, well to say the least Prince of persia is a great game and a must buy for people 
 who want a good platfromer game, now i dident play much of the first three prince of persia games, 
 i played the threrd one and found it to be pretty good, and havent scince toched the series i find 
 myself at an Hmm fact that i just bought the new prince of persia, now this is any easy game with 
 not much of a downside other than the combat which is not that great, other then that i gusse you 
 could have the best game of all time, but then again thats a luagh, anyone can say that about any 
 game out there but that doesent make that true now does it, to that i think the game is good but 
 for my top 10 games it doesent make the cut, ok i did play a bit of the first game and i can admit 
 that if it had better combat that it could be the best game of all time, but then when people say 
 best game OF ALL TIME you have to relize that ALL TIME is a strong set of words, the only game 
 thats perfect in every way is the best of all time, that very thing keeps games like gears of war 
 from getting the at title, now i hate it when people ragg on a game for littel flaws which is the 
 case with prince of persia, see its always brushing up against perfection but never quite makes 
 it, ok now the graphics are great, now when i say this forget everything you know about game graphics 
 and play Prince of persia, now its basicaly a comic book or hand draw pitcure brought to life and 
 is amazing, now the sound is also great the voice actors are great to, every sound and in game 
 music sounds fresh and great and realy draws you in, now the game even has a very well done story, 
 its great and even has a great ending to it and makes you feel great compashion for characters, 
 and finaly the gameplay is great, the platforming is the best i've ever seen, to that matter i 
 dont care for platformer that much, and the game is openended and feels fun and fresh, but heres 
 the draw the game is to easy but it feels fun and doesent make you angery, my big problem with 
 the game is the combat, its way to repeditive and point less but has some cool moves you can dp, 
 overal a great game with few flaws. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KYLEtheGLACIER
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 11, 2008 4:06 pm PT
Review:  I was so blown away by this game, it is fantastic. The graphics are great, they make me think iam 
 playing a living painting. The sound great, including the voice acting, Nolan North does a great 
 job as the Prince, except for the occasional cheesy dialouge. The gameplay is great, th platfoming 
 is fantastic, and the combat is fun, but I think the game needed a few more fights, but still it 
 was good. The only real downfall of the the game is the length it took me about 10 hours or so 
 to finish the story mode, but I didnt get all the trophies, but it is a good game to play through 
 over and over, especially with the unlockable skins. So overall Prince of Persia is a fantastic 
 game, that any Prince of Persia fan (Like Myself) should try or any fan of action, platforming, 
 or adventure games. It is a great gae, definitely worth the $60. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: agentnoone
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 11, 2008 1:31 am PT
Review:  This was a really great game I had a great time playing it. When you see a healing of a fertile 
 ground it'll just take your breathe away. The Corrupted were really animated well and created superbly. 
 The graphics were great I love cell-shaded games. I would recommend this game to anyone, don't 
 rent it, BUY IT. The exclusive content is really funny. The fighting was great finding new ways 
 to fight the corrupted was really fun. I mean come on Altair in a good game that's funny. Plus there's 
 a lot of other content coming soon so it's a must buy. 
  
  The Only thing that grinded my gears was the crank mechanism, you would push your analog in one 
 way and then when you want to continue pushing the crank in the same direction it will go back 
 in the opposite direction going back to square one. Thankfully there's not that many cranks. The 
 reason I marked it down from a perfect ten because of those dang cranks cranks. So its all GOOOOOD. 
 :D Have fun playing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rohitbhosale
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 10, 2008 4:51 pm PT
Review:  I have been playing Prince for years right from its very first DOS version. Needless to say I am 
 a big fan of Prince. Not having Sands of Times on PS3 was kind of a disappointment and hence I 
 was waiting eagerly for this game. 
  
  Believe me folks, this game is marvelous and worth the wait time. It is way matured release that 
 gives a feeling that you are part of movie. It goes beyond usual sight-fight-kill kind of game 
 play.
  
  Storyline is good and it has been directed well too. Best thing about story line is you can control 
 when the characters would speak and when they wouldn't. If you want to just play and go away from 
 dialogs, that's possible too. If you want to do it like a movie with all conversations, that is 
 possible too. I liked it.
  
  I am on the verge of completing the game. it has a fantastic graphics - as rightly said by many 
 - like an animation of paintings. Fighting combos are done nicely and give a nice visual treat. 
 Just that you have all the combos available right from the beginning - you need not advance to 
 learn new combos. which is good as well as bad.
  
  Elka comes as a nice companion and fits in the gameplay very well. 
  
  I haven't tried the 
 skins yet but a first look was not bad.
  
  In all, a good game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: melaniebrian
Rating: 5
Date: Dec 9, 2008 3:18 pm PT
Review:  An excellent franchasise is completly ruined in hopes of reaping big casual player bucks! Did you 
 like the previous Prince of Persia games? If so then you might want to just rent this and be warned, 
 you may be disappointed. Sure, its beautiful and all, but its so unbelievably easy that its almost 
 like your not actually PLAYING it at all. Why not just watch someone else play it instead, thats 
 just as difficult... or mabye you could watch a movie and play with the dvd remote, fast forward, 
 rewind... operating the dvd remote is Much more challenging!!! In fact you have a better chance 
 of dying that way. 
  And as a final insult, its about 10 hours long. It is absoultly not worth the 60 dollar price tag. 
 This game may have high production values, and some reviewers might praise the fact that they "tried 
 something diffrent" by adding mindnumbingly easy platforming into the mix, but make no mistake 
 that this game was intended for the casual gamer, the soccer moms that want to be hip and trendy 
 and show the kids that there still "with it." This game is a slap in the face to gaming and you 
 should be ashamed of yourself if you cant see that. 
  As one last point... What if all games were like this??? Think about that, what if all games were 
 this mindlessly unchallenging? I can only hope that this is a trend that dies a horrible death. 
 Far to many gamese are going this route, all the Wii shovelware is stinking proof of this. It makes 
 me sad. Do NOT support this! I beg you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Aarontan1
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 8, 2008 11:40 pm PT
Review:  Wow!!!, i am really impressed by the CGs and also the game play. I have just bought it on Saturday 
 and spent my whole night playing the game till 4am.
  This is the bext prince of persia game in the series. Since Prince of persia : sand of time in 
 2003, i had been waiting for this game. I should consider this game a 10/10 because of the CGs, 
 game play, sound and voice over and also storyline.
  
  When the game starts, it show a nice desert view with sand storms and the prince started appearing 
 and looking for his donkey, which is quite amusing. The fighting scences are nicely done, especially 
 when the prince is fightng the corrupted hunter and other corrupted enemies.
  
  There is no death in this game, whenever, the prince is dyig in combat or jumping off track, Elika 
 will save him, which is also a nicely done CG.
  
  There are a few glitches, some of the camera angles are not capture well, especiall when the prince 
 is doing a wall run or hangling on the vines (with Elika on his back) and sometimes, the camera 
 become unstuck.
  
  But overall, the game is 10/10!!! I hope there will be a sequel for this game and should be out 
 soon in EARLY 2009, instead of having to wait for a long time.
  
  Cheers!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TXMostWanted
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 18, 2009 9:54 am PT
Review:  This is the best platformer I've played since Uncharted came out in 2007. It's a different spin 
 on the seemingly monotoned genre, complete with a partner A. I and new design approach. However, 
 underneath its beautifully rich looks and flawless animations lies an all too easy and repetitive 
 gameplay experience.
  
  THE GOOD 
  The GRAPHICS bring back the storybook theme of the first installment five years ago, but takes 
 it even further with a colorpaint/comic book appeal to it. 
  The PLATFORMING is unique thanks to your partner Elika/gauntlet powers, but easy to grasp and fun 
 to experiment with. 
  The ENVIRONMENTS is something you think you'd only see in a dream, but they're colorful, vast, 
 and gorgeous to look at. 
  The MUSIC also compliments the tall-tale theme and makes your experience even more grandeur. And 
 ELIKA is a great character even though she only is a supporting chracter, whereas the PRINCE, though 
 he has a dislikable disposition, you'll learn to like him too after hearing the background of his 
 story.
  
  THE BAD / "OK"
  The STORYLINE isn't bad at all, but the potential of it was obviously a backseat next to everything 
 else (plus, the ending might shock many people in an unhappy way) . 
  The gameplay can get REPETITIVE at times too (find cursed ground, cure it, find light seeds, fight 
 next cursed grounds, cure it etc) . Plus, the environments were structured the same, so you know 
 where to go even though you've never been there before (a major fault for a platformer, if you 
 ask me) .
  The gameplay is also TOO EASY... you'll automatically know where to jump, grab, and hold and the 
 difficulty of the enemies is almost laughable. 
  The worst of the experience, though, has to be the REPLAY VALUE... sure, you have your points/trophies 
 and extra skins to attain, but that's it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tomamagic
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 8, 2008 10:53 am PT
Review:  I was skeptical about buying this next gen Prince of Persia game, so I decided to rent it. If you've 
 played the previous games in the series, you may or may not like the new direction that this game 
 takes. My first impression of the graphics was "cell shading." To an extent, yes, but nonetheless 
 it looks great. The game overall emphasizes acrobatic exploration to advance in the game with a 
 sprinkling of combat. Most people believe the game is easy because you can't die . . .but I think 
 it cuts down on frustration. It also prevents long loading times, which is a good thing in my opinion. 
 Although, I would prefer more action and combat. The dialog between the 2 main characters can be 
 quite funny! There's quite a bit of comedic relief from the prince which I really enjoyed. I also 
 appreciated the save anywhere feature. I haven't beaten the game yet, but I am guessing one could 
 finish the game anywhere from 10-15 hrs, give or take. Would I buy the game after playing it? Probably 
 not, just because once you've finished it, there's not much re-playability afterwards. Is it a 
 good/solid game? Yes and if you are a fan of the Prince of Persia series, you may consider buying 
 it. Thanks for reading. =) Happy gaming! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: djsiddiqi
Rating: 7.5
Date: Dec 8, 2008 6:48 am PT
Review:  i played it and i visuals and graphics looks sick but the gameplay aint that good... i mean look 
 how easy the game is... i played it and i visuals and graphics looks sick but the gameplay aint 
 that good... i mean look how easy the game is... i played it and i visuals and graphics looks sick 
 but the gameplay aint that good... i mean look how easy the game is... i played it and i visuals 
 and graphics looks sick but the gameplay aint that good... i mean look how easy the game is... i 
 played it and i visuals and graphics looks sick but the gameplay aint that good... i mean look 
 how easy the game is... i played it and i visuals and graphics looks sick but the gameplay aint 
 that good... i mean look how easy the game is... i played it and i visuals and graphics looks sick 
 but the gameplay aint that good... i mean look how easy the game is... i played it and i visuals 
 and graphics looks sick but the gameplay aint that good... i mean look how easy the game is... 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cguti91
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 7, 2008 6:06 pm PT
Review:  the game is quite easy, Elika keeps you from falling and truth be said it's quite hard for an enemy 
 to kill when Elika is around to push him back, but the smooth game play, the incredible environments, 
 the amazing story and characters will catch the moment you start playing, it's a game you must 
 buy, the levels are incredible and the fact that you can choose where to go give you a feeling 
 of freedom that the previous game didn't have, the princes comments are sharp and funny, while 
 Elika's charm will leave you wanting for more every time you play, you will definitely enjoy playing 
 this Prince of Persia, jus hoping that the sequel (if its meant to be) offers a bigger challenge 
 than this game, meanwhile all we can do is hope for a sequel and some more quality games in 2009 
 because 2008 didnt have too much "WOW i loved that game" 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Essian
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 7, 2008 1:55 pm PT
Review:  Maybe it's because I'm a narcissitic jerk, but I really do like the new Prince of Persia. I find 
 him witty, appropriately sarcastic and an overall likeable kind of guy. However, there is an excellent 
 chance that you WON'T like him. Unless you, like me, are a narcissist, in which case you will probably 
 like him very much.
  
  I didn't really have high hopes going into this game. I mean, they took one of the best IP's of 
 last gen, and were trying to take it in a whole new direction in every way. The art direction, 
 the combat, and basically every other facet of gameplay was being completely redone. So, I was 
 expecting this game to be about as fun as playing with dirt. I was pleasently surprised to find 
 that I was wrong, and this game was fun, albeit rather easy.
  
  The game follows the "Prince", who is a sarastic, narcissist obsessed with amassing wealth and 
 peculiarly thick carpets. One day, as he wanders aimlessly through a sandstorm calling the name 
 of his donkey, he is swept into a world of religious superstition, gods of both light and darkness, 
 and a bunch of circles on the ground capable of teleporting people all over the place. Definatley 
 the set up of a fantasy, platformer game.
  
  Let's start off with the platforming. This game rather loyally follows the platforming (minus the 
 time controlling aspect of it) , as it is filled with beams, poles, collums, wall runs, wall-rings, 
 vines, ledges, ravines etc. Basically, you will be running, jumping and climbing your way to all 
 sorts of interesting destinations. Now, if you have been doing your homework on this game, then 
 you have probably heard about how easy it is. The one and only reason that this game seems so easy, 
 is that you can't die. 
  
  If you are about to fall to your death, hundreds of feet below, someone catches you and places 
 you safely back on the last solid ground you touched. If an enemy is about to deliver the finishing 
 blow to you, then someone magically blasts them off you, saving your life. This person is your 
 partner Elika. You encounter her at the outset of the game, and spend the rest of the 10-12 hours 
 running around with her driving the darness from her land. The story is pretty good in my opinion, 
 with plenty of intrigue and at least manageably decent dialogue. 
  
  This inability to die carries over to combat, as was previously mentioned. It does tend to put 
 combat on the easy side, but since combat isnt the main focus of the game, it really isn't that 
 big of a deal. The combat is fun to watch as well as participate in, and it seems more of a symbolic 
 addition to the gameplay, rather than a krux of it. Anyway, it's appropriately fun, and doesn't 
 take away from the overall enjoyment of the game. At least, it didn't for me.
  
  So will you like this game? That depends. Can you forsake difficulty in return for gorgeous visuals, 
 great animations, fantastic sound work, and a narcissitic main character and his likeable female 
 companion? If the answer is yes, then by all means run out and buy this game, but keep in mind 
 that if all you do is compare this game to Sands of Time, or Warrior Within, you are going to be 
 very dissapointed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Tony2519
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 7, 2008 11:05 am PT
Review:  I'm just gonna cut to the chase.
  
  The Good: Everyone can agree that this game looks gorgeous, somewhat like a watercolour painting. 
 Most games are like go here and destroy that, but in the next gen PoP you are basically going around 
 healing the world, riding it from the black goop know as corruption. For the most part the camera 
 is great, there are a couple of parts where you're like wtf. Elikas backstory is just awesome. 
 controls are very easy to pick up. You are never fighting of hoards of enemies, its always 1v1, 
 which i like. another thing about the fighting that i liked were the different combos, not only 
 did the feel smooth and real, they look stunning. Elika looks great :P
  
  onto the Bad: it is very easy. Although there is a great story for Elika, your companion, there 
 is very little story for the prince, besides he was looking for his... donkey. camera has a couple 
 of bad moments.
  
  other stuff: there has been talk about how Elika saves you when you fall, or when you're about 
 to be killed by an enemy is cheap. i disagree, instead of going through a long loading screen, 
 you get to watch Elika come to your rescue in a short beautiful cutscene. I would not recommend 
 this game to someone who needs a game to be hard to have fun. I really like the unlockable skins. 
 I have not played the other PoPs and i think that this one was a great one to get me into it, with 
 the all new characters/story. I really hope there will be another one
  
  Thanks for reading. :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bashar80
Rating: 6.5
Date: Dec 7, 2008 6:23 am PT
Review:  The game by it self might be fun to play, however coming after the Prince of Persia trilogy, I'm 
 afraid this one left me in big disappointment. Not that I didn't enjoy and all the new acrobatic 
 moves, but acrobat was not all that is in the previous games.
  
  The character is so silly and comedian, you can't like him. Unlike previous game where he struggled 
 to prove him self, then gradually learns his mistakes, unleashes the warrior within, and then learns 
 to live on and grow up his past mistakes.
  
  The story also is so less catchy. Sands of Time would take ur breath from first moment. This game 
 didn't make a lot of sense about how the Prince got into this mess. He could easily turn back and 
 leave. He never tried. He just took it for granted he has to take this whole path!
  
  Music. Where is the old music?
  
  The non-linear game was kinda like Assassin's Creed, and 
 inherited the one big draw back of it... repetitively boring.
  
  Game was also so easy as every one said.
  
  Fighting: Where is the old fighting engine? No 
 acrobatic moves, no wall jumping, much less limited in choices. Is it gonna be improved upon in 
 the sequel? I wish. Also, it ain't bloody enough for me, and there wasn't enough fighting either.
 
  
  The environment was not as brilliant as it was in Warrior Within, Sands of Time, or best of all 
 the Two Thrones environment. With PS3, I was hoping for something much much better, like Assassin's 
 Creed.
  
  Controls: Sometimes, I felt the moving is not so smooth and easy. He has to hang before sliding. 
 
  
  Characters: I did not personally like the drawing style of the main characters. The enemies are 
 just a proof they did not invest enough time in creating them.
  
  Unsolved puzzles: Who is the queen they kept talking about? Who is the Prince? Why doesn't he talk 
 about his past? And why as a prince he says never had a tower or anything like it? Why is a prince 
 trusting an Ass over his Gold that will change his life? 
  
  Lots of questions that I hope we get an answer to in the sequel. Honestly, it's not a game I wished 
 had a sequel.
  
  BUGS: several times Elika doesn't respond to your map direction request. Either game restart, or 
 sometimes change direction would fix it.
  
  Also, several times Elika disappears and show up else where after slow response to action, like 
 pushing the cranks.
  
  Basically, I don't think Ubisoft's best team handled this. Seems Assassin's Creed's taken all over 
 the biggest talents. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zxssded
Rating: 7.5
Date: Dec 7, 2008 3:50 am PT
Review:  Prince of perisa, for people who are living under a cammels ass their whole life, is teh 4th/2nd 
 installment of the PoP series. b4 i go ahead and review, il make some references 2 the old PoP 
 so yeah. also, this game is really up to personal prefernce, so i might put things in good and 
 bad parts just because. (:
  
  Good: Its a great looking game, everyone can agree i presume. Looks great on all systems for once, 
 yes the Xbox and the PS3 both look the same basically, and the PC looks better if you have a BEAST 
 PC. Its VERY VERY Easy in the sense that you basically cannot die, if you "die" in battle, Elika, 
 a companion u get at the very start of the game, she will revive you. if you drop from a hugh height 
 or jsut fall, she will magically pick you up, and sometimes i wonder 2 myself, if she cna fly, 
 y not just pick you up to the many fertial grounds (places to basically clense of black stuff) (black 
 stuff = rapists in the water, i think i saw i hand once, i think) Elika is reletivly gd looking 
 :P Elika's backstory is really something else in terms of story telling for games. Controls are 
 easy to pick up and play. Camera, most of the time, does a great job. Battle are always 1v1.
  
  Bad: Some people might not like the cartoony graphics. Way too easy. Basically no story from 
 the prince's side. Camera does a good job, most of the time. 1v1 battle's makes it even easier.
 
  
  My pref's: I really didnt mind the graphics, though i do like the relistc graphics more than the 
 cartoony. dont mind the difficulty, but easy medium and hard difficulty options would have been 
 a welcome edtion. 
  
  Also the assassins creed, old Prince and... whats her name, and Beyond good and evil girl is cool 
 2 unlock. Assassins creed skin looks amazing, and its not cartoony WOOT. 
  
  Wonder if the next Prince of Persia would have a Devil may Cry skin, that would b cool, and you 
 could use guns as well.. MUHAHAHAH exerlent, SMITHERS FENCH ME MY COAT...... sorry, watching the 
 simpsons now.
  
  Peace 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KirbyX
Rating: 5.5
Date: Dec 6, 2008 11:54 pm PT
Review:  I'll start of with what I like about the game first. Graphic are amazing, the getting to know the 
 character button was great and the boss fights are good not great. 
  
  Now the bad, story straight garbage ( can't even remember anything about the story) , one on one 
 fights wtf. Elika is so annoying ( she only got in the way, takes forever to help u push gears) 
 and worst of all the controls r just horrible. If u push the jump button twice he automatically 
 jumps to his death when trying to calm a wall. The wall run is dumb, if the game plays its self 
 might as will be a movie ( a bad movie at that) . The plate are so stupid special at the end when 
 ur trying to get to the last boss. One plate is enough. 
  
  I have gotten all the trophies and now time to send this game back to gamestop for some store credit. 
 So I can put some money down for Rez Evil 5. 
  
  PS: Only get for the trophies! That is All.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: deadtoasted
Rating: 7
Date: Dec 6, 2008 4:07 pm PT
Review:  If you are looking for a game with fantastic graphic appeal, I think the Prince of Persia worth 
 your attetion, but the game is just too easy and the combats you see in the game aren't so funny 
 than the encounters you find in Devil May Cry 4. The new prince must learn with Nero and Dante 
 how to do a really interesting fight. 
  The biggest sin in Prince of Persia is that you can't lose at all. Where is the challenger factor?! 
 Sometimes you just want to think in a way to die in a great fall, because that is more difficult 
 than finish the game.
  Ok, this game is not a terrible one, because the story is quite interesting, and the graphics maintain 
 your attention, and another thing you can find in this adventure is a good camera, something really 
 difficult to find in third person action.
  I think, honestly, that people will play this game once or twice after finishing it and than move 
 to other and more challeging game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Meshuggah_73
Rating: 6.5
Date: Dec 6, 2008 6:39 am PT
Review:  Warning!: you're paying $60 for graphics only. There we go again, i have been deceived by UBIsoft 
 earlier when I bought Assassin Creed. I couldn't have said it better than other reviewers. Reparative 
 game, played it only for 3 hours but don't really want to play it anymore. Tomb Raider is way better. 
 I don't understand Prince of Persia, they have most likely spent ton of time focusing on graphics 
 but forgot the substance eg. There are no puzzles or challenges, one boss easy to defeat, collect 
 light seeds, jump from one wall to next, even when fighting the boss you're limited to a sword 
 with same attack movements, and the boss is so stupid that keeps throwing the same attacks except 
 for minor special attacks and bob's your uncle, now i have to sell this game for $30 (hopefully) 
 but in the future all UBI games to be rented first including their anticipated flight sim game. 
 I forgot to mention that POP doesn't have replay value. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: convince73
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 5, 2008 6:17 am PT
Review:  with the first trilogy done i had thought p. o. p was done, thruth be told i did not finish the last 
 game (not could not) . it just did nothing for me unlike most i thought prince of persia warrior 
 with in was the best game except for god smack. but on to the here and now the new prince of persia 
 is all that. Ubisoft did what most dont have the rocks to do. first geat rid of the old, yes for 
 the most part i did like the old prince but it was time for the change. HINT to TOMB RAIDER UBISOFT 
 got rid of what did not work that good. most of the time change is good look at what we got. the 
 art is in a class all by its self. the controlles are if you ask me better. you even get your own 
 sidekick. die hards of prince of persia may not like it or find little things to hammer at but overall 
 this is a soild game. but i will say this i dont think that there are too many princes of persia 
 with blue eyes. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: simon_levane
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 28, 2009 8:58 pm PT
Review:  Did you ever play "Prince of Persia: The Sands of Time" on the PS2? I thought it was an amazing, 
 unique experience and loved every minute of it. And while the second introduced fighting action 
 and the second was a mix of the first two, last year's "Assassin's Creed" was equally as impressive. 
 It was made from the POP crew and this year, they've gone back to given us another "Prince" game. 
 While it retains much of the same platforming of the PS2 trilogy, it's also a very different game. 
 Almost "Capcom"-esque to a point.
  
  First off, you can't slowdown time. Instead, Elika is your constant companion who saves you from 
 your falling death. Her banter with the Prince recalls the conversations the original Prince had 
 with Farrah. If you wish a bit of deja vu, the skins from the original POP trilogy and "Assassins 
 Creed" can be used in the game which are great extras. The cel-shading is a thing of beauty and 
 the musical soundtrack is classic. Gameplay, it is very much POP. The fighting is similar to the 
 previous games, but only now it's a one-on-one affair. I also like the open-nature of the game; 
 you can beat it in which ever order you'd like.
  
  This is a great artistic achievement like "The Sands of Time" before and is one of 2008's most 
 innovative games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DominicanAG
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 3, 2008 4:20 pm PT
Review:  That's what comes to mind when I play Prince of Persia for the PS3. This has to be one of the best 
 and beautiful art style graphics used ever used on consoles. Okami had that art style trophy for 
 a while until now. This is a first for me in the Prince of Persia series. I'm not familiar with 
 the previous installments and I guess the reason for that is because God of War filled that void. 
 The Prince is here and it's for the PC, PS3, and Xbox360. 
  
  First I'll start you off with the story; You'll playing as the Prince who is a drifter and you're 
 looking for your donkey when all of a sudden you've encounter a princess named Elika being harmed 
 by soldiers. This is how your journey beings with Elika. As you follow her you've learned that 
 her father has casted great darkness to the world and it's up to you to help revive her world just 
 like in Okami. 
  
  The graphics is just jaw dropping and the drop distance is something to marvel at as you move across 
 the landscapes in the game. The voice acting is good at times with some awkward and off comments 
 between flat jokes. The music score is amazing matching the look and feel of the game. 
  
  The gameplay is what makes this game enjoyable to play. For some it may be a turn off because there's 
 no challenge involved and there is no way to change the settings in the game. I have a feeling 
 that Ubisoft aimed this game for the casuals more than the hardcore. It would've been nice to be 
 able to change the difficulties. You can play this game for a couple of hours without dying. 
 
  
  From my time with the game I've enjoy every minute of it so far. I also see myself playing this 
 game again; being the fact that you unlock new skins after finishing the game more than once. You'll 
 also receive exclusive content on day one purchase of Altair from Assassin's Creed. If you've never 
 played any of the pervious Prince of Persia games this is a good first game to play for the series. 
 I would definitely recommend this game to whoever is a fan of games like Okami, Assassin's Creed, 
 and Platformers. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: PowerTReveiws
Rating: 6.5
Date: Dec 3, 2008 5:01 am PT
Review:  With a quite silly and quite easy difficulty the new prince is sure to disappoint. This "new" prince 
 was created using an overdone art style. Was he created using clip art, Microsoft paint? We shall 
 never know. This game was made by the same man who made assassin's creed, a slightly difficult 
 action/stealth game. He takes this serious backdrop and ambiance from assassin's creed and ruins 
 it in this excuse for a game. Hell, this looks like one of those common movie game (e. g. Bolt, 
 Wall-E, and Elmo Teaches You Colors) Do they take us for children by giving us this easy piece 
 of junk. Don't waste your money. Also anyone notice this "new" prince looks almost exactly like 
 Ike from the fire emblem series? Wow not only is this disappointing but also not creative. Also 
 look at what hype makes us think of a game, I honestly feel stupid I believed this would be a success. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 8berse6
Rating: 7
Date: Dec 2, 2008 9:52 pm PT
Review:  While the game is beautiful it is far too easy and any previous fan of the series will be greatly 
 disappointed. Prince of Persia has a built in fan base of devoted, hardcore followers and the developers 
 have dismissed them in favor of getting a newer, younger and more easily frustrated audience. I 
 own all three of Ubisoft's previous Prince of Persia games and when I played this game I was really 
 stunned about how much they changed the game, in my opinion for the worse. Although I like the 
 idea of only fighting one tough enemy at a time (Bioshock style) I thought that everything else 
 in this game was a step backward, especially the combat or lack there of. This game is an answer 
 to all of the new casual gamers brought in by the Wii.
  
  For any fan of the Prince of Persia games I recommend this as a rent. While the game is good I 
 feel betrayed by the direction that the developers took this game in. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sasserdude
Rating: 7.5
Date: Dec 2, 2008 3:09 pm PT
Review:  You starts the game, the cool intro lags pretty nice, but hey, its still nice. You step into a 
 world of AWESOME graphics and a nice well told story. You are Prince of persia, you have a girl 
 with you, a princess. And she always helps you up, thats pretty nice. even if she is stuckin mud, 
 she can help you. And she can fly pretty nice to.
  
  there are a lot of levels, but the difference between them are few. You just jump around, fights 
 bosses with same tricks, over and over and over. But its still AWESOME graphics. But not really 
 fun.
  
  And after 5 levels there is 5 NEW LEVELS TO EXPLORE, in the same way you explored the 5 before. 
 but with a little twist, maybe a booring awesome looking boss, maybe a tiny puzzle, or MAYBE if 
 you have luck, some cool gliding time to jump fast forward with.
  
  The game is very easy, that means that everymovement you dous, is the right. even if you take the 
 controller stick to an other way, you just come to right place. just press A and jump, and you 
 will clear a lot of challanges.. BUT right on your nose, there is places that you need a perfect 
 landing, perfect timing, but why not before? yeah, thats sucks.
  
  You do always the same thing, in hours. like assassins creed, you just did the same thing.. I think 
 they need to focus on the fun part, not the awesom graphics and game engine they can make. 
  
  We hardcore gamers still need to be satisfied to, why make a super nice cool AWESOME game so 
 lame?
  
  but hey, its a kiddy game, and overrated. Why is this game so good? i can tell you, because Tombraider 
 sucks, and are buggy, so here comes the easy game thats not buggy, but has no content. just an 
 engine, nice graphics, nice actors, and nice mooves, BUT IT IS VERY VERY REPERATIVE! ( i dont know 
 the right word for that, booring + do same stuff al over again? )
  
  But they have done a very good game.. but there is not a game, for you that dont being satisfieid 
 with lame casual stuff. that just AMAZEZ the 14-16years boys...
  
  We over 18-20 that have gamed since child? its booring.
  
  sry for my bad english, i am swedish, 
 and sucks at write, as you see..
  
  good luck, the game is good, but overated as hell..
  
  Call of duty 4? starcraft ? diablo? Grand theft auto? mass effect? are this game in the same 
 class as Prince of persia is? HELL NO. 7.5 is the right.
  
  Braid can go down 2 points also. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Wiibro
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 2, 2008 1:02 pm PT
Review:  Prince of Persia 4 is a great game although it might lack a few aspects that could have dramatically 
 changed the game into a much better experience. With out a second thought this Prince of Persia 
 looks as well as it feels, The Prince and his environment look so amazing that other games just 
 can not compare. His acrobatic movements are so well done and realistic. 
  
  As far as gameplay goes there really isnt much of a challenge but still offers a lot. You never 
 get a barage of enemies at once always one but this is because Ubisoft wanted to focus on the cinematics 
 rather then the gameplay what a shame. 
  
  Are you getting short changed? In my opinion yes why the game is extremely short, and even if you 
 wanted to collect all the light seeds it is only 20hrs long. There are not any other modes of play 
 that I am aware of which means its only the campaign mode. For 70.00$ or 40 pounds its to expensive. 
 The only way I am buying it is if in the future it becomes part of the greatest hits collection 
 on PS3. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: ra3d_y
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 2, 2008 1:32 am PT
Review:  Prince of persia 4 is an unique game, and I like unique games. It's always difficult for publishers 
 to come up with a new idea and make it into a game that works, but with prince of persia 4/Ubisoft 
 seem to have managed it. Escape to experience the new fantasy world of ancient Persia. Masterful 
 storytelling and sprawling environments deliver a brand new adventure that re-opens the Prince 
 of Persia saga. Now you have the freedom to determine how the game evolves in this non-linear adventure. 
 Players will decide how they unfold the storyline by choosing their path in the open-ended world.
 
  
  In this strange land, your rogue warrior must utilize all of his skills, along with a whole new 
 combat system, to battle Ahriman's corrupted lieutenants to heal the land from the dark Corruption 
 and restore the light. Also, history; s greatest ally is revealed in the form of Elika, a dynamic 
 AI companion who joins the Prince in his fight to save the world. Gifted with magical powers, she 
 interacts with the player in combat, acrobatics and puzzle-solving, enabling the Prince to reach 
 new heights of deadly high-flying artistry through special duo acrobatic moves or devastating fighting 
 combo attacks. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
