-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Pro Evolution Soccer 2009
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/ps3/sports/pes2009/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Simple, easy-to-pick-up gameplay.
 Champions League license with official teams and sponsors.
 New four-player online mode.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Lack of improvement to core gameplay.
 Dated animation system looks stilted.
 Impoverished and laggy online play.
 Poor presentation and commentary.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Oct 22, 2008
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 7
Critic Score: 7.7, 24 Review (s)
User Score: 7.9, 495 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Konami
Developer: KCET
Genre: Soccer Sim
Date: Mar 17, 2009
ESRB: Everyone

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Pro Evolution Soccer 2009 is an improvement on last year's game, but this is a series that desperately 
 needs a complete overhaul. 

  UK REVIEW -- Although Pro Evolution Soccer fans bought last year's game in droves, it was unfortunately 
 an all-time low for the series on the PlayStation 3. Poor graphics, dreadful presentation, and 
 basic online play failed to make the most of the hardware, and it was a step back in gameplay terms. 
 Pro Evolution Soccer 2009 doesn't completely redress the balance, but it's a step in the right 
 direction, with new game modes, an improved editor, and even a Champions League licence. Additionally, 
 this is a more enjoyable game to play thanks to its slower pace, more responsive control system, 
 and simple passing mechanic. Unfortunately these are only small fixes, and though there's a solid 
 game at the core, it's one that still fails to keep up with the times.  

           Pro Evolution Soccer 2009 includes the Champions League for the first time, complete with 
 a TV-like audiovisual presentation.      

  Pro Evolution Soccer 2009 continues the series accessible and deep gameplay. A couple of key changes 
 bring the gameplay back toward Pro Evo 6, which should make fans of the series feel right at home. 
 The overall pace has been reduced this year, and the ball feels heavier, both of which mean that 
 it's easier than ever to link passes. The game is also incredibly fluid when you're trying to link 
 together through-balls and crosses, and moving the ball around generally feels more natural and 
 instinctive than before. However, football is an unpredictable game, and this is something that 
 Pro Evo 2009 really struggles to capture. Part of this is down to the animation system, which lets 
 players change direction quickly but looks outdated and overly procedural. Run a player down the 
 wing and you'll see his animation routine repeating over and over, and though a fast player can 
 outrun a slower one, there's no real sense of physical tussling in midfield. This year's players 
 bounce off of goalposts and one another, but famous players such as Rooney and Ronaldinho have 
 none of their other defining physical qualities.  

  Although the gameplay has merely been given a face-lift, a number of game modes are completely 
 new for this year. At the top of the list is the new Champions League mode, which means that Europe's 
 biggest club tournament is included with some of its key teams and sponsors. This is quite a boon 
 for Konami, who have long failed to secure any official competitions for the series. The Champions 
 League mode is not only given prime position on this year's main menu, but it's also given the 
 full TV-style presentational treatment. You get the same dramatically shot videos, replays, and 
 banner ads that adorn the TV presentation of the competition, and most crucially, Handels Zadok 
 the Priest features throughout. It's quite a refreshing change from previous games that have had 
 an unofficial feel to them, but it's not perfect; only 13 teams from this year's competition are 
 included in their official capacity. Key squads such as Arsenal and Chelsea are still called "North 
 London" and "London FC," and are listed outside of the official Champions League roster.  

           In Become a Legend Mode, you control a single player throughout his football career.  
     

  The other major addition is the Become a Legend mode, in which you concentrate on an individual 
 player rather than an entire team. You create your own player from scratch, choosing his height, 
 weight, and facial details, even his celebration routines and likelihood of injury. You can also 
 scan your own face if you have a PlayStation Eye camera, but the game just sticks your face on 
 top of an existing model. This means that you need to adjust the skin tones on both the model and 
 the photo to attain some sort of parity, and even then the results look oddly disjointed. That 
 said, there's an absolute wealth of options to tweak, and it's great to see yourself score a goal 
 in the game.  

  Ultimately, though, Become a Legend is a novel but rather boring take on the standard game. You 
 spend most of the time running around off the ball, while midfield players will need to constantly 
 chase down attackers while forwards will have to help score goals. Unlike the similar Be a Pro 
 mode in FIFA 09, there's no incentive for actually performing your job on the pitch, given that 
 you're not rewarded for your individual passing and tackling. If your team is scoring goals and 
 winning games, then you'll be able to move to new teams, which means that your AI teammates become 
 stronger along the way. The online version of Legend is much better because it does reward people 
 for making successful passes and tackles, and the score multiplies the longer you hold on to the 
 ball. The downside is that it only offers support for up to four players, and you have to play 
 against an AI opponent.  

  The lack of official licences is something that Pro Evo fans should be used to by now, so its 
 good that the edit mode has become even more extensive. You can manually edit everything from individual 
 players and teams to stadiums and competitions, and if you spend a bit of time, you can update 
 all of your favourite teams and leagues. Seeing "Yorkshire Orange" instead of "Hull City" can make 
 any suspension of disbelief much harder, so it's worth doing. Even better, you can now import your 
 own images and photos via USB memory stick or the PlayStation Eye camera. This still results in 
 some funny-looking player faces, but it works well on club emblems.  

  Konami has clearly put some work into presentation this year, and though the results are still 
 far from stylish, they are definitely  trying . The menu system has been given a pop art/Gilbert 
 &amp; George overhaul that may look dated, but it certainly differentiates in the world of commercial 
 sports games. The sound is atrocious, with generic music for the menus and what is without doubt 
 the worst commentary yet. The duo of John Champion and Mark Lawrenson have unwisely tried to inject 
 some humour into this year's proceedings, saying things like, "This match will end in defeat for 
 one party, and in a party for the other." Even worse, they make frequent factual inaccuracies, 
 praising defenders who haven't even touched the ball or midfielders who made passes that went straight 
 to the opposing team. There are also no trophies for the PS3 version, which is a shame because 
 the Xbox 360 version does feature achievements.  

           Camera and photo integration lets you put yourself in the game.      

  Last year's 
 online mode was laggy, simple, and prone to connection dropout, and though it was updated postrelease, 
 it never reached the state that it really should have. This year's game is better, but it's still 
 lacking on both features and performance. The registration process involves separate IDs for both 
 the game and Konami, and even when you get into the online mode, it's a confusing collection of 
 menus and options. Servers are split by language, probably because you can text chat in the lobby 
 before a game, and then each lobby has a maximum player count of 100. You can challenge individual 
 players to matches or pair up automatically with the quick-match option, but getting into an online 
 game still requires much more time and effort than it should. Lag is also a problem, with balls 
 that act erratically and players that transport from one location to another. Strangely, this seemed 
 to afflict the standard 1-versus-1 online mode rather than it did the four-player Legends mode. 

  Pro Evolution Soccer 2009 is a good game, but it's one that has significantly failed to evolve 
 over the last few years. The new modes add some potential interest for owners of last years game, 
 but the Champions League is just flashy dressing for a competition that still doesn't feature all 
 of the official teams, and the Become a Legend mode is neither as feature-packed nor as fun to 
 play as FIFA 09's equivalent. If you love Pro Evolution Soccer's gameplay and simple control system 
 then this year's game is worth checking out, but everyone has a right to demand much more from 
 Konami's increasingly stale series.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (35 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: bormerc
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 12, 2009 9:12 am PT
Review:  I started the football games with FIFA 2000, but when i meet with PES, my life is totally changed. PES 
 is the best realistic footbal game in the world. It's not a fantasy football like FIFA.
  
  As you know, PES's modes is not changed. We've an exhibition mode, cup mode, league mode, master league 
 mode. But something has changed. Now, we have UEFA Champions League mode. With this mode, we live 
 the real champions league atmosphere. Choose a team and win the cup!
  
  Master League mode is alittle bit better now. You can choose a team. Later,, you must win matches 
 and raise your popularity.
  
  And we have a new mode: Become a Legend. You will create your own character and play with him. 
 Work hard and be transferred to another teams.
  
  Buy this game or go and play this FIFA game. If you want real football, PES is good choice for 
 you TOTALLY!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cooldude1888
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 17, 2009 5:40 am PT
Review:  PES 09 is a great fun game. Its competition with FIFA 09 is always on the move. PES 10 is being 
 worked on at the moment by Konami. There are always making a new PES before the year befores one 
 is even out. They are always tripping ahead of themselves trying to be better than FIFA 09. And 
 to be honest I think they have this year. Im not actually sure if its a draw. I mean the onliine 
 is oretty good in PES but in FIFA you get 20 player online match! Thats the best sport online game 
 I've ever seen in my entire life! Though the football players in FIFA are so skinny! They are average 
 size in PES. The ball physics in PES have improved from beforehand. Theres the new feature of the 
 UEFA cup which is good and there is amzing customization settings for customizing an avatar you 
 want to add to a team. You can choose their celebration then add them to a team of your choice. 
 You can name them and stuff. You can play with them online then which is amazing and let others 
 see your guy. Its so detailed the customization that you can actually more or less make a clone 
 of yourself! Theres cups, loads of teams and you can save your progress in the league. One thing 
 I would have liked to have seen was trophies though but Konami promised that for their next one 
 PES 10 which should be set for releaseslate autumn or early winter. I'll be getting that game allright. 
 I dont know which ones better this year. Mabye FIFA, nah. I dont know, their both amazing games. 
 Right, see yah next year for this battle off for FIFA and PES. You can check out my FIFA 09 review 
 by clicking on my avatar which will take you to my page. I hav'nt added much but Ive got heaps 
 of reviews from PS3 games that you might want to read. Anyway, its a good game with decent customization 
 options in terms of exhibition matches and stuff. Now if your wondering which game to go far it 
 depends, if you dont have online then you're going to miss a quarter of the fun of FIFA though 
 PES does'nt suppoet as good online. Still its good. In FIFA you've got little skinny players and 
 in PES you've got big players. Graphics are probably better in FIFA though customization is better 
 in PES. Its up to you from there. This is an honest review. Theres no lies in it. Right, I'll need 
 to round it off here, Im away for my lunch. And thanks for reading! Bye! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DMRowley
Rating: 6
Date: Feb 27, 2009 10:30 am PT
Review:  I have to admit I have been playing Fifa since 97 and the last couple of seasons I have tried PES 
 as I have often been told it is for the football purist. 
  On those grounds I would have to agree, the ability to micromanage tactics similar to football 
 manager is brilliant and theoretically should allow for all sorts of variants on play. But unfortunately 
 PES seemed to have left out the AI. players when they should be bombing forward don't, they are 
 often on top of each other, passing seems pot luck if it falls to the guy you want. Defending is 
 a joke if the opposition decide to use the wings as every god dam player seems to get drawn to 
 the ball leaving massive gaps. If this was school kids playing football then perhaps I could believe 
 what I'm seeing, but come on its a joke.
  The game has moments of brilliance, there is nothing better than scoring a goal but if your playing 
 with a mate he will be cursing the game for its mentally retarded A. I defenders. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ElGreco88
Rating: 6.5
Date: Feb 23, 2009 9:02 am PT
Review:  Seriously now... Konami should really start making innovations that are worth mentioning and should 
 stop offering the same gameplay over and over again with only one or two minor changes. After all 
 this is the game that made every single one of us forget about FIFA, but I'm starting getting bored 
 of their ignorance on making their product a bit better.
  
  I mean Pes 2008 and 2009 have almost no difference AT ALL. It's kinda the same game with a bit 
 better graphics ( that could actually get even better) . If i wanted the same game i would stick to 
 the first one.
  
  And now is the time to talk about its online gameplay...... which SUCKS BIG TIME! I mean seriously 
 i have the best connection around and i have no problems at all playing any other game. The only 
 game that keeps lagging and lagging and lagging is Pes 2009.
  
  I still believe that this is the best football game around but if you already have 2008 don't even 
 bother buying this... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: supertt
Rating: 2.5
Date: Feb 4, 2009 11:45 pm PT
Review:  Worst PES ever sluggish and AI is dumb
  players respond almost a second after you move them specialy while playing online
  Seriously 
 konami messed up big time **** A$$ game Worst PES ever sluggish and AI is dumb
  players respond almost a second after you move them specialy while playing online
  Seriously 
 konami messed up big time **** A$$ game Worst PES ever sluggish and AI is dumb
  players respond almost a second after you move them specialy while playing online
  Seriously 
 konami messed up big time **** A$$ game Worst PES ever sluggish and AI is dumb
  players respond almost a second after you move them specialy while playing online
  Seriously 
 konami messed up big time **** A$$ game
  
  It is only a rebrand of PES08 same stubid bugs with an even worse AI and gameplay 
  online gaming 
 is horrible and you need to fill up an entire application to register!!!!!!!!!
  common people use the freakin PS account why the hell do i need a Game id and a game tag each with 
 a different PW , what kind of insanely stupid architect made that descision ?
  
  a group of college kids could make a 10 times better UI 
::::::

::::::
UserName: flidmaster
Rating: 1
Date: Jan 11, 2009 4:09 pm PT
Review:  This is the worst football game i have ever played.... and i've played 'em all!!
  Where to start?!?!?!?!?
  well konami have managed to take a very playable and enjoyable game 
 and they have totaly ruined it!!
  Defence.... well no matter which highley skilled player you might have if you come within 10 yards 
 of a defender you have lost it.... the ball... your witsand any sanity you may have!!
  All players have absolutely no chance what soever of having any control over the ball when they 
 receive it i mean they may kick it in any random direction upon receiving the ball no matter who 
 they are and any defending players will suddenly develope into Pele the moment they come within 
 100 yards of your team.
  your attackers will shoot like American soildiers that is to hit any target that is 100meters away 
 from your goal and midfield will play like crack addicts during cold turkey!!! 
  Strikers may as well be without feet or legs as they consistantly hit row Z with their many and 
 varied comedy strikes.
  BRING ON FIFA!!!
  Have konami utterly lost the plot?!?!?!
  we used to have a payable arcady football game now we have a frustrating waste of plastic... is 
 it no wonder they can't give away these discs at only $30!!
  it is impossible to score except from a corner ... from which i score so frequently we have renamed 
 it "goalner" all the fun has been sapped from it and i personally have simply used the disc as 
 a coaster... which it failed at just as miserably as it did as a game and spilled my drink all over 
 my coffee table.
  in short ..... avoid this game like your syphalitic uncle... (the one with the bad breath) and buy 
 any game other than this .... i could go on but i'm so mad imight break my keyboard!!!
  Game=dyer infested tripe!!!!
  the worst installment of PES ever...... do not buy!!!!!!!!!
  at 
 this point i would try to talk about the.... ahem...... online mode but this has been so dissapointing 
 that words from the english library fail to convey the glitchy jumpy mess that ensues any attempt 
 to play with someone 2 doors down the block!!! 
  shame on Konami for foisting this utter rubbish on their fans 
  If i ever see Konami on a case 
 i will be sure to avoid it!!!!!
  .... need i say more..... i could but i am now booting up fifa on my xbox .... good bye konami i hope 
 PS3 boots you from there lives forever....0 out of 10!!!
  ... Dreadfull....... I go now to cry... you have ruined my favorite game and i will never forgive 
 you!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pigsybum
Rating: 6.5
Date: Dec 31, 2008 6:37 am PT
Review:  PES2009 would guarantee lots of copies sold, because loyal fans like me woud get PES year after 
 year despite knowing that the game is getting old.
  But what do gamers like me does in the end? We purchase both Fifa and PES and make a decision on 
 which is better, we keep it and dispose off the other.
  
  PES2008 was a disappointment, Ps2 graphics coupled with Ps2 game engine, coupled with framerate 
 issue. There's just no excuse for konami at that time, so seabass apologized for the poor efford 
 and promised us an overhaued PES next year, so now we have PES2009 but like PES2008, there wasn't 
 much improvements to the game, graphics have improved but still looks semi Ps2. 
  
  The game engine doesn't appears to have changed, i started PES since WE6, what i notice is that 
 they only add some improvements every year, but despite that it was still a great game of soccer 
 as fifa was a letdown. But now we have the next-gen, overhauled fifa08, and now an excellent fifa09. 
 So have PES upp the competition by giving us a better game of soccer?
  
  Graphics:
  Graphics looks almost as good as fifa09 on the pitch, but fifa09 still has an edge over it due 
 to better looking stadiums, smoother animations and higher resolution picture. One major improvement 
 is the look of the grass, it feels more realife.
  
  Player modelling looks great, but like fifa09, some looks off and some look surprisingly good. 
 But on the whole, it needs better player animations, the players looks stiff especially a close-in 
 after goal.
  
  Stadiums looks on-par but definately better than PES08, still lacking compared to fifa which has 
 more details in each stadium. 
  
  Gameplay:
  This is the section where many claims that PES has an edge over Fifa these years, well it's true 
 only until PS3 came out. Fifa08 had made significant changes whereas PES on the other hand player 
 about the same but with annoying implements. Konami really should hear fan's comments/suggestions 
 and turn them into improvements. 
  
  Goalkeeper for one, reacts slow to the ball, often they do not save goals that can be saved, like 
 not stretching out to save a goal. The gloves looks like work gloves, white and thick and really 
 seems absurd close-up. Gks also tend to make saves that has already goaled. All these might make 
 the GK looks lousy, but on the bright side, having more goals means having more fun.
  
  Dribbling for one is, another failure implementation. Instead of using right analog stick, they 
 mapped the buttons for dribbling all over the control, casuing confusions, and at the same time, 
 they are almost redundant as the scripted AI only avoids a dribbling player.
  
  Passing around the ball created chances for shots, but very often shots are an indication of your 
 luck. Your controller could be holding the right direction, the right power but sometimes it gives 
 u a shot on target and sometimes a wide shot. Compared to fifa, corners are more exciting as they're 
 easier to score in PES.
  
  One last thing to mention is the reaction of the players, they seems to react slow, whether after 
 you've had a shot, a header or free-kick, even the goalkeeper seems to take a second to recover 
 from a coma-like. Not only does this makes the game frustrating, it also make you angry by having 
 a missed chance to have a goal.
  
  PES's gameplay isn't bad, just that it's getting too old for it's fans, sure it could lure new 
 player in with the great gameplay but for people who started since PS1, it has turned old in gameplay 
 and graphics are medicore. 
  
  Audio:
  Poor commentary by the two commentators, often repeated and annoying lines. Sometimes they even 
 sound awkward. Konami on this part certainly would do better but they would rather save the money 
 to smoke.
  
  Ball-kicking sounds absurd, it's so loud as if you're punching a wall. The music remains as cheesy 
 as ever, they don't really complement a soccer game and it's time they import some modern songs 
 in.
  
  Closing-Comment:
  PES2009 solves the probles they had in PES2008 technically, PE09 should have been PES08. The gameplay 
 remains the same, unchanged and virtually no improvements and maybe deprovements by adding diving 
 that works only 10% of the time.
  
  PES2009 did well, but just not good enough to match current Fifa's standard. Pick whichever one 
 you like more, but my verdicts remains that PES is still second on the field. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: quanggamespot
Rating: 5
Date: Dec 13, 2008 1:12 am PT
Review:  Play all the series for many years. But this year cannot play it any more. Passing seems to be 
 very bad, very slow and easy to be intercepted. Look like player have no energy at all, they are 
 to weak.
  Sorry brazillian style soccer, play soccer in a sticky field.
  Online improved? No just the same thing but slow down your action, so it like turn based game. 
 Auto skill performance is suck, look like the computer control the game not you, give me back my 
 control Konami, where my money.
  Poor PES fan, wait for so long, waste money for hope. Every year they just give you the same stupid 
 game with different cover, look like the development team now only 1 or 2 guys there to change 
 the cover page. This is the chance for new soccer game to come, hope it will happen. Thank Konami 
 for your great series PES 1-6, but now please go to hell. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: plaanupam
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 12, 2008 1:58 am PT
Review:  It is a nice game, it does not have much new things to do but the game play is very good. Animations 
 are not good and commentary is also not different from previous series. Sound in menu are good 
 and this time they have licensed Liverpool and Manchester united and Wembly , so Liverpool and 
 Manchester united fans could get a little bit happy. The new mode 'Become A Legend' is addictive 
 but sometimes frustates because goal scoring is difficult but it is a sensible game which concentrates 
 on game play rather than display and other useless thing in a soccer game. Free kick taking is 
 more easier in this edition than previous versions. The player editing is good and abilities are 
 presented in a good way where everything is given very importance. The AI of game is quiet difficult 
 because it always blocks most of your shots but dribbling system is quiet easy and sometimes you 
 does that tricks which amazes everybody including you. You never know when you can take some great 
 touches but the finishing is difficult one on one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Meshuggah_73
Rating: 7.5
Date: Dec 6, 2008 3:03 pm PT
Review:  I have both FIFA09 and PES09, i love the graphics on fifa09 but i hate the sluggish movement of 
 the players. I'm a little disappointed because i loved to see PES09 shine but surprisingly little 
 to no improvements have been implemented. User interface on PES09 is bad, and beginning to play 
 online is even worse, you have to sign up by providing Konami ID/GameID/Two passwords/email address 
 i almost gave up playing online. I think next year PES would retire, I'm not buying the game before 
 renting first or reading reviews first. Unfortunately there are few unintelligent reviewers who 
 give any game they like 9-10, that's why i always read reviews below 8 only. I was hoping that 
 PES would have learned something from FIFA08 (graphic) but my hopes went astray. There is nothing 
 encouraging about buying the next release. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: even__u
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 5, 2008 6:48 pm PT
Review:  I played Winning Eleven series "the Original name for the Game" on PS until PSE2009 on PS3   I 
 notice that PES releases missed up with something most of the times like:
  
  *player names
  *In game Play   Try to play trough loop in PES 2008 is much harder than 2009 release 
 which can be done perfectly
  With even weak players?!
  * In PSE2009 I got so many silly Goals scores because the ball pass the goal keeper like he is 
 transparent "it happen in older releases but not that much"
  
  
  ***let me talk about the good things about the Konami Football game "I don't know did I have to 
 call it Wining Eleven or PES" 
  
  **the Control is so sharp 
  **the game play harder each time "that one of the things I like the most about the PES or WE"
 
  **the Auto skills or the special skills for some players like turn the running side 
  ** Be come Legend mode which I spend most of my time in that release on it. Give you the chance 
 to start as young player to become Hero in the field but unfortunately there isn't any way you 
 could create defense player 
  
  Over all to me I think the game play is Konami football games is much realistic so any football 
 addict will like it ^_^
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: wars45
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 28, 2008 8:07 pm PT
Review:  well its back on form after the last one . i think it the best football game out but fifa is right 
 beind it its geting so close now new for this year is uefa champions league and become a legend 
 mode but the master league is the same and i think they need to start changing it has its comeing 
 boring the online is radically improved so are the graphics the gameplay is too . the only problam 
 online for me is ther not a nuff option s u in a league and thats it u can go up in the league 
 or u can drop down in to a lower league if u lose too maney the down side for me is u still cant 
 play in a cup online and i think they need to do this soon . the edit mode is has good has ever 
 the game play moor realistic than ever and u cant beat playin u mates on it a very good game but 
 needs new idears for next seson and the master league needs revampin 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jdolly
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 22, 2008 8:27 pm PT
Review:  Pro Evo 2009 is a brilliant game, it has some downfalls but it's greatness sweeps them aside. Master 
 League is better than ever and it has a fully licensed champions league mode. Master league has 
 always been where pro evo excels over all other football games and this pro evo is no different. 
 The Master's league is fantastic, the loading times are good and the slick interface is quite refreshing. 
 
  
  All the classic pro evo features you will recognise from the older games remain intact with many 
 new ones. The create a player feature is more refined than ever. The 2009 version seems to be a 
 balance between the 2008 PS3 pro evo and the 2008 PS2 game. The pitch feels much larger much like 
 the 2008 PS3 ver, but the gameplay is fast paced, the colours jump at you and the shooting are 
 all similiar to what you may be used to on the PS2.
  
  Overall Pro Evo 2009 is a great game, and if your wondering if this Pro Evo redeems 2008 on PS3's 
 lack of juice then it most certainly does. If your hesitating between Fifa 09 and Pro Evo 09, Pro 
 Evo is definitly my firm reccommendation. 
  
  Pro Evo 09 definitely stands above all over football games on the PS3.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: CP-NFFC
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 17, 2008 9:49 am PT
Review:  PES 09, a great game but there are things about it that just bring it down a notch. the gameplay 
 is great, the graphics are great but the fact that the license's arnt on it can get annoying. but 
 by buying an update or downloading it from somewhere makes a massive difference. because you are 
 playing against teams with proper logos.
  
  now ive never been big on fifa and i only had PES 08 on ps2. but i would say that PES is the better 
 game. simply because the gameplay is more realistic and you can skill people on alot more easier. 
 i have played PES 08 on PS3 but i didnt have it and i thought it that they made it alot better.
 
  
  if you are considering buying PES or FIFA then i would say to rent them 1st so you can play both 
 and see what you like more. i personally like PES more because i have been loyal to it and its 
 always been better on gameplay but i know that PES 08 was a real downfall, but dont let that put 
 you off. there are a few things that are still the same though like the commntary. i cant stand 
 it because they talk about something and it makes no sense but i can live with that. but the UEFA 
 champions league is quite good, but its basically the konami cup. but it looks so much more better 
 with the actual logo for it and theme. the master league has imporved with player loyaltiy and 
 with scouts telling you if you can aqcuire a rival player. the team popularity is still there and 
 player poplarity. and last but not least, become a legend. its a great edition to PES but its only 
 been copied off FIFA. i dont know if its true but my mate told me that you can only do 4 seasons 
 on be a pro, but on become a legend you can go till your 46 and you start at a small ametuer club 
 not like on FIFA where you could start at chelsea. it can be hard at times but when you get into 
 it its quite easy.
  
  the level for PES can be adjusted so i cant qote on the difficulty, but i find it easy at times.
 
  
  this is my 1st review so i hope you thought it was good, a message to me would be nice to let me 
 know on your thoughts about my review so i can make it better for future games 
::::::

::::::
UserName: altmoonster
Rating: 4
Date: Nov 16, 2008 3:45 pm PT
Review:  Having played the PES series of games for 8 years now, it is with great disappointment that I report 
 my review on PES 2009. Quite simply, this game is a study on how to kill a franchise. While the 
 09 version does improve on its immediate predecessor, on needs to understand that PES 08 wasn't 
 worth the acrylic disc it was programmed on. A blank dvd would have been more valuable.
  
  If you like to play sports game online, beware. Even with the high speed connections of today PES 
 09 gives you tons of lag and synching issues. You have been warned.
  
  Offline, the game is tolerable, but nothing that wasn't done in PES 2007. Seriously, if you want 
 to try the PES series, I recommend that you pick up a used pre-2007 version. 
  My overall score is 4 for this game; I have takedn 3 points off of a perfect ten because the online 
 component is unplayable, and the remaining 3 point deduction is because it is simply the same game 
 as years before except repackaged. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nkhacduy
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 15, 2008 3:30 pm PT
Review:  Pro Evolution Soccer 2009 finally comes out. I guess you guys and I were waiting for this game 
 :) . We hope this game will have some improvement and it does. For those of you who are fan of P. E. S 
 or winning eleven ( old version) will see the difference between this game and P. E. S 2008. We already 
 knew P. E. S 2008 is a big disappointment. Now let review this game.
  I'm pretty sure that they made some improvement for this game. We have Champion League and Become 
 a Legend mode which surprise us the most. "Become a legend" is very exciting for those who feel 
 bored of Master League. They also fix the bugs. For example, sometimes, you cannot control your 
 player in the box and they made own goal or no accuracy when you have free kick at side- line. 
 Second, Goalkeeper also makes some stupid mistakes that bother the game too much. ( still have 
 sth to say but no need)
  
  Come back to P. E. S 2009, we can see obviously that graphics is nicer and is more smooth than 2008. 
 That's impressive. Passing and dribbling is better but not quite yet. There's still lack of amazing 
 and surprising passing ( kind of limitation) that makes soccer going down on this game. Sometimes, 
 no accuracy in small pass or 1-2 pass ( I guess it's bug) . Furthermore, P. E. S 2009 couldn't get 
 the copyright of some Clubs. I think that's bad ^^. Ah one more thing I almost forget to tell is 
 that AI is still something KONAMI have to work on ( bad formation, wasted passing, blah blah...) .
 
  ( Still have something to say but no need)
  
  7/10 is fair enough and P. E. S 2009 is worth to play :)
  
  P/s: After all, for those of you 
 who are not fan of P. E. S ( fan of FIFA or sth) pls don't comment on this game 'coz the rate you 
 gave just not fair and I think you guys just ruin everything.
  Thank you so much.
  
  ( I don't play this game in online so i don't say anything abt it ) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dollar75
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 25, 2008 12:04 pm PT
Review:  I've been a fan of this franchise since its inception. I was always looking for a decent soccer 
 game and FIFA just never really did anything for me. I've put in alot of hours into this franchise, 
 PES06 is one of my most played games on my PSP.
  However, I have stood out of the last couple editions, the last one on the PS2 and PES08 (played 
 the demo and was very disappointed) , so this was my first taste of the full PES experience on the 
 PS3 and I have to say, I was quite disappointed. The other game I had to go on for the PS3 was 
 FIFA08 (I took it back after 2 weeks) , so I did have a gauge.
  
  Sound
  To say the commentary has gone down hill is a slightly understatement. It goes from very bland 
 to, when you're just about to score, it sounds like the blokes spleen was going to fly out of his 
 mouth due to the utter excitement and it sounded false. There is also sometimes a delay, from when 
 you score to the crowd cheering and the commentator shouting that you've score. Commentary is a 
 big part of a soccer gane and for this to be as disappointing means that its already losing ground 
 to FIFA.
  Apart from that, the sound is what you would expect really, nothing more, nothing less.
  
  
 Graphics
  I remember the reason I like this franchise was because of the detail, the players body movements 
 seemed individual, when it rained, the water would splash up as the players were running along. 
 Now, on a next gen console, there's not even that. Its on the replays, but not on the actual gameplay. 
 The rain looks like its just some hazy lines going down the screen. As Liverpool Studios have shown 
 from F1, rain effects can really show off the game. I'm not suggesting that the rain trickle down 
 the screen, but surely they could have made it look part of the game, rather than just have rain 
 noises. 
  They've jazzed up the menu system, but this seems to look like they're trying to look as if they're 
 adding new things, and it comes off as a little fake
  
  Gameplay
  The gameplay hasn't changed that much, which is a good thing. Its still very free flowing which 
 is why its always been the better of the two franchises.
  There are quite a few gameplay options, now with the UEFA Champions league. I haven't yet tried 
 this out (I normally go straight to the Master League) . Even though it advertises the Champions 
 League, there are still some clubs that have been re-named due to some licensing issues.
  They've tried to incorporate the fans into it aswell with a popularity score, this makes negotiating 
 contracts either harder or easier, depending on what the popularity grade the club has. This is 
 a similar thing to what FIFA have done, but I think FIFA have pulled it off abit better.
  
  Final thoughts
  Even though this game will satisfy my soccer fix for the time being, this is 
 still a fairly disappointing addition to this franchise. Konamis seriously need to look into refreshing 
 this and breathing some new life into it as FIFA has clearly won the first 2 games on the next 
 gen console and, having played FIFA08 for a short time, I can see why. They're going down the lines 
 of a sim and put you squarely in the managers shoes. Even though PES09 is far better than their 
 first effort on the PS3, they still have a fair way to go to re-invent this series to bring it 
 back to its former glory 
::::::

::::::
UserName: henryws
Rating: 3.5
Date: Nov 15, 2008 12:02 pm PT
Review:  It is ashamed KONAMI released this game again with lots of flaw. Online experience is still poor. 
 Players are being teleported here and there. Even if you have decent connection, gameplay was very 
 unreal. Players dribble ball and move direction just like anything and if you can keep side step 
 90degree you will almost certain to score goal or otherwise you will get conceded. There is no 
 real football skill here. The online game is being played by jerks who just want to win the game 
 and they just ride the poor game engine to play unrealistic soccer just to win the game!
  
  After playing just 1 day. Enough for me to return this game to the shop again. Very dissapointing. 
 
  
  After I was so dissapointed I play FIFA 09 again. Oh well so much different. The more I love FIFA 
 09. In addition, EA is being great to release patch fixing bugs. This is really the company with 
 the right attitude to keep customers. KONAMI is lagging in every aspects now. The only thing I 
 see good is the graphics has improved. But doesn't this sound like FIFA few years back try to penalize 
 incapability of creating real soccer game with real gameplay and they just hired college graduate 
 to make players face look real. 
  
  Here is my verdict, the dissapointing fans of PES that defects to FIFA in the last 2 years.
  
 
  Gameplay poor poor poor ... no way near the old PS2 version
  Online experience poor ... players still teleporting
  Online menu ... is not nextgen like .. 
 it still in the PS2 world
  
  I dont care much about the rest. If KONAMI unable to sort GAMEPLAY and ONLINE don't expect people 
 will buy future PES and they can keep promising every year!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: TugaSoldatTV
Rating: 1
Date: Nov 13, 2008 4:47 pm PT
Review:  Not much to say. 
  
  Yes its a score of 1. I will get thumbs down but news flash: dont care.
  
  I always, ALWAYS 
 liked the PES series until 2008 come out. From there, PES was a disaster. The players look like 
 robots running, the animations are just bad, graphics are a little better them 2008 but they are 
 still ugly, the ball physic is a disaster and the game play is still the same has the previous 
 version.
  The lack of of licensed teams makes to game even worst. Sure EA got some rights but didn't konami 
 grab the Champions League? Oh and lets talk about that.
  
  The CL mode is just the Konami Cup (dont tell anyone!) . In fact, only a few teams are licensed 
 in the FULLY LICENSED CL Mode! The Become a Legend mode is not complex has in Fifa so it turns 
 to be boring.
  
  Overall, my 1 just reflects unfortunately what PES has become. Has a long fan of the series, its 
 time to move on. PES 6 was a fantastic game but from there on... WHAT THE HELL KONAMI?? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lwa02vkc
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 11, 2008 11:06 pm PT
Review:  When I played the first game in this Pro Evo 2009, I was initially disappointed. The disappointment 
 mainly came from the low accuracy of the players which also applied to top class strikers. And 
 the dribbles were slow and goals per game was so low ... that playing the game proactively is almost 
 as boring as passively watching a real football game. 
  
  The disappointment did not originate from the lack of branding in this PES as compared to FIFA. 
 I was never bothered about the lack of real kits or the usage of alternative names of the teams. 
 Ever since long before, the lack of brands has always been around in Winning Eleven series, and 
 I enjoyed the previous versions despite it. Nor was I bothered about the alleged poor job by the 
 commentaries. On the commentary I thought it was quite decent, won't say that they are bad. 
  
  The more I play it, the more I love it after figuring how to get accurate shots. The realism 
 is superb. This game is totally addictive. What is appealing to me in the Winning Eleven series 
 is its realism, and in this version it did not disappoint and delivered a good job in it. 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Fatgigi
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 11, 2008 12:11 pm PT
Review:  Ill state the good and the bad
  
  Good: 
  
  ---Graphically it has nothing less than Fifa 09. Honestly I do not understand why Fifa 09 is so 
 appreciated graphics wise. 
  
  ---Its Pro Evo!
  
  --- Realistic goalkeepers are still very good but wont hold the ball so often when a shots comes 
 at them, just like in real life. They make very good saves but they all push them away on the side 
 like a good goalie would do
  
  --- Better online mode, much less lag.
  
  --- Proper tough to play vs computers and you generally score less goals. 
  
  --- Refs are 
 badasses and they will punish you especially online.
  
  --- You can quickly change all the unofficial logos of Liga and Premier league to original names 
 and shirts. Download someone elses option file and it will be all there. Ask me how its really 
 simple for ps3. Worth doind unless you want to play with Yorkshire orange
  
  --- Feels realistic overall, much more so than Fifa, where players may feel softer and easier to 
 move around, but still Pes feels and looks more real.
  
  THE BAD: 
  
  --- Champions league mode is alright but it still feels half baked
  
  --- Goalies are so good 
 which can get frustrating... depends how you want to look at it.
  
  --- Players take initiative and start tackling your opponent ( more than the previous versions) 
 even if you didnt ask them to do so. Not good cause they will 80% of the times foul the opposition 
 and get yellowed. Even red. Happens at least once a game. 
  
  --- Online mode feels unresponsive. You want a player to chase the opponent and by the time he 
 actually moves the opponent is already past you. It also seems easier to score online which may 
 be good or bad.
  
  --- Exaggerated thud of the ball
  
  --- Some players like Messi and Cr7 are too good in my opinion.
  
  --- Its the same old pro 
 evo nothing new !!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: B1rdIsTheWord
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 10, 2008 7:11 am PT
Review:  Im a die hard pro evo fan, I have had every Pro since it's came out. The graphics are much better 
 then the last pro the online has improved but still isnt great, the game-play has improved the defending 
 is much better you carn't just get one fast player eg (ronaldo, messi, ect) and run all the way to 
 the opponents goal and tap it in, the new champions league mode is great. But still after 7 years 
 now i think, only 2 licened teams in the premier league is a joke im sick of having to change the 
 names of clubs every time the new pro comes out. It can get quite boring easy unless like me you 
 and your brother start a league and play each other. (I own him everytime) but still no matter how 
 bad pro get's i will still always buy it, could never change now especially to fifa. Ive got one 
 thing to say Pes 6 owns pure and simple. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nispl
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 10, 2008 4:12 am PT
Review:  ok, after playing almost the entire pes series since the very 1st one, this one is really get to 
 the altitude. if u r a real pes fan or soccer fan you gatta love it.
  i admit that konami has made alot of effort into it, and those effort got paid, the game play, 
 visual effect, and the control all have been improved to a different level. 
  The game is much more difficult than before, in terms of the difficulties of the computer opponent, 
 in pes 2008 if you have some players such as ronaldinho or kaka or ibrahimovic, once they dribble 
 with a full speed, there's no way that the defender can catch up, but in pes 2009, thank god they 
 changed it, pretty much no one can do the same "trick" as before, and it's a good thing, coz the 
 more realistic the more fun, isn't it? further changes include the shooting is more difficult, keepers 
 will drop the ball more often when catch a shot.
  in pes 2009, the computer opponent has improved alot (the top player level) , the way they playing 
 is more like a human, and some other new tricks been added on is really gonna make some troubles 
 to you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Carl_W21
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 3, 2008 4:30 pm PT
Review:  Ok my first review, well I gotta say graphics are well I don't know what do you think, Pro 2008 
 looked like a PS2 game and this one is a huge difference but I don't know, I mean MGS 4 set the 
 bar on what could be done with a PS3 and well NO game has come to that standard yet but it does 
 look good, and I'm so glad that they fixed that huge bunch of crap of a glitch where if their was 
 more than 9 players in the box your game would stick for about 10 seconds. How they have the nerver 
 to say look at our Champions League mode when they don't include all the teams in that mode, like 
 say what ?..... I rated this game difficulty EASY as all new games it takes some getting use to 
 but after a while you will find yourself unchallenged unless playing human opponents, which will 
 have to be on the same system as online mode is the laggiest piece of crap I have played. Now onto 
 Legend Mode, so really all it is, go into System Settings-Controller Settings-and set your cursor 
 settings to fixed, but throughout the whole season with some personal acclompishments. Pro 2009 
 ? that 1, 2, 3 ,4 ,5 ,6, 2008 and 2009, still unlicenced teams, c'mon..... sort this out I'm sick 
 of going into editor every new game and having to change names and doing transfers.... still to 
 some all this up, it does put a smile on my face, the defence has really shaped up no more running 
 from you box to the other and scoring, it has shaped up tactically. For me to give this anything 
 above a 9 in any other of the series get the full thing licenced, sort out online mode and make 
 the AI super intelligent. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: spike_spiegell
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 27, 2008 4:45 pm PT
Review:  escelente simplemente mejor que el irritante fifa, la verdad tiene muy buenos graficos, las opciones 
 de personalizacion y creacion de kits esta delujo.
  
  el movimiento de los jugadores es mas realista, la dificultad de la inteligencia artificial es 
 formidable.
  
  la verdad comparandolo con fifa es mil veces mejor. en fifa los personajes se ven chaparros y gordos, 
 en pes2009 se ven mas parecidos a los de la vida real.
  
  el cambio con respecto a la version 2008 es muy notorio, pes2009 sigue siendo igual o mas adictivo.
 
  
  sinceramente no import mucho que no tenga todas las licencias pero al menos se esmeraron en hacer 
 bien los uniformes, comparen el del FC PORTO y el del INTER, veran que en el fifa09 el del porto 
 esta mal diseado y en el pes esta identico, lo mismo pasa con el fifa, en fifa los numeros de 
 los jerseys se ven orribles y en pes son exactamente los que usa el inter
  
  comprenlo, lo recomiendo, no se arrepentiran. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jicsto86
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 26, 2008 5:56 am PT
Review:  Having invested in the previous installment of PES, I was reluctant to give this one a try. However, 
 in the end, I parted with my cash in the sheer hope that Konami wouldn't screw up as badly as they 
 did this time last year. I wasn't to be disappointed. PES2009 is a much-improved game when compared 
 to last year, and it had to be!
  
  Firstly, the visuals boast a slight improvement, however, they do seem somewhat outdated on the 
 next-generation consoles. The popular players are looking more and more like their real-life counterparts, 
 but there is still room for improvement, however the stadia are very well created (especially the 
 new Wembley Stadium) . The menu system is a bit eccentric in its retro design, but it's easy enough 
 to navigate.
  
  The overall sound on PES2009 has not improved at all however, and it's still full of those cheesy 
 pop and trip-hop tracks playing in the background. The commentary sounds as if it has been lifted 
 directly from PES2008 with 1 or 2 new lines (seriously 1 or 2) , and the accuracy of the commentary 
 itself is abysmal. Jon Champion always seems excited at the wrong moments and Mark Lawrenson sounds 
 as if he's reading directly from a script. It won't be long before you turn it off completely and 
 just listen to the crowd and the thud of the ball being struck. The crowd does sound slightly better 
 than in previous installments, and with the added option of including your own MP3 chant to play 
 in the background can give a genuine feel of playing in your team's home ground. There is a little 
 niggle with this option though, the MP3 is played in a cyclic fashion and can become repetitive 
 and annoying at times.
  
  Speaking of editing The Edit Mode in 2009 is an improvement also, with much greater freedom to 
 customise kits and players, but again a lot of people will feel; if Konami managed to get the FIFA 
 license, then this wouldn't be needed. However, I believe spending a couple of hours or so editing 
 teams has become part of the PES experience!
  
  Aside from superficial aspects of the game, the physics engine is the game's saving grace once 
 again. The game plays really well, with the pace being slightly reduced from 2008. The ball feels 
 heavier, making quick intricate passing much more fluid and easier to perform. The shooting feels 
 as good as ever, and there's little in the game more gratifying than smashing a 25-yard bullet 
 with Steven Gerrard. There is little or no slow down in this version, but there is the odd little 
 AI screw up. For example, in one instance in a game my defender and keeper couldn't decide who 
 should clear the ball and they both swung for it, missing it completely and knocking into each 
 other, allowing the advancing forward to slot the ball into an empty net! These little blips can 
 get annoying, but I guess they do happen in the real game too!
  
  The Become a Legend Mode strikes me as a little sneaky bit of implementing an element of FIFA into 
 PES, but it's a half-baked effort. I believe it was thrown in there, just so Konami could boast 
 a 'new' mode. It doesn't reward you for fulfilling your particular role on the field, but merely 
 when you team wins games. Also, I find it extremely boring to play. You spend the vast majority 
 of the match running around and expected to make magic happen when you get your 4-5 touches per 
 game. It might appeal to some, but definitely not to me, I'm steering well clear of it in the future.
 
  
  One last thing; the Online Mode. It is still in need of improvement in both set-up and performance. 
 However, it is a marked improvement on last year, which was completely unplayable. There are still 
 some lag issues, but for the most part, it's bearable.
  
  Overall, PES2009 is a fun game to play and in my opinion, much more fun than FIFA09. However, FIFA09 
 looks better and is closer to 'real' football. But this is a game we're talking about here, and 
 PES2009 is exactly that, a fun game to play! There is however, a lingering feeling that this game 
 is simply what PES2008 should have been, and PES2009 should be better than it is. Anyway, the long 
 and short of it is: fun = PES2009, realistic = FIFA09. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: High_Contrast
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 24, 2008 12:56 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay
  Most important part, the game plays a good game of football resembling more the premier league 
 which leads people to calling the game arcadey. Difficulty for me is just right as in it is quite 
 difficult to score vs the computer at TOP LEVEL.
  
  Features
  The become a legend mode is very good. You need to persevere as you will eventually be selected 
 to go on the bench, then be given a full game.
  Doesn't have all the offical club badges and kits but that is easily sorted out with an option 
 file update you can download off of the net.
  If you don't like the music, which is pretty lame, you can create a playlist from the MP3s on your 
 HD that will play YOUR music whilst in the menus.
  
  Online
  From the few games I've played it has been laggy which is quite frustrating as taking it round 
 your opponent becomes tricky and defending difficult.
  It has the same lobby system as before, quick match options.
  
  Aesthetics
  Graphically much 
 better than last year in terms of framerate and crispness although I only played the demo from 
 2008. 
  The players up close look a bit plasticy but they all do on football games. Not important to me 
 as I rather PLAY the game as opposed to admire the faces of professional players.
  
  Vs FIFA
  No contest, PES is more fun and if you have a few mates around the faster paced game 
 and responsive nature of the controls means that you have only yourself to blame if you lose.
 
  I have only played the FIFA demo however it was enough to still come to the conclusion that FIFA 
 still hasn't quite got it. For me game modes and fancy licences are like make up on an ugly bird.
 
  
  Overall
  It's limitations are stated above and that's why it gets an 8.5. If the online was perfect then 
 it would have got a 9 and Konami need to do something radical next year to get a 9.5 or 10. The 
 way we play football on a PC/console has to go beyond what we currenly do. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: johan_taufik
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 23, 2008 3:41 am PT
Review:  the PES series has never let me down. i used to be a FIFA guy (about 6-7 years ago) but after playing 
 my first PES i never turned back. 
  definitely KONAMI has made a lot of improvemnets from their last title. although it fixed minor 
 problems from the last series, it was those problems that held it form being a really good game. 
 and the slower pace ensures that players have to be tactical and choose a formation that suits 
 their style of play. 
  but the reason that it got such a low score is because of how great FIFA 09 is compared to its 
 last title. i've played the demo and although i hate to say this, it is quite good. not PES good 
 but far, far better than FIFA 08. and the fact that PES had little improvements compared to FIFA 
 made some reviewers giving it a lower score than it deserves, IMO.
  i bought the PC version and it has a lot of bugs in it. but that comes with a lot of PC games so 
 im still waiting for a patch to come out. for this reason im not giving it a 9. PES 2008 had no 
 bugs for me. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kookai666
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 22, 2008 5:54 am PT
Review:  i had played the new fifa and for the first time ever i actually thought it was OK in terms of 
 gameplay... But i got the new Pro and ordered the USB update stick with all the official kits and 
 teams and was reminded why Pro is still the best football game out there. i think if u buy this 
 game its defo worth ordering the update file it just finishes the game off nicely. Changing all 
 the names ect yourself is a real hassle if you want to get it just right. plugging the usb stick 
 in and copying the files takes 2 seconds and is worth the money. Really good football game overall 
 tho. Also like the new become a legend mode, can be abit slow for the first hour but once u get 
 a few of your skills up starts to get really fun. Cant wait till 2010 when FIFA's rights to the 
 premiership runs out hopefully pro will never need another kit update again! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: arjyp1
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 20, 2008 4:07 pm PT
Review:  Most football enthusiasts would choose PES over FIFA... why? Perhaps its because it provides a less 
 arcade game, or perhaps a more direct attacking one, nevertheless UK sales seem to still be very 
 competitive between the two series, despite FIFA's phenomenonly larger budget. FIFA was the best 
 football game around during the late 90's and 2000's, when PES took over. The last year game by 
 Konamic was well short of previous heights, but I feel that the mantle has been returned.
  I am yet to sample online play, but I've heard that its greatly improved on last year's offerings, 
 with frame rates high, and virtually no lag. Perhaps one criticism is that they have traded Bayern 
 Munich with Zenit St. Petersburg, and in fact have no German sides whatsoever. Another complaint 
 would be that certain players, classic to the series such as Ronaldo (the fat one) and Veron arent 
 included, despite them still being international footballers. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: StuDevo
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 27, 2008 7:58 am PT
Review:  This year Pro Evo and Konami had a lot to prove after the sub-standard game last year. Well in 
 my opinion they definitely proved themselves and met the expectations. The game is the fast paced 
 action lovers of series remember from PES 5. The game runs smoothly with no freezes or slowdowns 
 unlike PES 2008. The football is fun and addictive with more challenging AI, quicker passing and 
 more intelligent team mates. 
  
  The new Champions league mode allows you to play the tournament with any team, starting in the 
 group stages, the mode also alows exihibition mode but with Champions League display. 
  
  Master League is as good as ever, and the Become a Legend mode is a welcome game life extension 
 as you attempt to become your national team captain. 
  
  Overall the game offers a fun experience on your own as well as playing with friends. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Keitha313
Rating: 3
Date: Oct 20, 2008 3:50 am PT
Review:  Thats just about the game summed up in the review deck its absolutley god-awful...
  Never would i thought PES would of went massively downhill like this
  
  Not to forget PES 2008 
 was broken on the PS3 version they just dont seem to be learning what to do i think this really 
 could spark the death of PES.
  
  Right graphics!! Now on a next generation console i simply expect far better!! The graphics on 
 this just looks so outdated im not impressed in a single way!.
  
  Okay the game plays a little bit more smoother than 2008's version but when you compare it to its 
 obvious rival well to be a rival you actually have to be competiting im not so sure anymore, PES 
 just looks so slow and dull compared to Fifa 2009.
  
  This game can be very hard at times to score a goal basically your average sitters are ridicoulsy 
 missed at a far to often rate yes we wish to be playing a realistic simulation but for gods sake 
 we wouldnt mind bein able to score goals once in awhile.
  
  PES 2009 has dissapointed me massively im not a fanboy of games i choose what i think might be 
 a good game and this game really is awful, I suggest anyone rent it first its your money be careful 
 with it!!.
  Fifa 2009 is your best bet it is better than PES it was better in 2008 and now it is better in 
 2009.
  
  Choose carefully!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: foxy42
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 20, 2008 12:27 am PT
Review:  ... and it is... in most respects.
  
  PES 2008 on PS3 was broken. Unforgivably. While the core gameplay was good old PES, the horrendous 
 porting job to the PS3 was god-awful. Frame rate issues abound and the graphics were barely above 
 ps2 standard, even in HD.
  
  Yes, I can confirm, all the technical issues that plagued last year's game have been solved. The 
 game plays very smoothly and the graphics are noticeably better.
  
  Now that that's out of the way, lets move on to the gameplay of the new title...
  
  Little 
 has changed in terms of structure. You still have cup, league, exhibition, and the venerable Master 
 League modes to play. I won't talk about the 'be a pro' mode, or whatever it is, cos I will probably 
 never play it. I'm in it purely for the multiplayer (not online, I have real friends) , and the 
 master league, where I hone my skills.
  
  I must say I'm surprised that once again, they have increased the difficulty of scoring. It IS 
 more realistic now, I can't say it's not, but it's very frustrating to be in the 78th minute, 1-1 
 the score, and your star striker is through on goal after a sublime series of passes, only to have 
 him side foot it weakly to the keeper, or hoof it wide. I don't know if the likelihood of scoring 
 is contextual, I know it is to a degree. I've been playing this since it's first iteration on PS2, 
 as the follow up to ISS pro on the PSone, which I also played, so I know how to play the game a 
 little bit. I know that you need to run onto it with the right foot back, I know it's all about 
 timing, but I want my chance increased by the quality of the move that builds up to the goal.
 
  
  As always the difficulty change has changed the balance of the game. Whereas I used to score most 
 of my goals using fast dribbling players through the centre, I find myself increasingly relying 
 on crossing from wide. I don't mind so much, but when will they strike a balance?
  
  Don't get me wrong, I like the way the player movement is more realistic, I also like that they 
 seem to make more mistakes (its true that not even shevchenko can strike for the top corner every 
 single time) , but in my opinion, it is now a little too difficult to beat the defence and the keeper.
 
  
  But I'll persevere, like I always do with the new PES games. Overall it seems like an improvement 
 in the gameplay, and I'll probably find it more rewarding in the long term, as it will force me 
 to improve my technique.
  
  The quite apparent difference in core gameplay will also make it easier for newcomers to pick up, 
 as both new and old players will have to spend time getting to grips with the new demands made 
 on you to score goals.
  
  Overall, I like it, it's even more like the beautiful game than ever before. Heartbreaking frustration 
 and all. Thanks for reading. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: danpez8900
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 19, 2008 11:58 am PT
Review:  I've heard the PES series has gone out of form, which is confusing anyway. This game is simply fantastic, 
 beautiful and full of adrenaline rushes. Its full of brilliant gameplay which FIFA lacks in. Okay 
 there still lack of licenses and poor commentary but this will soon vanish when you score your 
 first goal. The passing is realistic as are the shots and saves from your goalkeeper.
  The soundtracks are Catchy as there not cheesy anymore.
  Save your goals and watch them over 
 and over again. In this version as well you can watch your misses and tackles again. The graphics 
 are stunning like watching it live on Tv and you can easily notice your favorite players.
  The new modes which include the licensed UEFA Champions league is breathtaking from start to finish. 
 The other mode is "Be A Legend" is also enjoyable as you can create your self and be the best player 
 in the world , it also adds much more Life time to the game. This how next-gen sports games should 
 be made.
  If your really into Football? This is your game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: combonext
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 18, 2008 1:38 pm PT
Review:  You just can't imagine the way the AI plays against you, and the flow of ball around the pitch. 
 Its just so real.
  
  Let me put it this way..."think of something in football" and just do it. Thats the best way i 
 can describe this awesome game.
  
  The Freekick is now more enhanced with absolute confidence meaning "If you are good, you are good"
 
  
  Then When the players are low in staimina gauge, they simply can't perform n its obvious, jugging 
 instead of running. You just have to substitute such player if you want to win that game.
  
  The ball control is great, the dribbling skills is not bad at all, and the handling feels enjoyable.
 
  
  Now imagine them combining the EA engine to this gameplay.
  Its like sitting as a spectator and holding the PS3 pad controlling ChelseaFC against ManU in stamford 
 bridge.
  
  MayBe This Is Where VideoGaming Will End Up... 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
