-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Pro Evolution Soccer 2008
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/ps3/sports/pes2008/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Some refinement in terms of playability.
 Opponent AI mixes up playing styles.
 Certain players look realistic.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Adds no new features to last year's game.
 Laggy, unplayable online code.
 Slowdown when running in hi-def.
 Poor presentation in every respect.
 Graphically and aurally under par.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Nov  1, 2007
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 6
Critic Score: 7.4, 18 Review (s)
User Score: 7.2, 941 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Konami
Genre: Soccer Sim
Date: Mar 11, 2008
ESRB: Everyone

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Konami's first Pro Evolution Soccer game for the PS3 plays well but suffers from noticeable slowdown 
 and feels somewhat unfinished. 

  UK REVIEW -- Konami's Pro Evolution Soccer was already looking a little stretched last year, and 
 the 2008 edition takes the series to the breaking point. Instead of improving on last year's game, 
 it offers no noteworthy new features. Some of the smaller gameplay tweaks make the game more enjoyable 
 to play overall, but an equal number are frustrating and feel unnecessary. Most critically, the 
 game features an unacceptable level of slowdown in both online and offline play. It makes you wonder 
 what Shingo Takatsuka and his team have been doing for the last year, and it's bound to infuriate 
 the many people who've been waiting for a PlayStation 3 version of the game.  

           This year's Pro Evolution Soccer on the PS3 is sure to disappoint fans.      

  The 
 biggest upgrade for the game is supposedly the new Teamvision artificial-intelligence system, although 
 its claims to revolutionise the playing experience prove to be overstated. Computer-controlled 
 opponents are slightly more intelligent when it comes to changing styles of play, though defenders 
 still feel a little bit superhuman in their ability to resist attack. Overall, the game feels more 
 flowing than last year, but rather than feeling revolutionary, the improvement just feels like 
 a return to the series' earlier glory. In fact, the immediate changes feel so minor that even hardcore 
 fans of the series will have trouble picking them out. The ball feels slightly weightier, and players 
 move with more physicality. They also tussle with each other more by pulling shirts and outmuscling 
 each other over the ball. It adds up to a more natural-feeling game this year, and one that still 
 plays an accomplished game of football. Anyone who hasn't played Pro Evolution Soccer will find 
 that this is still a solidly playable experience, but long-term fans may wonder what Konami's done 
 this year to take advantage of the PS3 platform.  

  Many of the new gameplay tweaks are actually more annoying than they are welcome. Goalkeepers now 
 fumble the ball with infuriating regularity, and the fast pace now makes Pro Evo feel more like 
 an arcade game than a simulation. Another new feature that betrays the game's simulation roots 
 is the ability to make your players take a dive. It's something that undoubtedly happens in the 
 real world, but its inclusion in a serious video game could be seen to tarnish an otherwise respectful 
 representation of the sport. Used in the penalty area the dive can win penalties, and while it's 
 only successful in the minority of cases, it could be used to tip the balance of the game. We expect 
 that discerning gamers will shun the new skill out of sportsmanship, but it'll be a real shame 
 if faceless online players manage to win games by effectively employing the tactic.  

  Luckily for Konami, most players won't have the patience to stick with the online mode to find 
 out if this is the case. The PlayStation 3's online offering is completely unplayable due to unacceptable 
 lag and frequent disconnections that affected every single game we played. Players skip animations, 
 balls jerk around in the air, and it's impossible to time sliding tackles, which means that a patch 
 is critically needed before the game even begins to reach a playable level. Konami has issued a 
 notice saying that it is aware of the problems and that it is working toward a solution, but at 
 the time of release it's simply unfinished.  

  The poor performance of the online mode can theoretically be fixed, but Pro Evolution Soccer 2008 
 is severely lacking when it comes to overall Internet functionality. There are no real-world score 
 tickers, no news feeds, and no squad updates -- features that the rival FIFA series has been offering 
 for two years now. There are a number of very noticeable product placements for various Web sites, 
 but this advertising-only arrangement has produced no content that's fed into the game. At a time 
 when many other rival sports games feature an assortment of online multimedia updates throughout 
 the year, Konami's complete lack of extras feels backward in comparison. It's also worth noting 
 the online registration process, which locks your copy of the game to your Konami account for online 
 play. This means that if you ever want to sell your copy of the game, the next person will be unable 
 to play online unless he or she has your registration details. To our knowledge this is the first 
 time this has happened in a PS3 title, and Konami's UK office declined to respond to enquiries 
 over why the system was implemented.  

           The Master League mode now includes media briefings and interviews for your players, although 
 they have little effect overall.      

  The issue of slowdown isn't restricted just to the multiplayer portion of the game, either. Played 
 in standard 720p (the game doesn't support 1080p) , the single-player game is noticeably jerky whenever 
 the action centres around either goal. It doesn't affect the game as much when running in standard 
 definition, but it's bound to annoy fans of the game who remember a similar problem when previous 
 versions were run in 60Hz on the PlayStation 2.  

  As usual, the Master League mode is the main challenge for the single-player mode. As well as offering 
 you the ability to play through a series of proper football seasons, the Master League offers up 
 basic management functions that include training and transfers. This year, players also talk to 
 the media and do interviews, although as with every other part of the Master League, this pales 
 in comparison to dedicated management games. Although PES 2008 isn't really trying to compete with 
 games such as Football Manager, many of the tasks feel like distractions from the main job of playing 
 the league itself. Essentially, the Master League is just the same as it's always been. True, signing 
 talent is an important part of winning, but it simply isn't in-depth enough to warrant spending 
 lots of time on training and scouting. The main idea is to perfect your starting lineup, get them 
 in a decent formation, and play well on the pitch.  

  Presentation has never been Pro Evolution Soccer's strong point, and the 2008 version does little 
 to break with tradition. The lack of polish used to be acceptable thanks to the excellent playability 
 of the game, but with fundamental frame-rate problems, a lack of genuinely new features, and the 
 increased power of the PS3 hardware, it's becoming increasingly unforgivable. The menu system is 
 basic and unwelcoming, the soundtrack tries to span genres but is awful throughout, and the majority 
 of teams don't feature the official kits. This last problem will be a familiar one to fans, but 
 Konami's selection is becoming increasingly schizophrenic; English Premier League teams Newcastle 
 and Tottenham are now included, but at the expense of Manchester United and Arsenal, who are out 
 since the last game. We assume that Newcastle was included thanks to star striker Michael Owen, 
 who adorns the cover of the game, but the same theory doesn't apply to Cristiano Ronaldo and Manchester 
 United (who are named "Man Red") . There are only 15 stadiums, and although Mark Lawrenson is now 
 onboard as a commentator, his contributions are as frequently as inaccurate as his predecessor's. 

           Although the graphics are generally unimpressive, certain players look realistic up close. 

  PES 2008's graphics are all over the place. The PlayStation 3 version has the appearance of an 
 upscaled PlayStation 2 game, and apart from fewer jagged edges, there's little to show off the 
 new console's power. There's not much in the way of detail or incidental effects such as cloth 
 deformation, video walls, or goalkeeper head protection. On the other hand, certain player likenesses, 
 such as the aforementioned Cristiano Ronaldo, are very realistic. It's worth mentioning that you 
 only really get to see them up close during replays, but replays are the worst victim of the game's 
 heavy slowdown. We also like that the referee can be seen on pitch, although waiting the few seconds 
 for him to blow his whistle for free kicks is detrimental to the pace of the game.  

  Ultimately, the success of Pro Evolution Soccer is a paradox for the game's designers. It's difficult 
 to improve on the standard that was achieved with the fifth version of the game, but the designers 
 could certainly start by introducing some next-generation features to the PlayStation 3. Although 
 it's bad enough that it doesn't differ from its predecessor in any noteworthy way, the technical 
 problems and laggy online mode combine to make cause serious gameplay issues. Hopefully some of 
 the flaws will be fixed with future patches, but as it stands right now, PES 2008 is essentially 
 an incomplete game.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (45 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: snapdog31
Rating: 5.5
Date: Feb 20, 2009 3:00 am PT
Review:  Being an old PES follower, this version of PES is totally disappointing... Maybe it was because 
 I expected too high since this is the first installment of PES in PS3, but still, this installment 
 of PES feels like it has been rushed into "completion" that is not so complete... control is dull... 
 despite all the bad things... it's still PES and you might still enjoy the old functions and features 
 like master league etc. If u have this game on your hand, u may have up to 5 to 6 hours with it, 
 having fun seeing your team progress and players you sign grow... but that's actually a fun common 
 to all generation of PES, you will eventually grow tired of it due to dull control and lack of 
 new spark within the game compared to the older version of PES. Having said that... PES 2008 is 
 at most a game worth renting and I'm sure you will have better place to spend your money. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nihal18
Rating: 5.5
Date: Oct 15, 2008 9:51 pm PT
Review:  This game is just bad. After The first match i played on this game i new that this game would suk. 
 the graphics and everything are just bad. GAMEPLAY really bad. This game is really fake. FIFA is 
 way better than PES. FIFA is way bettter than KONAMI. I think this game should be rated a bit worser 
 than 6. Some parts of this game is good but it is still pretty bad. PES 09 is coming out soon and 
 the gameplay looks just as bad as this game the only thing that might be better in PES 09 is the 
 UEFA Champions league. if anyone wants to but a football game dont buy PES buy FIFA or else you 
 will waste a lot of money!! Does anyone no if UEFA EURO 2008 is good? DONT BUY PES BUY FIFA EVERYONE!! 
 FIFA IS BETTER THAN PES!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jakro13
Rating: 4
Date: Sep 28, 2008 7:46 pm PT
Review:  To start off i shall state simply, this game is total junk. Anyone who tells you that PES is better 
 than fifa is lying to you in every way possible. Ive heard it all about this game, "The gameplay 
 is more realistic", "The animations are better", "The commentary is better", and, "The whole game 
 is twice as good as fifa will ever be." Those statements, to be fair, are very wide of the mark. The 
 commentary was not bad really, although fifa is now, just as good. The gameplay, no comparison, 
 it is completely horrible, sprinting is unrealistic, tackling is off, the passing was not too bad 
 but definitly can be improved upon. Shooting wasnt horrible either but difficult to master in a 
 few games. When the players dribble they seem to be easily caught, even by a slower player. The 
 network play, just didnt do it for me either, the connection wasnt horrible, it was just, not that 
 good to be honest, and fifa is miles ahead in that category. The master league idea is very good 
 tho, i like the fact that you can edit the league completely. That was probably the best part of 
 the game for me. The graphics, are actually, quite good i thought, for example Eduardo da Silva, 
 and Cesc Fabregas, looked almost exactly like their real-life counterparts. That, is where i was 
 most impressed with the game, but not enough to suggest the game to someone. The controls are, 
 I would say, harder to learn than fifa, so for a first time soccer, or football, video game player 
 i would no doubt suggest fifa over pes any day. The licenses are also a turn off, even though they 
 are getting more each year, its just too much of a turn off for a stat, and league obsessed player, 
 for video games. There just arent enough teams to satisfy many players. All in all this game is 
 not extremely horrible, yet is just not comparable to fifa at all, there are a few goods scrambled 
 around a multiplicity of bads. I would only suggest this game to very experienced soccer game players, 
 or someone who isnt THAT into the league and player correctness. Other than that, please save your 
 money on this one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: EVAN0070
Rating: 7.5
Date: Sep 8, 2008 2:41 am PT
Review:  After the very good PES05 and PES06 I expected Pro Evolution Soccer 8 to be the best in the series. Frankly 
 I was wrong.
  
  Inserting the disc into the ps3 for the first time gives you the choice to install the game (not 
 required to play) . But while playing the game you will come to the point to be forced to install 
 it because the game has slow loading times which become faster if you have completed the install 
 operation. For the players luck it doesn't take as much space on the hard drive as other games such 
 as MGS4 and Lost Planet.
  
  By entering the games main menu you come against the classic options such as "Exhibition" , "Options" 
 , "Edit" , "Master League" etc. Only this time you view the options on a dynamic bar which changes 
 up and down.... The music playing in the background gives you an nice feel but after a while you 
 will get bored of it.
  
  Now onto the main game.
  
  Sadly Konami could not get all the rights for all the teams which means this year we don't have 
 the F. A. Premier League with the genuine names and uniforms. But the player names are original so 
 whoever is willing to edit everything to the correct form .... be my guest
  
  Gameplay :
  
  The game runs a little slower than PES 06. Players look bigger than normal and the grass just 
 looks dry. If you thought in PEs06 you could score easily then in this years version you will surely 
 be a very good scorer. Its just hard to defend and claim the ball when the referee awards you with 
 a red card for every attempt to do a sliding tackle. Also the shots go way to easily in and the 
 goalkeepers just don't seem to be able to block effectively anything thus paring the ball away 
 leaving the second attacker with the ball and no goalkeeper to save the day...
  Also the cpus new feature that is supposed to make the game difficult "Teamvision" will only stay 
 printed on the back of the box. You will never see it in action ingame.
  
  Graphics & Sound :
  
  The player models look detailed , much better than last years game. But 
 still their not next gen. The sound also becomes very boring and the commentators become annoying 
 with their old lines. Also konami used a new graphics engine for the game trying to bring graphics 
 to a new level. But the only thing that it resulted in was the release of a patch to downscale the 
 games textures so it wouldn't crash on the ps3 users.
  
  Online
  
  One thing that a lot of fans wait every year for the soccer simulation games is the online part. This 
 year konami fails to give us a lagless online making the game unplayable in many ways. Also if you 
 dont play for 10 days your division gets reseted making all your efforts go down the drain cause 
 you had to study for you math test that week... Last but not least some features like tournaments 
 are missing from the online mode making the game looking always the same and the same.
  
  Conclusion 
  
  Try first the demo. There is no point in bying something that you will not like 
 in the end. And now that this years FIFA is amazing I wouldn't buy PES08. I hope next years PES to 
 be better... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ern1982
Rating: 5
Date: Jul 18, 2008 11:53 am PT
Review:  This is by far the worst game I ever played. There are few times that i get so upset with it, I 
 just want to throw the playstatiin out the window. This game has so bad gameplay, that I can even 
 make a list of reasons why its so bad. I hope konami is reading this.
  
  1. First of all, playing against the game becomes so frustrating. The referee is playing you at 
 leat 80-20. I tried not even to tacle one time and i get 7-2 or 5-1 fouls. So i guess the player 
 can mark the opponent with his eyes. And don't even get me strarted on yellow and red cards.
  
  2. Even if you are "allowed by the ref" to mark your opponent, 80% of the times, the opponent 
 still gets the ball. Or even worse, when you win the challenge, the ball goes straight to another 
 opponent.
  
  3. The stadium seems like its downhill at the lines. So when you mark your opponent, the ball 95% 
 goes corner or free throw.
  
  4. Every game seems like the player need to have to make 20 shots at least to get 2-3 goals. Its 
 strange that players like Rooney, Ronaldo, Ronaldinho, Gerrard and other superstars cannot score 
 from 5 metres in this game. On the other hand, the first chance the oppostion gets, usually goes 
 in.
  
  5. Free kicks are a total nightmare. If you get fouled outside the box, its totally against you. 
 Its impossible to score, unless you have big skills. I scored once but never again no matter how 
 much i tried. Even worse, if you get fouled at midfield area, its again totally against you. Most 
 of the times you have to make a short pass, since if you cross 80% of the times you lose the ball.
 
  
  6. The worst thing I ever saw in my life is the camera view at penalties. The player sees the goalkeeper 
 from a strange angle, that makes you wanna cry out of despair. If you see it, its one in a lifetime 
 experience.
  
  There are a lot of other reasons that i can think of, but I guess you get the point about how bad 
 the gameplay is. Its like the producers of this game never saw football in their life before. Hope 
 that the next version will be better.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: sava47
Rating: 3
Date: Jun 30, 2008 10:00 am PT
Review:  Played this game since PS1 and this pro evo pissed me off so much.
  
  New "TeamVision" AI- sounds cool but worthless, all it does makes AI cheat more, no difference 
 in speed between you and COM, they teleport/slide in front of you either way you go, they can control 
 all players when ball is close but you can only control 1 and rest of your team is just walking 
 by ball doing nothing. So called soundtrack there was none.
  
  Passing- Like most people said its just horrible, simple X passing goes straight to the com, in 
 empty place with no one close to it, Com steals it easy because your player always stands in same 
 place and com gets in front of him, your player running forward on the side and he passes behinds 
 him not in front of him. R1+Triangle pass was perfect.
  
  Fouls-they are much better than before, no fouls on every lilttle bump, but you got to hate those 
 random fouls in the penalty box when you dont control the player that you dont even see on the 
 screen and somehow you fouled him, com stuck his hand in your back of your and he trips over and 
 foul for him hmmm.
  
  Shooting-you can make some real sweet shots but also you can make low power toe shots which they 
 go no where. Player most of the time prefer too twist his back so bad that he can brake his spine 
 just so he cant hit it with his head instead of volley it, and some headers- players hold hands 
 by their ears and ball get stuck in their shoulder.
  
  Physics-no difference between ps2 and ps3, players can only go 4 way, left right, down and up, 
 players getting stuck in each other going trough each other, players and goalies have some kind 
 of force shield than can hit the ball without even touching it, specially goalie with their crazy 
 saves that never even touched the ball. Last gasp slide tackles from com, when they are about to 
 lose the ball they make imposible perfect slide tackling passes to their players INSANE! whats 
 the poing trying to take the ball away from them
  
  Players- Most players are not close to their real facial or physical form, they all have big chests 
 some have gray hair. In my opinion goalies are way to big for the goal, making impossible saves, 
 ability stats makes no difference for goalie. Some players they run on their toes, when com gets 
 bumped little bit and he is unconscious and all of the sudden he snaps out and keep playing.
  
  Graphics- Crowd horrible i dont even care about it just makes you disy watching them in replay 
 poping out like moles, most fields look like corn fields, as PS3 should have way more detail such 
 as mark on the pitch from rough tackles, and more colerfull pitch, way more green. 
  
  For me game was UNFINISHED, it was NOT TESTED, horrible lagg, soo many bugs, and Konami was careless 
 for this game, feels like EA is making this game with just updated teams and ruined gameplay every 
 year. I think Winning Eleven 9 has the best game play. DO NOT BUY THIS GAME. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: masters89
Rating: 5.5
Date: Mar 18, 2009 3:01 pm PT
Review:  Lets begin with the wonderful flewness of the game : - 
  -------- :
  1 - Graphics : Oh my God ! The lack and the slowness its like playing on a slide show pictures 
 being rendered ! and The background of the stadium was Disastrously, Underscribley awful !! it 
 will really blind you for servral minutes untile it grows on you by the time , but seriously the 
 grass was poorly designed filled with this distinct squares all over it wipped in with random distinctly 
 notable decorated colours. 
  
  The players are good looking and acceptable . But seriously the game is graphicly slow and this 
 is the most annoying thing in this game.
  
  Overall , 3/5
  ---------------------
  2 - Difficulty : Ok! its either i'm a noob or this game has really became so hard in [Top player] -Difficulty 
 ; i'm a huge fan of PES series and i owned all of them but i've never experienced Difficulty like 
 this one ! especially against Barcelona .
  
  Overall , 4/5 (4 cuz its still enjoable)
  -------------------
  3 - Gameplay : Oh mama ! Please please ... Konami why this Big, huge, giant 
 and Wide Step back ? Seriously the gameplay had its enjoyment and all, but the accurecey of everything 
 is screwed the *passing , directing positoins of the defenders , *tackling , getting away from 
 the defender ... ect
  
  *Tackling : Oh God ! Evertime a player be behind you = Ball stallen , Period!!
  *Passing : Wow 
 , no kidding you have to direct your pass towords the player that you want to pass to or you're 
 just wasting your time passing. 
  ** Dribling : Fun fun fun . and lacks when changging your directoin 60" Degree from your original 
 Directoin ; the ball slips away from you akwordly.
  
  Shooting is ok though. maybe better than ever.
  
  Overall , 2\5
  ------------------
  4 
 - Sound (Commentay) : Crowds + shooting + players shout voices = are Good , But the commentary 
 is just annoying as usual + theres some new adds-on ; like when he screams suddenly when shooting 
 .
  
  Overall, 3.5\5
  -----------------
  5 - Game Features\Multiplayer : The replay cut-scenes are just Stupid ! every shoot you shoot they 
 replay it ... just for the sake of the shoot. Normal mutiplayer is just enjoyable as what it used 
 to be, But The online is Just so wrong and lagging is so stressful . I Highly Don't recommend online 
 play.
  
  Overall , 3/5
  ---------------
  Not worth Buying if your not a fan of this series ! and Poorly recommended for the fans !
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Death_marshes
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jun 8, 2008 12:37 am PT
Review:  The 2007 version was definitely an excellent version of the game because of their new feature of 
 picking random players from 4, 3 or 2 teams. But the 2008 is something INCREDIBLE!!! Not because 
 its amazing. Its incredible because its mediocre. I don't feel the hype of a soccer game. Sometimes, 
 you don't even know you scored. Takes like 2 seconds or 3 seconds after you scored, that you notice 
 you scored. The goals most of the people can score here are something that dissapointed me the 
 most. MEDIOCRE GOALS!!!
  
  The good thing about this game is that slow players like Trezeguet, Cruz, Drogba, Crespo, Klose, 
 Toni, etc., can score more goals than in other winning eleven versions.
  
  They eliminated the new feature they had for the 2007 version and that dissapointed me a lot =/
 
  
  I was lucky to ask my friend for the game first to try it. I was going to buy it before. Lucky 
 I didn't. I don't recommend this game to anyone. Wait for the 2009 version. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RickGArmy
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 11, 2008 4:09 pm PT
Review:  Ok i rated this game a 10 and why not it is the Ps3 and its first outing. Its a new console and 
 games are going to be feeling around for better graphics and game play and it will come with time. Just 
 remember the Ps2, when Pro Evo came out everybody raved about it. Then what did Konami do, Pro Evo 
 2,3,4,5,6 ( and i've got all of them!) and they just got better and better with each instalment. The 
 full Pro Evo series is in my opinion alot more realistic then E. A. s Fifa games. The game play is 
 superb and you can't score for fun like you can on the Fifa games. When you score a goal in some 
 cases its a real relief becaues you can feel like you'll never score just like a real match. If 
 Pro could get the player and teams licences then i believe it would truely be everybodies no.1 
 football game and as on the Ps2 it will improve (if it needs it) with each future instalment and 
 i say add this game to your collection. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: anghelov
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 29, 2008 8:51 am PT
Review:  I just can't stop playing it! 
  Best soccer (Futbol) game ever.... I just play it w/ USA players and I do not have Lag Problems.
 
  I know the game has Lag problems but you can avoid that situation by playing w/ players who has 
 three bars for connection.
  I do not understand why players complaining about not new features or because it has not changed 
 too much from 2007 version but the question is "do we really want the game to be changed? I do 
 not think so. If you really want a big change or different way to play it (control buttons) you 
 should get FIFA then which in my personal opinion is not better than PES/WE 2008.
  The only thing I will suggest to Konami is to release an updated when roster (players) changed 
 or players' skills have improved. I think will be pretty cool too have the latest transfers and 
 updated teams. Take a look to Inter for example; we all know that Adriano is not playing. Or Nani 
 in Manchester United, he is getting amazing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: supersonikk
Rating: 7.5
Date: Mar 18, 2008 3:00 am PT
Review:  Even though I read the bad reviews about Pro 2008 and the good ones about FIFA 08, I still knew 
 which one I was going to get. Even though the PES series does not have all the licences FIFA does, 
 it still gives its fans more to shout about, but this game does not live up to all expectation 
 as the others did.
  
  I have sticked with Konami's series over EA's since Pro Evo 4 came out, and I realised how much 
 better that game was than any I have played in the FIFA series. The difference in style of gameplay 
 is the main thing - FIFA has always been more of an arcade game whilst Pro Evolution was always 
 the true soccer sim. Right up until now have the PES games kept that title, including Pro Evolution 
 Soccer 2008.
  
  The game seems to be getting worse and worse at maintaining licensed teams. I was so disappointed 
 to see that Man U have changed back to Man Red and that the two English teams that are licensed 
 (Newcastle and Spurs) are not even title contenders like they had in the previous games. They still 
 haven't got the Bundesliga back and they seem to be having trouble with the National teams. The 
 amount of stadiums available is ridiculous - why would a struggling Spanish side ever play their 
 home games in the Nou Camp? It is annoying, but that's the way it's always been for a long time 
 now, although I swear they had more stadiums in the other games.
  
  A lot of people probably bought this game to take a look at the new Master League - I know I did. 
 When screenshots of players being interviewed appeared under the Pro Evo section on Gamespot, I 
 got kind of excited and thought that this will be a real next gen game. What they actually did 
 with that picture was pointless - it was just part of the news section of the Master League with 
 a dumb caption like "Rooney talks about the secret behind his brilliant form this season". One 
 nice addition to the game was that they have added two extra teams to each top division of the 
 Master League to make the leagues have a more accurate table of 20 teams. But this should have 
 happened in the first place anyway. Although it seems that PES have just given you extra in the 
 Master League, they have taken away little things from the previous games, which frustrated me, 
 such as the statistics of the players after every match - I love knowing the distance travelled 
 by an individual player and seeing how many successful passes they made. You are also unable to 
 obtain the information that tells you how many appearances your player has made for the club and 
 how many goals they have scored with the tap of a button. 
  
  Pro 2008 has kept the same six trophies available to win in the Master League - D2 League and Cup, 
 D1 League and Cup and European Masters Cup and Champions Cup, but they haven't added anything new. 
 One thing I do look out for is to see if certain players have improved since the last game based 
 on the performances of the last real season. Players such as Carlos Tevez. A lot of their stats 
 were raised, but Carlos Tevez stayed the same even though he is a very special player. This is 
 the same for a lot of other players in the Master League. I like the fact that you can now choose 
 whether to have 'classic' players available to you or not because the classic players used to dominate 
 the big teams in the previous games, which got old fast, and I would find myslef restarting my 
 Master League to try and perfect it this time.
  
  I think that this is the first time that PES have used a Network mode, so I will forgive them for 
 making it so badly this time. You can't find your friends on the game unless you search for hours 
 and there are so many bugs in it that it is almost unplayable. I find myself playing against an 
 Italian or something that has a 20% winning average, but with a terrible connection, and losing 
 5-0 because it just takes one flash and the ball somehow ends up in my net. It really gets to me 
 when someone so bad thinks they are better than me enters 'hahahahaha' every time the ball goes 
 in using some crappy demo chat thing. Yes, the glitches are that bad and if you are thinking of 
 getting this game because of the online features, don't. It hurts to say it, but FIFA probably 
 have the upper hand on this one. 
  
  The actual gameplay of Pro 2008 is still amazing and addictive as ever. There are some slight improvements 
 on PES 6, such as the shooting technique has now been perfected and the long balls are so, so, 
 so much better! The movement of the players is so realistic and the control you have over them 
 is fantastic! And if the game has been slowed down, I no longer notice. However, the new AI system 
 is a big letdown. I find the game easier than ever. My most common victory against the computer 
 is probably 5-0 on top player and it doesn't seem that they have added an extra difficulty like 
 in the previous games. An example of the computers' stupidity would be when the ball goes anywhere 
 near their touchline, they hoof it out for a corner that I didn't deserve. Do they want me to win?
 
  
  The graphics is the worst aspect of the game. They are definitely recycled from Pro 6. Sure, the 
 players shirts and faces look a little more realistic and the crowd have new banners, but that 
 is nothing. FIFA looks a lot more polished and are overall the more superior when it comes to graphics.
 
  
  The sound has been improved. The crowd now have different chants and noises, such as when in England 
 and someone scores, they all scream 'YES!' and in Spain, when a ball falls into the net they shout 
 'GOAL!'. The commentary has improved, but not much. A lot of phrases are constantly repeated, such 
 as 'A quickfire double!' and 'A good manager is an active manager.' It is also very annoying when 
 they never mention the player's name in general sentences, they always refer to the player as 'This 
 player...' I am sick to death of the terrible commentary on PES games, why can't they study the 
 way that FIFA do it? There is also a PES original soundtrack, which goes with the game quite well, 
 but you will get bored of hearing the same songs over and over again.
  
  The game is definitely good value for money, I have played it for well over 100 hours, and I guess 
 that's what makes me disagree with some of the terrible reviews. It has lots of replay value like 
 all PES games. Overall, I agree that this is one of the worst games in the series, but it is as 
 addictive as ever. This game can act like an experimental game to get ready for Pro 2009, and I 
 will definitely get that when it comes out.
  
  Add me as a friend on the PS3 if you liked this review! My PS3 ID is supersonikk, and I will kick 
 your ass =) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: b3yondstupidity
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 15, 2008 3:01 pm PT
Review:  Pro Evolution Soccer 08 ( Also known as Winning Eleven in some places ) is a great game in my opinion. 
 I do not know why Gamespot gave it a 6.0 The Master League mode is pretty much like the rest of 
 the Pro Evo games but just a few tweaks, newly added players and people who are cheap who dont 
 have a type of an assistant manager. Like usall you can start of with the Master League Deafult 
 Team not much has changed in the team, I belive on one or two players swapped positions, Castolo 
 and Ordaz etc are still in there. Or if you want you can just start of with a proper squad such 
 as Barcelona, Manchester United Arsenal etc. The online of Pro Evolution Soccer 08 is great although 
 there are some laggers which is really annoying since you cant get a tackle in, sometimes they 
 just lag it into your goal which is seriously annoying
  You can use your own Master League Time online which is also great. The graphics are really good, 
 the controls are the same. The music choices are good in my opinon. The diffuculty is just right 
 depending if you want to play Easy Hard etc. I've spent hours on this game 50 hours online I belive 
 and more then 50 hours adjusting my squad in Master League. I give this game a 9.5/10.
  I hope this review makes up your mind. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fathollah
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 14, 2008 5:43 am PT
Review:  it is best soccer game for ps3 and it has just 1 problem and it is: there is no premier leaga offical 
 teams like arsenal or chealse or liverpool or manunitedor many others. but totenham hotspar and 
 neacastle united are have ofical jersey.
  the gameplay is better than fifa i think. thats all i tell you if you want to buy a soccer game 
 buy pro evelution soccer 2008.
  the graphics are amazing in this version and.
  if you think fifa 08 is better you are wrong.
  there is more fun things in next gen version. please 
 call me if you think fifa 08 is better. --------------- -------------- --------------- ------------- 
 --------- ----------- -----______ _____________ _____________ ____________ _________ ______ 
  ( ( ( ( ( ( ( ( ( ( ( ( ( ( ( ( ( ( ( ( ( ( ( ( ( ( ( ( ( ( ( ( ( ( ( ( ( ( ( ( ( ( ( ( ( ( ( ( ( ( ( ( ( ( ( ( ( ( ( ( ( ( ( ( ( ( ( ( ( ( ( ( ( ( ( ( ( ( ( ( ( (  
 ) ) ) ) ) ) ) ) ) ) ) ) ) ) ) ) ) ) ) ) ) ) ) ) ) ) ) ) ) ) ) ) ) ) ) ) ) ) ) ) ) ) ) ) ) ) ) ) ) ) ) ) ) ) ) ) ) ) ) ) ) ) ) ) ) ) ) ) ) ) ) ) ) ) ) ) ) ) ) ) ) ) ) ) ) ) ) 
  ********* *** **** *********** ***** 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nyed
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 26, 2008 1:54 pm PT
Review:  Pro evolution soccer. One of The most unappreciated games of all time. It has had the popular Fifa 
 series to compete with and always seems to come out second best in sales. But not in quality. The 
 jump to PS3 has been great one for Konami (despite what many people have you believe) .
  
  A lot has been said about the quality of the game in turns of technical issues. But for some reason 
 I don't notice these problems. I got this game on my birthday (early February) and when I first 
 started to play the game it said I had to install an update. It took years to download but still 
 it has to be done. I don't know if that update fixed most of the problems or not but I do know 
 that it runs perfectly through a HD READY TV. 
  
  On the pitch, it takes a while to get used to the new formula. The game isn't as fast paced as 
 all the previous games in the PES series. But after a couple of matches, you get used to it. Passing 
 is simple and fluid. The shooting system is spot on and very realistic. Players don't all play 
 the same like Fifa which is a huge bonus. If you want to play a game out wide and cross into the 
 box for the striker, it is pointless playing somebody with poor strength up front. Instead you 
 will need somebody who is tall, strong, and athletic. It makes the game feel a lot more realistic 
 than other football games like Fifa.
  
  Graphically, the game is so-so. Some players look realistic close up, but generally it is underwhelming. 
 Players run smoothly and they all act like they should do. The crowds are just pathetic though. 
 They all do the same actions as each other and are as lifeless as a dead tortoise. They also look 
 like cardboard cut outs!
  
  The new commentary team is average but you can cope with it. The only problem is, Mark Lawrenson 
 just seems to point out the obvious all the time which is quite annoying but can also be quite 
 comedic. The menu music is for people who like outrageous music. Some is good but others are just 
 plain ghastly!
  
  One of the major flaws of the game though is the online play. It is unbelievably fun but also unbelievably 
 annoying. The servers are very laggy if that's the term to use. One moment the ball will be with 
 your right back then the next the keeper will have it at his feet. Really the ball is up the other 
 side of the pitch. It gets really frustrating and can sometimes cost you goals.
  
  PES 2008 is a flawed game, no doubt about that. But if the developers can fix all the bugs for 
 the next game, then it will be a monumental game. It is a great one now but it can be so, so much 
 more. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chelsea4_life
Rating: 5.5
Date: Jan 20, 2008 7:15 am PT
Review:  Where to start eh. Dissapointing, hurtful, betrayl, lies and deciet make up this game. This game 
 should have finally put an end to the pro fifa debate, but instead just rivalled up another decade 
 of the argument. What A Travesty.
  Pro 6, what an absolute blinding game with minmal faults, only the most triumphant of fifa fans 
 could dis that work of art. It was wriiten in the scriptures that this NEXT GEN sequel prove to 
 be absolute genius and that this game would take ps3 by storm. Or so we thought.
  October 26, 2007 the prophercy had been revealled, the game had been released and i was first to 
 get my hands on its supposed magic. As only 26 days ago i had just purchased fifa, a decent game 
 but i knew it wouldnt compare to pro evo. Or so i thought.
  I've should've seen it coming with a picture of Micheal Owen on the front. GAmespot got it spot 
 on, it just felt... unfinished.
  Dont get me wrong it took me months to finally released this game was nothing. Tell me something 
 new they added humm. I could tell you things they took away. Creating your own master league team, 
 online tournaments, online 2v2 the list goes on. Why take out things that made the game good and 
 replace them with nothing. This simmmered in my brain as i could not comprehend it. Why ruin such 
 a masterpiece. But the thing that angered me was that this was next gen stuff.
  They had the oppourtunities to think outside the box but couldnt do so. what caused to produce 
 such a disater .I end this review but doing what most of you would be saying.
  Fifa08 till 2009.
  
  Thank u. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: maddog202
Rating: 6.5
Date: Jan 12, 2008 12:15 pm PT
Review:  Konami has broken my heart , On this PS3 verison of PES08! Firstly because the replays are jumpy, 
 its like there in 3 pictures. The game its self is nothing diffrent to the recent pes's like pes 
 06! i'll rather rub soap into my eyes than play this game, i would rather suck a lemon than buy 
 this game again.
  
  In my life time i preferred PES better then Fifa now i'm sad to say its the other way round. Konami 
 was very close to me now where spearated, the graphics are pretty dam crap but the sounds are sexy. 
 The controls are the same but no sixaxis to be used. If you are curious to play this game i will 
 advice you to rent it first. Don't get me started with the grass effect they are really grainy 
 and make me cry! i will brake my neck if i had too. Plase don't buy it. 
  I mean what game comes with a update to fix it! why Konami why?
  
  Lets hope Mgs 4 dosen't 
 turn out like this. 
  
  YOURS ANGRYLY MADDOGG202
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: horror469
Rating: 6.5
Date: Dec 20, 2007 5:45 pm PT
Review:  The players in the game get easily tired.
  I compared with fifa 08 and I found fifa 08 is more faster and the loading page is cool because 
 while you waiting for it to load you can have a shoots at goal. Also fifa 08 players don't get tired 
 easily as they do in pro evolution soccer 8.
  Th other thing that I'm angry about is logos.
  I created a team and wanted to put logos and it 
 says load or get it from camera and I checked internet and the results were nothing it doesnt say 
 anything about it at all.
  This game doesn't worth buying it , I should've bought Smack down vs Raw instead of this crap.
 
  -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  I'm disappointed with soccer games this year .
  
  Another thing is when you take a shot from far away it looks like a little kid kicked it because 
 you can never score that way.
  
  Driblling ? you can't even drible like in fifa 08.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: lfcgangster2k7
Rating: 6.5
Date: Dec 8, 2007 3:17 pm PT
Review:  dissapointing now i feel that is a let down in most ways first graphics , graphics , graphics its 
 a disgrace fifa 08 is such much more power on graphics. i wud give them this shirt pulling erm.. 
 diving is good but doin that will not educate the youth not to sound like a nerd but this is embarrasing 
 to see anyway 6.5 out of 10 is fairly ok but it wud be a miracle if it wud make a big comeback 
 on fifa. i wud say me n my mate always which is better i say fifa he says pro we'll nvr know why 
 how people like both in different ways 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bgriffithsps3
Rating: 6
Date: Nov 30, 2007 6:07 am PT
Review:  PS3 fans have had to wait an eternity for any footy games. So expectations are high for the latest 
 PES. It's a shame then that they are awarded with this. There's nothing new on offer, but you can 
 still get a lot of fun from stringing together some great passes and producing well worked goals. 
 It's just not as exciting as it was. The return of the card-happy refs is another letdown. On the 
 plus side the commentary has slightly improved bar the odd random outburst.
  
  Most of Europe gets official leagues but England gets the worst showing in years, just Spurs and 
 Newcastle. No kidding. Amusingly, even though Michael Owen has made the cover of the game he hasn't 
 made it to England's AND Newcastle's starting eleven! 
  
  After surpassing the FIFA series for years, it has started to rest on it's laurels like they did. 
 Relying on us to just buy a yearly update. At least FIFA has been trying to improve over the last 
 few years.
  
  The biggest letdowns are the graphics and the replays that have an appalling frame-rate and things 
 get worse online. If you want to risk it don't rent it or get a second-hand copy as each game has 
 to be registered to play online, so that basically means that the code will only work on one console 
 (like many PC titles) . Hopefully Konami will sort this out with a patch update. But for now, you'd 
 be better playing PES 5 some more.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: rockystone21
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 27, 2007 8:56 am PT
Review:  this game is a great game and is better than rated
  it says its like last years but the gameplay is totally different and with stuff like diving and 
 pictures on shirts it makes it a good addition
  yes i would admit it is a disappointment but it is still a great game it is like the other but 
 the edit mode is the only difference.
  
  Edit mode is a total disappointment and it has limited amount of editing compared to previous editions 
 but overall it is a good game playing multiplayer and to have a good laugh is great. You could 
 also have all the same game modes as before with even deeper detail. Master league is a lot better 
 as well. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: OnlyCommonSense
Rating: 5
Date: Nov 27, 2007 5:52 am PT
Review:  Pro Evolution is one of the few games that feels right when using the Dual Shock controller, Konami 
 have perfected the controls over a period of years and its that reason alone I bought this on the 
 PS3 rather than the 360.
  What a mistake.
  Rather than wow the public with a masterpeice of football they have given us an abysmal product 
 that reaches lows only previously found with Lair.
  The game suffers from horrible slowdown and drops in frame rate that happen too frequently to ignore, 
 playing a game rapidly becomes a form of torture or punishment.
  When you finally manage to score, and the only reason its so hard to do is because the erratic 
 frame rate and slowdown stops the game flowing, the goal replays are a jerky mess. The game will 
 slow down to what feels like a snail's pace whenever more than half of the players are on screen 
 at the same time.
  There's quite significant and frequent tearing too.
  It's a shambles of a game, you can reduce some of the agony by removing commentary, dropping the 
 resolution of choosing a less impressive stadium but half of the fun of playing games like this 
 is that you can play the big name teams, in the big name stadiums, so by trying to limit the problems 
 you ruin the experience.
  A shockingly poor game.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: CalumMunroCFC
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 23, 2007 11:03 am PT
Review:  I have played this game on scart and on full HD. The difference is staggering. I played both a 
 42inch HD TV. The scart was quite frankley disgraceful graphics which made the hard to see and 
 play. The HD however was very easy to see and play apart from the slow sreen speed which can be 
 resolved when the patch comes out. The last pro evo i played was 4 and this one i find easier and 
 more entertaining to play. At the moment the game is 25 at gamestation and i would recomend anyone 
 who is into this sort of game to have a go with it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Step559
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 20, 2007 4:01 pm PT
Review:  Totally Awesome. This game is awesome. If you don't believe me, read the review at ign. com. The 
 reviewer, from the UK, goes into great detail about how awesome this game is, and gives it a 9.2. 
 Just because the graphics don't match those of the Elder Scrolls, doesn't mean this game is sub 
 par. The graphics are an improvement over last year's debut on the 360. The gameplay is where this 
 game really shines. No other game in the history of soccer video games make you feel so at one 
 with your team. This game is just being born on the PS3. Once they work out some of the initial 
 glitches, it will take off into outer space. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fishdalf
Rating: 6.5
Date: Nov 15, 2007 5:36 am PT
Review:  --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  
  The Good
  + Still plays a decent game of football
  + 'Teamvision' improves the AI ever so slightly
 
  + Awards give you something to strive for
  
  The Bad
  - Lacks progression 
  - Suffers from slowdown
  - No new features
  - Less editing options 
  - Online is next to 
 unplayable
  
  --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  
  Pro Evolution 
 Soccer is a gaming series you felt could do no wrong, with consistent quality titles being released 
 year upon year. This latest installment however brings things to a crashing halt, a game that feels 
 rushed and ultimately incomplete and in my opinion has no right lining up next to its six predecessors.
 
  
  You can clearly see the lack of progression from the moment you load up the game, you only need 
 scroll through the main menu which offers you the same thing's it has done for the past few years 
 now. No new modes, no new league or cup options and no major changes to the Master League - an 
 area that is in desperate need of a revamp. In fact the only change to the starting line-up is 
 the absence of Random Select Matches which have simply been tossed to one side.
  
  This year Konami claim that their new feature entitled "Teamvision" will revolutionize the way 
 you play the game; with the AI supposedly learning from your tactics and then implementing tactics 
 to counter that on both attacking and defensive fronts. While this new system works to a certain 
 extent the differences are minimal, and unless you're really looking for them the subtleties are 
 hard to spot.
  
  The gameplay is still as solid as ever and in some respects the games saving grace; they've even 
 cranked up the speed, something that fans were demanding after last years offering. Sadly though 
 there are some thing's they've changed that aren't as welcoming. The goalies for example now drop 
 the ball a lot more frequently than before; making it a whole bunch easier to score tap-ins from 
 rebounds. Occasionally when the ball rebounds off of the goalies gloves with ferocity and then 
 drops in or around the net the referee awards a corner. Throw-ins are often awarded to the wrong 
 team. Every time you want to take a quick free kick or goal kick the referee prevents you from 
 doing so, instead you have to wait a good few seconds for him to blow his whistle. 
  
  The most controversial is the ability to dive, something that can be exploited to win penalties 
 and get an opposing player sent off. While I understand that diving is part of the modern game 
 it's something that needs to be eradicated, including it in a football game feels wrong. The biggest 
 problem however is the slowdown that occurs when action enters either box, it's not as noticeable 
 on a standard definition TV but that isn't much of a consolation to those who have shelled out 
 big bucks. This is simply unacceptable, especially when you consider this is running on next-gen 
 hardware, The slowdown also hinders the replays, in fact it's so bad at times it's as if you're 
 watching a slideshow; making it near impossible to figure what's going on.
  
  Not content at providing us with no new features they also had the bright idea of removing certain 
 editing options; including the ability to edit the games unofficial badges. It wouldn't have been 
 such an issue if they had stepped up their game and obtained a fully-licensed Premier League but 
 once again it has eluded them, it wasn't such a problem seven years go but as each year passes 
 their excuses are wearing thin. To add insult to injury they've replaced Manchester United and 
 Arsenal with Tottenham Hotspur and Newcastle, a bizarre decision indeed. They've also removed every 
 English Stadium, leaving just 15 to choose from, half of which are either fictional or poor choices.
 
  
  They've now done away with the PES shop and instead locked the secret players to the games various 
 cups and leagues, this is a far better way of delegating the unlockables as it pushes you to play 
 through every mode the game offers. The classic teams also make a return, these can be obtained 
 by winning the World Cup with the corresponding modern equivalent, for example: winning it with 
 brazil will bag you classic Brazil; Pele and all.
  
  With the ever-growing popularity of 360 achievements and the lack thereof on Sony's part; more 
 and more games are implementing their own reward schemes, Pro Evolution Soccer 2008 is no different. 
 Here they're simply called 'awards' and while they're not nearly as diverse as Gamer Points they 
 provide something to strive for: 100 wins, 100 clean sheets etc. It's worth noting however that 
 one of the awards seems to be bugged, so completing them all isn't currently possible, hopefully 
 this is something they can fix in the near future.
  
  The online mode is an absolute joke in every single respect. To start with there's no internet 
 functionality whatsoever, you can basically create a game or join a game using simple search criteria. 
 When you compare this to Fifa who pack their online with all the bells and whistles, plus the fact 
 that they also offer extra content via downloads it's a wonder why Konami doesn't pull their socks 
 up, it's almost as if they're trying to cut down their fanbase. 
  
  Once you've chosen a match you will also come to realize that the slowdown is an issue in the online 
 portions too, not to mention the fact that it suffers from the most horrendous lag imaginable. 
 The ball skips around sporadically, player's teleport from one spot to the next and if you attempt 
 to tackle an opponent then you're probably going to end up either getting booked or miss them completely. 
 I simply cannot explain how unacceptable this is; especially when you consider that it's running 
 on next-gen hardware. 
  
  That's not the end of the misery either, when you finally do come across a lag-free match you're 
 more than likely going to stumble across 'wide cheaters' as I like to call them. They don't want 
 a proper game of football, all they want to do is play as Barcelona or another equally stat-heavy 
 club, stick two players extremely far forward and extremely far wide and then pass to them over 
 and over and over again. No inter-passing play, no one-twos, just continuous through balls for 
 the full duration of the match. I know what you're thinking; surely you can stop these balls if 
 you know that they're coming? Well of course you can, but eventually one is going to hit and when 
 it does they will most likely break through and score. It's not like you can even retaliate because 
 if your full concentration is not on stopping that one through ball they will break through and 
 score again with ease, it really does spoil the online play. The only way I've discovered of preventing 
 such an occurrence is by checking what team they have played with in the last five matches, if 
 that team happens to be Barcelona then that's the tactic they're more than likely going to use.
 
  
  The graphics feel like they've been taken straight from the PlayStation 2 and given a slight makeover, 
 things such as the crowd still look as pixilated as ever, at least they have finally put linesman 
 on to the pitch though. It's also hard not to admire some of the highly realistic player models 
 on offer, it's just a shame that for every one they seem to get right they inevitably get one completely 
 wrong.
  
  The soundtrack is atrocious, every menu is filled with the most cringe-worthy songs you will ever 
 hear, you only have to listen to a track by the name of 'Football Soccer' to understand where I'm 
 coming from, it had me scrambling for the mute button after one play through the chorus. One positive 
 is that they've sorted the commentary out this year, gone are the 'gruesome twosome' and in comes 
 the pedigree of Jon Champion; who brings the play alive, making what used to seem like a 0-0 division 
 3 match into a Champions League final. He is however paired with the ever-dull Mark Lawrenson; 
 who is on hand to turn everything sour, if the slowdown doesn't put you in a depressive state his 
 voice might just push you over the brink. The commentary also suffers from inconsistency, just 
 like games of the past they are prone to the odd mistake, for example: I'll bring on two defenders 
 near the end of the game and they will say something along the lines of "it looks like he is really 
 pushing for a goal now, bringing on players to try and secure the win".
  
  All-in-all Pro Evolution Soccer 2008 is a huge step back from where Konami should be heading. It 
 lacks features, it lacks progression and it lacks the graphical power to push the series forward. 
 In fact it almost makes you wonder whether they gave up on this game a long time ago; focusing 
 their efforts on Pro Evolution Soccer 2009, a game they claim to be 'the real next-gen Pro Evo'. 
 Hopefully they deliver that promise because if they're not careful they may just find that all 
 of the Pro Evo loyalists that have stuck with them for so long may well have jumped ship.
  
  
  UPDATE: Konami released a statement stating that the servers have been stabilized and that 
 lag should now be less of an issue, after testing this it's clear that some of the problems have 
 been sorted but there are still a few more kinks that need ironing out.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: mo_hassan81
Rating: 4
Date: Nov 13, 2007 11:38 pm PT
Review:  Whilst I never went for the graphics and licensing of FIFA cos the gameplay of pro evo was so good, 
 this time however there is hardly anything that makes it better then FIFA. The very slight gameplay 
 touches feel totally uneeded, the graphics would look lame on a PS2, and the biggest and most hurtful 
 problem..... Online.
  
  It's totally broken. I have a very stable and fast internet connection that I play other PS3 games 
 online with and I never experience any issues, but it PES it's totally unplayable. In today's day 
 and age it's totally unacceptable for a well known and supported game to be released in such a 
 state. I would have overlooked the grpahics if the online mode was playable, but it's not so the 
 graphics and the overall presentation stand out even more as a sore point. Online mode is soo buggy, 
 and there is no way to end a match even if the match is a total farce and unplayable. Yes I know 
 Konami have done this to stop people qutting matches, but when ur in a match that has soo much 
 lag that in frame I attacking and about to score, and the very next frame my oppoent has the ball 
 and is clear through on to my goal ?!?!?!
  
  The overall presentation would be average for a PS2 title, and Konami please please stop using 
 crap song titles which are clearly made by someone who doens't know what a football is, the opening 
 title is "Go for Goal", followed by "Hit them harder", I mean come on.
  
  Konami had long enough to sort out the problems and even though as of 10/11/07, they said that 
 they had fixed the problem, it's still not fixed and there is no news of a immenet patch of fix. 
 If you want to play offline then it's great, but you'll have to excuse the presentation and graphics, 
 if you want to play online, forget about it, wait for PES2009 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zahier_daniels
Rating: 6
Date: Nov 8, 2007 2:21 am PT
Review:  I am a die hard pro evolution fan but im sorry to say that in the battle for the top spot of football 
 sims, Fifa 08 takes this round. Fair enough Pro evo is still entertaining , but seriously lacks 
 in depth. If you played pes 6 you will realise that not much has been added to the 2008 edition. 
 In addition the game seems unpolished and the constant lag (although not as bad on a hi def tv) 
 is still unforgivable. I sincerely hope konami take a good look at what Fifa 08 and next time make 
 me believe that im playing a NEXT GEN PS3 game. Fifa has this one gents, sad but true 
::::::

::::::
UserName: br3ttski22
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 7, 2007 10:36 am PT
Review:  dont get me rong its all about gameplay
  so the graphics dint bother me that much
  a nice makeover wouldnt of gone a miss .....
  
  i play it in 720p HD and only frame rate problems 
 i get is in replays but i jus skip them iv had no frame rate problems actually in game (SINGLE 
 PLAYER THAT IS)
  
  and the online
  
  is just shockin its virtually unplayable im very disapointed i normaly love pes dont get me wrong 
 i like fifa all the same im not one of these little fan boys
  
  but im just sick off being ripped off i expect a game to work when i buy it expecialy the online 
 side but apart from the online its a good game the master leagues fun and the gameplay is a good 
 too but its just the things that remain stuck in the past that realy let the game down
  
  i no people are moaning about lak of kits too but i didnt expect a mass variety of english kit 
 so that dosent bother me
  
  i like pro evo but im am very disapointed with the things that remain unfixed and broken 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bbraraujo
Rating: 1
Date: Nov 7, 2007 9:31 am PT
Review:  Ok, I try to like Winning Eleven. Last year I played the game for the XBOX 360, was very excited 
 about the release, only to be disappointed in the end. This year Konami was promising much more. 
 Something to really stand against FIFA's licenses and looks. But when I played PES 2008 it all 
 happened again. Bad graphics for a next gen console, nothing new, nothing much better regarding 
 licenses, so why botrher ? Buy FIFA 08 and don't expect much about PES 2009. If, by any chance, 
 it gets better, than we'll be happy. ------- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - 
 - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Helrafie
Rating: 3
Date: Nov 7, 2007 4:51 am PT
Review:  Disappointed, plain and pure disappointment, I mean with all of this new technology on the PS3 
 and all of the consoles power Konami with all of its might and glory couldnt create a better 
 looking game than this?!!!!! im astonished at what the game came out to be. I tried looking for 
 good and new things like a new replay edge or when you screw up a shot the camera automatically 
 switches to the manager and his reactions, or anything but I couldnt find. Bottom line is that 
 they could have something allot better than what I see in front of me now, and I hope they dont 
 screw up WINNING ELEVEN the same way they did to this game, actually you know what this new game 
 is just a polished version of the old one. SAD. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Niki6199
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 6, 2007 9:39 am PT
Review:  I've been playing this series of football since ps1 and I always saw an improvement from game to 
 game. This year nothings different, you have new commentators, new animations a slightly improved 
 master league now with player and team popularity no black screens after fouls, better graphics, 
 amazing player models and the game has a nice feel to it. Konami could have done much better though 
 considering its on next gen consoles now and slowdowns and framerate problems shouldnt even be 
 in this generation considering the power of the Ps3, thats where the xbox wins.. you should find 
 any of those problems on the 360.
  
  Sound: well overal the sound is good, you'll find the same type of pes music... yes its pretty crappy 
 but pes wouldnt be pes without it. The commentators are definately better, the crowd ar emore or 
 less the same as pes6 though they are more lively in this game.
  
  Graphics: A good first step to next gen graphics this game looks good on my 46 bravia, though its 
 wasted cause it cant use its full potential being 1080p (full hd) . we have to keep in mind though 
 that this is the first game on the ps3 and the graphics will be phenomenal in the next version 
 of the game. Player models look great too you can tell who a player is even from the wide camera 
 view.
  
  Presentation: menus are easy to access though they should have added a few newer features like 
 an individual player season where you control only one player, thats probably what this game lacked 
 the most and unfortunately it came back to haunt konami, you cant keep putting the same things 
 over and over again and expect to get high ratings.
  
  Gameplay: the gameplay as always is amazing, its more or less like pro 6 but with improvements, 
 like I said before konami need to start introducing us with new things, even though the gameplay 
 is good it can be much better and now is the time to start implementing newer gameplay that will 
 take us another step higher towards real football simulation
  
  Logevity: I can see this game keeping you occupied till next year especially with the online mode (even 
 though its terrible right now, hopefully we'll have a patch to fix it) though if konami dont improve 
 a lot for next year then I can see fifa running away with their victory.
  
  Overall I still love pro, but it still lacks a lot of things, and some people might get tired of 
 not having any premiership teams, infact only tottenham and newcastle are licenced this year, same 
 goes for the stadiums, this year we only have 15 and some of them bring a lot of slowdowns with 
 them. Though they are taking a step in the right direction by licensing a lot of international 
 and other clubs like besiktas and fenerbahce. the game was a bit of a let down but as it says on 
 the back of the box if football is your life pes2008 is your game . Thank you for reading 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MGSteve
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 6, 2007 8:41 am PT
Review:  Firstly, one thing to watch with reviews - if the reviewer only plad the game on 'Beginner' they 
 will think its a fantastic game, as its really easy. You can do some really nice moves - mainly 
 as you don't loose the ball!
  
  I play on Amateur, the next stage up, although I may as well play on 'Top Player' as there is no 
 difference between them!
  
  My m8 and I have been playing PES co-operatively (i. e. on the same team) since PES on the PS1, 
 we've looked at FIFA each year, but keep returning to PES. PES2008 may well break that run. (for 
 the record, my m8 and I tend to play the master league, both playing as the same side - i. e. as 
 teammates) . Although I've got a HD TV, he hasn't, so we were playing in SD.
  
  * Firstly, they've made the player indicators so small now, its hard to tell who is red &amp; who 
 is blue (i. e. Player 1 or Player 2) .
  
  * They've removed the 'player off screen' arrow that you used to get to show where your selected 
 player was if he's off screen. This makes positioning the player for any kind of move very hard.
 
  
  * You still can't get the ball off the AI when they've got possession (ok, 'X' does work but only 
 when you're infront of the player. Yes I know this is realistic, but it doesn't stop them from 
 walking through your player and robbing the ball off you.
  
  * You can't sheild the ball from the oppostion - if you get the ball, you can try and turn with 
 R2, but 8/10 times you simply get the ball whipped off your feet
  
  * Sliding now results in a booking or red card 80% of the time. We eventually started to get the 
 hang of it &amp; managed to improve it, but time it wrong and its almost certainly a foul.
  
  * AI can foul you and get away with it far too often. (Talking obvious fouls)
  
  * AI oddly 
 wins throw-ins that should be yours. i. e. they nick the ball off your feet and it rolls out, they 
 clearly touched it last and yet they get the throw
  
  * Replay facility is pointless, it gets reset every time the ball goes out of play. Last rolling 
 30 secs of play would be fine.
  
  * In Pes 6 when you went to select a new player with L1 it would often continue the run the player 
 was making before you selected him - now it doesn't. End result you can select a defender who is 
 running towards the opposition. He then stops &amp; has to start moving again. Very often this 
 pause in movement is enough for the attacker to simply waft on by he's through on goal.
  
  * Beginner level is too easy (won 10-0) , Amateur is too hard (draw or loose by 1 or 2 goals) . to 
 be far PES6 was as bad. But we then played a game on 'Top Flight' and there really is no difference 
 between the two. The only difference is that the AI tends to cheat more. (i. e. Fouls you without 
 you getting awarded the freekick, your goalie suddenly starts playing like David James etc..)
 
  
  * Camera for saving Penalty Kicks is totally crap - its from like, over the shoulder of the goalie!
 
  
  * Goal Replay camera is no longer movable (you can select a moveable camera, but you need to do 
 this EVERY time.)
  
  * Passing is now 10 times less accurate than it was before. Very often it'll pass to a player who 
 has no hope of recieving it.
  
  * Crosses are still more than likely going to be too high for anyone to get on the end of them 
 (as in Pes6) - we're talking the double tap 'O' cross which is supposed to be in the penalty spot 
 general vincinity
  
  * You can still get in the situation where it takes 4 or 5 presses of the 'X' button in order for 
 it to do a pass (ditto with shots some times) .
  
  * Oh, and I dare not even mention the **** poor frame rate. Oh my god. Scrolling of the camera 
 up and down the pitch is painfull, jerk-o-vision. Replays are as bad.
  
  * Players game score is now gone, so you don't know how well players have perfomed during a game
 
  
  * Player conditioning is still useless as it simply kills the health of your players.
  
  How Konami ever released this is beyond me, don't they do any play testing? Don't they play 
 it as teammates on the same team?
  
  After playing it for some time on my HD set, its clearer to see who's player is who's in HD, but 
 it still suffers from cronic slow down, although this is reduced by installing the game data to 
 the hard drive (Although you loose a gig and a bit for doing so) .
  
  I haven't even tried online play!
  
  Yes, in some areas it is an improvement, graphically its 
 better, although most players do tend to look like they're half dead in the face (at least in SD, 
 HD is better) , animation is smoother and when it actually works and you string together a wonderful 
 series of passes to end up scoring a fabulous goal, it is the best capture of the essence of football 
 that we've played.
  
  However, those few good points are ruined by the choppy frame rate (this was offline, by the way) , 
 stupidly hard AI (bearing in mind we were playing on the Amateur level) , stupidly harsh refs (we 
 got 3 players sent off in our first game!) &amp; the other points above.
  
  Well, hard AI isn't quite right, its simply because the standard Master League team is soo slow, 
 if an attacker gets goal side you simply cannot catch him, let alone hammer the 'X' button in the 
 vain hope of getting a tackle in
  
  Sorry Konami, but you've just screwed PES up totally. I do not know how anyone signed this game 
 off for release on the PS3, it needs a hell of a lot of work on the graphics engine to give decent 
 performance. The game play needs to be revised, basic fundamentals such as being able to tell who's 
 player is who's and where they are on the pitch (off screen arrows) need to be fixed.
  
  As it is, I strongly advise anyone who is thinking about buying this game to rent it first. I only 
 wish I had.
  
  I almost cried actually. Been looking forward to this for months and we're both HUGELY disappointed 
 in PES 2008.
  
  Update: 10 days after I wrote the above. I've now completed the master League, season one and I 
 have to say, having played a couple of games in season two, the game improves no end the moment 
 you get decent playes. Note - we're not even talking the Rooney / Owens of this world, just the 
 decent players.
  
  As such, I've redone my review and changed the score, from 6 to 7.5. Yes the annoying faults are 
 still there, but at least with a decent side you aren't punished every time you make a mistake 
 or don't take a chance. It removes the frustration from the game and leaves mild irration in its 
 place instead.
  But the difference buying decent players makes simply transforms the side &amp; the game as a whole.
 
  I still recommend you rent it first, but don't judge the game on the inital Master League squad 
 as its simply pants. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wars45
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 6, 2007 2:23 am PT
Review:  well well got my hands on it at last . and its sad to say its the worst ever 1 . but saying that 
 its the 1 time on ps3 .its still better than fifa . and once u have a game ul play ten games in 
 a row . its still ace just not has good .has the ps2 . 1 the worst fing about its is the onlne 
 mode its too lagy and they need to fix this fast hs sometimes it unplayble .and thats not on its 
 still ace in 2 v 2 butthe gameplay a lot slower the replayes are longer when u playingthe game 
 . the game frame slows down and the game looks like its a ps2 game .and it seem to me its been 
 rushed and thats way it playes the way itdose and looks bad for a ps3 .but the onling mode is such 
 a waste of tim at the min but at the end of theday its still better than fifa .the next 1 has got 
 to be so muchbetter of its goig to losea lot of fans and the refs are card happey they dise the 
 red cards out too easy .but still buy it for playing with u mates 
::::::

::::::
UserName: peppeaccardo
Rating: 6
Date: Nov 5, 2007 11:58 pm PT
Review:  Ok folks here is the deal .. I am Italian and I do eat and breath soccer !!!
  I was expecting this game big time. ... I do live in the US so I arranged for my brother to buy 
 and send this game to me. Useless to say that I had great expectations for this title since I am 
 a huge PES / Winning Eleven fan.
  
  I played about 4 games so far and I must say that I am not impressed. This title for PS3 could 
 have been a total blast, there is so much potential so many things that Konami could have implemented 
 in this game but for some reason they did not.
  
  Technical glitches aside I find the game totally plain , there is really nothing that wows me as 
 a next gen title should. Let me give you a little details:
  
  Graphics 5 : Generic for the players, crowd looks like a low res sticker attached to the screen, 
 frame rate drops not that much (but it does) during actual gameplay if your camera angle is set 
 to wide. Replay are BROKEN !!! I mean Konami, one of the greatest things to do after a goal in 
 a previous incarnation of this title was to watch the replay from every angle and then perform 
 some matrix style camera moves. THIS IS NO POSSIBLE WITH THIS GAME !! Even watching the normal 
 replay gets lame due to the slideshow-ish frame rate.
  
  Stadiums are ok, but still .... more details could have been used, Lastly the soccer field looks 
 like low low res texture on the far side and a low res texture on the near side.
  
  Sound 7: Commentary is what saves the audio in this game, music is totally out of place, crowd 
 FXs are ok.
  
  Gameplay 6: Uhm ... let me say this ... in this game is even difficult to make a normal pass, you 
 can imagine how difficult it is to actually score. Now I have no problems in the difficulty of 
 scoring, but when passing 50% of the time the ball goes somewhere else and 30% is intercepted ... 
 sooooo ...
  I don't game the same satisfaction on scoring as I did in previous PES, I am still trying to understand 
 why.
  
  Goalkeepers seems reacting a little late to shots and usually make great saves even if there is 
 no real need for that. Presentation 5: I wouldn't really care, however I think that given we are 
 paying premium price for the game, in Europe my brother payed 80 Euros for it, a little bit of 
 care to the way the game the way is presented it wouldn't be too bad. Plus FIFA 2008 is behind 
 the corner and its presentation is stellar.
  
  Online: Missing in action. I wouldn't even bother with that ... hopefully a fix / patch will come 
 out soon. I just wonder if Konami has a QA department at all, doeesn't seem to me.
  
  Overall (so far) 6: I mean it is PES so this game does things that no other soccer game out there 
 does. I am disappointed for the lacking of feature and overall polish that this game could have 
 had given that it should be a next gen title.
  
  I am going to rent FIFA just for the heck of it and give it a try. But I really do hope that Sea 
 Bass &amp; Co. come out with a decent patch to correct all the broken things that this game is 
 carrying.
  
  Peace .... and Forza Azzurri !!
  
  P. S. for the first time in my life I agree on GameSpot review score .. amazing ! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dino-sideras
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 4, 2007 7:44 am PT
Review:  pro evolution has been my choice over fifa, ever since pro evo 3. they made minor differences in 
 each version but they still got better and better. the new pro is amazing, although it has issues 
 WHICH WILL BE FIXED its still a brilliant football game. graphics are amazing and they beat fifa 
 for once. people say they dont change it enough but why would u wont to change an alredy amazing 
 game, do you want them to change the game completely so its like playing a different game to pro.. no 
 so shutup.
  
  PRO 2008 - BEST PRO EVER - ISSUES WILL BE FIXED - BETTER THAN FIFA ANY DAY
  
  (btw i had both and i got rid of fifa coz its **** 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jonathan335
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 4, 2007 1:29 am PT
Review:  It just the online tat look awful sometimes but overall gameplay 9.0 out of 10. Pes is the best 
 soccer game. If u have bought u will spent for about 10 hours on it i am sure of tat. When writing 
 your review, remember to keep the language clean. Reviews must be 100 words minimum. We encourage 
 you to try to get your review right the first time  you may choose to edit it later on, but by 
 doing so, you will lose any positive feedback associated with the review. We encourage you to write 
 your review in a word processor or text editor, save it to your local disk, then copy and paste 
 it into the posting box below. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xwoof
Rating: 3.5
Date: Nov 2, 2007 5:32 am PT
Review:  Over the years PES has had many faults - the naff presentation, rubbish commentary, worse music, 
 lack of licenses, ropey player animations - but all these could be forgiven because of the saving 
 grace of its superior gameplay.
  
  Now that FIFA can rival the gameplay all those other faults suddenly take on huge proportions. 
 The fact that Konami have also screwed up the basics - just making the damn thing work - is the 
 final insult.
  
  I have played a few hours worth of PES2008 offline and had a couple of matches online (terrible 
 lag online) . The frame-rate issue offline on the PS3 isn't too distracting, outside of replays, 
 and I was quite enjoying it. Then I played FIFA 08 for a couple of days and the difference is startling. 
 Its pretty slick in every department, and it wins out where it counts: on the pitch.
  
  PES 2008 fundamentally doesn't seem that different to PES4, where FIFA 08 is light years away from 
 FIFA 06 and actually quite a marked improvement on FIFA 07. It feels like EA have a direction they 
 are persuing while Konami are just tinkering with what they already have and hoping that that is 
 good enough. It isn't.
  
  The end of an era, I suppose, bar some kind of miracle this time next year.
  
  I wouldn't bet 
 on that, though. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Edam101
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 1, 2007 6:25 pm PT
Review:  I agree with one thing in this review and thats laggy online play, which can be fixed with an update. 
 But overall i havent experienced any of the other problems they have mentioned. This has to be 
 one of the most harshest reviews iv'e seen one here. ive played both fifa and i own pes 2008 and 
 feel pro evo is the better, even though i have to say that this fifa is prob one of the best they 
 have ever done to date. But a 6 is totally unreallistic in my opinion, people may disagree but 
 i bought this game on day one and feel the game play is one of the most playable and realistic 
 in a football (soccer) game. Sorry gamespot but i have to say your off the mark on this one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kong_viking
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 22, 2007 4:28 pm PT
Review:  PES 2008 has got a fantastic gameplay. Its probably the most "realistic" football game ever, you 
 can actually call it a football simulator! I belive that Konami have focused more on the "football 
 part" rather than the visual. It doesnt look fantastic, but its ok. The sound and the commentators 
 are alright.
  
  So the graphic and sound isnt the best, but the gameplay is dominant! Its so good and fun that 
 you forget bad animations and commentators saying the same stuff over and over again. PES doesnt 
 have as many lisenced players and clubs as Fifa, and there are only 15 stadiums. There are a few 
 negative aspects, but its not strong enough too break down the gameplay. I cant stop playing 
 this game, and with the Master League mode youve got hours and hours of playing in front of you!
 
  
  Fifa has got the best grapich and the best sound, but PES has got the best gameplay. Your choice! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Freestyle_20
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 1, 2007 11:18 am PT
Review:  ok i got this game the day it came out i am a life lonf fifa fan and though screw it i luv pes 
 too and i luv football lets get both. When i got it i put it on and yea u notice the odd frame 
 slow down or bug especially online but they sent me a message saying there gonna fix online but 
 anyway after a while of playing i relaized that this year surley fifa is better the graphics on 
 here aren't as good it has less teams. But i just coudn't stop playing it and its just so fun maybe 
 its just me because i only bought pes 4 before this and i loved that. But dam this game is just 
 awesome sure theres some problems but hopefully next year it won't have any bugs and more teams. 
 Even with its problems it just great fun and nothing else its not a chore to play like fifa sure 
 fifa 08 rocks but so does pes again even though i would say pes is easyier then fifa and remeber 
 i have't played pes since pes 4 and im already up to the second hardest level after bout 7 days 
 In summary it has its problems but as i have said before its just sooooo fun you won't ever want 
 to put it down Fifa wins on paper but that means nothing on the pitch and if your not sure which 
 one to get, get both they both proved great footballing fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JGlover769
Rating: 6
Date: Nov 1, 2007 9:37 am PT
Review:  When i first played the game on demo on the 360, i was very excited, the graphics were a big step 
 up and i couldn't wait to see how Konami worked on PS3 one, but i now realise why no PS3 demo was 
 available. Its because what we bought was infact a demo, almost a beta version.
  
  The gameplay (when not slowed down) is still decent, although the introduction of the automatic 
 sidestep is quite frankly a backward step, i think it was last seen in Pro Evo 4. Also i must agree 
 with Mr Cocker that the diving is very poorly implemented, i can just see many multiplayer games 
 being ruined by someone diving all the time because they are 3-0 down with 10mins to go. The way 
 you can dive whenever in position is terrible much like in the old Fifa games circa 1998/99. It 
 was better used in ISS 2000 on the N64, when you could only dive when in a stumble or after making 
 contact. This however just insults my intelligence and as a game mechanic is nothing sort of a 
 shambles. Once again Guy had it spot on saying that waiting for the ref to blow his whistle at 
 free-kicks is ridiculous and feels like its just wasting your life.
  
  The replays are terrible as in presentation across the board, the entrance scene is jerky and was 
 turned off immediately and the menus (and accompanying soundtrack) are bad enough that if you actually 
 use them for long enough you do actually catch a terminal illness.
  
  Can't really add much more except that i played it on the friday i got it and now (6 days later) 
 i have only loaded up the game once more since. Such a shame as people are gonna flock back to 
 Fifa, which i think isn't much better anyways. But at least you can play as Arsenal or Manchester 
 United.
  
  Next year Konami will have to try harder, much harder, because they will need to win over their 
 own fans like me back because for the first time i feel that the i've been lured into a buying 
 a product that is incomplete under the name of a game which is usually a game i play for several 
 hundred hours until the next one comes out.
  
  James (If i was such a strong man i'd be crying right now) Glover 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tobstar83
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 1, 2007 9:05 am PT
Review:  After playing last year's Pro Evolution I was heartbroken, and thought I would have to switch to 
 playing FIFA (something I never would have considered before) . The game was a huge disappointment; 
 graphics and sound were untouched, and the gameplay was somehow worse.
  
  Pro Evolution 08 is what the series needed, and I'm surprised that reviews have slated it so bad. 
 The graphics and audio have been revamped (even if Lawrenson's wooden commentary is worse even 
 than on Match of the Day) , and the mechanics of it all feel a lot more fluid, especially compared 
 to FIFA's latest offering.
  
  Admittedly, I have only played the PC version so there may be some platform-specific faults to 
 lower people's scores on the consoles, but I can't imagine it would vary too much. At least Konami 
 recognize the PC of being capable of coping with 'next-gen' games and haven't excluded a whole 
 host of features (a la EA) .
  
  It's not perfect by any means - there are passing issues that never seem to be resolved - but it 
 is the best football game on the market. I've never written a game review before, but I felt this 
 game needed to be defended. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Spud-myster
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 1, 2007 6:28 am PT
Review:  This next game in the series is definitely worth getting, because the gameplay is amazing. Some 
 of the positive aspects of the game are gameplay, graphics, soundtrack, commentary and the master 
 league. However some of the disappointing parts of the game are occasionally the frame rate drops 
 in standard and that the editing section of the game has only improved if you have the camera to 
 get licensed kits etc. I think it is good that the developers have finally licensed two other tams 
 (Newcastle and Tottenham) instead of the same old Manchester United, Arsenal or Chelsea. I however 
 am a Middlesbrough fan who lives in Wales (weird I know) and I would like to see Middlesbrough 
 licensed as well as some other crap teams. Overall the game is definitely worth getting but only 
 if you are really into football games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MrZeal
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 31, 2007 1:24 pm PT
Review:  Yes, it's a PS2 game turned HD. It doesn't look as nice as FIFA 08 ( sorry for the comparison ) 
 it doesn't play online as good as FIFA 08 ( sorry again... ) in fact, on-line games suck... it 
 sounds quite good... but hey, this is PRO EVOLUTION SOCCER, the best soccer sim to date despite 
 all these things I've just said. Every year the same story, EA made a huge step, EA is the best... 
 but Europe is still a PES region. Even Ronaldinho, fifa's cover this year, plays PES instead of 
 FIFA!
  
  I've been playing quite enough to get an idea. If you compare to lasts year's PES, it's not that 
 different. But if you compare it with any other soccer sim ever, it's simply the best!
  Games are different one of each other, Teamvision really works... I'm gonna just keep and keep 
 playing until next year Konami delivers what probably should have delivered this year, a real nextgen 
 soccer game.
  
  Thanks for reading! ( My first review, defending PES in soccer games war! hehehehe ) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: samthevillan
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 31, 2007 6:55 am PT
Review:  Having waited for months for the release I was initially very impressed. The graphics are pretty 
 sharp (although admittedly not amazing) , the commentary is good but most importantly it plays like 
 classic PES - super exciting and fast paced action while at the same time allowing for real skill 
 to shine through for the seasoned player.
  However, as many people have pointed out there are some slow-down issues in normal gameplay and 
 the lag problems with online play come close to ruining it. Hopefully these can be sorted out with 
 a patch sooner rather than later.
  My main problem with the game however is the edit mode. On the last 2 ps2 outings it has been superb, 
 allowing for example a fully accurate rendition of the Premiership (only 2 teams are ever provided 
 with the game) . PES 2008 on the ps3 does not allow this as only 8 images can be imported into the 
 game, meaning only 4 teams (home + away kits) can be recreated. Even worse is that the team badges 
 cannot be touched, meaning that if you want to recreate the premiership you have to just accept 
 the badges provided with the game (I'm a Villa fan and so I have to live with 2 ugly horses on 
 the badge rather than the glorious golden lion!!)
  These 2 gripes aside it is still a class game of football, and as long as you're happy just playing 
 with Spanish, Dutch, French or Italian sides it is a truly realistic one too. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PS360Fanboy
Rating: 7
Date: Oct 31, 2007 5:03 am PT
Review:  I must say, I'm really disappointed, all in all a waste of &pound;40. I was expecting something 
 grand, something amazing - a football game worthy PES's standards and rich history. My expectations 
 were further elevated by a review by IGN - they gave it a great 8/10. When I played the game though, 
 I was mightily disappointed. The first thing you notice is that dribbling is ridiculously easier, 
 which is great for beginners, I suppose, but it feels horrible of the more experienced player. 
 The second thing is that the ball is much lighter which diminishes the feeling of realism. In PES 
 6, when you passed the ball or hit a shot, you could feel the weight of the ball, which enabled 
 you to tell whether your pass or shot would be successful. In PES 2008 though, this feeling is 
 greatly reduced. That is not to say that gameplay is terrible, because it isn't, but it certainly 
 well below PES's high standards. The music and the commentary is two of the worst aspects of the 
 game. Track list is just horrible and extremely annoying, unless you're a big fan of pap music. 
 The commentary by Jon Champion is bearable but Mark Lawrenson, with his unemotional and uninterested 
 performance, makes it terrible. Don't get me wrong, Mark Lawrenson is so bad that, not only do 
 you know that he is reading a script, but you can also clearly spot commas in individual sentences. 
 Graphically the game looks decent enough when viewing from the default camera (if you can forget 
 about the slowdowns in the frame rate) , however when viewing a replay, the graphics become really 
 choppy and rather ugly. One of the worst things is the crowd. While there are some nice cutscenes 
 of the fans waving flags and cheering, in replay view the fans are pixelated 2D shapes that vaguely 
 resemble human beings. You would think that with all that next gen power and capability Konami 
 could have done a better job. Another slightly anoying problem is that, in replay mode or cutscenes 
 if zoomed in, the pitch can be pixelated. Also, for some reason the edit mode has received some 
 cuts. To make things worse, I've discovered that IGN is an official sponsor of PES 2008, so the 
 review that elevated my expectations so much was clearly biased. My best advice is to rent the 
 game before (instead of) buying it. In terms of FIFA v PES, this year it's 1 - 0 to FIFA, and it's 
 an own goal PES. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
