-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Pure
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/ps3/driving/pure/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Breathtaking environments.
 Trick system is straightforward and compelling.
 Good track variety.
 Excellent online play .
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Doesn't offer much in the way of originality.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Oct  2, 2008
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 8
Critic Score: 8.3, 36 Review (s)
User Score: 8.2, 319 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Disney Interactive Studios
Developer: Black Rock Studio
Genre: Racing
Date: Sep 23, 2008
ESRB: Everyone

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Pure doesn't blaze many new trails, but this off-road racer still delivers an intense, tricked-out 
 thrill ride. 

  All-terrain vehicles are something of a niche interest, but you don't need to care about them in 
 the least to enjoy Pure. All you need is an appreciation for breathtaking environments and intense 
 racing action. In Pure, Black Rock Studio has crafted an accessible, wildly tricked-out game that 
 may feel a bit familiar, but it pulls off its concept so well that you won't mind feeling like 
 you've danced with this lady before.  

           Impossible? Probably. Awesome? Oh, yeah!      

  In fact, Pure has more in common with 
 EA's SSX series of snowboarding games than it does with your typical ATV racer. At the heart of 
 Pure is a system that rewards you for pulling off spectacular tricks with the ability to boost. 
 Performing tricks is simple -- you just push a button and a direction on the thumbstick as you soar 
 through the air -- but the built-in risk-versus-reward aspect keeps things interesting. Pulling off 
 longer, more complex trick combinations nets you more boost, and you can tweak your tricks with 
 a shoulder button or simultaneously flip your ATV forward or backward to dramatically increase 
 the payoff. But if you don't finish the trick before you touch ground again, you'll wipe out and 
 lose boost, not to mention valuable seconds. And the game's presentation makes it all very visceral. 
 Not only do the tricks look totally insane, but the way the ground flies up to meet you creates 
 a real sense of danger. This makes successfully completing your trick milliseconds before you land 
 exhilarating, while wiping out will have you wincing in vicarious pain as your rider goes tumbling 
 across the rough terrain.  

  There are three event types on offer. Sprints are the most technical: These short races around 
 small, tight tracks provide scant opportunity for pulling tricks. The focus on maintaining your 
 speed and sticking to a smart racing line keep sprints fast-paced and fun. In freestyle events, 
 tricks are all that matter. You keep going until your rapidly draining gas tank is spent, linking 
 tricks to rack up multipliers and score big points. The tracks are decked out with ramps to provide 
 more opportunities for catching big air, and power-ups are liberally scattered around that refill 
 your gas tank, add a multiplier to your score, or instantly hook you up with the ability to perform 
 a special trick. (More on those in a bit.) Freestyle events are the weakest of the bunch because 
 the trick system -- while robust enough for the race modes -- isn't as compelling when you remove it 
 from that context and make it stand on its own.  

  Standard races are the most interesting events because they balance the finish-line focus of the 
 sprints with the need to pull tricks and earn boost. And, you'll need to make some important decisions 
 on the fly. As your boost meter builds up, you earn access to more complex trick types, which, 
 in turn, earn you more boost, so there's constantly a trade-off at work. Boosting is often necessary 
 to pull ahead of your opponents, but draining the boost bar costs you the ability to pull off the 
 more advanced tricks. It creates a surprisingly complex dilemma. There's added incentive to max 
 out your boost bar because doing so will give you access to a special trick. Special tricks are 
 the most outrageous in the game, involving physically impossible (but nonetheless awesome) stunts, 
 such as standing on the seat of an ATV and doing a backflip as it soars through the air. Pulling 
 off one of these tricks will refill your entire boost bar, but they take several seconds to complete, 
 so you'll need to catch some serious air. Landing one of these tricks at a critical point in a 
 race can make all the difference, so it's fitting that they're neither easy to earn nor to perform. 

  Pure's main mode is the World Tour. Here, you'll start off competing on ATVs with relatively weak, 
 D-class engines, and these early events can be a tad too easy, but the competition gradually heats 
 up as you rise through the ranks. The later stages, which find you racing faster models against 
 more aggressive opponents, are also consistently thrilling. You choose from one of six riders, 
 but there's no functional difference among them. It's all about the ATVs, and as you complete events, 
 you'll constantly unlock new parts for your ride, which you can put together, piece by piece, in 
 the game's garage. Armchair grease monkeys will appreciate the number of customization options 
 Pure offers, while others might find it almost silly -- many of the parts have no effect on performance, 
 and your opponents aren't going to take the time to admire your taste in radiator scoops or handle-bar 
 guards. Still, too many customization options certainly beats too few, and the game's autobuild 
 option, which lets you toss together a ride optimized for race or freestyle events just by holding 
 down a button, means you can avoid the business of ATV construction altogether if you'd like to 
 get right to racing.  

           Pure's environments are filled with breathtaking detail.      

  Aside from the World 
 Tour, you can hop into any single event, though you'll need to unlock tracks in World Tour before 
 you can access them. And the online play, which supports up to 16 players in an event, is outstanding. 
 Even in races with 16 people on the track, the action stays fast and smooth. Again, though, you'll 
 need to unlock performance parts for your ATVs in the World Tour mode to access them in online 
 ATVs, which makes jumping right into online games a recipe for defeat.  

  Despite taking loads of inspiration from the SSX games, Pure capitalizes on the fact that it is, 
 in fact, an ATV game. Although the action here is far from realistic, the physics feel convincing -- your 
 ride will dig into the terrain as you slide through curves, and the dirt roads that make up many 
 of the tracks feel as rough under your wheels as they look. The tracks offer an excellent amount 
 of variety, both visually and structurally -- the hairpin turns through the airplane graveyard at 
 Ocotillo Wells in California provide a sharp contrast to the gentle curves that take you through 
 the lush coastal landscape of Kosa Phi Island in Thailand. And the tracks have alternate routes 
 you'll discover that can shave seconds off your time, which makes familiarizing yourself with them 
 rewarding. Still, the action isn't without its rough edges. It's not always clear where the track 
 ends, so you may find yourself going out of bounds and being penalized a few seconds of time when 
 you thought you were just taking a shortcut.  

  Pure's visuals are nothing short of breathtaking. Every detail, large and small, contributes to 
 bringing the environments to life, from the grass and flowers right underneath your wheels to the 
 roaring rivers you might see frighteningly far below. Your ride also realistically kicks up dirt, 
 splashes through puddles, and leaves tracks in its wake. (Nearly every level has helicopters hovering 
 overhead, and, of course, helicopters make anything more epic.) And the game creates a thrilling 
 sense of speed, without any noticeable drops in the frame rate, even when the screen is filled 
 with other riders. The game's sound is great as well. The raucous rock songs on the soundtrack 
 by such artists as Jeff Beck, Wolfmother, and The Futureheads seem to have been chosen with care 
 to create a cohesive backdrop for the action. The whine of the ATVs is authentic, and there's a 
 sickening sinking sound that makes the game's insane jumps that much more likely to induce vertigo. 
 The only problem with the game's sound is that the narrator tends to repeat basic tips ad nauseam, 
 but thankfully, you can shut him up at any time.  

           If you're afraid of heights, Pure may not be the game for you.      

  The PlayStation 
 3 and Xbox 360 versions are almost indistinguishable from one another. The 360 version has achievements, 
 while the PS3 version lacks trophies; on the other hand, the larger shoulder buttons on the Dual 
 Shock make it ever-so-slightly more comfortable for tweaking tricks. Ultimately, if you know more 
 people playing one version or other online, that's the one you should choose. Pure isn't the most 
 original game out there, and it might have been nice to see it build on the trick system in SSX 
 instead of just copying it wholesale. But nonetheless, its focus on tricks, boosting, and larger-than-life 
 jumps over gorgeous environments pays off. This is an exciting racing game that seriously delivers 
 on its promise of high-speed, high-adrenaline action.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (24 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: HarrisDo
Rating: 7
Date: Mar 17, 2009 8:37 am PT
Review:  This game is like motorstorm's little brother. Pure is all about canning bikes across full of mug 
 tracks until your brain drows on adrenaline. However the racing sim and the originality are missing.
 
  
  In pure it is not all about being the fastest. You need to pull off a big amount of tricks to fill 
 the ''Thril Meter'' which unlockes new staff. All you have to worry is about having enough time 
 to finish the move while still in air before crashing into a piece of rock. The big showpiece is 
 the style moment when you leap off a jump and time slows down and you pull one stupid signature 
 move as the ground drops away.
  
  Another worth mentioning point is that in pure depending on the race you will need to balance tricks 
 and boost differently and you'll have to master them to become the first one. That is something 
 that adds extra difficulty to the game.
  
  The troubles start when you realize that the tracks are repeated and that there is not a huge amount 
 of moves you can perform. You can win parts for your veehicle only if you are petrolhead but that 
 doesn't mean that new parts will make the same track seem more exciting.
  
  So pure is a game that surprises in the beggining but as you play it you start to get bored... 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gamereviews2008
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 1, 2009 11:48 pm PT
Review:  Pure is an adrenalin-fuelled rush and great fun to play. I've not played an off-road Quad bike 
 ATVs (All-Terrain Vehicles) racing game before, but the game itself lends from other racing games 
 where the point is not only to go fastest, but to obtain points for tricks. The better the tricks, 
 the more points you will accumulate. Points are based on a built-in 'risk vs reward' point scoring 
 scheme.
  
  This makes playing Pure much more exciting. Rather than simply racing around a track, it will have 
 you attempting to squeeze more tricks into each jump, hoping that you land right way up and not 
 over-cooking a stunt. There are three events to choose from: Sprints offer less chance for completing 
 tricks, as you race around short, tight tracks at tremendous speeds. Sprints are all about speed.
 
  
  Freestyles are the antithesis of Sprints. In Freestyles 'points mean prizes!' The more outrageous 
 your tricks, the more you score. Ramps are placed around the track to invite you to score high, 
 while 'power-ups' litter the course to boost your fuel tank. Freestyles are fun, but not as exciting 
 as a stand-alone mode. Standard Racing is by far the most exciting, as you balance the need for 
 speed with the choice of more daring stunts for your ATV to gain boosts. By collecting boosts you 
 unlock better tricks throughout the race.
  
  Once you've gained some control and understanding of the game you can enter the World Tour event. 
 The first races are easy and will give you a chance to get some more racing experience. But as 
 you begin to progress the World Tour will become harder, as you race against more aggressive, fearsome 
 opponents. As you complete each event you will unlock parts for your ATV and the races will become 
 much harder. By unlocking new parts the game allows you to customise your ATV and even create a 
 new ATV. If you don't want to compete in the endurance of a complete World Tour you can opt for 
 single events, but by competing in the World Tour you will unlock new tracks to race. And if that 
 isn't enough, you can play Pure online with up to 16 players.
  
  Visually, Pure is amazing, perfect. The graphics certainly help the adrenaline rush of this excitingly 
 awesome game. Check out the game play.
  
  Rating: 9/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: _Ben99_
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 31, 2009 10:04 pm PT
Review:  
  Gameplay :As you play pure and make progress you can't help but notice the good amounts of jumps 
 and boosts , something I've always looked for in ATV games. What is so awesome about pure is how 
 accessible it is for new comers for such genre. 
  They basically knew what they were doing when they've made this game . It's important to note that 
 the later stages of the game get pretty intense and difficult and even after you've seen the credits 
 roll still you got to finish the other races , freestyle and sprint modes in the first spot so 
 that you could be number one champion of the world tour.
  Graphics: Stunning.
  Multiplayer and reply value : Intense competition for the multiplayer and if you greatly enjoy 
 it for the first play through you'll definitely like it for the 2nd play through. 
  Bottom line is : this game is a must have 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: itchyflop
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 29, 2009 4:23 am PT
Review:  The 1st thing i'll say about this game is its good fun. At last sony are turning to what made all 
 their other consoles a hit, good gaming. Were starting to see old favourites re surfacing with 
 a complete make over. This is no exception, it looks gorgeous and plays with a certain excitement 
 that only losing your virginity can compare to!! You are compelled to perform the next bigger stunt 
 on the apex of each hill, but its so surreal and purely immersive you sometimes forget your racing 
 too!! 
  
  This game has a very familiar feel to it with responsive, colourful sprites darting round the screen. 
 It supports full online and multiplayer modes, but has a healthy selection of tracks in single 
 player. With the option to create your own bike and racer, or let the ps3 do it for you, either 
 way you have to win to increase parts on your bike, and eventually build a monster letting you 
 ll fly round the tracks getting some serious air to perform special tricks. Just be careful to 
 land the bike 1st and not you!!
  
  If you want a game thats fast paced, immersive quad biking game, with lush graphics and 18, yes 
 18 players to compete on and off line, this is the game for you. If you want insane, crazy jumps 
 through cliffs, lakes, sand dunes with stiff competition, buy this...
  
  Yes this has been done before on most systems and they were pretty good, this isnt pretty good 
 this is great fun with the appeal to crank up the pace and stunning looks of this game, some massive 
 jumps, just dont look down!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GirlsPlayToo89
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 17, 2009 1:27 pm PT
Review:  I haven't played a good atv game in a long time so when I found this game I was pleasently surprised. 
 : ) There are many different modifications you can do to your 4-wheeler including the looks, handling, 
 speed, and trick boost. There are plenty of different tracks each with their own category. There 
 are freestyle races where you win by getting the highest score doing tricks. Then there are races 
 where you do about 5 laps to gain boost by doing tricks and winning first place. Then there are 
 sprint races wich usually are only about 3 laps so it's not really based on tricks. The online 
 play is really fun also, and you can choose wich type of race you want to compete in: freestyle, 
 race, or sprint. The tricks are highly addictive and you feel like you are going at a really fast 
 speed when you hit your boost button. I would strongly recommend this game to anyone who loves 
 a fast paced atv racing game. : D 
::::::

::::::
UserName: _LiL_E
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 16, 2009 5:14 pm PT
Review:  **** awesome best game ive played on ps3
  
  a must buy for any racing game fan 
 
  
  awesome game awesome game awesome game awesome game awesome game awesome game awesome game awesome 
 game awesome game awesome game awesome game awesome game awesome game awesome game awesome game 
 awesome game awesome game awesome game awesome game awesome game awesome game best game on the 
 ps3 so far best game on the ps3 so far best game on the ps3 so far best game on the ps3 so far 
 best game on the ps3 so far best game on the ps3 so far best game on the ps3 so far best game on 
 the ps3 so far best game on the ps3 so far
  
  highly addvictive wnt what to put it down 
  
  best trick system of any atv game yet 
  
  almost enviroments lots of details good graphics 
 
  
  best atv motorbike game ever 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nismo_skyline85
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 6, 2009 1:54 pm PT
Review:  Im gonna get this off my chest up front, Pure is FUN! The game is a blast to play if you enjoy 
 off-road racing games. Pure is in no way an atv simulation, it is very over the top and a real 
 person would probably end up at least in a coma if they tried nearly any of the stuff in this game. 
 The tricks you are able to pull off are so impossible and soooo really cool!
  
  Pure is beautiful. The graphical presentation is gorgeous. From the awesomely detailed tracks, 
 to the great looking riders and bikes, Pure looks great. There are lots of cool little effects 
 that round out the graphical package like slow mo effects on big jumps.
  
  Sound is good, not great. There should be more of a variety between atv engines. The 4 and 2 stroke 
 engines sound too similar. And the soundtrack is good but gets old fast.
  
  The beef of the game comes from World Tour mode which starts you at rank 100 in the world and you 
 have to progress through the ranks unlocking new circuits and parts along the way. World Tour has 
 three different race styles: sprint, freestyle, and race, which each require a different atv to 
 perform successfully. Atv creation is pretty cool with licensed parts. It would have been cool 
 to break down the engine and have individual parts there, instead of having whole engines to swap 
 between. 
  
  World Tour starts out too easy and eventually gets a little too hard. The tracks are pretty well 
 done. There are several paths to take across most courses. Later in the tour its only possible 
 to win by taking shortcuts which are nearly impossible to see and the A. I. will not take the shortcuts 
 if they are in your line of sight. It all makes things more challenging, I guess (or more frustrating) .
 
  
  Overall pure is a refresher on the off-road racing sub-genre. Its new, different, and really cool. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dashizy666
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 3, 2009 8:57 am PT
Review:  One thing I have to say about pure is thank God that there is an ATV game worth playing. The graphics 
 themselves are beautiful, and has some of the best lighting effects I ever saw. I love how you 
 can custom build your ATV which reminds me of Gran Turismo. The tricks themselves are very cool 
 and remind me of SSX tricky which holds a place in my heart as the best snowboarding games period. 
 If your looking for ultra boring traditional been there seen that trick thousands of times before 
 then this is not the game for you. The controls are dead on and get better as you upgrade your 
 bike. The tracks so far are excellent. As far as I'm concerned, this game is the second best racing 
 game. Only Burnout paradise beats Pure by a hair. The only thing that annoys me is the tutorial 
 voice that grate on my nerves. But it's a good thing you can turn down the volume with him. This 
 game for me doesn't disappoint at all. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xfactor674
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 4, 2008 6:18 am PT
Review:  in pure the game has good graphics likenit looks real but its not because of the tricks they do. 
 most of their tricks are fake because some tricks they make u jump off your bike and still get 
 back on it. there is another trick when they make u jump off of your bike and spin or do a backflip 
 and ctach back the bike. But the best trick in the game is the one on the cover of the pure. that 
 trick is cool because they make u hang on one bar with one hand in the air with his legs out and 
 then get back on the bike that trick is soo! raw. the trick they should of had is is when your jumps 
 off the bike and spins doing a frontflip on the handle bars and get back on the bike for alot of 
 trick points. when they make u costomize your atv u can do anything to it if u want . but the ramps 
 are so high you wouldnt believe they have a ramp that is about over 1000 ft in the air and you 
 can do any trick u want before u come close to touching the ground and crash . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Tony_Atak
Rating: 7.5
Date: Oct 31, 2008 10:27 pm PT
Review:  I rented it and had fun with it. Although I wouldn't say its a game you can be attached to for 
 more that 2 hours. The game play is smooth. The graphics are impressive as well. I love the fact 
 that you can't just go buy a quad and race right away. Each quad you play with was build by you 
 from scratch... I'm talking starting from the frame. Pretty neat feature I thought, of course if 
 yo like to customize, if you're in a hurry you can make it build one for you randomly. I personally 
 would not buy this game because it get repetitive after a while. The tricks are wicked but also 
 gets in the way of "pure" racing. Only reason I gave it a 7.5 is because I beat it before my five 
 day rental was up. I must admit, I did overall have a great time playing this game. I hope there 
 will be a sequel with improvements. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: benhead08
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 21, 2008 7:43 pm PT
Review:  I bought Pure without much research I was into the MX vs. ATV thing until I was dissapointed by 
 Untamed so I needed something different and i'm glad I picked Pure up. The customization alone 
 gives it an A in my book there is so many visual and performance parts you can put on your atv. 
 The world tour isnt very long you can beat it in one day if you have no life like me but there 
 is still the online option which is very addictive. I fell in love with the freestyle. Theres a 
 few different ways you can go with the performance parts. You can select different engines and 
 shocks to either make your atv fast and have good handling for races or change it up to make it 
 a freestyle ride. You will have to do this in order to beat the game. I also like the way they 
 made it where you have to do stunts in order to get boost which is significant in winning races 
 it takes away the whole boring aspect of just doing laps it makes it more intense because you could 
 hit the dirt with just one screw up. And you will get really pissed at this game probably but it 
 just makes it all the sweeter when you finish. To sum it all up this game is pretty BA lol. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: trmnatr4x4
Rating: 5
Date: Oct 20, 2008 7:45 pm PT
Review:  Wasn't impressed at all right from the start. Nothing like other ATV games. Handling is not anything 
 true to life. This is a would not buy in my book. I am glad I rented it first. Disney should stick 
 to mickey mouse, they obviously know nothing about racing in this game. MX vs. ATV is far ahead 
 of this game and is an old game. Save your money and wait for a differnet ATV game to come out. 
 Man how many words does this review need? This isnt 100 words yet? Cartoonish graphics and not 
 any real true to life competitions like Supercross or Nationals. I am realy surprised that this 
 game is rated so high by the websites and magazines. Has everyone forgot what a real racing game 
 was like? I wont be bothered returning this game to the rental store. Ill wait for a more life 
 like game to be released. What does PURE stand for anyhow? Pure crap? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: salbenali
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 12, 2008 1:04 pm PT
Review:  I am not a fan of racing games but I must admit, when I saw the reviews and watched the trailers 
 for this game, I was amazed at how fun it looked and at how beautiful the graphics were. As soon 
 as I put the game in, I was hooked. I found it very hard to get away from the game playing it 5-6 
 hours straight. Difficulty is just right. I love the stunts you could pull and the scenery that 
 is mixed into it. I also appreciate the fact that you are able to build your machine from scratch 
 and I mean from scratch. Being able to control everything on your racing machine is really a joy. 
 Rather than just choosing the look you like.
  
  I found that the commentary during the gameplay was a bit frustrating at first but later on found 
 it very helpful and fun. 
  
  I used to play racing games long ago on my Sega and Super Nintendo but then it seemed like those 
 games lost their sense of art and competition and focused more on the music and how much damage 
 you could do to your car or another. However this game got me back into the racing genre. It will 
 take long before I get fed up with it. 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: SadPSPAddict
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 10, 2008 1:44 am PT
Review:  As a fan of this type of game I was looking forward to getting my hands on a copy of Pure... and 
 it did not disappoint.
  I'll start by saying that the graphics are amazing and a lot of detail has gone into the breathtaking 
 scenary on all the tracks - of which there are plenty.
  Customization options abound for those that wish to tweak every aspect of the ride whilst at the 
 same time a quick build option is available for those that just want to race. Personally I went 
 for the quick build to start with and then went back to make adjustments. More and more items are 
 unlocked as you progress through the career mode.
  There are 3 different race types:
  1. Sprint - shorter tracks with tight corners and few options to jump and perform tricks. Usually 
 5 laps in durations
  2. Race - Longer tracks with the emphasis still on winning but making it necessary to perform the 
 tricks to earn the boost!
  3. Freestyle - keep performing tricks to earn points and more gas. Keep going until the gas runs 
 out, most points wins the day
  
  All 3 race types are mixed in to the career mode which starts of relatively easily (I won all 4 
 races at stage 1 at the first attempt) , and the difficulty progresses nicely along until by the 
 3rd stage I was having to retry races if I wanted the victory!
  
  All in all a great addition to the genre and I look forward to many more hours of fun! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dutch777
Rating: 7
Date: Oct 6, 2008 10:14 pm PT
Review:  Pure isn't a very evocative name for an ATV racing game. When it comes to the ATV games, we usually 
 get a lot of manly sounding terms like "off-road" or "fury" or "frenzy." Pure sounds pristine and 
 white like snow. It sounds like the name of a snowboarding game. Maybe, in some weird subliminal 
 way, that was the plan all along, because Disney's ATV racing game has more in common with the 
 SSX series than with the multitudes of other ATV games that have been released over the years.
 
  
  
  
  There's a refined simplicity to Pure's mechanics that boils down to the basic "more tricks equals 
 more boost" style of play. As you go off of big jumps, you do tricks. Tricks fill your "thrill 
 bar," which is another fancy way of saying "boost meter." You can hit your boost at any time, but 
 filling it up gives you access to more tricks, which gives you more potential for earning boost. 
 Filling up the bar gives you a special trick that can be used at any time, regardless of how full 
 your meter is, but you'll need a big jump to have enough time to land the trick properly. Landing 
 a special trick refills your boost meter, creating a situation where you can boost almost constantly 
 as long as you occasionally land a special trick.
  
  Pure also has online multiplayer, which lets up to 16 players race at the same time. This, you 
 would think, would be where the real fun lies, but that's only the case if you pour a heaping helping 
 of time into the single-player, as you'll still need to unlock all of those hot bike parts before 
 you can use them online. And without those parts, it's tough to remain competitive.
  
  
  The last piece to Pure is an important one -- it's the graphics. Pure looks great and runs fast. 
 You'll get a good sense of speed on the ground and you'll get to see enough of the surrounding 
 environment to make those huge jumps look positively majestic. The rider animations are perhaps 
 a bit stiff, and the crashes are cut so short that they start to look a little weird, but overall, 
 it looks terrific.
  
  
  It might not sport licensed riders, but with plenty of licensed parts and solid gameplay, it's 
 easy to imagine that most fans of ATV action will enjoy Pure. But there's also that SSX connection, 
 as the game's fast spe 
::::::

::::::
UserName: teb60
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 2, 2008 1:14 pm PT
Review:  This game takes me back baby, yes and thank you Disney. "Please sirs can we have some more", I 
 have to say Disney definitely came out w/ a game that will be replayed many times until an update 
 or new version releases; granted their are so many other games out right now that have to deal 
 w/ off-road racing and dirt biking and even big-rigging, but this game right here gives you the 
 option to just let it all go.... Once you take flight and start getting major height off the jumps 
 and blazing speeds around the in-depth tracks, you will all understand where I'm coming from; the 
 game does have some weak spots but i believe that's only because it is a Disney game. They could've 
 worked a little harder on getting some small aspects corrected: like when your online and you want 
 to play w/ a friend you just have to go through entirely to much, just to play w/ a friend i mean 
 come Sony/Disney which ever one of you thought of this system need to get your brain checked, but 
 heck other then that the all around game itself is beyond expectations sometimes. Check this you 
 have over 6,000 modifications that you can do to your ATV and then take that vehicle online and 
 race w/ it against other people.... Definitely a plus in my book, hope the rest of you feel the 
 same; if you haven't yet you must check this game out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AweWiiGamer1
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 2, 2008 10:22 am PT
Review:  Pure is one of those games that is a joyously fun old school ride. Pure is tradional bike racing, 
 but mixes it with slick over the top action to make any keen racer equally as satisfied. Pure is 
 great fun, and Disney and Black Rock Studio has made a game that will make you catch Pure's simplistic 
 yet addictive fever.
  
  Pure is a game that has a simplistic control scheme, yet adds depth to the controls in a way you 
 would not expect. You use the left analog stick to control your biker, and press button combinations 
 in a driver gauge as they appear in order to perform biketastic stunts. Pure nails the timing of 
 these stunts incredibly well, as both meeting the accuracy of the timing, and using these moves 
 at exactly the right moments in order to win. This adds to unexpected depth to Pure, that makes 
 it sense the true effprt within it.
  
  Pure is graphically a gem. Pure, even in it's muddy terrians, looks wonderful, and shines with 
 a high artistic look and detail. Everything looks near photo realistic in Pure, and the level of 
 vision in the designs is astounding.
  
  Pure is truly an action packed great, but Pure does suffer from a few flaws. Pure suffers from 
 predictabilty, which does suck the fun of the game's excitement. Pure also suffers from sometimes 
 a relatively steep learning curve, and it being fustrating to master.
  
  Overall, Pure is an extremely solid racer, with a lot to offer to an already classic experience.
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: dfblack
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 29, 2008 2:30 pm PT
Review:  This is a good game. FUn and appropriate for all ages.
  The graphics are great. You don't loose any quality if fast paced action.
  There is a certain 
 amount of decisions to be made when choosing component upgrades after winning events. These components 
 effect how your ATV rig performs and the amount of customization you have on your ATV rig is extensive, 
 but for those of you who do not want to go in-depth and just want the performance designed around 
 your choice events, you have short cuts to get there too.
  This game has something for everyone, sprint and lap racing and trick jumping. 
  The learning 
 curve on the tricks is a bit more intense as higher levels requires combos and consistent completions 
 without wrecking. Which in itself can be challenging, but not impossible. 
  Racing can be fast an furious as the computer generated players will bump and distract you from 
 where you want to go.
  Overall it is a great game. If you like pure arcade racing and jump/trick action. Buy it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Yathoom
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 27, 2008 10:50 am PT
Review:  Amazing looking game, not so hard and you really get the feeling of your blood rushing through 
 your arteries. I loved it and i'm almost finishing it on rookie level.
  I hate to finish a game so easily and so fast, but yet i'm only playing the rookie level which 
 i normally don't do. Besides, the sport games never ends you can always go back and try different 
 things. I don't think that gamers would regret buying the game, Looks good feels good and it presents 
 different kind of excitement.
  I kinda felt it presented it self like Need for Speed Pro Street, with the idea of events and different 
 races. I liked Pro street and I like this one as well. you can switch to different experience with 
 each event, and each race (Sprint, Race and Freestyle) offers yet another experience. The gamer 
 has to approach each race with different strategy in racing and different ATV. I like the fact 
 they've made the ATV customizable, but not to the limit that you would hate to customize and have 
 a headache trying to think what would work or sucks in a race. Mostly, it's very simple and very 
 nice looking garage in the game.
  Buy Get Online, Let's meet there.
  My favorite is freestyle then comes the sprint! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: khalifaa
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 29, 2008 5:21 am PT
Review:  I like pure just because it's in High Defenation add to that it's for play station 3 and it means 
 that this game has an encrideble effects !
  Pure's gameplay is split among three modes: race, sprint, and freestyle. The first two are pretty 
 self-explanatory and consist of five- and three-lap races respectively. One interesting caveat 
 is that the sprint races feature a modified, shorter track than that in the race mode. The freestyle 
 mode, on the other hand, requires you to pull off as many insane tricks as you can, all while keeping 
 an eye on your ever-dropping fuel gauge. You'll fill up the tank at the end of each lap and can 
 also pick up fuel bonuses along the way, in addition to other upgrades such as score multipliers 
 when performing tricks.
  
  Extreme sports fans will be happy to know there's a pretty wide range of tricks you can pull off 
 in Pure. Preloading a jump by pulling down the forward with the analog stick will buy you some 
 airtime. Once you're off the ground you can pull off a move with one of three face buttons in combination 
 with a direction on the analog stick. Freestyle motocross fans will be familiar with moves such 
 as the nac nac, cordoba, bar hop, coffin, indian air, 9 o'clock nac, ruler, cliffhanger, tweak 
 air, and maddocopter. There are three levels of moves, and as you pull off a string of successful 
 ones you'll unlock the next. If you successfully execute enough, you'll be able to pull off some 
 lengthy special moves such as a "shaolin funk" -- just make sure you have enough airtime or you'll 
 land belly-up. 
  So far we've only seen Pure's single-player mode, but we hope to get behind the wheel in some multiplayer 
 racing soon. Pure is revving up for a September release on the PlayStation 3, Xbox 360, and PC..... 
 :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: playmemike01
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 26, 2008 3:36 pm PT
Review:  When first announced I didn't think much to this Motorstorm wannabe. First glances showed little 
 variation of the everly increasingly familiar dirt track formula and I expected disasterous results 
 like those experienced in the latest installment of THQ's ATV series. 
  
  Fortunately unlike ATV and more recently Baja: Edge of Control, Pure is ahead of the competition, 
 and after playing this and comparing it to Motorstorm, the race has just got seriously competitive. 
 Pure mixes the mad stylings of SSX and plonks the boarders on bikes but still manages to encapture 
 the exhilerating thrills that Motorstorm has been famed for.
  
  Tricks are insane and gain you boost the more do, but the more air you gain, the more comprehensive 
 and totally bonkers the tricks become, from sticking their leg out to literally break dancing on 
 a moped. This excitement is further heightened by the stuning character animations, which are fantastically 
 smooth, and add a sense of realism to what is essentially impossible.
  
  The courses look fantastic and offer much more diversity to those on offer in the original Motorstorm 
 title. Almost photo realistic tracks offer jaw dropping views and tremendous detail but it's all 
 about that small detail - tyre tracks in the mud, bendy plants, dust, wind and splashes. Though 
 compared to Motorstorm, Pure's track are very narrow and don't offer as much variety in choice 
 of direction, but, they are a damn sight better looking.
  
  Controlling your ATV is simple and very easy to get to grips with, whilst tricks are mapped to 
 the face buttons, and though feel very arcadey input, is made up for with the addition of a directional 
 push from the left stick and makes for a control scheme band in the centre to Skate and Tony Hawks, 
 but on a bike not a board.
  
  The option to customise your ATV also is a very in depth and technical process that isn't just 
 there to tweak asthetics but could win you races if it's modified accordingly.
  
  The main competition mode is at first astoundingly quick paced and doesn't grow entirely boring 
 until the last half of this mode, where tracks do repeat themselves greatly and there is no two 
 player split screen which is a big downer for me but when the racing is this good, it's a minor 
 complaint in an otherwise enjoyable racer.
  
  Overall Pure is a new exciting take on the dirt racer that feels fresh and exhilerating. It could 
 have perhaps done with a wider variety of vehicles but this racer is definately more enjoyable 
 than the original Motorstorm and is definately the racer that passes the checkered flag first. 
 Pacific Rift has it's work cut out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chrisMulcahy
Rating: 6.5
Date: Sep 25, 2008 4:02 pm PT
Review:  I guess i knew what i was getting into before buying this game.... But i wished I waited and just 
 rented it instead. The trick system is terrible. Everyone should copy skate from this point on. 
 I knew it would be like ssx games, but it is just too easy. You cant jump out of the track. Thats 
 the best way to describe it is, if you jump across the course you automatically land in another 
 track.
  
  The music is bunk. More games need to let the user upload tracks. I just turn the soundtrack off 
 and play the radio. The graphics are nice, but not ps3 worthy. The sounds are ok, the character's 
 are very pre-teen. With gestures and fist pumps every turn.
  
  
  I can overlook most of this stuff because it is disney produced. but I think I'll have it totally 
 beaten before the end of three more hours. Firsts in All events, hopefully there is another higher 
 level I can't see just yet.
  
  Bottom line is: FUN. But times are tight, 60 clams is a rip off. This is a RENTER.
  Anyone play 
 Baja Yet?
  -Mulch 
::::::

::::::
UserName: detroithardcore
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 23, 2008 5:32 pm PT
Review:  This game totally takes me back to the PS2 classic Freekstyle. Gigantic jumps, massive air, and 
 intense racing! This game is by no means realistic... just the way I like it. If you like extreme 
 stunts that aren't possible, check this game out.
  
  
  Graphics = The stages look great and the backgrounds are breathtaking at times, the characters 
 are a little bland but that's not what the game is about.
  
  
  Sound = The sound effects are great, especially when you take off from a huge drop and all sounds 
 drowned out except the wind.
  
  
  Music = Wasn't too impressed with the soundtrack but it is good for racing I suppose.
  
  
 
  Controls = Pick up and go, the tricks come gradually giving you time to learn easy to hard in 
 that order.
  
  
  Difficulty = Learning which course uses what bike may be a little challenging, because of the in 
 depth create a bike section. Your tires play a bigger role than most realize.
  
  
  Fun factor = I'm totally hooked so yeah its good, check out the demo on PSN to see how you like 
 it.
  
  
  Replay value = With the seemingly limitless bike combination's , and online sprints, races, and 
 free roam, you could rack up alot of replay time.
  
  
  Overall value = If you're into extreme over the top thrills than this is a must own for racing 
 fans
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: X-Solid
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 16, 2008 12:19 am PT
Review:  ... .... .... ... .... ... ... .... ....
  ... .... .... ... .... ... ... .... ....
  ... .... .... ... .... ... ... .... ....
  ... .... .... ... .... ... ... .... ....
  ... .... 
 .... ... .... ... ... .... ....
  ... .... .... ... .... ... ... .... ....
  ... .... .... ... .... ... ... .... ....
  ... .... .... ... .... ... ... .... ....
  It was 
 a long time ago when I had a real fun playing a game!
  but pure made it possible!
  great graphics great music!
  new ideas, crazy stunt moves!
  and speed! and fun!
  I recommend 
 this game for PS3 xbox and PC users!
  this game is a must :)
  ... .... .... ... .... ... ... .... ....
  ... .... .... ... .... ... ... .... ....
  ... .... 
 .... ... .... ... ... .... ....
  ... .... .... ... .... ... ... .... ....
  ... .... .... ... .... ... ... .... ....
  ... .... .... ... .... ... ... .... ....
  ... .... 
 .... ... .... ... ... .... ....
  ... .... .... ... .... ... ... .... .... 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
