-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Ratchet & Clank Future
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/ps3/action/ratchetclank/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Shooting and platforming gameplay is fun.
 Lots of different and useful weapons.
 Beautiful, colorful visuals.
 Tight controls.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 There's some good humor in it, but the story isn't very interesting, and the ending is a letdown.
 So many different, often unnecessary gameplay mechanics that the game lacks an identity.
 Difficulty is too easy and only the last hour or so is remotely challenging.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Oct 23, 2007
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 7.5
Critic Score: 8.9, 75 Review (s)
User Score: 8.9, 5,538 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: SCEA
Developer: Insomniac Games
Genre: 3D Platformer
Date: Oct 23, 2007
ESRB: Everyone 10+

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Ratchet & Clank Future: Tools of Destruction is a fun, combat-oriented platformer, though it's extremely 
 easy and suffers from a bit of an identity crisis. 

  Over the course of five games the Ratchet &amp; Clank franchise has crafted its own identity and 
 a large following as well. It's odd, then, that the duo's first outing on the PlayStation 3 finds 
 them facing an identity crisis of sorts. The game just can't decide what it wants to be. The story 
 tries to be epic in its scope and appeal to an older audience, but the game is extremely easy and 
 the story's premise is thin and the ending disappointing. The core gameplay of shooting and platforming 
 is as solid as ever, but it's diluted by too many uninteresting minigames and unnecessary gameplay 
 mechanics. Although these issues prevent the game from achieving the same high level as previous 
 entries in the series, it's still a very good game.  

           Like the rest of us, Ratchet learns about his fate from the television.      

  A good 
 story would have been nice, but this sort of game is really all about gameplay, so it doesn't hurt 
 too much that one of Tools of Destruction's weakest aspects is its story. You play as Ratchet, 
 the last of the lombax, which are a race of catlike creatures. Apparently one living lombax is 
 one too many for the game's villain, a feisty, diminutive, big-headed alien named Emperor Percival 
 Tachyon. He has a bit of a Napoleonic complex, and his goal is to finish off the lombax once and 
 for all, so of course you've got to deal with that. But that's not your only goal. Ratchet knows 
 very little about his race, but he learns that the lombax have some sort of secret, so he makes 
 it his mission to discover it. Clank, Ratchet's robot sidekick, has his own issues to deal with. 
 He's been interacting with some cute little aliens called zoni that only he can see. Naturally, 
 everyone thinks he's nuts every time he brings them up. The game's script is well written and the 
 dialogue is quite funny, but the story is barely fleshed out enough to give you reason to go from 
 one level to the next. It's not helped by a cliffhanger ending that does everything but plaster 
 "Find out the exciting conclusion in the sequel!" across the screen.  

  Thankfully there's some really good gameplay along the way. Like in the previous games, the action 
 is viewed from a third-person perspective and is primarily a mix of platforming and shooting, with 
 an emphasis on the shooting. One of the game's best aspects is the controls, which are simple and 
 very responsive. You'll be jumping around and blowing bad guys away in a matter of seconds. As 
 always, Ratchet has a large arsenal available to him, but he starts off with only a blaster, grenades, 
 and his trusty wrench, the latter of which he uses to pummel foes. He'll have to purchase the good 
 weapons and armor with the game's currency: bolts. These can be collected from fallen enemies or 
 found by smashing crates. The weapons Ratchet can use are extremely varied: There are grenades, 
 rockets, spikes, blasters, a whip, bouncing saw blades, and a whole lot more. The game does a nice 
 job of encouraging you to use different armaments. Not only are certain weapons more useful against 
 specific creatures, but as you use a weapon, its level will increase and it will get more powerful. 
 You can also improve weapons' range, ammo-carrying capacity, rate of fire, and more by collecting 
 crystals that some enemies drop.  

  Ratchet also has a lot of gadgets at his disposal. These can be purchased from a vendor or found 
 throughout the game in crates. He can release a swarm of nano bees that will attack anything that 
 gets near; toss up a disco ball and blast his enemies as they dance; use a leech to steal their 
 health; turn foes into penguins; and even break out a holographic pirate outfit for those occasions 
 when he needs to be all piratelike. Switching from one weapon or item to another is done by pressing 
 the triangle button and then selecting a different item from one of three screens. It's possible 
 to fill all three screens, and the game lets you switch out items, but the mechanic for doing so 
 is poorly implemented. Although the game does a good job of encouraging you to use different weapons, 
 devices, and gadgets (there are over 30 total) , you'll find that there are a handful that work 
 extremely well (and some that are useless) , so it's possible to get into a rut of using the same 
 attack patterns over and over because they're so effective. This makes an already easy game even 
 easier.  

           If they really make you angry, you can get back at your enemies by turning them into cute 
 little penguins.      

  There's a lot more to Tools of Destruction than platform jumping and shooting -- perhaps too much. 
 There are so many different gameplay mechanics that you get the sense that the developer didn't 
 say "no" to any idea that was presented during the design process. Some of these mechanics add 
 to the experience, but others feel as if they're here just because they could be. On a few occasions, 
 Ratchet will roll around in a gyroball similar to the Super Monkey Ball series. To open certain 
 doors, he'll have to dress as a pirate and do a brief dancing minigame. There are two or three 
 times when you'll have to jump into the water and swim through mine-laden tunnels to get somewhere. 
 Sometimes Ratchet will hop on rails and grind his way across a level while jumping gaps, and dodging 
 trains and missiles as he goes. Every now and then, when you're flying to another planet, you'll 
 actually have to fly your spaceship and shoot down enemies in brief, not-all-that-fun on-rails 
 Star Fox-like sequences.  

  All of this, and we haven't even gotten to the Sixaxis stuff yet. Early on in the game, Clank learns 
 he can sprout wings, so there are a few times when you'll fly around levels while tilting the controller 
 to steer. It's kind of fun, but ultimately pointless. Ratchet can also cut through some surfaces 
 with a laser that you control by twisting the controller, and he can even hack security systems 
 with motion controls by rolling a ball around and conducting electricity. Lest we forget, there 
 are a few times when Clank goes solo. These situations are more puzzle- and platforming-oriented 
 than Ratchet's, and you'll have to use the zoni aliens to help repair items and manipulate bridges. 
 They say variety is the spice of life, but there's such a thing as too much spice.  

  Although these ancillary modes break up the flow of the game, the core gameplay is so solid that 
 you'll still have lots of fun on this 10-12 hour adventure. Combat is quite satisfying, and though 
 you have to be a bit conservative with your ammo, should you run out it's never too long until 
 you can restock. This lets you focus on happily decimating robots and aliens. Each of the game's 
 levels takes place on its own planet, with its own theme and style. There's a volcanic planet; 
 a jungle level; a floating city; a level amongst some asteroids that has a cool teleporting mechanic; 
 Ratchet's rocky, cliff-filled planet; and a few more adventure game clichs. There's generally 
 one linear path to a level's main objective, but there's plenty of opportunity for exploring if 
 you're trying to find the game's many collectable items. This isn't a collect-a-thon -- many of the 
 items are optional -- but you'll still spend a fair amount of time smashing boxes and collecting 
 bolts. If at first you eschew the collectable items but then decide you want to seek them out, 
 you can revisit planets at any time. However, the collecting doesn't slow the game down much, and 
 thanks to clearly laid-out paths and a helpful map, you're rarely at a loss as to what to do next. 

  You won't have to worry much about dying slowing you down, either, even though when you do die 
 you often have to do large portions of the level over. The game is extremely easy and gets remotely 
 difficult only in the last hour or so. The difficulty will be fine for kids, but anyone who has 
 played a Ratchet game before will likely find this adventure to be too easy. There's no option 
 to change the difficulty setting, but you do unlock a harder mode once you finish the game.  

 
  One thing the developer did nail was the game's graphics. Tools of Destruction is probably one 
 of the most vibrant and colorful games you've ever seen. Part of this is due to the lighting, which 
 makes everything look more dynamic, but the game uses lots of pastel colors and what appear to 
 be hand-drawn backgrounds to make everything look like a cross between a cartoon and a Pixar movie. 
 Each level has a unique (though not particularly original) visual style, so you really feel as 
 if you're visiting different planets when you move from one level to the next, not just different 
 areas of the same place. Weapons are made all that more enjoyable thanks to some outstanding particle 
 effects and explosions that don't tax the game's speedy, smooth frame rate in the slightest. With 
 all of the camera pans, explosions, and dozens of characters onscreen at once, it's almost as if 
 the developer was taunting the frame rate, daring it to slow down. Other than in a few brief instances, 
 it never does.  

           Ratchet don't see nothing wrong with a little bump and grind.      

  Ratchet &amp; 
 Clank's audio is solid but mostly unremarkable. The voice acting is quite good, and there are some 
 funny lines to be sure, but even that can't salvage the uninteresting story. Save for the great 
 pirate theme, the music generally stays in the background and is pretty average. Sound effects 
 are suitably bombastic and help bring the combat to life.  

  Try as it might, Tools of Destruction doesn't achieve the same level of greatness as its predecessors. 
 It's too easy, the story falls flat, and the "throw everything in including the kitchen sink" style 
 of gameplay takes too much of the focus off the tight platforming and fun combat. That said, the 
 gorgeous visuals and generally fun gameplay are enough to make Tools of Destruction worthwhile 
 for the series' fans and newcomers alike.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (342 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: StewieZim101
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 10, 2009 10:57 am PT
Review:  Ratchet and Clank have there first game on the Ps3, and it's... pretty good. However, there are 
 SOME flaws.
  
  Graphics: In a nutshell, a slight notch below Pixar. The graphics are amazing, and they still manage 
 to look good while mainting to retain the original Ratchet and Clank style graphics we all know 
 and love from the PS2 games (although, Ratchet now has a baby face "Puss-in-Boots from Shrek 2" 
 look)
  
  Gameplay: Pretty damn fun. It's your basic platformer. Get to Platform X, Y, and Zed while destroying 
 everything in between. The are lots of little goodies spread through out the worlds (Like gold 
 bolts, or blueprint peices) , and some interesting mini-games and secret areas to explore. This 
 game integrates the sixaxis technology in the PS3 controller into the game quite nicely: It's fun 
 and it feels natural. However, gamplay game get a bit monotonous, especially later in the game 
 when you assemble the haxorz Rino IV, thus taking away almost all dificulty as it levels up. Also, 
 compared to the past R&C titles, this one is surpringly easy. Don't get me wrong, there are hard 
 parts, but not that many (although, Tachyon is pretty tough if you havn't leveled up that much) .
 
  
  Secrets: Your average gold bolts, blueprints for Rino IV, and "acheivment system" (forget the real 
 name) . Plus, if you have Secret Agent Clank, you can use a code to unlock a new Ratchet skin: Convict. 
 Checl the Cheats Section on Gamefaqs for more info.
  
  Story: Many people complain that the story doesn't knowwhat to do with itself and that the ending 
 feels weird. This is the first game of a trilogy (the sequal being Quest For Booty, and the third 
 being A Crack In Time) . For being the flagship for this trilogy, the story is pretty good. While 
 there are some faults (like the inclusion of Slag's Crew. It felt unnessacary and rushed in my 
 opinion) , the story does have excellent parts (Tachyon's Story, almost all of the third act, the 
 smuggler etc.) And, like many other Ratchet and Clank games, humor is a high point in this installment. 
 
  
  Overall: A really good game, but a bit of a push over. If you rush it, you can finnish this within 
 7 hours if you don't bother looking for the extras. If you want to find all the secrets (including 
 challenge mode) it takes about 17 hours at most. And, the gameplay can get a little monotonous, 
 but the platforming can make up for that easily.
  
  I give Ratchet and Clank Future: Tools of Destruction, a 8.5/10
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Shabbath
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 9, 2009 5:07 pm PT
Review:  I decided to review this right after Uncharted.
  
  Have you ever played R&C games before? If you have and you liked the previous ones it's no doubt 
 you wouldn't like this one too. This really is a great game. It's one of the PS3 release games 
 too.
  I think this is one of the few games everyone would like.
  
  The good things:
  This is just plain fun. Killing those monsters, saving money for new weapons, train them, upgrade 
 them, duel on the arena and so on...
  If you have liked Clanks humour, then you won't be disappointed with this one. He still has it 
 left. :) Captain Qwark is with us this time too.
  
  The bad things:
  No multiplayer is not a bad thing. This just is a 100% single player game. The story is a bit lame 
 compared to the previous R&C's. Nothing else bad to say about this. The game is medium long, so 
 nothing to complain of that either.
  
  Who would i recommend this game to?
  This game isn't only for small children, although it looks a bit like it maybe. But it's a kinda 
 easy game, so I don't think experienced older players would get as much out of it.
  But is a great chance to get to know the Ratchet and Clank series. I would say: "Give it a chance!". 
 You don't lose much even if you wouldn't like this game because it is so cheap nowadays.
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheAcejoel99
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 31, 2009 5:47 pm PT
Review:  Ratchet and clank future: tools of destruction is the perfect example of how to do a modern platformer 
 right. R&C has everything and it has them in spades. From visuals, sound, gameplay all the way 
 to production values, animations and lasting appeal, Ratchet has out-done himself. Story is R&C's 
 biggest downfall but even that is still good. Visuals are slick and clean if a bit basic and just 
 a tad plastic looking but animations are immaculate and there are dozens of enemies, particles, 
 flying ships, bullets, shrapnal, lots of geometry and physics, lighting and water effects along 
 with massive levels and bosses and all at a steady and very very silky-smooth frame rate. While 
 the visuals in themselves arn't ground-breaking there is just so much going on and environmets 
 are so hugh that it really looks fantastic at times. Sound is top-notch from music to voice acting 
 (and actually quite funny) sound-effects are weak but are really original. Gameplay is silky smooth 
 and still very fun. Gameplay is kept fresh by just about every level introducing a new game mechanic 
 or weapon. This could have got out of hand (as reviews say) but it is handled very very well and 
 you never feel overwhelmed by all the gameplay-mechanics due to fantastic pacing and everything 
 is explained to you. One game mechanic is lame however and is actually really really stupid which 
 is when you have to disco dance to unlock doors, why? But most game mechanics are fun and work 
 well and best of all, the few motion-control moments work PERFECTLY and don't feel tacked on in 
 the least. Ratchet is a long game at about 15-40 hours to complete. The game is high and hard to 
 ignore all the mini-games, the arena, side-quests, collecting souls, golden bolts, holo-plans, 
 getting all guns, upgrading all guns and unlocking all the secrets and costumes and challenges 
 that unlock videos, modes and variations to some weapons and collectiong massive amounts of bolts 
 to buy armor and gadgents. Lastly you can play though the game as many times as you want while 
 keeping your weapons and all your stuff but playing on harder and harder difficulting. The game 
 is massive and even if all you want is the story and plan on plowing though the game is lands at 
 about 15 hours and it is possible to get everything and sink about 40 so Ratchet is really a massive 
 title that is top quality all over. Story is good but not great and while actually pretty funny 
 it does leave you hanging at the end but you can't blame them because the game is massive in itself 
 and I can't even imagine them have continued even further than they did. Cheers to just annother 
 amazing Ratchet and clank game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TylerAlan
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 27, 2009 6:27 am PT
Review:  My friend let me borrow this game one day, and I loved it!! When I played this I started to love 
 the Ratchet and Clank series. I tried getting the whole series and I did. This is a family game that 
 most people will like. This is a great game. I dont see how people could not like the series. The 
 graphics are really good! It is a little too easy but thats the only flaw in my opinion. I would 
 not say it is a peace of cake. I have beaten this game 2 or 3 times. This game is definetly worth 
 buying. I finally got the game for my birthday. I love the weapons in the game! There are some hard 
 parts to this game like trying to beat the bosses. I love all of the abilities for this game!! 
 THIS GAME IS SO COOL!!! This is one of my favorite games, but not my number one favorite. I reconmend 
 this game to everyone. I love this game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: OneShot45
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 17, 2009 3:38 pm PT
Review:  To start off, there are many Ratchet and Clank games in this series. I have not played any of them 
 and this game, Ratchet and Clank Future Tools of Destruction, was my first and I thought it was 
 great for many reasons!
  
  The first reason was the weapons. There are tons of weapons for every kind of person from sending 
 out slime monsters to attack your enemise to getting the super weapon and destroying hords of enemies 
 at once! This is a big component in the game because it keeps you switching between all the weapons 
 instead of sticking with one favorite. Anyway, every weapon is fun to use in it's own unique way!
 
  
  Another thing that makes the game good is it's graphics and sound. It's great! The graphics of 
 your surrondings in each level is top notch and the sounds of the enviroment and enemies is imersive! 
 It makes you feel like you are accutally there.
  
  One other thing that makes Ratchet and Clank Future Tools of Destruction a fun game is the many 
 enemies and bosses. The enemies vary on the many levels that you venture through in the game and 
 they all have their special abilities. The sounds and graphics of the enemies are just as good 
 as the surrondings in the game.
  
  One last thing is the story and many levels you have to go through to beat the game! The story 
 is good and it flows easily from level to level and it all puts itself together in a way that is 
 easily understandable. The many levels that you go through are unique and special in their own 
 way. They all pack a good challenge and are very enjoyable. 
  
  In all, this game is a great game! If you are new to the Ratchet and Clank series like me, this 
 is a great first game! It starts off with a new story line so it is easy to pick up and understand 
 and it is very enjoyable! There are a few annoying parts where you just feel like turning the game 
 off but the great qualities overtake them completly!
  
  8.5/10 or a A-
  Graphics and Sound: 8
  Gameplay:7.5
  Story Line: 8
  Replay Value: High 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jg4xchamp
Rating: 7
Date: Mar 16, 2009 7:43 am PT
Review:  Ratchet and Clank Future: Tools of Destruction is the most recent addition to the Ratchet and Clank 
 franchise made by Insomniac. Like the previous entries it continues the adventure of a Lombax named 
 Ratchet and his little robot ally named Clank. The newest entry focuses on a new villain named 
 Emperor Tachyon who is on a mission to kill Ratchet as he is the last Lombax in the universe, as 
 well as restore the fallen throne of the Cragmites. It ends being a typical simple plot, with some 
 hidden mystery for Clank to find with the Zoney, the typical Ratchet and Clank needing to trust 
 each other portion of the story ,etc. It isn't going to cause an epiphany with deep story telling, 
 but what is there is something enjoyable, entertaining, and at times quite funny. The major flaw 
 with the story is that ends with a completely unsatisfying cliff hanger. 
  
  The Ratchet and Clank games have never been made or broken by there stories as much as it has always 
 been about the gameplay. After 4 previous entries using a similar formula of action based plat 
 forming, we can clearly see the franchise is in need of some new major additions. Tools of Destruction 
 plays a lot like its predecessors. You control Ratchet through out most of the game, with Clank 
 getting some solo time in between. The Platforming has always been something simple in the Ratchet 
 franchise, but what really has stood out over the years has been the action/shooting aspects of 
 the franchise. This is because of two things. The first being the action has always been solid, 
 The controls are well designed and thought out, and shooting your enemies is never really a chore 
 and can be quite satisfying depending on the weapon. 
  
  The second part is because Insomniac over the years have shown some impressive creativity with 
 there weapon designs. New additions such as the Tornado launcher take some getting used to, but 
 when you master the controls it can be an impressive weapon to use. You can drop off a swarm of 
 bees called nano swarmers (similar to the turret glove in Going Commando) , a powerful laser cannon 
 called the Alpha Disruptor, and even the ability to drop goopy monsters known as the Plasma Beasts 
 to dish out some damage on your enemies. Your arsenal will also have conventional (will some of 
 them anyway) weapons such as the magma combustor, a predator launcher (basically a multi homing 
 rocking launcher) pyro blaster (flame thrower) , an electric whip like weapon, and even talons to 
 get your very own wolverine like action on. However none of these weapons come close to the joy 
 that is the Grovetron which is a Disco ball that causes your enemies to dance giving you free shots 
 at them. Not only does it give you a chance to annihilate as many enemies as possible in one shot, 
 but it is quite amusing to see your enemies dancing. 
  
  
  These weapons are broken into Two different categories, one is your devices which can not be upgraded. 
 The other are simply put your weapons which can be upgraded in many ways. They level up after being 
 used enough times. Changing the design of the weapon as well as how much more damage it can do. 
 On top of this you can collect crystals to power these weapons up even more, increasing there capacity, 
 damage, and even there special abilities. The Arsenal is big enough and diverse enough for you 
 to find many favorites that you will want to use. 
  
  Now if all you did in the game was shoot the game would be quite repetitive for a platformer. The 
 game offers a lot of variety in the gameplay. However it is these separate gameplay elements that 
 are ultimately the biggest flaw in Tools of Destruction. While the Starfox like flight missions 
 are a lot of fun to play, other elements aren't quite as strong. The Clank missions in which you 
 use the zoney to get through a more traditional and basic plat forming sequences are hit and miss. 
 Some of them are well designed and are fun to play, while others just come off as too simple and 
 feel like filler. 
  
  There are the on rail moments kind of like the Sonic the Hedgehog videogames, which are solid but 
 lack the speed that makes them interesting in the sonic games (about the only thing those games 
 do right anyway) . Then there is the more straightforward Gyro-Cycle which can be a ton of fun to 
 use later in the game. 
  
  Then there are those scenarios which require you to use the Six Axis feature of the PS3 gamepad. 
 The Freefall halo jumps are fine, the use of the six axis in a re-occurring puzzle type leads to 
 more annoyance and frustration than it leads to entertaining game design. The other six-axis puzzle 
 has you using a laser to basically play connect the dots to punch a hole in an area so you can 
 progress further into the level. You will also have to use Clank's wings to fly around an area, 
 fly through rings, and avoid being hit as well in the game. All in all the six axis controls in 
 the game are more gimmicky and more frustrating to use, than they are something that adds something 
 positive to the gameplay. 
  
  The action however makes up the bulk of the game, especially in the arena like scenarios that are 
 similar to something you have done in previous entries. Where the action could have been better 
 is the boss fights. The boss fights in the game are very simple in design, and are almost all uneventful. 
 Most can be taken down by just unloading your entire arsenal, while other boss fights are a matter 
 of dodge one attack, unload your ammo on them, rinse and repeat. 
  
  Most of the game is incredibly linear, although you can go back to previous areas to collect golden 
 bolts, and other rare items and unlockables. The pacing is also quite good as the game really hits 
 its stride from one impressive area to another. The different variety in enemies will also keep 
 you on your toes, as you will fight pirates, robots, giant worm like monsters, and other different 
 types of enemies in what is basically an 8-9 hour game. 
  
  The visual/audio side of Tools of Destruction are defiantly one of the games strong points. The 
 voice actors all do a good job with there characters, and the dialogue is well written enough to 
 amuse you and make you laugh at times as well. It has that kid friendly charm, all with hidden 
 innuendos for the older crowd. The musical score for the game is a bit typical, but still solid 
 overall. Visually the game is breath taking. The art style is impressive, the animations are fantastic, 
 and some areas are simply breathtaking. Don't expect the high quality of Pixar movies, but it is 
 easily one of the best looking platforming games on consoles. 
  
  Ratchet and Clank Future: Tools of Destruction doesn't reinvent the formula for the franchise and 
 that is arguably the games biggest flaw. The unsatisfying cliff hanger, and the more uneventful 
 gameplay scenarios don't help either. The game is easy, good looking, and solid all around. However 
 it is clear that the franchise is in need of something new and different to its formula. Tools 
 of Destruction is certainly worthy of purchase for long running fans, but it certainly suffers 
 from been there done that syndrome for the 5th outing of this franchise. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ZanarkandTidus
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 7, 2009 5:06 pm PT
Review:  Ratchet and Clank Tools of Destruction is a very fun game that can be enjoyed by all ages and I 
 think the game is much better than it's score of 7.5 given to it by Gamespot.
  
  The gameplay is easy to learn, you jump around to avoid enemy gunfire, and you can use many different 
 types of weapons or fight melee. There is platforming and you can swing from platform to platform 
 using a swingshot or hover long distances and there is sections where you have to hang glide or 
 slide across rails and dodge obsticles and sections where you use Clank and solve minor puzzles 
 and mini games where you have to hack through security locks and even shoot em up sections where 
 you use a starship and dodge obsticles and shoot enemy ships.
  
  The gameplay is very smooth, and you can upgrade your weapons and armor and your weapons automatically 
 get upgraded from using them often.
  
  The weapons aren't different for the sake of being different, they have strengths and weaknesses 
 eg You start off with the combustor which is a gun that is solid all round (has alot of ammo, can 
 be used to target enemies from long range) there's also an electrical weapon that is needed to destroy 
 enemies that have shields, and there's more advanced weapons such as nano swarmers and plasma beasts 
 that will attack enemies automatically for you, but you have a very limited supply of them. The most 
 powerful weapon in the game is the alpha disrupter and can inflict heavy damage on bosses but you're 
 only allowed 5 shots from it.
  
  The most important thing about the gameplay is it's fun, it feels very smooth and playable. The game 
 is also non linear, you can travel to different worlds and you please using the starship.
  
  Gamespot mentioned the game is too easy, but later on in the game it can become quite challenging, especially 
 the final boss, even with all the highest weapon and armor upgrades.
  
  The graphics are very impressive, it's lovely seeing a Ratchet and Clank game on a next gen console. The 
 textures are so smooth now, the city is full of tall futuristic skyscapers and flying cars and when 
 you do the rail sections in full 3D it looks great and it makes you feel like you're really high 
 in the sky. I love how when your launched from building to building and you're given the feeling 
 you're very high in the air amongst the tall futuristic buildings.
  
  The worlds come in variety, there is prehistoric type worlds with dinosaur type creatures and you 
 see things like palm trees and swamps to indicate it's a very warm climate. There is a snow/ice 
 type world and a planet with a carnival type atmosphere and one of the levels is on an asteroid 
 belt and you're surrounded by space and there's many others to see. I love how some worlds are cute 
 and colorful and some worlds have a dangerous feel (such as one planet that has a yellowish sky 
 and contains many metal mazes and places fire can scorch you) .
  
  The enemies come variety from all types of robots, and some that fly and even pirates and some really 
 huge robot bosses.
  
  The cutscenes are very smooth and colorful and detailed, and the full motion video looks great.
 
  
  When you travel through space using your starship you see colorful effects from the wormhole and 
 when you're using Clank and find other little robots to help Clank, Clank and the robots have a 
 greenish glow underneath them to show they are using some advanced power source.
  
  The voice acting matches Ratchet well, and Clank has a very robotic voice and so do the other little 
 robots Clank finds to help him out. The dialogue is very quaint and humorous and is funny enough 
 to appeal to children and adults.
  The music matches the locations well.
  
  This game is a great game that can be enjoyed by all and I think a more accurate score for this 
 game should be around the 8.0-9.0 mark but definately more than a 7.5. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: raptor400k
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 2, 2009 7:26 am PT
Review:  Ratchet and Clank has always been for me one of those games that never let me down no matter how 
 old I am, and future does just that. Firstly the games graphics are simply amazing displaying massive 
 worlds with rich vegetation a and Ratchet now looks furry and more cat-like even boxes topple over 
 realistically. The sound effects are great (though some weapons sound crappy) and music while sometimes 
 to quite really describes each world. Game play is fun with some fast paced action, some cool enemies 
 and really varied weapons like the tornado launcher (yep if there's one thing Insomniac's known 
 for is making the best guns, not just the cool but usual assault rifle and stuff) , although there 
 is more platforming and moving around this time but who cares when there are such big game worlds 
 to explore (bigger than previous R&C) and you get the most awesome hacking minigame. Add a long 
 campaign and that's money well spent. Though the story isn't as bad as people say it is and in 
 fact it is so funny and the ending brought some emotions (okay just joking about the emotions, but 
 it was sad)
  However the game doesn't bring much new which isn't the problem, the problem is it just can't stand 
 up to the best R&C Up your arsenal and 2nd best going commando. It gets rid of all the fun multiplayer 
 from UYA and the levels are not as fun as in both of them. Another problem is the last boss which 
 as in all R&C can take so much hits and gives out hard hits, but only needs you to shoot at it. 
 Its not fun taking out a big baddie if there isn't some strategy except shooting and strafing.
 
  I haven't played QFB but the next Ratchet should at least have some multiplayer, maybe co-op and 
 maybe some more open worlds as it just ain't the best, otherwise I've had a great time with this 
 one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JJ_Ninja
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 27, 2009 5:48 am PT
Review:  Ratchet and Clank Future Tools of Destruction is one of my favourite games of all time. First of 
 all the graphics look amazing on the PS3. The Audio of this game is what I think of the other Ratchet 
 Game: Awesome. The gameplay goes back to the platforming I know and love. Know lets go to the story, 
 it is touching and a very great and I am shocked to what happened at the end. The levels in this 
 game are very awesome and fun to play through, with all the weapons and gadgets you can get it 
 makes the levels even better. Now the upgrade system in this game is very awesome and gives a different 
 play through if you upgrade differently. The only real complaint I have is that it was a bit easy, 
 just a bit though. So overall I think this game is AWESOME, I would recommend this game to anyone, 
 and if you are a fan of platforming or Ratchet and Clank, I highly recommend you get this game 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: beepyou34
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 23, 2009 4:39 pm PT
Review:  Ratchet and Clank Future: Tools of Destruction is the best game in my favorite series of all time. 
 It has all of the best things about its predecessors: awesome weapons, hilarious cutscenes, great 
 music, and so on. Since this is on the PS3, it comes as no surprise that this is one sweet-looking 
 game. I am also very impressed by the tech that went into the enemies. Each enemy is designed to 
 have silky smooth movements and realistic animations, which are awesome. But one of the best parts 
 of this game compared to previous games is its story. I love how it always keeps you on your toes 
 and wondering what will happen next. The voiceovers are still very, very great, and some of the 
 cutscenes are hilarious. Unsurprisingly, Ratchet and Clank control much the same way that they 
 did on the PS2, but the game now integrates the Sixaxis controller into many of the game's puzzles. 
 But in this game, the arsenal is better than ever before. You've got an electric whip, a rocket 
 launcher, a flamethrower, a blaster, a grenade launcher, and more. The weapons are much more balanced 
 this time around; if you can't kill an enemy with one weapon, chances are you can with another. 
 But all that matters is that you heed my command and buy it. You'll be doing yourself a major disservice 
 if you don't. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: daveydag
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 11, 2009 1:17 pm PT
Review:  Firstly i must say i really enjoyed the game, played it through almost all in one sitting. i played 
 with my gf and we both really enjoyed it, taking turns on the lvls rather than deaths because it 
 was that hard. 
  ok now the graphics of the game are beautifull. the world they created is colourful and diverse. 
 very smooth edges. basically faultless in my opion. the story was very interesting, nothing very 
 surprising but keeps you wanting to play more and find out what is going on. there are a few new 
 aditions some small robots that talk to clank that add a nice side story and interest to clanks 
 char. 
  my only problem with this game is was it is short and easy to finish even on hard. and again i 
 found myself liking clank better than ratchet but thats just my opinion. if u liked any of the 
 other ratchet and clank games this is a must have. you can get it now for cheap too so no reason 
 not to get it. you will enjoy it. replay value is there with the different difficulty settings 
 and the chance to upgrade your weapons to the max is hard to pass up :D 
  well thats all i can say, i really liked it, my gf did. so go get it! 
  
  daveyda
  
  aka 
 daviina (psn) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hyperkass
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 7, 2009 5:29 am PT
Review:  Ratchet and Clank Tools of Destruction pulls off to be a very addictive, and great addition to 
 the long running series. Ever since its Playstation 2 debut the games have improved mightly. The 
 Playstation 3 debut of the series gets all the key features that the previous games had. Firstly 
 i'll start with the plot, which in ways is powerful for a R & C game. The basis is about Ratchet 
 and Clank encountering a message from the abducted Captain Qwuark, a idiodic "Galactic Celebrity" 
 saying that his simply been abducted by Emporer Tachyon, a small Cragmite hell bent on taking out 
 Ratchet, the last Lombax alive. Overall the story is fairly good, with addictive gameplay and foes 
 that prove easy, but interesting enough.
  
  The weapons are extremely fun as there is a large and vast catalogue of choices. At the start you 
 tend to use the Combuster, a simple gun that by the time you realise will be at the Triple Shot 
 Version 5 stage. Some weapons, for example the lightning ravenger are used much more than other 
 weapons, like the Tornado Launcher (a very interesting weapon using the SIXAXIS' controller of 
 twisting and turning the controller to the direction of the designated enemy) . Weapons such as 
 the Nano Swarmers and Alpha Disruptor have little ammo, but bring hefty power, and are much used 
 against bosses. The amount of numerous weapons makes defeating the, also numerous amounts of enemies 
 and bosses better than previous games in the series.
  
  The imaginative in the game is shown quite clearly. For example the Zoni's, small hovering aliens 
 of such that help Clank do numerous things in the game bring a good twist and difference to the 
 game and the gagdets, like the Groovy Ball a device which when thrown at the enemies puts them 
 in to a state of groove as they dance (and you inevitably finish them off with the Alpha Disruptor) . 
 
  
  Graphics are a good matter as they are perfect for the Playstation 3 compatibility and are very 
 delightful to look at as you progress through the game. The scenery and all round gameplay footage 
 is perfected, good job to Insomniac for doing a thing many gamers appreciate very much.
  
  The skill needed in the game is kept to a minimum though some bits will tear you apart in anger, 
 but the occurences and limited. Bosses are generally easier, progressing through the game with 
 the new weapons tend to make the bosses easier, though some of them are the same and seems a tad 
 repetitive.
  
  At the end of the day, this game is already extremely popular and if you own a Playstation 3 you 
 should defiantly purchase this, or atleast give it a go on the Demo. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: StayAlive262
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 30, 2009 9:37 pm PT
Review:  Ever since the first Ratchet and Clank game was released, Insomniac has been making bigger and 
 better sequels for the fuzzy Lombax and ever intelligent talking toaster. The same goes with Tools 
 of Destruction.... sort of.
  
  The games story is probably the most in depth story a Ratchet and Clank game has ever had (it wouldn't 
 be hard to beat the awful one from Deadlocked) . Ratchet is attacked at the beginning of the game 
 by the last remaining Cragmite in the galaxy. This Cragmite, Emperor Tachyon, is bent on revenge 
 by trying to kill every Lombax remaining, and the last one just happens to be Ratchet. You go around 
 to different planets trying to uncover Ratchet's past, and also trying to find something to take 
 out Tachyon. Although the story is very good in this game, it probably has the weakest ending/cliffhanger 
 in any game i have played.
  
  The weapons in any new Ratchet game are always fun to tinker around with, especially with the new 
 upgrade system in TOD. A lot of the weapons are really cool, such as the Predator Launcher, the 
 Lightning Ravager and the Tornado Launcher, but you will find yourself favoring the same weapons 
 over and over again every time you come to wave of enemies. The reason for this is, while the weapons 
 are very cool, they are not very useful in combat. The Tornado Launcher uses the SIXAXIS to control 
 the tornado, and while this is a good idea and excellent use of the technology Insomniac had to 
 work with, it isn't just a bit frustrating to use. I found myself forgetting to move around with 
 the left stick while using all of my concentration on where i would move the tornado next. Not 
 only were there new weapons, as there are in every new game, but there is also the inclusion of 
 devices, little tools that will aid you in certain situations. The Groovitron, for example, plays 
 funky disco music, making all of your foes break into dance, or the Leech Bomb, an item you throw 
 at your enemies to suck the Nanotech out of them and heal yourself.
  
  The new gadgets in the game use the SIXAXIS very well, and, surprisingly, aren't over-used. The 
 coolest new gadget is probably the wings that the Zoni give Clank (the name of the wings escaped 
 me at the time i was at the keyboard) . You use the controller to steer yourself to various places 
 in a few of the open world planets of the game, like planet Sargasso, a planet with giant T-Rex 
 like monsters with elephant growing out of either side of their head.
  
  The graphics are probably the best part of this game. The visuals of some of the panoramic views 
 you have occasionally in the game are absolutely stunning. The shadow is very well done, the foliage 
 looks fairly lifelike, for a game, and the enemies look very good.
  
  On to the difficulty of the game. Personally, i thought this was the most difficult Ratchet and 
 Clank game since Going Commando. I was very frustrated at several parts and wanted to throw my 
 controller at my TV screen. The game does get much easier when you get better weapons, especially 
 when you manage to obtain the RYNO IV.
  
  This game should be considered by any PS3 gamer. Whether you are new to the series or a veteran 
 Lombax, if you buy this game, you will enjoy playing it for hours and hours. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SuperYeti22
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 26, 2009 7:49 am PT
Review:  You've been waiting for this game for quite a while: Ratchet & Clank Future: Tools of Destruction. 
 Ratchet & Clank Future is a brand new series for the PS3. Tools of destruction is a great game. 
 The graphics are undeniably great, making it hard to believe that the graphics only go up to 720p. 
 The arsenal of weapons, oh, you will love it. But speaking of arsenal, this game does lack of a 
 multiplayer. No co-op. You can't go online and pawn with the shotgun. You can't go and play team 
 death match with your friends. There's no multiplayer. And you thought you'd play with your weapons 
 that you remember from Deadlocked? Think again, that tradition ended in Deadlocked. Well, it's 
 for the PS3, so how can you possibly get Deadlocked weapons anyway? And some traditional weapons 
 you'd expect in a Ratchet & Clank game are not there. No sniper. And what's supposed to be a machine 
 gun doesn't feel like a machine gun, but still is very fun to use. But look on the bright side. 
 There are brand new tools (of destruction) to make up for the absence of multiplayer and classic 
 weapons. You can collect raritanium (despite it's name, it can be found anywhere) to modify your 
 weapons such as bigger aoe., more bolts dropped from enemies, more raritanium dropped from enemies, 
 more ammo, and **** like that. In addition, when you get all of those raritanium upgrades, you 
 can by a special ability for your weapon, which are like the mods from deadlocked, but each weapon 
 is only compatible with it's own special ability. There's a thing called a holoplan, which is basically 
 blueprints for a secret weapon, but you have to find the different parts for it which are scattered 
 all over the Polaris Galaxy (It's like Exodia from Yu-Gi-Oh, only you don't have to waste a ****-ton 
 of money on just 5 cards.) . The story for the game is that Ratchet was driven from his home in 
 Metropolis by this guy named Tachyon, who is the emperor of the Polaris Galaxy, and wants to kill 
 all of the lombaxes, and destroy the weapon they used to wipe out the cragmites, which is a race 
 of monstrous aliens. It's a really great game, but it comes at a price. It's far too easy, and 
 Insomniac wanted kids to start playing Ratchet & Clank Games. They're actually trying to get E10 
 ratings for their Ratchet & Clank games, and as a result (I don't judge games by their ratings, 
 but according to Insomniac's CEO, they're putting Ratchet & Clank in a wrapper that's a little 
 less "adult" than their previous Ratchet & Clank games) , this game just didn't bring the great 
 feel that the previous Ratchet & Clank games did, and little does Insomniac know, that kids were 
 already playing Ratchet & Clank games, despite the T ratings. Parents don't worry about their kids 
 playing T rated games, they only worry about they're kids playing M rated games, not T rated games. 
 But parents never buy their kids AO rated games, I don't think there's such thing as an AO rated 
 game. Except for Manhunt2, which actually isn't rated AO anymore, since the company went through 
 court acts and made it a little less violent, to lower it to an M rating. Sorry I got off topic. 
 Don't get me wrong, Ratchet & Clank Future: Tools of Destruction is a great game, but didn't bring 
 the great feel that previous Ratchet & Clank games did. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BewareOfTrees88
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jan 22, 2009 12:26 am PT
Review:  After playing a game like Metal Gear Solid 4 I was ready for some simple fun, and Ratchet and Clank 
 was the perfect game to turn to. 
  
  The most notable thing about it is the range of colors painted across each environment, keeping 
 each planet just as visually stunning as the last, while setting them apart at the same time. And 
 though this is one of the best things about the game, another thing that I am glad to see has stuck 
 with this series over time is the humorous dialog found in the cutscenes. 
  
  However, this is not to say that this game is without flaws. Though the dialog does a lot to divert 
 attention, a major problem is that the story is severely underdeveloped. One example is that though 
 I understand the overriding story pushing the action along, looking back I can't say with 100% 
 certainty what the intentions of the little aliens were, making the cliffhanger ending all the 
 more ridiculous and unexpected. Furthermore, most of the time I was also unsure of the reasons 
 behind why I was bouncing around planet after planet fighting off hoards of enemies. To make matters 
 worse, the checkpoint system was rather frustrating. Numerous times I found myself berating my 
 TV after being bumped back to the beginning of the level due to a stupid mistake like falling off 
 a cliff, a cliff that was about 10 minutes into the level no less. And finally, the difficulty 
 of the enemies seemed very uneven. One major example of this is after repeatedly being killed by 
 the dematerializing creatures leading up to the final boss battle, the actual battle itself was 
 a piece of cake in comparison.
  
  Though I may have a few things to complain about, when all is said and done most of what I found 
 frustrating while playing can be forgiven because of how fun the game is, even with all its flaws.
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: doctor_kaz
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 20, 2009 10:55 am PT
Review:  Light-hearted humor, charming characters, and wacky weapons have made the Ratchet and Clank series 
 a solid fixture of the Playstation platform. The first entry of the series onto the Playstation 
 3 is a resounding success. It keeps the formula intact while updating the presentation to take 
 advantage of the advanced technology. Add stunning visuals and great physics to an already successful 
 formula, and you have a game that is impossible not to love.
  
  Ratchet and Clank Future: Tools of Destruction grabs you immediately with its gorgeous graphics 
 and never puts up supbar scenery throughout the game. It is technologically impressive, featuring 
 gigantic outdoor levels with a long view distance. At various points on each level, you can look 
 out upon an impressive vista and see where you have been and where you need to go next. There are 
 no texture pop-ins, frame rate drops, or other annoying effects that sometimes show up in games 
 with big open areas. A dozen enemies can get blown into a hundred little pieces on the screen without 
 losing a single frame. There are other subtle touches, like heat shimmering from fires and nice 
 looking water. The art direction is bright and colorful, a pleasing departure from the grays and 
 browns that have dominated graphics since Gears of War became a hit. The colorful cast of characters, 
 ranging from the angry midget villain to salty robot pirates, is bursting with creativity. The 
 presentation is the strength of the game from beginning to end, without any weak points. 
  
  Ratchet and Clank is generally described as a platforming series. This game does, indeed, have 
 a lot of platforming, but it is heavier on combat than anything else. You face waves of enemies 
 and blow them into little pieces by showering them with ammunition, which shows up by the ton. 
 You frequently take a lot of damage, but health orbs are usually nearby. Bosses are generally pretty 
 straightforward and don't involve a lot besides running around while whittling their fat health 
 bars down as fast as possible by shooting at them as fast as possible. There is some variety on 
 the enemies and the larger battles tend to get very interesting. The combat is fun, fast-paced, 
 and visually impressive, although it does get a little to monotonous by the end, and it rarely 
 provides much challenge if you have been upgrading your weapons. The bosses, especially, can be 
 absurdly easy. With the right weapons, some of them can be beaten in as little as 45 seconds on 
 your first try.
  
  Ratchet and Clank bends over backwards to cram as much variety as possible into its 10-hour campaign. 
 There are a few brief space battles that act as a nice change of pace, and a couple of minigames 
 that involve use of the PS3 Sixaxis control. The Sixaxis control is surprisingly well implemented 
 and free of the tacked-on feel that victimizes lots of motion control minigames on the PS3 and 
 the Wii. The hacking minigame, especially, is innovative and enjoyable. There are a lot of levels, 
 but most of them are over pretty fast and the scenery changes constantly. Platforming involves 
 the usual fare of swinging from supports with your grappling hook, jumping between platforms, and 
 grinding along rails. These sequences hardly ever last more than a minute. Just when you are about 
 to get tired of one area, you end up doing something completely different, such as a Clank solo 
 level.
  
  Weapons shops and the ability to upgrade weapons ensure that your arsenal is never the same for 
 very long. The weapons and gadgets come at you so fast that they can be overwhelming. In addition 
 to a grappling hook that you can use to swing around, you get magnetic boots, a gel gun that shoots 
 out a bouncy material, disco balls that temporarily distract enemies, and a few other gizmos to 
 play with. You can buy a bunch of unique weapons, like one that shoots miniature tornadoes, and 
 another that creates a deadly cloud of nanobots. The series is famous for having creative and wacky 
 weapons, and it doesn't disappoint here. You use the radial menu to select weapons and various 
 other gizmos to complete your quest. Only two or three hours into the game, the radial menu is 
 full, and by the end of the game, you have enough stuff to fill three radial menus. You switch 
 between menus with the shoulder buttons. It takes a while to get used to all of the options and 
 the controls required for each gadget. By the time you figure it all out, the game comes to an 
 end. There are no complaints here though. The pacing on this game is one of its strengths.
  
  Ratchet and Clank Future: Tools of Destruction is a game that should be in the library of any 
 PS3 owner who enjoys action games of this type. The beauty, the charm, the combat, and the variety 
 make this title one of the best exclusives on this console. Veteran gamers might tire of the game's 
 low challenge level by its end, but most should find it easy to get a lot of enjoyment out of this 
 title. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bacchus2
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 18, 2009 12:53 am PT
Review:  Ratchet & Clank : Tools of Destruction is a fantastic action platformer that combines great controls, 
 fleshed out characters, excellent voice work and an amusingly told story.
  
  The game begins with a message from Captain Qwark indicating a robot army is moving into the territory, 
 and before long you find yourself being shot at by said robot army. You begin with a trusty wrench 
 to beat your foes around the head with, your Combustor which is a long range weapon, and Fusion 
 Grenades. The game is presented like most action platformers, allowing you to swing the camera 
 around your character as you see fit, apart from a few fixed camera points. The camera is rarely 
 a problem, with only a few occassions where it comes up too close or doesn't frame the action properly, 
 but these are fleeting. There is an aiming assist function that highlights the enemy you will aim 
 weapons at if you have one selected, and you can also go into a aiming view if you want more specific 
 aim.
  
  The action is higher profile than the platforming, but there is still enough to warrant a range 
 of skills. There is a double jump, using Clank's rotors to glide, and high jumps. This is further 
 aided by some gadgets that you will pick up during the game. You collect bolts from downed enemies 
 and by breaking boxes around the environments, and these can then be used to buy more weapons and 
 devices. With about 15 weapons you would expect some to be disappointments, but they are fairly 
 diverse and are nearly all fun to use. These range from the Ravager, which is like an electric 
 whip, Nano Swarmers, which is a limited time turret, and the Shard Reaper, which acts as the games 
 shotgun. Perhaps the biggest disappointment is also the most innovative. The Tornado Gun fires 
 a... uh... tornado, which you can then control by tilting the Sixaxis to ram into enemies. This 
 is neat in theory, but is too hard to control if you are also trying to dodge enemies or incoming 
 fire while moving the camera around.
  
  There is a leveling up aspect both as Ratchet, and for your weapons. You earn 'nanotech' when defeating 
 enemies, and this increases your Hit Points which are paltry at the beginning of the game. Your 
 weapons also earn experience as they are used to defeat enemies, and earn increased damage. Once 
 they max out to level 5, they also earn another bonus. For example, your Combustor turns into the 
 Magma Combustor, which fires 3 shots instead of 1. Furthermore you also collect Raritanium, which 
 is used to upgrade weapons at the Grummelnet weapon shops, independant of the standard leveling. 
 These range from additional damage, more ammo capacity, faster firing, and more range. These are 
 arranged in hexes, and while you can go in different directions they do need to be unlocked in 
 order. There is usually an additional special ability for each weapon that can be unlocked this 
 way as well. Thus you have not only a vast array of weapons to assault your enemies with, but their 
 attributes will vary throughout the game.
  
  In addition to traditional weapons, there are some other fun devices as well. Chief among these 
 is the Groovitron, which throws out a disco ball and makes enemies in the vicinity, including bosses, 
 stop attacking and start dancing for a period of time. Others let you leech health from your enemies, 
 or cause them to attack each other. While I didn't bother too much with devices and relied on standard 
 weaponry, they were all still fun to try out. The enemies that you use all of these weapons on 
 are also quite diverse. They begin with basic grunts that try and smack you down, and soon fire 
 weapons at you as well. Flying machines will shoot lasers or lob grenades in your direction, pirates 
 will approach you with shields that need to be dealt with lightning or explosives, and some enemies 
 will roll into a ball and try and crush you. Bosses or mini-bosses are also diverse and require 
 different methods to avoid their fire and effectively return your own.
  
  While the action platforming make up most of the gameplay, there are some other elements as well. 
 There are some sections where you will be jetissoned into a level from your ship, and use the Sixaxis 
 to dodge incoming missiles or air traffic before you reach the ground. Others require you to earn 
 devices, such as the Decryptor. This is used to access some doors which opens a minigame with a 
 circuit board. You use the Sixaxis to tilt a metal ball which bridges gaps in the circuit as an 
 electric current runs through it. Robo-Wings also let you fly if you are standing on a launch pad, 
 and again the Sixaxis is used to control your flight. These are short and entertaining, so they 
 break up the main action just enough. There are also a few space ship combat levels which are from 
 the perspective of behind the ship. In these the left stick moves your ship, and the right stick 
 controls your cursor on screen as enemies sawrm in and out. While not exceptional, they are still 
 an enjoyable piece of the game.
  
  Clank also gets his own parts in the game where Ratchet can not enter. Here he is assisted by the 
 Zoni, aliens who are a part of the story, but only Clank can see. Clank has no weapons, but has 
 the ability to slow down time, which lets him walk through some traps or closing doors. Once he 
 activates the Zoni, he can also use them to levitate, to fix objects in the environment, or charge 
 up panels. Due to the limited nature of his abilities the levels feel a bit empty compared to the 
 normal level design, but aren't bad.
  
  While the story itself is not too exciting or complex, you will still be charmed by the way it 
 is told through amusing cutscenes. Among my favourites are satire on advertorials, and a hand drawn 
 plan to infiltrate a prison. Captain Qwark in particular is highly entertaining, as a buffoon who 
 isn't really a hero but firmly believes he is one if perhaps a little misguided. Emperor Tachyon, 
 the last of the Cragmites and your nemesis in the game, was also a highlight. In fact, I can't 
 say that any of the characters were a disappointment. They were all larger than life, with the 
 aesthetic of a cartoon show.
  
  The graphics are bright and vibrant, everything runs smoothly, and there is plenty of attention 
 to detail. For example, when you throw a Groovitron, you will see Ratchet & Clank also jiving, 
 and even the armour vendor joins in. The voice work is fantastic from everyone, whether it be in 
 cutscenes, or during the action. It's highly amusing to throw a Groovitron at a boss to hear him 
 say "I WILL kill you... right after I stop dancing". I found the game so entertaining that I went 
 back and played it through a second time straight away, which is a rarity for me. The game is reasonably 
 easy, and the second time around you get challenge mode, which is harder but also infers some bonuses. 
 You get a multiplier to your earned bolts and Raritanium by killing enemies, but it resets if you 
 take damage. You will need those bolts the second time around, because once your weapons are up 
 to level 5, you can purchase an upgraded version for a pretty penny, and then level it up to level 
 10. You can also revisit levels with gadgets you found later on, which can unlock areas that were 
 not accessible the first time around, and earn yourself Gold Bolts (for the collectors out there) 
 and Holoplans. Once you have the complete holoplan, you can unlock an ultimate weapon. While the 
 game lacked challenge, I found it abundant in the thing that matters; fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: khoofia_pika
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 7, 2009 8:00 am PT
Review:  I would like to begin by saying this- this game does nothing- when I say nothing, I mean NOTHING 
 AT ALL- that previous Ratchet and Clank games or any other platforming game hasn't done. Okay, 
 it does have a few innovative mini games, some minor tweaks and some new weapons, but basically, 
 its still the same, just a lot more polished. In short, it has the same flaw that almost every 
 other platformer and every other Ratchet and Clank game has. 
  
  But that is not necessarily a bad thing. It might be similar to almost all other action platformers 
 in terms of things it does but the part that makes this game stand out is how it does them and 
 how good it does them. Yeah. About everything in R&C Future is basically flawless. From the weapons 
 to the driving parts to the shooting parts, everything in this game is so polished that its almost 
 impossible for me to provide enough words to show just how good the game is. And I know a lot of 
 words.
  
  The best part of this game is that there is no backtracking at all until you want it to be there, 
 and even then Insomniac had foresight enough to implement shortcuts for easy returns to the important 
 sections of a stage.
  
  Another big plus is the revisitation of Ratchet and Clank's roots. While a blast in its own right, 
 2005's PS2 actioner Deadlocked was knocked around a bit because of its focus on arena battles and 
 lack of Clank. The Arena showdowns are back for the PS3 effort, but they've been dramatically scaled 
 back. Instead, the game designers stuck to the same 80% shooting, 20% platforming plan that worked 
 so well in Going Commando and Up Your Arsenal, and it makes for a much more compelling game. Clank's 
 old-school "control a bunch of robots" segments are back too, only this time they have new abilities 
 (like "levitate" and "manipulate") and bigger levels to traverse.
  
  As any Ratchet fan will tell you, however, it's the weapons that make or break this series and 
 Tools of Destruction has some great ones. One of my favourites, The Nano-Swarmers, are beehives 
 that jettison angry little insects that pelt your enemies to death. The Mag-Net Launcher is an 
 electrified cage that traps enemies in an energy net, and it works great when used in conjunction 
 with the Razor Claws (that are ripped straight out of Halo) , which become more and more powerful 
 the longer you use them without being hit. 
  
  The aforementioned Tornado Launcher got a good bit of press several months ago, and it's a great 
 help against bosses, but its Sixaxis funnel control is pretty poor -- so don't expect to manipulate 
 it much. Look for some variations on older weapons too, like the Fusion Grenades, Shock Ravager, 
 Shard Reaper and the like. 
  
  Other cool additions to Ratchet PS3 include a tiered hexagon-upgrade system that goes hand-in-hand 
 with the experience points attached to your weapon that allows you to customize your guns exactly 
 how you want them (you can even unlock secondary fires for everything in your arsenal) . Devices 
 are new as well, and these are specialized "limited use" items that include the Transmorpher, which 
 transforms your enemies into penguins (the effects are hilariously maddening) and the ultra-famous 
 Groovitron disco ball. These extra goodies are great fun and add yet another layer to an already 
 deep gameplay experience.
  
  There are also the cool driving sections, spectaular looking Space Battles, and some insanely crazy 
 boss battles that should not be missed by any gamer, be it hardcore or casual. Also, once you've 
 finished the game, its not all over. You can go to the other planets you've visited and collect 
 some unlockable treasures. 
  
  The graphics of this game are beautiful. Ratchet Future is one of the best looking titles of 2007 
 and is easily the most attractive PlayStation 3 game to date. Other than a few odd hiccups (during 
 cutscenes of all things) , the framerate never falters and the activity is always high. In even 
 the most subdued of levels, vehicles fill the sky in huge numbers with every special effect imaginable 
 highlighting the characters and terrain below. In some stages, dozens of highly-detailed soldiers 
 shoot it out with an array of different weapons while surrounded by explosions, spaceships and 
 the unpredictable commotion coming from player one. The screen is consistently hectic and colorful 
 and it's a beautiful thing.
  
  Much of what makes Tools of Destruction so appealing are the little things -- those extra steps 
 that prove that there is indeed a difference between "high production value" and "high budget." 
 When visiting a fiery prison planet halfway through the game, for example, listen closely to the 
 intercom voice for nods to shady folks from past games like Slim Cognito and Ace Hardlight. When 
 using your Tornado Launcher, pay attention to Ratchet's head as he follows its path of chaos; and 
 don't forget to listen carefully for musical and visual cues that pay homage to a certain Johnny 
 Depp/ Orlando Bloom trilogy during the pirate sequences. In short, a lot of care went into the 
 making of this game, which makes it a whole lot easier to care about what you're getting out of 
 it.
  
  Interestingly, Insomniac's latest Lombax adventure is a little different from those that came before 
 it --and not because it's the first one to make the jump from standard-def to HD. Ratchet and Clank 
 Future: Tools of Destruction is different because it takes itself a little more seriously.
  
  Longtime fans needn't worry, though. "Taking itself more seriously" doesn't mean that the game 
 has lost any of its humor or style. Clank doesn't womanize or gamble, nor does Ratchet have a drinking 
 problem -- they've just grown up a pinch and it shows in the storytelling.
  
  One of the most surprising things, actually, is just how much story there is. While the narrative 
 isn't as hefty as what you'd find in an adventure or an RPG, R&C Future still has a lot to say. 
 Where did Ratchet come from? Where are all the other Lombaxes? And why is Clank seeing invisible 
 soft-spoken robots (Zoni) every time something important happens? These questions and several more 
 are addressed before all is said and done, and the writers manage to derive some genuine emotion 
 out of it. As it turns out, Ratchet and Clank's relationship is good for more than just a few dozen 
 laughs.
  
  But as you'd expect, those laughs can still be found at every turn. Captain Qwark's buffoonery 
 is at an all-time high and the number of one-liners and ridiculous observations he makes should 
 force even the most serious gamer to chuckle.
  
  Ultimately, it boils down to this- Ratchet and Clank is one game nobody should miss, wheather you 
 like platformers or not. Hats off to Insomniac for developing such a spectacular game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Arkan119
Rating: 6.5
Date: Dec 24, 2008 6:29 am PT
Review:  I am new to the ratchet & Clank series, and i felt like trying something new, so i bought this 
 game.
  The main (and huge) problem with this game is that it has no multiplayer. : ( not online or split 
 screen.
  One good thing to point out about this game is the variety of weapons that you get. many of tem 
 are very powerful, and there is no limit to how may you can carry. this is cool, but it also makes 
 things much to easy. speaking of being to easy, the enemies that you fight are dumb and easy to 
 kill.
  The game also has a very dull, boring story. A game like this should need a decent story. There 
 is also no incentive to play more than once. There is a challenge mode after you complete the game, 
 but it is just the game again with a few new things. 
  The graphics are nothing short of what you would expect, but nothing spectacular. Just your average 
 PS3 graphics.
  Overall, If your a fan of the ratchet & Clank series, You will probably enjoy this game. If not, 
 rent the game first.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Unknown_prince
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 11, 2008 10:35 am PT
Review:  This is a fantastic game, from destroyable rocks to upgradeable weapons this game isn't child's 
 play. Pack with almost GTA IV feel the side view aim, you can aim at a better point cool open world, 
 but suffers from an identity crisis. Walking through stones or rubble will leave you silent, because 
 ratchet does not lift his foot like on Size Matters (PSP) and you walk right through. Cool story-line 
 bringing everything together from Clank's past to Ratchet's future this game is awesome. All the 
 bosses seem to be easy to defeat using a weapon that you receive when on the first Kerchu planet 
 mission. The game has an awesome open world environment but to collect everything makes it a little 
 boring. The visuals has changed rapidly, Ratchet's hair on he's cheeks are showing unlike the other 
 games. Surfaces are reflecting stuff and shadows are superb. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: anzelm
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 8, 2008 11:55 pm PT
Review:  Ratchet has left PS2. His debut on PS3 is all that the PS2 versions were but better. The graphics 
 is stunning and the action as great as ever. The game isn't that hard, quite easy actually, but 
 satisfying all the same. The story takes you throughout the universe i search for the ultimate 
 weapon. Tachyon is trying his best to beat you to the goal. The blend of humor and action is great 
 and the game is suitable for adults as well as children.
  
  Along the way you upgrade the weapons and get "money" to buy new ones. There are a big variety 
 of weapons from guns and flamethrowers to gadgets that make your opponents dance or why not turn 
 them into penguins. The weapons is the greatest part of the game along side the humor. The platforming 
 elements is good as well. 
  
  So, there is not much more to say other then "Play it and find out for yourself". 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Carbon-Sniper
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 8, 2008 10:35 am PT
Review:  Well the welcome return of Ratchet & Clank was a good one. Although why didn't i buy it when it 
 first came out. When i was searching for a game in the summer, i just couldn't find anything i 
 liked. I glanced at Ratchet and merely brushed it aside. 
  
  Why, oh why, oh why, did i wait nearly a year to play this game! I almost wanna kick myself for 
 not buying this. Ok were to begin with the game. (duh the beginning)
  
  Were introduced to a fantastic change in graphics, by a small opening cut scene, and straight away 
 i know that it's gonna be a good game. It's probably one of a few games to incorporate a lot of 
 Six-Axis control. 
  
  Combat is as good as it's ever been (although i still find RaC: Deadlocked/Gladiator, the best for 
 it) . Your arsenal is upped again with more lethal weapons, and all the upgradable items from Ratchet 
 3 and Deadlocked/Gladiator, have found there way over. As well as Deadlocked/Gladiator's Weapons 
 modding system. With new additions, Devices (which are basically what weapons in previous games 
 were, like turning enemies into animals) . These are a welcome touch to the game, and you'll find 
 yourself frequently using them.
  
  The game can be flawed in many ways by not very challenging enemies, (not until you enter challenge 
 mode, were you go back through the campaign with your weapons and armour you bought but with much 
 tougher enemies) . Also the range of weapons just doesn't seem to get the job done.
  You start off with your typical 'Blaster' to begin with, now unlike in any other ratchet games 
 it seems slower and not very effective in later stages. You'll find yourself having to go to a 
 vendor and try buying new weapons to get the job done (which i must say is good but costly) .
  Also the Story isn't told as well as previous games. Unlike the first Ratchet when you learn why 
 you have to go to these planets. In ToD, you seem rushed to go to them, and the multiple routes 
 that were in levels are now fewer.
  
  It's been worth the wait i must say, but is it the best in the series?
  With some improvements, 
 and more attention to Storyline then i'd say yes, but technically the story hasn't ended yet......
 
  
  I won't ruin it for you, (although it seems a bit to late now, it's been out for ages) . It still 
 remains as one of my top 5 games/ game series.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: TXMostWanted
Rating: 6.5
Date: Nov 30, 2008 10:07 am PT
Review:  Having played the Jak & Daxter franchise, I was extremely excited to play this franchise after 
 seeing the hype for it. I found out that it looks really flashly and the commercials made it look 
 like a Pixar film, but otherwise... it was subpar on everything else.
  
  GOOD: The GRAPHICS make the game feel like your watching "The Incredibles"/"Monsters INC". The 
 ANIMATIONS of both the main character and the enemies are hilarious to watch. The WEAPON SELECTION, 
 as the franchise is known for, is robust and fun to experiment with. The HUMOUR is spot-on and 
 often times made me laugh
  
  BAD: The PLATFORMING was basically "jump onto platform A, B, C" on nearly every level, which is 
 sad because when it did show its true colors, it was reminiscent of "Mario Galaxy"!! The STORYLINE 
 is forgetful, still playing it and I don't know whats going on. The MUSIC is ok, but obviously 
 less thought of than the visual appeal. 
  
  All in all, when it came to appeal, this game is simply something to die for. Otherwise, when you 
 actually played it, the quality is so subpar compared to the visual looks that its a slap to the 
 face. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FrankDK1995
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 14, 2008 2:57 pm PT
Review:  this game is the best in the Ratchet & Clack series. My personal opinion. this game is the bomb. 
 the story line is really awesome and fosuses a lot on ratchet as usual. (with the exception of 
 secret agent clank) I really like the sixaxsis controller feature like where you have to use it 
 with the laser and stuff. you also use it on that tornado weapon. and when you are falling out 
 of the plane. they have more experienced enemy and awesome arenas and stuff. captain quark is still 
 an idiot like always. I love the where get to play as only clank part and you get to control those 
 little new people that werent on the previous game. basically the same movements and stuff but 
 still. awesome game. it has really really awsome weapons in this game! they are the bommb! i love 
 the battles. where you are the commander and stuff. it is cool being in control. clank is still 
 the man. I love that little peice of metal..... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tenkirby
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 14, 2008 3:21 am PT
Review:  its a game with weapons and awsome graphics but the reason i put 9.0 is because of the ending. 
 There was a lot of stuff i didn't get to do and wither u don't save and return to the boss fight 
 or enter challenge mode which is fun but people should be able to finish the game completely then 
 enter challenge mode so otherwise its a perfect game. Another thing is that the ending cut scene 
 was very annoying because rachets best friend (clank) goes away and he tries to get him back but 
 fails and then it ends the story should be all happy, at least that's what i think. I got really 
 annoyed. The rachet and clank series is awsome and none of the rachet and clank awsomness has been 
 removed. On the other hand there is so much weapons to keep track for example the tornado launcher 
 and and mega leech bomb etc. so you dont have to but it would be good to be best at memorizing 
 the names or to write it down because when you reach a certain amount of weapons you can't access 
 the rest by hot link and you have to organize so its kinda comlex but its not as bad as it sounds 
 here its worth the money 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jakeisdisturbed
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 12, 2008 6:47 am PT
Review:  Ever since the first game, Ratchet and Clank has not yet let any of their series fans down. Every 
 game packs a powerful punch and Tools of Destruction is definitely a powerful addition to the series. 
 
  
  Everything feels new to the game. It feels that because basically everything is new. For example, 
 no longer will you be playing on your primitive PS2 or PSP. Now that you are playing on the PS3, 
 you can use the SIXAXIS to your advantage. Also, the games graphics are pretty amazing for what 
 you expect when you play previous Ratchet and Clank games (again, primitive systems) . New armor, 
 weapons, features, characters, game play, etc... The message is that Ratchet and Clank Future: 
 Tools of Destruction is new everything. 
  
  Ratchet and Clank takes an odd, but enjoyable twist when it comes to enemies. Usually enemies are 
 something like robots or aliens. Well, it looks like the people down at Insomniac Games thought 
 it was a good idea to mix a robot with a pirate. Although it sounds ridiculous, it plays into the 
 game extremely well. When your in Space Combat it wouldn't be very fun NOT battling a giant Pirate 
 Space Ship. Also, it wouldn't be fun if you couldn't disguise yourself as a robot pirate to blend 
 in, trick other robot pirates, and dance using your SIXAXIS to unlock Robot Pirate Only doors.
 
  
  The plot is easily the best. Ratchet and Clank set out to find the Lombax Secret so Ratchet can 
 find out what happened to his species which is obvious, if you've played before, Lombax. The only 
 things stopping them are two Robot Pirates named Captain Slag and Rusty Pete and a vicious ruler 
 named Emperor Percival Tachyon, the only surviving Cragmite left in the galaxy. So they set out 
 on a journey and along the way they run into helpful allies and annoying enemies. 
  
  Overall, the game shaped up to be the best one made in the series and I recommend it 100% to Ratchet 
 and Clank fans and any average platformer fan. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jaifrecap
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 10, 2008 1:54 pm PT
Review:  I've looked really hard and found nothing bad about this game. Great graphics, everything a PS3 
 game should be, great gameplay and a full arsenal of weapons and gadgets which include fire blasters 
 to transmorfers which will turn your enemies to penguins.
  The game is long, really long. The levels through out the game are divided into planets and comets, 
 and include land and space missions, in which you blast your foes with your spaceship.
  You are able to upgrade every weapon, increasing their damage, range, and even adding special features 
 unique to every weapon type when uploading them to their final level (level 5) .
  The fun begins after you beat the game for the first time. You are challenged to play the game 
 a second time, with stronger foes, better armor for your hero, and being able to upgrade all your 
 weapons to level 10, increasing even more their damage.
  I truly recommend this game to anyone, and is one of my best in my PS3 collection.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: littlebigdude44
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 2, 2008 6:50 am PT
Review:  Too much variety? Identity Crisis? A bit easy? Is that really enough for a game to get what is 
 essentially a only a decent score, even if therest of the game is fantastic? No, it is not.
  
  RCF: TOD has some sharp graphics. It is on par with Pixar movies, and it is likely the best 
 looking cartoon game ever made. The sound is great too, making each explosion sound devastating. 
 The gameplay is perfect; the run and jump is spot on, and 9 out of 10 weapons work flawlessely. 
 The weapons themselves are great, ranging from a superlaser called the Alpha Disruptor to a disco 
 ball that leaves enemies helplessly dancing like sitting ducks. The story is also more than good 
 enough for this type of game, and the dialogue is just as funny as it has ever been. Finally, the 
 level design is awesome, ranging from short linear, platforming segments to fullout, explorable 
 areas with tons of enemies just waiting to be silenced.
  
  The game does have two problems. For some, like myself, the game is a bit easy, and some extremely 
 rare weapons like the Tornado Launcher don't control especially well.
  
  But these are only small marks on an incredible game that is essentially the best action-platformer 
 ever made (action platformers are like the other Ratchet and Clank games and the Jak and Daxter 
 games, not like Mario games) , and anyone with a PS3 must have it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shaun-mon
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 29, 2008 2:02 pm PT
Review:  the game is now finally trying to return to up your arsenal... it has a few large wave after wave 
 areas and it also has the much favoured area battles... its coming around and with the sequel Quest 
 for booty it becomes more clear how its going back to RAC3!!
  the game is a bit more chalinging then the older versions of RAC.. the wepons are inproving.
  
 
  but the game lacks somingthing not to sure what it is but if your a fan this is the game for you
 
  
  Fun? this game has it, all a game needs is fun, an ok story, graphics and.. difficulty? without doubt 
 TOD's main weakness, the original Trio where all tough, this is not : ( but if you play challenge 
 mode with second or 1st armour.. it gets HELL loads of fun
  
  but it goes on about ratchet never meeting another lombax but.... wb RAC2??? tell me if im wroung 
 but was there not a female lombax there??
  
  love the game!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ratchet_Fan8
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 26, 2008 8:00 am PT
Review:  Alright, im already at my 20th PLaythrough O. O!!! i love this game so much, that i keep playing and 
 playing it
  
  Story: For a company who doesnt really concentrate on Story aspects, Ratchet TOD is very cool. its 
 not fleshed out as much, but we need to give credit to Insomniac. Alright, ratchet is a lombax who 
 is wanted by Emperor Takyon, now the idea is GREAT! but its not really one of those games, like in 
 Jak, you dont escape or any super hot chases, the idea is good, but its not fleshed out, ratchet is 
 wanted... MAKE SOMETHING OF IT! also you get to discover about ratchets ancestors and such....8.0
 
  
  Gameplay: i can go loads and loads, Tools has HELL loads of  
 ball etc etc. you will never have so much fun with your PS3 (period) tho it needs an online, but 
 mabey next time, an online would own like in UYA, but still its still superb....96
  
  Controls: you remember LAIR? that bad horrible game where you use sixaxis through the game? well 
 you use it same here, but wait what? its much comfortable? its easier to turn... WOW! lair should 
 learn from this game XD Some are Very clever, you wont find any bits that are hard (apart from hack 
 ray in Challenge mode) .....9.4
  
  Graphics: Beautiful animation, simply gorges, looks like a Pixar movie, first level is an eye-candy.....10
 
  
  Fun? this game has it, all a game needs is fun, an ok story, graphics and.. difficulty? without doubt 
 TOD's main weakness, the original Trio where all tough, this is not : ( but if you play challenge 
 mode with second or 1st armour.. it gets HELL loads of fun
  
  Recommended for any PS3 owner.. get this game NAO! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: WasntAvailable
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 25, 2008 5:32 pm PT
Review:  Ratchet and Clank (Future) : Tools of Destruction is an action adventure game from developers, Insomniac 
 Games. Most famous for the Spyro series on the original Playstation and the Ratchet and Clank series 
 on the PS2, Insomniac games are now seen as one of the most prestigious developers in the gaming 
 industry largely due to the enormous popularity of the Ratchet and Clank series. 
  Tools of Destruction is the latest iteration of the series, and is available exclusively for the 
 PS3. Tools of Destruction is essentially a 3rd person shooter/ Platformer hybrid, and aims to offer 
 a balanced gaming experience. This style of gameplay is fairly unique to the Ratchet and Clank 
 series, and it has been implemented well in this iteration of the series, presenting a large range 
 of gameplay mechanics creating an experience that stays varied and exciting right from the start 
 through to the finish.
  
  After the initial opening cut scene, the first thing that will strike you is how great the visuals 
 are. The effects are tremendously impressive, and everything is animated perfectly. The environments 
 are brightly coloured and full of life, which is something not often seen in many of today's "next 
 generation" titles. You will also notice there is a lot going on in the background, which really 
 makes you feel like you're part of the universe, as opposed to just walking through pre set levels 
 from point A to B, even if that is essentially what you will be doing for the majority of the game. 
 You will also find the game performs excellently on a technical level, maintaining a solid frame 
 rate through out, so you won't find you're self experiencing slow downs. I would go as far as to 
 say that Tools is probably one of the most graphically and technically impressive console games 
 to date. However some of the games stages feel a bit rough in places, but then that is to be expected 
 with over 15 unique levels taking about 15 - 30 minutes to complete each one. 
  
  Speaking of pacing, the fast and exciting pace that Ratchet and Clank has become much loved for 
 is well intact in Tools. One minute you may be racing along a grind rail, wrought with peril, and 
 the next you may find yourself in an intense fire fight with an angry mob of villains. This pacing 
 is what really keeps Ratchet and Clank feeling fresh. The game never becomes a bore to play thanks 
 to the large variety of gameplay mechanics and the speed at which they are presented to you. Tools 
 also offers the usual superbly original and varied selection of weapons seen in the Ratchet and 
 Clank series, with guns ranging from dual pistols to thermo nuclear canons, and all are immense 
 fun to use. The game also provides a great and well suited soundtrack, which really fits the universe 
 and style of gameplay. 
  However, this game plays an awful lot like its predecessors so don't go thinking this game is going 
 to completely reinvent the series.
  
  Despite Tools being very competent in most fields, the game does suffer from a some what clichd 
 story line. The characters are great and well crafted, and you will probably have at least one 
 favourite, but you will have seen it all before. The games plot follows Ratchet and Clank as they 
 battle across the galaxy in order to bring an end to the evil Emperor Percival Tachyon who has 
 declared complete autocratic rule over the entire galaxy. Anyway basically Ratchet discovers something 
 about his past, and teams up with a femme fatal at some point, and well you can pretty much guess 
 what's going to happen by about half way through story, and I could have done with out the cliff 
 hanger. Still even at that Tools does offer a distinctive sense of humour and even if the story 
 isn't the most original, it does posses its own charm, and you should enjoy it to at least some 
 degree.
  
  If you own a PS3, and have yet to add Ratchet and Clank: Tools of Destruction to you're games library, 
 now would be a good time to do so as the game is now considered platinum, meaning it is now cheaper 
 in stores. You can't really go wrong with this title, and it is easily one of the PS3's most solid 
 offerings to date, so do your self a favour and go buy it. Now! 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: dashizy666
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 23, 2008 5:57 am PT
Review:  As a long time 360 owner and going through five consoles, I vowed to buy a PS3. Not knowing what 
 to expect I saved up enough money for one, and one of the first games I got was the one I am reviewing 
 now. I always loved this series for its over the top humor and storyline and shooting that makes 
 this series so great. The action in the game is as wonderful to play as the game's absurdity and 
 believe me the jokes are literally one after another. I want so get started with the humor aspect 
 of the game because in my opinion the meat and bones to this series is the humor. The shooting 
 is great as well, but the humor of the series is what stands out from other shooters. Some jests 
 are a slight chuckles, some are quite retarded but in at funny way. But some are complete gems. 
 One joke in particular that has me laughing to this day involves the robotic space pirates . The 
 joke isToday's entertainment is brought to by the letter RRRRRR" and it's done in and over the 
 top pirate voice. Not only is it funny but it's completely random and the joke just sneaks on you. 
 There are times in this game where I had to pause the game because I'm laughing my @$$ off. But 
 enough about the humor BS. Here is what I love about these Ratchet and clank games. They are basically 
 third person shooters with RPG aspects that either improve Ratchet's weapons or add to his health 
 which has RPG written all over it IMO. The weapons themselves are clever and just really fun to 
 shoot with. One weapon which is my favorite is the raptor laser guided missile launcher at level 
 5 and fully upgraded becomes a complete beast. And lets not forget the grooveatron which is a disco 
 ball that flies overhead and the enemies on the screen start dancing. That is an idea that can 
 only be conjured by Insomniac. The control itself is standard R&C but this game has one major addition. 
 The use of the sixaxis is prevalent in many aspects on the game, whether it be the game's weapons, 
 puzzles, and other aspects and it is done well. Presentation wise the game makes you glad you bought 
 a PS3 because it's ****ing beautiful. that is all I have to say . What I like is that the backgrounds 
 you see in the level eventually become part of the level. It's hard to describe what I'm trying 
 to say but when you play the game you will know what I'm talking about. It's colorful. Basically 
 it's like playing a Disney Pixar cartoon because it is very detailed. So any way for me the game 
 is a 10 because I found that this game has a lot to offer the player and just think the sequel 
 is inevitable. Oh by the way, Go Phillies! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: I-am-the-Panda
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 22, 2008 9:54 am PT
Review:  The game revolves more around platforming than shooting compared to the last one. You have a fair 
 selection of weapons, new and old, and some cool gadgets. The platforming isn't all that hard but 
 adds challenge. Like always there are collectable's to get super weapons. There are on-the-rail 
 moments (literally!) , hacking sections and some diversion to the usual shoot and jump affair, which 
 spreads things out nicely.
  
  The visuals are Pixar movie standard and even the backgrounds and whats going on will wow you. 
 
  
  The story is humorous like the last one. You find out you're the last lombax and must fight off 
 an evil alien, who were wiped out by the lombax. The story takes some interesting turns.
  
  Clank has his own sections this time. While it lack a mega-clank level, you instead control Zoni 
 - floating mechanicals guys who can slow time, kill enemies, etc.
  
  There is no multiplayer, not even offline. The game is returning to its old roots.
  
  A good 
 game for any series fan or platforming fan. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LoneNecromancer
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 20, 2008 12:36 pm PT
Review:  Ratchet and Clank has always been a very popular series, as a fun little action-packed platformer.
 
  However, if you've ever played the previous games, you'll notice that the gameplay has barely 
 changed from the original Ratchet and Clank on the PS2.
  That sort of makes sense. If you have a good game, you won't try and completely change it, you'll 
 just try and tweak it a little.
  But I really wish they had tried to completely change it.
  The game is all easy, the only real challenges coming near the end of the game, and if you decide 
 to play a second time on the harder difficulty of "Challenge Mode." The storyline could have been 
 developed into something serious, but is often let down with childish comic humour. The guns are 
 interesting, the gameplay is fun- but it always has been.
  And it does make you think. This is the next-generation of gaming, you'd have thought they could 
 have changed something.
  To be honest, I wanted to see a whole lot of difference to the series. I wanted Ratchet to be taller, 
 more battle-hardened, with scars, and talk harder, you know, like Solid Snake. I wanted Clank to 
 have changed as well, and to be use then he was, like actually being able to transform into a giant 
 robot that he did in earlier games, and the whole disco-gadgets and penguin transformers didn't 
 really do it for me.
  But then again, the game is set at a young audience, and I'm sure, if I was seven, I'd adore the 
 game and have given it a ten.
  The game itself is very fun, and it is interesting how they've tried to incorporate the SIXAXIS, 
 but it doesn't always work out very well, sometimes proving more frustrating than anything.
  Seeing as a lot more impressive games are coming out in near the end of the year, if you haven't 
 bought this game already, I'd recommend just putting it on hold and saving it up for something 
 else that you might prefer.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: danielegarciav
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 19, 2008 6:48 pm PT
Review:  I finished this game right now. All the story in this game was short and fun, but the story and 
 the music of the ending cutscene makes me cry... Because the game was my favorite and I always 
 played it, until I ended it... Ratchet is now living in a ball (when he teleported with the Dimensinator) (If 
 you look closely at the place where Ratchet is standing on the ending cutscene) , Ratchet is sad 
 too, like me. All that makes me... cry. And Dan Johnson died in 2006 (R. I. P.) and I don't think 
 no more games in this games in this franchise will be added, or be fun... I don't wanna play Challenge 
 mode! Why cruel world?!?! Why?!?!?! :'- (
  By the way, Ratchet (I'm not sure but, and Clank) : Quest for Booty, it's now at sale! I don't know 
 how Ratchet will exit of that ball, and I don't know if it will be Ratchet: Quest for Booty or 
 Ratchet and Clank: Quest for Booty. I'm worried! What will happen to my favorite series?!?!?!
 
  Standings:
  Good: Excellent story, graphics, controls, and game play. Including, mini-games, experience-leveling, 
 and a variety of weapons.
  Bad: Foul camera and miserable controls when someone attacks you and you're on a wall corner. Very 
 short!
  Gameplay bonus: +3
  Story bonus: +3
  Controls bonus: +2
  Camera bonus: +2
  Difficulty bonus: +1
  Other bonuses:
  Being a fan: +2
  Variety of things: +1
  Total: 12 
 points - Awesome!
  Attention: I'm only saying what I think about this game, I don't mean that I don't like what others 
 are saying. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: leo_star20
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 17, 2008 8:16 pm PT
Review:  I personally found this game the most enjoyable out of the series of Ratchet & Clank. In the Ps2 
 games the graphics were great, yet very basic. When you see Tools Of Destruction on the PS3 the 
 graphics are just breathtaking. You fell like you are actually there.
  The whole lot in HD which is what makes the big difference.
  The weapons all have new names and 
 there is a wide variety of them to choose from.
  If you missed Clank in Ratchet Deadlocked (PS2) you will be happy to see your buddy back on Ratchets 
 back in TOD.
  
  The one things that made me fall in love with this game is the surroundings in which you have to 
 fight your enemies. Also there is allot more exploration that you do. Your not just confined to 
 certain paths in the game.
  
  The storyline is great, the humor is great and all I can say is if you liked the PS2 games you 
 will absolutely love this game as it has allot to offer compared to the ones on the PS2.
  
  My score for R&C: TOD is 9.5/10
  
  I can't wait for the next one to go out and buy! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ninjamonkey346
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 17, 2008 4:57 pm PT
Review:  this is the best rachet and clank in the series no doubt about it and im appauled they only gave 
 the game a 7.5.... its a little easier then the other games in my opinion but the graphics are good 
 and the game expierence as a whole is just awesome i really think that this is one of the must 
 have ps3 titles besides mgs4 or lbp. The weapons in this game have a cool level up system and you 
 start the game off with most of rachets tools and gadgets that you collected in the previous games 
 making it feel more like you are starting a new misiion rather than starting a new game. i really 
 enjoyed this game and its a must buy in my opinion.
  
  
  
  
  When writing your review, remember to keep the language clean. Reviews must be 100 words minimum. 
 We encourage you to try to get your review right the first time-you may choose to edit it later 
 on, but by doing so, you will lose any positive feedback associated with the review. We encourage 
 you to write your review in a word processor or text editor, save it to your local disk, then copy 
 and paste it into the posting box below. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: svaubel
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 15, 2008 11:41 am PT
Review:  Help your favorite Lombax fight yet another evil in the galaxy, while trying to uncover the mysteries 
 surrounding the 'Ultimate Lombax Weapon'.
  
  Gameplay 9- Not having played any of the PS2 R&C games (yet) I find the PS3 game to be outstanding. 
 One can tell that the productions values for this game are through the roof. Platforming is great, 
 although somewhat linear. The array of weapons and gadgets are terrific and each one has its own 
 special uses.
  
  Graphics 10- It's amazing how good this game looks on a regular TV. It gets even more jaw-dropping 
 on an HDTV.
  
  Sound 9- Music is great and set to the environments and combat. Voice acting is top notch and full 
 of witty humor and jokes. It's been a long time since a game made me chuckle so much.
  
  Fun Factor 10- ToD is great fun to play and seems to just have the right amount of length to the 
 game: its not a game requiring 50 hours and its not too short either. This game is also loaded 
 with secrets and extras, giving you a reason to go back through previous levels to find all the 
 gold bolts. You can also view all the previously seen cutscenes.
  
  Replay Value 9- Like most platformers, once you finish the story, unless collecting everything 
 in the game is your style, it risks collecting dust on your shelf till you pick it up again later. 
 Also to note that the game is challening in only the last few levels, everything before near the 
 end is quite easy. 
  That is beside the point however, as rarely does a game offer so much pure fun and enjoyment.
 
  
  My Final Score 9.4 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Stirling1972
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 13, 2008 7:33 am PT
Review:  Exactly what you'd expect (if you've played any of the series other than "Deadlocked") . There's 
 nothing new here, but that's OK because it's still a great addition to the series. My one beef 
 with the games has always been the HORRIBLE space battle sequences. These are typically more frustrating 
 than fun (at least in one previous game you had the option of skipping them!) . Use of the six axis 
 is ok but not great - it's ok during "parachute" sequences, and not great during the "roll a metal 
 ball" mini-game. Could have done without both. The usual weapon and armor upgrades are here and 
 have been expanded a bit. Visually stunning, huge environments though still pretty linear. A ton 
 of fun. Great game overall and an excellent addition to the series. I haven't finished the game 
 yet... I'm wondering if there are any "giant clank" sequences that I just haven't seen... I hope 
 so because those were a lot of fun in previous entries as well.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sony-tha-champ0
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 17, 2008 12:46 pm PT
Review:  Alright, im already at my 20th PLaythrough O. O!!! i love this game so much, that i keep playing and 
 playing it
  
  Story: For a company who doesnt really concentrate on Story aspects, Ratchet TOD is very cool. its 
 not fleshed out as much, but we need to give credit to Insomniac. Alright, ratchet is a lombax who 
 is wanted by Emperor Takyon, now the idea is GREAT! but its not really one of those games, like in 
 Jak, you dont escape or any super hot chases, the idea is good, but its not fleshed out, ratchet is 
 wanted... MAKE SOMETHING OF IT! also you get to discover about ratchets ancestors and such....8.0
 
  
  Gameplay: i can go loads and loads, Tools has HELL loads of  
 ball etc etc. you will never have so much fun with your PS3 (period) tho it needs an online, but 
 mabey next time, an online would own like in UYA, but still its still superb....96
  
  Controls: you remember LAIR? that bad horrible game where you use sixaxis through the game? well 
 you use it same here, but wait what? its much comfortable? its easier to turn... WOW! lair should 
 learn from this game XD Some are Very clever, you wont find any bits that are hard (apart from hack 
 ray in Challenge mode) .....9.4
  
  Graphics: Beautiful animation, simply gorges, looks like a Pixar movie, first level is an eye-candy.....10
 
  
  Fun? this game has it, all a game needs is fun, an ok story, graphics and.. difficulty? without doubt 
 TOD's main weakness, the original Trio where all tough, this is not : ( but if you play challenge 
 mode with second or 1st armour.. it gets HELL loads of fun
  
  Recommended for any PS3 owner.. get this game NAO! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jakejake777
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 4, 2008 8:43 pm PT
Review:  I just love this game and I have beat it eleven times. Now I am finnally righting cheats. This 
 game Has rely good grafics and It does not matter if you haven't played any ratchet and clank games. 
 This was my first time playing it and when I got the cheat book I figured out there were these 
 games:
  
  Ratchet & Clank-
  In the first one Ratchet and Clank meet and battle Drek and teams up with Captian Quark
  
  
 Ratchet & Clank: Going Command-
  After Defeting Drek now they are battling Abercrombie Fizzwidget And teams up With Angela Cross 
 I think
  
  Ratchet & Clank: Up Your Arsenal-
  Now he is fighting Dr. Nefarious there alies are the Q-force
  
  Ratchet: Deadlocked-
  I only 
 know that Gleeman Vox is his new captor
  
  Ratchet & Clank: Size Matters-
  Otto Destruct is tring to kiddnap Ratchet and uses Lusa as bait
  
  Ratchet & Clank: Tools Of 
 Destruction-
  Captain Quark, Zoni, Talwyn, Cronk, And Zephyr are his allys
  
  After Game:
  
  Secret Agent Clank-
  No Clue about this ecept that a cheat is Left, Left, 
 Right, Up, Down, Down, X
  
  Ratchet & Clank: Quest For Booty-
  In This is a continuen to tools of destruction Talwyn is his conread And he is fighting ghost pirats 
 of rusty pete
  
  I Have only played Tools of destruction and quest for booty.
  
  *jakejake777*  By: jakejake777 and my dog Casey 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GIF
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 4, 2008 12:54 am PT
Review:  If you like solid platform games, Ratchet & Clank :Tools of Destruction is perfect for you... especially 
 if you are a child. Now when I say that I don't mean it in a bad way but I just couldn't find myself 
 playing more than 8-9 hours. Ratchet & Clank :Tools of Destruction is a great game BUT its made 
 for children which is perfectly fine. 
  
  
  Ratchet & Clank :Tools of Destruction is solid in every facet of its production from the art to 
 the sound to the story. Ratchet and Clank are both useful characters and their dynamic is funny 
 and cute. The pacing of the story keeps moving and never slows down. The level of detail on the 
 Ratchet charactter model is also nice but at times, the painted flat ground textures of the backgrounds 
 wear on you. Isn't it time to start seeing bump-mapping? Come on guys, get with it. Bump Mapping 
 would have worked wonders on this games backgrounds and I saw it back in a game like Kameo on my 
 Xbox 360. 
  
  That aside, I can definetly say that Ratchet & Clank :Tools of Destruction is a worthwhile addition 
 to any PS3 game library especially if you have children. I can see why this game was a solid title 
 for the PS3 launch. The bottom line is, Ratchet & Clank :Tools of Destruction is a beautiful platforming 
 game from Insomniac Studios great for all ages. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sonic-36
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 30, 2008 4:15 pm PT
Review:  This game is instantly perfect. Everything is well done. The story is actually pretty good and 
 will appeal to fans of the series. What really blew mw out of my chair was the lengthy game length. 
 This game took me a while to beat cause it is in fact pretty long. Luckily each level is so much 
 fun. You have the ability to play as Clank once again and works great too. The game also has an 
 incredibly huge array of weapons to choose from and not only that, you can upgrade them, giving this 
 game really high replay value. You can also buy new costumes/armor. This game has terrific voice 
 acting as well and fills a lot like a pixar movie. This game has some really beautiful graphics 
 that are only possible on the ps3. Sadly there is no multiplayer component, but its actually not 
 necessary with the lengthy gameplay. Ratchet and Clank Future Tools of Destruction is certainly 
 one of my favorite games of all time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheMazaku
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 28, 2008 5:25 am PT
Review:  PROS: Easy to play. Visuals are great. Weapon upgrade systems leave you wanting to go through the 
 game again to finish upgrade everything. Most weapons are very fun to use. Unlockables + Upgradables 
 + Collectables = Replay Value.
  
  CONS: Plot isn't that great for anyone over 12 years of age. Sometimes animations are very unresponsive 
 and not as seamless as they should be. When travelling to a new world, a cutscene that lasts almost 
 a minute of a ship flying through space is played which gets annoying after a while.
  
  
  Gameplay: The Gameplay in R&C is simple, easy, and for the most part, it works. You will spend 
 most of your time either platforming or destroying enemies, with many puzzles in between. R&C also 
 uses the SixAxis feature... a lot. At first it was a breathe of fresh air to see a game using a 
 great feature, but after flying with the Robowings and doing many, many decryptions you just want 
 to pop your controller on the side and use a PS2 controller instead of waddling it about like a 
 lunatic trying to solve a few puzzles.
  
  Graphics: Bright and vibrant, but glitchy in some areas. The animations throughout the game can 
 sometimes seem more 'unrealistic' than usual. And occasionally controls can seem somewhat unresponsive, 
 but I think that comment belongs in the 'Gameplay section' :P
  
  Story: R&Cs story would probably appeal to anyone of a younger age. Most gamers, however, will 
 see through the paper then plot and predictable outcomes of the game. The ending is also a mass 
 cliff-hanger which almost forces you to buy 'Quest for Booty' so you can get some answers. 
  
  Overall: All together it is a very fun game. Put aside the story and the sheer spammage of 
 SixAxis mini-games and you've got yourself a game that will keep you entertained for hours. Worth 
 a buy in this gamers opinion.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: benleslie5
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 24, 2008 3:30 pm PT
Review:  Insomniac is one of everyone's favourite franchises if you enjoyed playing memorable games such 
 as the Spyro series back on the PS1, or Resistance Fall of Man which is one of PS3's best sellers. 
 PS2's favourite mascots Ratchet and Clank make there way to the PS3 with HD visuals and great animation 
 making you feel like your watching animated film.
  
  It's the 4th installment in the series that's if you do not count in Ratchet: Deadlocked in the 
 series. Tools of Destruction's have a story but not exciting as the last 3 games back on the PS2. 
 At the beginning of the game Emperor Tachyon attacks the city of Metropolis to destroy Ratchet 
 and his race which is Lombox, but a lot of fans of the series have been asking for years about 
 Ratchet's past if there were more like him years before. Also Clank who is Ratchet's robot sidekick 
 who also has his own problems to deal with. Clank has been interacting with some tiny aliens called 
 Zoni that Clank can only see, but the zoni's think that Clank is the chosen one. I'll not spoil 
 the ending but it'll leave you thinking.
  
  Gameplay= But luckily there is some really good Gameplay through out the game with many weapons 
 and gadgets, but you will need to buy them of course in order to use them. Some weapons are useful 
 to use if your facing about 20 odd enemies you can use a disco ball which makes all enemies dance 
 and you can easily kill them with out hurting you. There a gun called the Tornado Launcher which 
 you would have to use the sixaxis controller to move the tornado. You also use the sixaxis to glide 
 across to another place or doing a puzzle which you'll need to do in order to open a door. Also 
 there will be certain levels where you're in space and you have to take down many ships in order 
 to get to the next planet does sort of feel like the Star Fox series if you're a Nintendo fan. 
 
  
  To be honest some bosses are really easy to beat in one go but can be a challenge once you beaten 
 the game where you can play through the game again but earn a lot of bolts and points.
  
  Graphics and Sound= Comparing to other games on the PS3 like Uncharted Drake's Fortune or Heavenly 
 Sword. The graphics for Ratchet and Clank are pretty impressive for a platformer game and great 
 animation through out the game close to Mario Galaxy on the Wii but less visual but really does 
 feel like you're in a Pixar film. Great environments on each planet, making you want to expore 
 every corner and area. 10 or 11 years ago loads of critics said that Mario 64 feels like a Toy 
 Story film but over the years from now games have finally come through that area in gaming.
  
  There's a lot of good humor and jokes, voicing is well done you'll probably like Emperor Tachyon's 
 squeaky voice or Captain Quarks funny references because he is no super hero only a fool who gets 
 in Ratchet and Clank's way every time. But my favourite character in the game was Rusty Pete who 
 was a drunken pirate who follows orders. I really loved how all the charcters were really animated 
 into a PS3 game with brighter and HD sounding. 
  
  Overall= It has it's moments on comedy and Gameplay but you can easily beat the game in a few short 
 hours. The downside is that story isn't very interesting for most gamers or looking for something 
 decent to play on PS3. Fans of the series you're in for a laugh or two but you may be disappointed 
 in the end.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: je_taime_RB_27
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 19, 2008 9:51 pm PT
Review:  Ratchet & Clank: Tools of Destruction is a great game which has all the best elements that were 
 in each of the previous games. Also, they added the sixaxis controls to the game which was a great 
 idea and a great success.
  The story is quite simple at the beginning of the game but after a few hours playing, you'll get 
 more into it because you learn about Ratchet's root.
  The gameplay is still the same as the other games on PS2, except for the Sixaxis like I said. With 
 these controls, you can control Clank when he flies, the Gyro-Cycle, the mini-games and some of 
 the weapons and gadgets.
  A lot of new weapons are at your disposal in the game, but you'll find some of the old school weapons 
 (the one that always existed in any game but in a different shape) .
  The game is kinda easy, except when you are near in the end and like every R&C when you'll finish 
 the game, you'll be able to do a new game with all of your weapons and customize them as you like 
 (levels) .
  There is no online which is a bit annoying.
  The graphics are amazing and Gamespot says real when the tell that it looks like Pixar animation. 
 The voice acting is well done.
  For some of his parts, R&C: Tools of Destruction is a very good game that will be appreciate by 
 any kind of gamers. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pikachu15eevee
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 15, 2008 9:31 pm PT
Review:  My mother's friend has this game. I wanted to play it. So on one of our weekly outings, I asked 
 if I could, and the answer was yes. It was worth the boredom of the drive there. The graphics made 
 me feel like I was actually controlling a movie, and the humor, which was good as always, uplifted 
 that feeling. The R&C games have always been awesome, but the rest were like Shrek Fairy Tale Freakdown 
 compared to them. The weapons are a lot cooler, and have funny descriptions. To skydive you TILT 
 the controller. How awesome is that? The lighting is great, and don't get me started on the Groovitron. 
 Most people will say the plot is bad, but think about it. Ratchet's past has never been adequately 
 explored before. We all know about Clank. Malfunctional creation of the Blargians, meant to be 
 a killing machine. But no, Ratchet was a mystery; his only known past was his origin of Veldin. 
 Huh? You want me to go on about the Groovitron? Okay. It's fairly simple. IT MAKES YOUR ENEMIES 
 DANCE. Funky, right? So, you have these goldfish in battlesuits, then you destroy the battlesuits, 
 and you have giant goldfish on the floor. Throw the Groovitron and FIZAK! Dancing goldfish. Don't 
 tell me you don't wanna see that. Oh, and time for an upgrade in the realism; some enemies are 
 immune to certain weapons! And my arm hurts! BEST GAME EVER! Next review then! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Vojkan80001
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 15, 2008 2:06 pm PT
Review:  I will try to be as short and clear as possible. R&C: TOD is one more Ratchet game in series of 
 awesome to solid games on PS2. Now ratchet and his little friend Clank make debut on PS3 and they 
 are as charming as ever.
  R&C: TOD is extremely beautiful game with funny dialog and some really classic quotes that will 
 stay with me for some time (Captain Quark:"This guy is so out of my to 8!") lol. 
  R&C: TOD menages to deliver as usually top notch gameplay and controls, this time story in much 
 more deep and if you want it more mature. We get to find out a lot more about Lombaxes/Ratchet 
 and that Clank is not just some robot (Zoni) - no spoilers, and yet once we finish R&C: TOD we end 
 up with even more questions and mysteries, which is brilliant because now i cant wait to play next 
 installments in the series.
  It might not be reinventing the wheel but R&C: TOD somehow still menages to feel fresh through entire 
 game. So you should really do yourself a favor and at least rent R&C: TOD or buy it when price drops 
 but for sure if you are PS3 owner you should give yourself and R&C: TOD a chance to show to you 
 what it can do. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: uglynuncreative
Rating: 7.5
Date: Sep 12, 2008 6:13 pm PT
Review:  I'm writing this review a little late, R&C: QFB has already come out and I thought I'd come back 
 and put a review in for this one as well. Essentially, this is a good game, it's far from the best 
 in the R&C series gameplay wise, but graphically, it's of course one of the best. R&C: QFB was so 
 short it's somewhat difficult to compare the two titles on a graphics level, but I'd say Quest 
 for Booty showed significant improvements in the graphics department. My main gripe with both these 
 games is that while the graphics are certainly very impressive, the gameplay doesn't feel up to 
 par with even the last generation of games. In replaying TOD I've noticed how some of the boss 
 battles can be frustrating due to poor target boxes, at one point you battle a large vehicle being 
 driven by angry tribbles and can literally shoot through the direct center of the vehicle. Additionally, 
 environments simply don't seem as destructible. 
  
  Basically, I'm just going to say what I think needs to be done in the Ratchet and Clank series, 
 take it as accepted that even though I don't feel they're as good as they can be, I do enjoy the 
 games and recognize the impressive technical feats that Insomniac has made in its devotion to single 
 platform development. 
  
  1.) It's getting a little retarded that every game ratchet starts out with a health of ten and 
 has to work his way up, how many times has this guy saved the galaxy? Why do we have to keep unlocking 
 the wrenches groundsmashing powers? I think the crew at Insomniac needs to start giving us some 
 credit for having played previous titles instead of assuming what keeps a franchise likes this 
 going for this long is that each title draws new players that outnumber the old. Let's see some 
 chracter progression... he's had the friggin wrench for how long now?
  
  2.) I'd really like to see a title that delivered on the promise of PS3's destructible environments 
 and hordes of onscreen enemies at once. Considering how the real challenge of R&C enemies has always 
 been their numbers not their diabolical AI, coupled with the overwhelmingly powerful weapons Ratchet 
 wields... I think it's time we start seeing some serious carnage.
  
  3.) I'm tired of killing robots. Not all R&C games have been robots as the main enemies, but lately 
 that's all there ever is, robots robots robots... I get it, it's the future there are robots everywhere, 
 enough with the friggin robots. Aren't there any evil aliens in this universe? That can organize 
 around one another instead of raise robot armies?
  
  4.) What happened to spherical worlds? I was expecting some maps that were super huge spherical 
 worlds, way bigger than the small ones we experienced on PS2.
  
  5.) This is just a wish, because no R&C has ever had this, but isn't there some way to make it 
 seem less linear and forumlaic, say by having Ratchet fending off enemies assaults or liberating 
 planets once they've been taken over, by a dynamic and threatening enemy. That is constantly on 
 the march against the entire glaxy of mapped worlds from their homeworld? Maybe just a little strategy 
 to spice things up...?
  
  5.) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rpm12345
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 12, 2008 12:13 pm PT
Review:  Ratchet and clank tools of destruction is really fun, with great graphics, sounds, decent story, 
 and good gameplay. The story mode is good fun, especialy on your first way through,, or when your 
 collection stuff, but at times its easy and sometimes frustrating. but these things are only minor 
 so you should have fun playing this game. The graphics are some of the best for this kind of animation 
 and are artistcaly and technologaly amazing. The game has some good music and good sound, what 
 you would ecpect from 2008 gaming. The story is ok, but lacks a good ending. one of the funner 
 things in this game is collecting all of the things, including gold botls, ryno IV parts, and finding 
 achievments. the game offers a chelenge mode for when you beet the game, when you start from the 
 begining with all of the guns and stuff you already have and with more challenging enemies. this 
 will also offer you super wepons, wich make the game to easy once you get them.
  
  thanks for reading,
  rpm12345
  psn: asherchuck 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ratchetcooper1
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 11, 2008 7:11 pm PT
Review:  Obviously, this game was magnificent. If it wasn't, I seriously don't know how Insomniac Games 
 could of redeemed theirselves. Who thought this game would suck??? Its ok I'll wait. Lol, anyway 
 I know people who bought a PS3 just for this game. I'll review the whole series here since there 
 are too many in the series. Part 1, the beginning of a great turn in video game history had no 
 flaws IMO, and as it made its rise, it was a hit. The second installment in the series, even better 
 than the first. Part 3 Up Your Arsenal was superior to the 1st two. Deadlocked - this has 1 flaw, 
 too short. I beat it in a day. Well, that could've been cuz I was a hardcore gamer back then. Deadlocked 
 also was slightly disliked because of the capturing of Clank. Size Matters for PSP the 5th game 
 in the series pretty superior to most PSP games but had some difficult levels. PART 6! The the 
 jumping from a platform toa NEXT-GEN platform. Absolutely beautiful! The newest part, focused mostly 
 on Clank was great with the emphasizing of Clank's true abilities. This made the want for a PS2 
 so much more, and by this I mean the series. I don't even have to recommend it. You HAVE to like 
 it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AzelKosMos
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 12, 2008 9:21 am PT
Review:  I had never played a R&C game before this one, i kind of picked it up on a whim in a sale and have 
 to say.... i now wish i had played the PS2 games as Tools of Destruction is a funny, beautiful and 
 most importantly is a fun game to play.
  
  TOD is essentially a sci-fi platforming shooter with RPG elements, confused? Well this game takes 
 a wide variety of influences and mixes them together but without losing sight of the core of what 
 the game should be.
  
  You play as Ratchet, a Lombax who kind of ends up in the way of an invading Cragmite prince and 
 his army of heavily armed robotic commandos intent on taking over the universe. On the way to trying 
 to stop him Ratchet will find out about his past, meet new and interesting characters as well as 
 (and most importantly for you) blow stuff up.
  
  The game plays out in 3rd person perspective where Ratchet runs, jumps (hovers and glides thanks 
 to Clank on his back) through various levels on many different planets. Like in any good sci-fi 
 however Ratchet is armed to the teeth with state of the art firepower including missile launchers, 
 lasers, electro whips and disco balls just as a few examples. The more Ratchet uses these weapons 
 and gadgets they will individually gain experience points and level up making them more powerful 
 and eventually giving them an added ability, though upgrades to hold more ammo, fire faster etc 
 are also available to purchase at regular intervals as well from radium collected in chests and 
 enemies throughout the adventure.
  
  Ratchet himself levels up with enough defeated enemies increasing his health bar in an RPG like 
 fashion. He can also buy new and improved armour as the game goes on allowing him to engage some 
 of the tougher foes the game will throw at you.
  
  At certain points during the adventure things change up and give you the chance to play as clank, 
 Ratchets robotic side kick. Clank doesn't have much health, or any weapons to speak of, though 
 what he does have is the aid of these little alien creatures known as the "Zoni" who will attack 
 any enemy Clank comes across as well as help him slow down time, move bridges and repair demolished 
 machinery giving the game quite a bit of extra depth. These sections are different, but quite short 
 so the full on Ratchet action is never to far away.
  
  Every so often as R&C are traveling from planet to planet in their quest to stop Emperor Tachyon 
 they will run into space pirates that will attack their ship for booty, plunder and whatever else 
 space pirates want... grog maybe? Anyway, these sections play out more like the gummi ship sections 
 in Kingdom hearts where you control the spaceship weaving between asteroids letting rip and any 
 pirate vessel that gets to close, before taking on a boss ship at the end.
  
  Visually, R&C is fantastic to look at with detailed and colourful graphics in some huge environments 
 running at a smooth frame rate the entire time. I loved the look of the game, not just technically, 
 but also artistically as the planet variations and designs are very aesthetically pleasing. The 
 sound is no different really with some great effects and more importantly some perfectly fitting 
 voice acting that really bring the characters to life.
  
  The characters themselves are a pleasure, this is partially due to their strange design (A conceited 
 celebrity superhero, A megalomaniac with an inferiority complex and crocodile Dundee as a space 
 smuggler) and also partially due to the brilliant script full of constant humour that all ages 
 can enjoy making the game a real delight to play.
  
  The game is quite a lot longer then i thought it would be and with plenty of extras to keep you 
 entertained including finding all the gold bolts, getting all the skill pints to unlock extra characters, 
 modes, art, videos and Huge head mode! (funny as hell)
  
  If you like platformers, sci-fi and disney humour then this is a game you should not miss. It's 
 fun engaging and is good value for cash. I recommend it, even if only for a weekend rental. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dante9916
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 10, 2008 1:05 pm PT
Review:  I have played only first ratchet & clank on Ps2.. It was great at that time.
  New Ratchet is very fun game. But it is also well done.
  Graphics are great. Not great like Mgs 
 4 or Uncharted, but like Megaman and Zelda.
  Gameplay... Well just keep L2 pressed down, pres O to shoot, and run lef or right, X to jump. This 
 is how you shoot most of times.
  But at end planets, you need to trowh few Stalkers (bodyguard) , few Swarn boms, take Razor machine 
 guns and shoot and evade, or else you will die.
  Weird thing here is, you have like 300 healt, your armour takes 55% of damage, and still, you will 
 die about 5 shots.
  Its just stupid.
  
  Platform is second thing here, it iss pretty Ok. Few new gadgets, but Clank is kind of out of new 
 toys.
  
  After finishing game, no need to sell this away. You can explore and find halogram pieces, gold 
 mutters, and get better waepons.
  
  But it would have been nice to play this at co-op or some multiplayer options.
  
  Oh well, 
 you play this game with smile on your face :P
  
  You should chenk this out, now that Its platinium and all.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Evreche
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 4, 2008 4:06 pm PT
Review:  The game plays like most of the old Ratchet games with a mix of platforming and shooting that feels 
 just fun. It is easier than ones in the past but still it doesn't detract from the entertainment 
 of the game.
  
  The story of the game plots Ratchet against many odds seeking to discover his roots. As usual the 
 writing is great and analogous to a Pixar movie, but with a cliffhanger ending that leaves you 
 wanting to know more about the protagonists and waiting for a sequel.
  
  The platforming elements are not too difficult but it is a welcome thing to not take away from 
 the flow of shooting. Many weapons are in the game that level as you use them and are somewhat 
 customizable. This game introduces devices in the series which are great, but largely not useful.
 
  
  Check it out and go back and play the previous ones if you haven't. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Xurtch
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 28, 2008 11:32 am PT
Review:  2nd best in PS3 Gaming! Next to Metal Gear Solid 4, Though this game was awesome! Best in series 
 no doubt! R&C has been an amazing series since its first game and never has failed. I loved the 
 series when i first started playing the game! It may be animated but the graphics are sick for 
 this game! The weapons are sweet, a tornado launcher, and a Heat seeking rocket launcher... Awesome! 
 I also like that this game has a high health bar i got to 280 so far and haven't stopped goin up 
 in health yet! Ryno is an awesome weapon 2. I recommend this game to anyone who has a PS3. If you 
 want a good quality game well heres one go buy it now, you won't regret it, cause gameplay is awesome, 
 and replay is fun 2! Buy  
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zenarbitraitor2
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 27, 2008 7:53 am PT
Review:  I'm not exactly sure why I've left it so late to post this review, considering I obtained the game 
 in November 2007, but never mind, here it is:
  
  So, this is the long-awaited PS3 debut for Ratchet and Clank, the universe-saving duo of Lombax 
 and Robot. After the departure from the series roots that was Ratchet: Deadlocked, Insomniac have 
 shifted the focus of this Ratchet game back to the original blend of platforming, exploration and 
 combat, stating that they wanted to "return to the series roots". In terms of core gameplay, Insomniac 
 certainly have returned to the balance achieved in the first three Ratchet and Clank games however, 
 they have introduced a new focus- a more plot-driven style of gameplay. Insomniac wanted to emphasize 
 that this is a fresh start from the series. 
  
  A lot more emphasis has been placed on the storyline for this game and the story itself is more 
 in-depth. Essentially we are exploring Ratchet's roots and his origins in this game, a far deeper 
 plot-line than those found in previous Ratchet games, which were still well thought-out despite 
 their relative simplicity. Insomniac are also emphasizing a more epic scale. Whether this is to 
 try to increase the appeal to adults or simply a natural progression of the series we don't know, 
 but this epic scale gels well with the premise of the story. Where did all the other Lombaxes go? 
 Where did this huge army come from that is attacking Metropolis? Oh, yeah. I forgot to mention 
 that. The manner in which this game kicks off is slightly different to that of the previous four 
 games. Tools of Destruction kicks off with an all-action assault of metropolis by the Emperor Percival 
 Tachyon and his forces, leaving ratchet to fight his way free and escape the doomed planet. On 
 the way he encounters Tachyon, whose sole revelation is that he wants to eliminate Ratchet- the 
 final remaining Lombax- so that he can take over the universe unopposed. This seems confusing at 
 first, but the fragmented storyline eventually falls into place. In all honesty I don't believe 
 that this epic scale or storyline really did this game any favours, and the fact that the story 
 isn't very coherent doesn't help the atmosphere of the game either. However, the game does stick 
 to the classic Ratchet formula of jumping from planet to planet via spaceship. Ratchet's progression 
 from planet to planet is usually motivated by some sort of objective, for example attempting to 
 find a 'Lombax testing centre' or the elusive 'Lombax secret'. This is similar to the way the game 
 was driven along in Ratchet and Clank 1, where the first part of the game saw Ratchet attempting 
 to find captain Qwark, and the second part chasing after Drek and clearing up the damage he'd caused. 
 
  
  Integral to the storyline of any game is the cast of characters, and due to the incoherent nature 
 of the storyline, the cast of characters in this game needed to be good in order to ensure that 
 things went smoothly. Thankfully, the characters are good. Insomniac have gone for the approach 
 of having fewer characters which are better developed and play a more important role in the story. 
 Throughout the game you meet several long term companions, including a smuggler, who provides you 
 with gadgets and information, and the trio of Talwyn Apogee, Cronk and Zephyr a group of characters 
 you meet early in the game. These become your allies for the rest of the game, with the two Robots 
 Cronk and Zephyr providing much of the comedy moments and Talwyn acting as a damsel in distress/combat 
 partner throughout the game. Fans of the series will also be pleased to hear that Captain Qwark 
 keeps up a healthy profile throughout the game, providing his usual quirks and his trademark flirtations 
 with the enemy (I. e. Tachyon) . There are two types of main enemy, the troops of the aforementioned 
 Tachyon and the Space pirates. These space pirates are after the same Lombax treasure that Ratchet 
 is searching for. They are also the game's blessing, providing many a comedy moment, as well as 
 being the epitome of great character design and helping to hold the game's wobbly story together. 
 However, despite this set of great characters, I really feel that there aren't enough. The Universe 
 feels like an empty place that is simply inhabited by these few recurring characters. In the first 
 few Ratchet games you would meet new characters on every planet you went to, giving a real sense 
 of community and making the impression that you were exploring a living, breathing universe far 
 more believable. In this game there is no such feeling. 
  
  However, this is where the negativity ends. As far as I'm concerned, Insomniac have got everything 
 else almost spot on. In terms of graphics, Tools of destruction has set the new standard. The levels 
 are simply brimming with almost superfluous detail, rammed with bright colours and featuring sumptuous 
 design which shames virtually every other game on the console, if not ever. The level design has 
 returned to its former glory, after somewhat of a dip in Ratchet: Deadlocked. The character design 
 is also fantastic, although a little bit more variety in the enemies wouldn't go amiss. The weapon 
 effects are also top drawer, with explosions looking as if they might break free of the TV a bullets 
 whizzing around with Hi-def sparkle. Graphically, the game couldn't be done any better. In terms 
 of level design, there could have been a bit more challenging platforming, but apart from that, 
 excellent. Gone are the linear one-path levels of Ratchet and Clank 3 and Ratchet: Deadlocked. 
 I feel that there is still slightly too much combat, which is reflected in the level design but 
 with weapons like those featured in this game, you don't mind.
  
  The array of weapons in this game has to be the best in the series. New classics such as the Tornado 
 launcher, which is controlled via motion sensing, and the Razor claws which offer Melee combos 
 aplenty, there is stacks of variety in the weapon set, which is further augmented by the presence 
 of new combat devices. These devices have special effects, such as Transmorphing your enemies or 
 temporarily stunning them. When used in combination with the standard weapons, it makes clearing 
 our hordes of enemies exhilarating and spectacular to watch. Weapons can also upgrade RPG style, 
 gaining experience as you defeat enemies, which makes for a satisfying experience. A new modding 
 system for weapons has also been put in place, requiring you to collect Raritanium in exchange 
 for weapon mods which have effects such as increasing ammo capacity or increasing the blast-radius 
 of your weapon. As per the last few ratchet games, you can also by new suits of Armour which offer 
 progressively more protection as the enemies get tougher. This of course all comes at a price, 
 and new weapons and amour have to be purchased using bolts- the Ratchet and Clank currency that 
 has stuck since the first game. what's more, Insomniac have made it absolutely necessary to expand 
 and use your full arsenal by varying the enemy types. There are enemies which will electrocute 
 you if you touch them, negating the use of melee weapons, and also enemies with shields which are 
 difficult to break with projectiles, but can easily be hacked away with Ratchet's razor claws or 
 electro-whip. This forces you to use a decent spread of the weapons, and also offers incentives 
 for upgrading them. 
  
  Side-by-side with weapons in any ratchet game are gadgets. The gadgets in this game are of a similar 
 high standard to the weapons, with a few new classics as well as some old favourites being involved. 
 In terms of Gadgets, a standout addition is the Gelinator, a gadget which can fire out blocks of 
 jelly after being filled at special outlets. This jelly can be used to create platforms and allow 
 you to reach higher places, and is brilliant thought out. Another great new gadget is the Heli-pods, 
 a glove which allows you to launch miniscule helicopter-style nodes which can lift platforms and 
 gates. Making a welcome return is the swingshot, which allows you to traverse gaps in a similar 
 way to a grappling hook, and the glider, which is now controlled via sixaxis motion-sensing. The 
 motion sensing elements in ToD are implemented very well, unlike other titles where they are either 
 a pain or simply not worth looking at. Another credit to Insomniac. 
  
  Unfortunately what isn't a credit to Insomniac is the music in the is game. The standard of music 
 has fallen a very long way since the original ratchet and Clank game, where it was worthy of a 
 separate CD release. From, lush techno/orchestral/world music textures we've gone to drab, vaguely 
 atmospheric orchestral scores in this game, with a lack of invention from a man I revere as a musical 
 genius: David Bergeaud. Hell, in some levels the music is practically non-existent! Still there 
 are some good tracks, such as the floating jungle rhythms of the second level and the pirate theme 
 tune, which seems to take some inspiration from pirates of the Caribbean, but remains an excellent 
 tune nonetheless. I think Insomniac tried to match the epic theme with epic music, unfortunately 
 in my opinion it doesn't work. 
  
  But no matter, for this is a superb game with great production values and replayability. Getting 
 the best out of this game will take 3 run-throughs at least, and you'll probably want to play through 
 it again after that, so we're looking at a minimum of 30-40 hours. Fans of the series, expect to 
 be spending well over 50 hours on this. Despite what I feel to be shortcomings in terms of plot 
 and soundtrack, this is a worthy addition to the Ratchet series and a real AAA game for PS3 owners 
 to get their teeth into. We've now got plenty to look forward to, with a proposed trilogy of Ratchet 
 games on the PS3, however, this game is just the beginning of that new adventure. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: DrThunderHD
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 27, 2008 7:15 am PT
Review:  Ratchet & Clank Future: Tools of Destruction is an excellent addition to the R&C adventures. It 
 stays true to its predecessors with innovative weaponry, silly humor, and fun game play.
  
  The biggest upgrade of this newest installment of the series is the graphics. Since this is the 
 first game in the series on the PS3, a graphical upgrade would be expected. Insomniac Games exceeded 
 my expectations in this matter. The graphics are amazing, but do not lose the cartoon feel of the 
 game. The bread and butter of R&C games though is and always will be the weaponry. There are many 
 weapons available for purchase as you progress through the game. Each weapon can be upgraded in 
 two different ways, usage and raritanium. Some weapons are better than others, but most have a 
 specific usage in mind. The last part of the game that really adds to its enjoyment is the story. 
 The slap-stick humor incorporated throughout is truly funny. It has everything you truly need in 
 regards to characters: space pirates, unassuming heroes, napoleonic villains, and a robotic sidekick.
 
  
  Ratchet & Clank Future: Tools of Destruction is a strong addition to the game series and an excellent 
 first jump to next gen gaming. It is a must own for PS3 owners who enjoy platformers. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KMifsud
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 20, 2008 9:55 am PT
Review:  This game is amazing really I don't really like RAC but this one is really quite impressive. The 
 visuals and colours are superb and hard to compare with other games and so is the third person 
 shooter. However it is sadly too short (if you stay a whole day playing it like I did lol) . This 
 is still one of the top 20 in my list. The levels are great for anyone and those who like massive 
 action whould just go to the Arena.
  Those who already own it I suggest a few thing in the last battle against emporer tachyon .I suggest 
 throwing a Groovitron and make him dance ,while he is dancing shoot him a mag-net launcer and throw 
 some portable turrets. Then summon the small shooting robot in which he may help you a little bit 
 and hit him with the stringest weapons you have (preferably not the hand blades) . And if you lack 
 health throw a leech bomb. Do this repeatedly and by time you will take him out.
  For more help contact me or Email me on monster. h@hotmail. co. uk or on my PS3 user britishcrusader2. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: yubu1138
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 24, 2008 1:57 pm PT
Review:  I hate to break it to the Nintendo Fan Boys, but Ratchet and Clank is a better game than Super 
 Mario Galaxy. It's true. The primary reason would be Ratchet and Clank is fun. Super Mario Galaxy 
 (which I played through) was for the most part an exercise in repetitive tedium. The controls for 
 R&C: Tools of Destruction are spot on. Even the six axis moments, while brief, are fun and work 
 great. While the game is certainly on the easier side, it doesn't take away from the pure enjoyment. 
 I don't want Devil May Cry difficulty for a game like this anyway. Also, to put it bluntly, this 
 game is amazing to look at and really shows the abilities of the PS3: and this was a launch title. 
 Ties for the best of the series. This is a great platformer which could one of the best of all 
 time. Also, the Ratchet and Clank humor is here in full force which just puts this game over the 
 top. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: darthrevan446
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 24, 2008 10:18 am PT
Review:  This is probably one of the best Ratchet and clank games ever made. If it had been harder it would 
 have beaten the other ones! But the great thing about the game is that when you have finished the 
 game once you can replay it in challenge mode! were you get to upgrade your weapon even further. 
 There is also wery mutch to collect; Gold bolts (yeah they'r back) , Holo plans, Skill Points and 
 raritanium. The Grafich is wery good and its just beautiful to watch it. The sixaxis is also used 
 in th game but dont worry its not overused :P
  The worlds are big and funny and the flying stages is a funny change for the plattforming and shooting. 
 One of the many great thing in the game is that insteed of looking after crystals like in the previouse 
 games here you collect souls from big and hard enemis :) Mutch funnier than looking for crystals 
 in the sewer :P
  So all in all this is a great Ratchet game and you should really get it if you exuse me im gonna 
 go and play it now :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Soar57
Rating: 7
Date: Aug 23, 2008 8:59 pm PT
Review:  Ratchet&Clank TOD is an extremely fun with tons of good weapons and gadgets.
  
  Good= Its fun to play-kooky gadgets and odd devices will make laugh at certain points-An alright 
 story
  
  Bad= Its extremely easy- Some weapons just plain suck- Groovitron is funny, but makes the game 
 without a diffulcty level- Some minor gaps in story
  
  Ratchet has been an Insomniac Idol since the PS2 first came out. He has defeated a world destroying 
 dictator, prevented a homocidal pet being released, saved a galaxy, and even shut down a murdurous 
 game show. This time around, he fights a tiny empereor named Percival.
  
  The game starts out on Planet Kerwan. Ratchet is trying to fix a motorcyle type device, just like 
 in the first game. Quark radios Ratchet saying that "heavily armed robotic commandos" are attacking 
 Kerwan. Ratchet rushes to the rescue and meets the Cragmite Emperor, Percival Tachyon. After a 
 series of events, Ratchet steals the war ship. After several more events, he ends up on the deserted 
 homeworld of the Lombaxes, Planet Fastoon. Ratchet finds, and repairs a ship and after several 
 more planets, he meets Tawlyn, daughter of Max Apogee.
  
  Again, later, Ratchet finds the Lombax weapon, the Dimensionater. Clank insists on destroying it, 
 but Ratchet defies him. Then Quark steals it and ends giving it to Emperor Tachyon. Tachyon uses 
 it to revive the Cragmites. Tachyon then invades Planet Igilack.
  
  After saving Quark, Ratchet and Clank confront Tachyon and they battle it out. Of course, Ratchet 
 wins and gets back home.
  
  But wait! SPOILER ALERT!
  
  
  
  The Zoni take Clank away and leave Ratchet alone.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Asagea_888
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 19, 2008 3:31 pm PT
Review:  Fun, fun, fun..... I can't think of any other word to describe the Ratchet and Clank series. Oh, 
 wait.... maybe I can. How about beautiful? Gorgeous? Hilarious? Tools of Destruction continues the 
 trend of fun platforming combining with a dash of FPS and a ton of kick-ass weapons. 
  
  On the PS3, the game is absolutely beautiful.... even more so on a HDTV. In fact, I just recently 
 got an HDTV and had a chance to tout around on my completed save file. I really missed out on how 
 gorgeous the environments looked. I might even start a new game just so I can take in all the HD 
 goodness. They say it's like you're playing a Pixar movie, and they're definitely right on that 
 count. The story and humorous dialogue between characters are, as always, hugely entertaining and 
 engrossing.
  
  The gameplay is what you'd expect from a R&C game -- plenty of platforming action, huge levels to 
 explore, and lots and lots of @#@$% to blow up. The Sixaxis functionality is used appropriately 
 for instances where you must glide around with Clank, or when Ratchet is falling from great distances. 
 There are a lot of planets to explore, and tons of enemies to deal with. 
  
  Overall, if you haven't already, give this game a shot. Fans of the series will not be disappointed 
 with this latest venture. I'm not going to spoil the ending here, but I'm eager to download Quest 
 for Booty because of burning questions that I personally want answered in addition to more of the 
 R&C goodness that I've come to love since playing the very first game. 
  
  And even if you're not a fan, or aren't familiar with Ratchet and Clank, I encourage you to play 
 it. It just might make you a fan. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bioshockraptor
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 19, 2009 4:39 pm PT
Review:  Plus: Insomniac brings R&C to next-gen while keeping the humour
  Minus: It's not very long compared to other next-gen games
  Interesting: The 'Groovitron' is 
 a grenade that makes enemies dance
  
  Ratchet & Clank: Tools of Destuction exclusive to the Playstation 3 is Insomniacs first R&C game 
 for the PS3 and was released October 23, 2007 in North America and on November 9, 2007 in Europe. 
 It was created and published by Insomniac, the same company that released Resistance: Fall of Man. 
 Tools of Destruction is a platforming action/adventure game with plenty explosions and weapons, 
 while at the same time, keeping it family friendly. So let's get started.
  
  This is actually the 7th installment in the series, but you won't need to play previous games to 
 understand this, and could be treated as a stand alone game; the first of a new series. So basically 
 Ratchet and Clank get attacked by this emperor called Percival Tachyon, whose race was wiped out 
 by Ratchet's race, the Lombaxes. It turns out Ratchet is the last of his kind and there is a special 
 weapon that has the power to do really bad stuff. They set off to find it and it's a good story, 
 simple, easy to follow, but the ending is a cliffhanger, which I won't spoil, and it kind of leaves 
 you a little sad. Luckily a sequel is in the works. You will most likely enjoy following the duo 
 along the way and visiting many, many planets, in fact there is 19 playable worlds you can visit 
 when ever you want, as long as you have unlocked them.
  
  I already mentioned the characters but if you have never played a Ratchet & Clank game before you 
 will probably be weirded out. Ratchet is a Lombax, which look like over grown ferrets with huge 
 ears, and Clank is his little robot companion. They are a team, Ratchet handles the violence and 
 Clank handles the technological smartness. Ratchet is the athletic, more physical induced one, 
 and Clank is the brainiac, more smart and logical. They work well together, and the enemies look 
 really cool and interesting. There are many funny and silly jokes that are cracked by the heroes 
 and you won't see characters like this in a game. I would say a lot of effort went into creating 
 this vast world of aliens and humans alike. Some of them are more sensible than others, but none 
 of them look bad.
  
  The Gameplay is simple and fun. It isn't that great or spectacular when it comes to the combos, 
 seeing as though there is only one, which is pressing square 3 times in a row, but the platforming 
 is great. There's grind rails, gravity walls and awesome segments where you get to fly by tilting 
 the Sixaxis controller, which I'll talk about next. The combat is fun with all the guns you get 
 and use, but the basic combat you do with the wrench is sort of dull, so it's obvious the game 
 wants you to use the guns you buy. You collect money, which are bolts in this game, by destroying 
 enemies and when you find a vending machine you can buy ammo and/or new weapons. There are two 
 ways to upgrade your weapons, both of which you will end up wanting and needing to do to defeat 
 stronger enimies. You can collect raritanium by defeating certain enemies, and that's what you 
 use to upgrade your weapon in ways like, extra bolts, extra ammo, extra damage, extra raritanium, 
 etc. The other way to upgrade your weapons is to just use them. The more you use them the more 
 they upgrade. When they're upgraded to level 5 you can buy a mod from the vendors which allows 
 you to upgrade them to level 10, but it costs much, much more bolts. It's great fun, not hard and 
 not easy, I loved it. 
  
  The controls are just spot on. Very simple and not dull at all. You will not be mad or disappointed 
 playing through the game with these controls. Absolutely perfect, nothing wrong with I at all. 
 They're all in the right spot, for example; you could be running sideways and need to jump and 
 shoot at the same time, but instead of trying to press X and O at the same time you could press 
 X and R1, so you could do either one depending on which feels more comfortable. Also you can zoom 
 in by pressing a certain shoulder button instead of, like in many FPS games, clicking the analog 
 sticks, which I have always had a problem and annoyance with. 
  
  Now the graphics are great too. It seems alright at first, but not until you actually zoom in you 
 see how good they are. They're perfect for the game and there aren't anything's wrong with it. 
 The textures are brilliant and the backgrounds are spectacular, especially the first level. Everything 
 is going on at once, and there aren't any glitches that you notice straight out, unless you try 
 finding them and look really hard. But there aren't that many anyway. This is definitely next-generation 
 high-definition, and I was thinking all this when I first played it on a standard-definition television, 
 so high-def is amazing.
  
  The music isn't very noticeable in Ratchet & Clank: Tools of Destruction. It's pretty good if you 
 actually listen to it. The voice acting is some of the best I've seen in a game, and the sound 
 effects fit perfectly. Did you know the same person who voices Ratchet, voices Tidus from Final 
 Fantasy X? The music is a nomine for an award or anything but it isn't bad. I would say it's a 
 bit over average.
  
  Unlike a few previous installments, this has no multiplayer what so ever. In Ratchet & Clank 2 
 there was a mini game which two players could participate in; Ratchet & Clank 3 you could play 
 up to 4 players online and offline; Ratchet & Clank 4 (a. k. a Ratchet Gladiator) had both of those 
 elements and also featured a co-op campaign, the same as a single player campaign, but with two 
 players. I don't know why they didn't continue the multiplayer, but I'm pretty disappointed. It 
 might be because the main focus was something else but I definitely think it would have been better 
 off with online multiplayer, in Tools of Destruction there isn't ever local offline multiplayer.
 
  
  This game will last you at least a weekend if you're a hardcore gamer. It isn't very long, and 
 is obviously aimed at younger gamers instead of older ones. You will probably be disappointed if 
 you think you're getting a real lot out of it before the stories over. It is still pretty long, 
 much over 15 hours worth. It's still pretty long, it just depends on if you want to get the skill 
 points and upgrade your weapons to their maximum.
  
  The replay value in this game is pretty big. You can go through and achieve all the skill points, 
 get all the weapons, all the upgrades etc. You will play it again a second time most certainly, 
 it really does suck you in, but when you're done there isn't really much else to do. After I completed 
 everything in the game I picked it up a few months later and started a new save file on my hard 
 drive and played that for a while. It's great fun to go through again and it's a nice break from 
 all the FPS and Hack'n'Slash games that we have these days.
  
  This is one of my favourite games and franchises and features some of the very best platforming 
 and action you'll find in a game. It's got a great story, it will appeal to young and old audiences; 
 old and newcomers to the series, and has really good voice acting featured in the game. The sound 
 effects fit in perfectly and are amazing, along with the extremely detailed graphics, planets and 
 character models. It's just an awesome adventure game, if it was a movie it would be an instant 
 blockbuster classic. It's just too bad that Insomniac didn't include multiplayer in this installment, 
 and the length just isn't that great. Overall this is an awesome game that should be bought if 
 you're one who cares more about just having a fun time. 
  
  Story - 4/5
  Characters - 5/5
  Gameplay - 5/5
  Controls - 5/5
  Graphics - 5/5
  Music - 4/5
  Multiplayer 
 - 0/5
  Length - 3/5
  Replay Value - 4/5
  
  Overall Rating:
  90/100 - Awesome 
::::::

::::::
UserName: narayan715
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 15, 2008 3:27 pm PT
Review:  When I got my PS3, tools of destruction was the first game I got. I did a whole bunch of research 
 before buying it, and Gamespot was one of my sources. I was really surprised by the mediocre rating 
 that ToD got. I looked around and checked out other gaming sites which gave it a much better rating. 
 I have never played a ratchet and clank game before, but I'll definitely be coming back. There 
 are a huge variety of weapons in this game and they are actually all useful, which I found surprising. 
 There are a few frustrating parts (mostly in the water and trying to override the security codes) 
 but, as a terrible gamer, I was happy that I actually could beat the game. I guess this would be 
 too easy if you are experienced with the ratchet and clank type of game, but if you are a casual 
 gamer like me, it's almost a must buy. The graphics - even without an HDMI cable - are fantastic 
 and the levels are huge and I'm really happy that there were no real load times. So, if you're 
 looking for a fun, easy game with a dose of humor on the side, this is the one for you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: spideyeiteyman
Rating: 6
Date: Aug 15, 2008 12:56 pm PT
Review:  I have loved the other Ratchet and Clank games and was thoroughly disappointed by this game. First 
 the good parts. The graphics are the best in the series. There are even more fun and interesting 
 weapons to defeat enemies with. It is another installment into a great series. More interesting 
 characters are introduced as you try to find out what happened to the Lombaxes. Finally, the dialogue 
 is still just as good and funny as the other games. Now the bad. The game is way too easy. It is 
 almost impossible to die. Even though there are more weapons, many are just copies off the same 
 old weapons in the other games. The game did not hold my attention for very long either. The plot 
 is ok but Ratchet could easily beat such a small and weak villain. The villain is obsessed with 
 killing all Lombaxes which is the whole plot. Also, the game was extremely over hyped. I expected 
 this game to be great but I was very disappointed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: malachi_27
Rating: 7.5
Date: Aug 25, 2008 2:45 pm PT
Review:  The first Ratchet and Clank game brought a galaxy - packed adventure, fun action - platforming 
 sequences, and it brought us two great mascots that will never be forgotten! After the four games 
 on the PlayStation Two, Insomniac Games brings back the Ratchet and Clank series (after their mega 
 - hit, Resistance: Fall of Man) for the PlayStation Three!
  
  The new Ratchet trilogy for the PlayStation Three will be the Future series of games. The game 
 starts out as Ratchet is fixing a type of hover mobile on a building with his friend Clank beside 
 him. They both get a transmission from Captain Qwark saying that he is in need of their help. After 
 Ratchet thinks he has fixed the vehicle, they set off for Quark's home. Clank disagrees that vehicle 
 is safe. Ratchet doesn't listen, and they crash to the ground after barely controlling the out 
 - of - control vehicle. When they get to Qwark, they discover he is missing -- they soon find out 
 they have other problems to worry about. Emperor Tachyon, prince of the Cragmites, finds out that 
 there is a Lombax (Ratchet) living among them. Ratchet and Clank try to find out who this Emperor 
 Tachyon really is, where exactly all the Lombaxes in the universe went, and how Clank plays a key 
 in all of this.
  
  I must admit, the plot of the game is probably the best of the series. The game just doesn't execute 
 the plot out as smoothly as it could. Only the last hour of the game are you TRULY discovering 
 something about the Lombax species. Basically, the plot only really starts to kick off near the 
 very end of the game. The game brings back all of that is expected from the series: Awesome guns 
 and platforming. That being said, the game brings nothing new to the series. It's nice that the 
 game sticks with what made it great, but would it have killed Insomniac to add a few new elements? 
 The visuals in the game are decent. I, personally, thought the graphics could have been a lot better. 
 There are small differences in terms of graphics over its predecessors. It's slightly more detailed 
 (Ratchet has some fuzz going on here) and there is more lighting. These changes are great, but 
 it didn't look as well as I had hoped it would. I'm sure once Insomniac gets completely familiar 
 with the PlayStation Three, they will take complete advantage to use it for the series.
  
  There are more disappointments to come, though. The music in the game is really lacking. It is 
 nowhere nearly as strong as Going Commando, or all the other ones, for that matter. The sound and 
 gun effects to sound decent, fortunately. It have stumbled upon many small glitches, such as enemies 
 getting stuck in walls, floating boxes, and dead floating corpses. They are small, but they shouldn't 
 happen. Another let - down is the lack of multi - player. There is no two player mode and there 
 is no online feature. Even though all the Ratchet games after Up Your Arsenal had some type of 
 multi - player, this game's multi - player is noticeably missing. Perhaps the biggest disappointment 
 with this game is the ending. Like I said before, it has a great plot, and with every great plot 
 comes a twist at the end. That twist happens in the last several seconds at the end, and it completely 
 leaves you hanging. It's not only disappointing, but it's also frustrating. You know the entire 
 next game is going to be about resolving the problem at the end of Tools of Destruction, even IF 
 it gets resolved.
  
  New comers to the Ratchet and Clank series will most likely love this, but fans of the series may 
 start to get weary of all the repetition the game (and the series) brings. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ClankXIII
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 11, 2008 8:07 pm PT
Review:  Have you ever sat through a CGI animated film and wondered, "Why can't they make the graphics this 
 great and visually impressive in a video game?" Well, they just did. The Ratchet & Clank series 
 makes its way onto the next generation console, the PlayStation 3, in its newest installment, Ratchet 
 & Clank Future: Tools Of Destruction. And boy are there definitely some amazing tools. Insomniac 
 was given a brand new toy to play with and took full advantage of its stunning visuals. To start 
 off, the cinematics used to tell the story have the best graphic detail I have seen in a video 
 game. When watching these cinematics it feels as though you are watching a full length movie. Everything 
 moves as it's supposed to and flows effortlessly, such as Ratchet's fur. The jump from the 120 
 total joints that make up Ratchet's body on the PlayStation 2 to the 90 joints in his face alone 
 on the PlayStation 3 are definitely noticeable. Aside from the cinematics, even the gameplay graphics 
 are amazing. Ratchet makes his way through multiple worlds, each beautifully designed down to every 
 interactive leaf of each plant. So much is happening in each planet: vehicles zooming by, robot 
 space pirates pillaging the cities, rockets exploding into buildings causing them to crumble to 
 the ground. All of these amazing details add to the overall feel of being in a completely different 
 world. If you really want to put that 1080p HD television to work, Insomniac's Ratchet & Clank 
 Future: Tools Of Destruction is a must have. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Tartarus_Reaper
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 11, 2008 5:40 pm PT
Review:  
  
  What is it?
  Ratchet & Clank Future: Tools of Destruction, ToD for short, is the latest installment of the action 
 platforming franchise from Burbank based Insomniac Games. You once again assume the role of the 
 cat-like alien, Ratchet, and his robotic buddy, Clank. This installment revolves around the story 
 of Ratchet's past, and that of the Lombaxes (the name of Ratchet's make believe alien race) , and 
 their history with a cruel race named the Cragmites. Gameplay, once again, mainly focuses on dispatching 
 enemies with tons of weaponry and traditional platforming challenges.
  
  Gameplay: 10/10
  I've also found myself to be a fan of the Ratchet & Clank series' frantic shooting segments, and 
 this sequel is no exception. Though there are no real new additions, there isn't much of a point 
 to fix what isn't broken, and the inclusion of a different arsenal every game keeps things fresh. 
 ToD may have the most enjoyable arsenal of the bunch, however, as it covers all bases with the 
 traditional shotgun and pistol type weapons, but then adds the more outlandish fare such as the 
 new Tornado Launcher. Which, as the name would imply, launches Tornadoes at your enemies, which 
 you can then control with the SixAxis' tilt function. However, the best addition is that of the 
 new items simply called "Devices". These devices add a defensive aspect to the game, and all of 
 them are just simply fun to use. Especially the Groovitron, which is a hypnotizing discoball that 
 forces all enemies to dance for a brief period, even bosses. Less creative, but still useful devices, 
 called Leech Bombs allow you to recover your health by draining it from the enemy as well. 
  Of course, another large draw is the ability to upgrade your weapons, and ToD has the most fleshed 
 out system out of all the installments. Other than simply leveling up your weapons by killing enemies, 
 you can also upgrade them to give them special effects, using a special currency called Raritanium. 
 These upgrades can range from the simple receive more bolts, or the very destructive weapon specific 
 bonuses such as increasing the number of rockets you can fire, or giving your BuzzBlades (a gun 
 that shoots sawblades) the ability to ricochet off walls. The game also mixes up straight right 
 shooting with SixAxis based minigames, which work surprisingly well considering they're just tilt 
 based. Like old installments, there are also Dogfight levels, with ToD's closely resembling a Star 
 Fox game.
  Of course, there's still quite a bit of platforming, and the game is just as challenging as any 
 of the past installments. All in all, the experience is just very enjoyable, and won't disappoint 
 the platforming and action fans within all of us.
  
  Sound: 9/10
  The music is good, as usual, but sometimes forgettable. That's not to say there isn't a good amount 
 of epic tunes, specifically the ones from the Pirate based worlds. Another thing you won't find 
 yourself forgetting is the music the Groovitron produces, which is all classic disco fair, and 
 techno/trance if you change your console's region to Japan. The game's "theme" is disco as well, 
 providing a rather strange but hard to resist sountrack overall. The voices, as usual, are well 
 done. James Arnold Taylor (some may remember him as Tidus in FF X) once again takes up the role 
 of Ratchet and provides many well acted lines. As for the rest of the cast, they're just as great 
 as ever too. Whether they be the excellent comical performances of outdated warbots, Kronk and 
 Zephyr, or the many piratebots throughout the game. In shot, Ratchet & Clank has always had great 
 voice work, and this one is no different.
  
  
  Story:9/10
  Ratchet & Clank has never really been about the story, but that doesn't prevent Insomniac from 
 presenting a good one with every installment. As was stated before, the developers chose to focus 
 on Ratchet's past in this game, finally revealing why he's the last of his kind in the entire Universe. 
 The story begins with the pair being thrust into an invasion by Emperor Percival Tachyon ("Your 
 name is Percival?") , the tyranical ruler of the next galaxy over, and quickly turns into yet another 
 quest to stop a villain from achieving his ultimate goal. This time around, the heroes and the 
 villain are scrambling to discover the ultimate creation of Ratchet's race, the Lombax secret. 
 During the journey, Ratchet comes across a few familiar and new faces. Of course, no Ratchet & 
 Clank game would be complete without Captain Qwark, and the bumbling superhero returns yet again 
 to make everyone's job a bit more difficult. The Plumber also makes a return, providing another 
 comical scene. As for the new faces, Clank encounters a strange race of invisible creatures called 
 The Zoni, who take him as their king. Also added to the mix is Talwyn Apogee, a last name long 
 time Ratchet players may recognize. The mysterious character, Max Apogee, is indeed fleshed out 
 just a bit more in ToD, and actually plays a important role. Overall, the story is surprisingly 
 good for a platformer, and it's good to see that Insomniac actually cares about such things.
  
  Graphics: 10/10
  Though the game is only presented in 480p and 720p, it's GORGEOUS. It far 
 outshines anything I've seen on the 360, and most of what I've seen on the PS3. Really, this game 
 is a technical wonder all around. It actually does look like you're playing a Pixar movie, due 
 to the excellent animation. The environment are as huge as ever, and far more detailed. Ratchet 
 & Clank has always been known for looking good, but ToD is just on an entirely different level. 
 
  
  Controls: 9/10
  The controls are finely tuned in every aspect, even when SixAxis control comes into play... for 
 the most part. There was only one bit in which I had issues, and that was with the tilt controlled 
 Decryptor sections. Tilting around the ball can be a bit frustrating when you need to do it fast, 
 but you can steady the ball by holding X at the connector points. Really, this isn't much to nitpick, 
 so there's not much to say.
  
  Fun Factor: 9.5/10
  The game is a blast, just like any other Ratchet game. If you haven't been a fan of the series, 
 however, this one probably won't change your mind. Like I stated before, it's more of the same 
 perfect (in my opinion) formula. The only problem is that the game is rather short, but tracking 
 down all the Skill Points (think of these are Achievements that unlock things) and Challenge Mode 
 extend the playtime you get out of it.
  
  
  Overall: 9.5/10
  Definitely one of the best games I've played in a while, and very much likely to be one of the 
 best PS3 games period. If you have a PS3 and haven't picked this up yet, then there very well may 
 be something wrong with you. At least give the title a chance with a rent, you will not be disappointed. 
 Everything about the game is just excellent, from the challenging boss battles to the humorous 
 cutscenes. Insomniac continues to prove they're an excellent developer, and Sony is very lucky 
 to have them.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: fusionhunter
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 9, 2008 7:07 am PT
Review:  RC has a great story and funny scenes. With lots of weapons and upgrades there plenty to amuse most 
 people. Your in a galactic world with aliens. With Ratchet also trying to find out what happened 
 to his race of people and if he's the last of them. After you complete the game once you can play 
 the hole game again with all your weapons so far so you can upgrade them even further. With RC quest 
 for booty coming out as a sequel to the story so I cant wait. At the end of the game (BEWARE THIS 
 IS A SPOILER) clank get kidnapped by the zoni so hopefully Quest for booty will tell us more. As 
 for Quest for booty you mission is to find clank and your wrench has new abilities for dark and 
 bright game play. Quest for booty video looked awesome at E3 anc in RC theres always one big boss, so 
 I wonder whoes next this time. So with resistance 2 and Quest coming out its hard to see anyone 
 at Insomniac gamew get any sleep. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Piro_Blaster
Rating: 7.5
Date: Aug 9, 2008 6:26 am PT
Review:  The game is too EASY!!! Why are devolepers making games so easy!!!
  I finished the game in 1 week and just because one of the days I only played Assasins Creed.
 
  Ratchet and Clank is known for its Shoter and Plantform mix but the game has put a litle more 
 plantform and less shoter in the Ratchet part and less plantform and more strategy in the Clank 
 part.
  The game is stile a lot of fun because who doesn't like to destroy a whole army with a blaster 
 or a rocket launcher? Everybody loves that!
  The music in the game is getting a litle boring, but stil good.
  The voice sound is great, the 
 characters are stil Original and the Story is... disapointing! there sould be a better finish to 
 the story.
  Graphics are just Incredibel and Amazing!!!
  Ratchet and Clank: Tools of Destruction has it's negative parts but the fighting and the graphics 
 makes this a great game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PilgorTheMighty
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 6, 2008 8:59 pm PT
Review:  This is the best out of all of the Ratchet and Clank games. Not only does it have amazing graphics 
 like a Pixar Movie, it also has outstanding game play, and a whole lot of weapons which you can 
 blow the crap out of anybody you see with your ultimate arsenal of crazy weapons. It is also funnier 
 than every other Ratchet and Clank game. It is also a very long game if you try to get everything 
 like I did. The best part about this game is that it is just fun. You should get this game if you 
 have a PS3, because it is filled with richness and is SSSSSSSSSSSSOOOOOOOO FFFFFFFFFFFFFFUUUUUNNNN 
 (so fun) and has AAAMMMAAAZZZIIINNNGGG GGGRRRAAAPPPHHHIIICCCSSS (amazing graphics) and is so FFFFFUUUUUUUNNNNNYYYYYYY 
 and you could get weapons that are TTOOOOOOLLLLLLLLLSSS OOOOOOOOOOOOOFFFFFFFF DUUSTRUUUUCCTION. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ONLYDOD
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jul 31, 2008 10:05 am PT
Review:  Ratchet and Clank: Tools of Destruction is the duos debut on the PS3, and it is indeed a fun and 
 enjoyable one. The gameplay isn't exactly much new, but it still remains fun. It's your typical 
 3d platformer done very well. There are some very nice graphics in this game, along with some fun 
 gameplay which is easy to get used to. There is also some good use of the Sixaxis controls here 
 that work well within the gameplay and don't take long to get used to. Like the other R&C games 
 there is a wide array of imaginitive weapons that are alot of fun to use, believe me when I say 
 that you won't find more creative weaponary anywhere else! One of my personal favorites was The 
 Grooveatron, a projectile weapon that stuns enemies by launching a disco ball into the air and 
 forcing your surrounding enemies to get down and dance. The story keeps you intrested and wanting 
 to know more, it's hardly anyting mind blowing but it's certinaly a good one. The ending was one 
 hell of a cliff hanger that made me want to get my hands on the next R&C game even sooner. Now 
 bad parts of the game include a kind of short story, there is replay value but it isn't exactly 
 appealing. Some sections of the game can be relatively challenging, where the level design poses 
 no real way to get over these challenges without putting yourself directly in the way of danger. 
 But then the gameplay can become very easy, large sections of the game didn't feel as though they 
 where balanced enough. Other than that the game is alot of fun and one of the best exclusive games 
 the PS3 has to offer, a game that newcomers to the series and long time fans should find easy to 
 enjoy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jcasanova
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 30, 2008 5:47 pm PT
Review:  If you like Super Mario 64 and the LEGO Star Wars games, Ratchet & Clank Future is for you.
  
  The game is VERY fun to play. There are lots of stuff to find and it has a lot more gameplay 
 than that in the demo. There are some kind of minigames like piloting a starship StarFox style, 
 gliding through levels tilting your sixaxis controller, and more.
  
  The story and humor are quite entertaining and really convinced me on purchasing the next games 
 and maybe the later games in the Ratchet & Clank series.
  
  There are some RPG elements in the game like purchasing armor, devices, and newer weapons and level 
 these up stronger. This makes you switch weapons and not be using the same blaster through all 
 the game. Upgrading weapons is what makes it a very re-playable game.
  
  I couldn't level up all weapons before ending the game but when you are done the first time, Challenge 
 Mode is unlocked. This mode is the same story but this time it's harder and you keep your weapons, 
 money and everything to find what you missed the first time.
  
  This game is a real 10! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: smerlus
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jul 30, 2008 8:49 am PT
Review:  When I picked up my PS3 about a month back, all I knew is that Resistance: Fall of Man and Uncharted: 
 Drake's Fortune looked good to me so I asked around for a few recommendations and someone suggested 
 Ratchet and Clank Future: Weapons of Destruction as a good choice. Now my gaming taste has a few 
 rules. I need to be able to kill something and enjoy it, RPG's get a little more attention, a game 
 needs a decent story and a cool looking character. Ratchet, to me doesn't fit that last one but 
 it meets pretty much every other rule I have.
  
  First I'll start with the weapons, devices, and gadgets because they seem like a huge chunk of 
 the game. Ratchet and Clank does what few other games pull off and that is having a repertoire 
 of about a dozen guns that are all useful and fun to fire off. Sure there were guns that quickly 
 turned into my favorites and others that fell to the wayside but with two different upgrade systems; 
 one that to increased everything from range, to damage to how many bolts you get off of killing 
 something, by using a rare mineral for currency and the other that was simply experience gained 
 from killing enemies, it made using and mastering every weapon fun and exciting. These weapons 
 are by far the stars of the show from homing saw blades to the motion controlled tornado thrower, 
 there should be something for everyone and the RPG upgrading aspects of the guns should ensure 
 that you try every gun for at least a level or two.
  
  Gadgets were mostly acquired during key parts of the game so that Ratchet could continue his quest 
 to save the world. They're nice changes of gameplay that added a bit of variety and never felt 
 like a cheap or overused gimmick that range from the tilt controlled flight of Clank's wings to 
 the grapple beam-esque swingshot. This leaves one last offensive/defensive category and that is 
 devices, well I can't talk about them in depth because I never had to use them. These were items 
 that you can buy of find in chests that assisted you in killing your enemies. While most of them 
 looked more humorous than anything else, I decided that I was never in a situation that called 
 for them. So besides leveling up your weapons you could also level up Ratchet himself which simply 
 resulted in more hit points. The rest of the game plays pretty much like your typical third person 
 shooter/platformer. Tools such as the wrench, Clank's wings, and the Geo-laser makes sure you're 
 not always just mindlessly blasting everything and there are even portions of the game where you're 
 put in control of Ratchet's mechanical little buddy, Clank, and set off on some task that serves 
 as a plot hook for a future R&C game. There are also some on-rails missions where you're thrust 
 into the cockpit of a space ship and gunner's seat but these portions are pretty easy and brief 
 serving as a small distraction more than anything else.
  
  The game is littered with a few puzzles that use either a few weapons or gadgets as tools necessary 
 to manipulate certain objects but none of these are ever mind stressing brain busters. The same 
 could be said for the boss battles strewn about the game unfortunately. Most of the bosses had 
 patterns that were very easy to memorize making these encounters little more than endurance tests 
 of the trigger finger. With the amount of weapons and gadgets, I would have liked to have seen 
 some bosses like those in the Metroid Prime series or Legend of Zelda series.
  
  That and the fact that the game levels tend to overload Ratchet with a never ending supply of ammo 
 and health pick ups make this game feel like it was aimed at a younger audience. The game rarely 
 puts up a challenge and most deaths occur from simple mistakes.
  
  Voice acting is about the same quality of a Saturday morning cartoon which is a good thing. The 
 dialogue and cut scenes are littered with jokes, wit and slapstick humor that actually works pretty 
 well in a game. All the other various sound effects and music fit the game and the environment 
 well so I don't have a single complaint about this department.
  
  Visually I'd say the game didn't do justice for the PS3 like super Mario Galaxy did for the Wii 
 but there was really nothing wrong with the graphics. No slow down, collision detection is perfect, 
 nice textures and everything you'd expect from a game is here but there was just nothing that was 
 really eye catching or awe inspiring. All the characters moved fluidly, the alternate skins you 
 can get for Ratchet by collecting hidden golden bolts were done well and some of them were kind 
 of silly to use but I guess that was one of the main themes of this game, an entertaining game 
 not meant to be taken too seriously.
  
  Ratchet & Clank future seemed surprisingly long for this type of game and it's not the drawn out 
 repetitive artificial lengthening that some games use. The story involving a maniacal alien with 
 a Napoleon Complex bent on galaxy domination because of what Ratchet's race did in the past moved 
 along at a good pace with next to no filler or useless side missions. Toss in the fact that there 
 are hidden golden bolts to collect and the schematics for an ultimate weapon littered in certain 
 levels and the game lasts well over the 10 hour mark while still remaining interesting and entertaining.
 
  
  With a silly cast of characters, varied gameplay and a boat load of fun weapons, it's easy for 
 me to look past the easiness and cartoony characters and actually enjoy my time spent with this 
 game. If I didn't have such a backload of titles to play I might have even went through the game 
 one more time on the challenge mode that raises the stakes by offering a bolt multiplier and the 
 chance to make all of the terrific weapons even more powerful. I'm looking forward to the day I 
 can go back and wreck some more havoc 
::::::

::::::
UserName: natanku
Rating: 7
Date: Jul 25, 2008 10:55 am PT
Review:  Loved the game, in true R&C style this game was creative, funny, and unexpectedly innovative with 
 level and weapons designs. so far every installment of ratchet has been worth buying the day it 
 was released. That said in this installment the game is showing its age and what was once considered 
 revolutionary in the platformer genre has now become the mundane. Instead of enormous hype surrounding 
 this game as had been in the past now others have rightly stolen some steam from the Ratchet and 
 clank series such as little Big Planet etc. The boss battles were enjoyable and the worlds themselves 
 were surprisingly immersive for a platformer. I love the consistent mechanics of the series pinned 
 underneath an ever evolving design for baddies, machines, and mini puzzles. I hope that the next 
 game will be as mind blowing as the first 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kuraime
Rating: 6
Date: Jul 23, 2008 8:07 am PT
Review:  First of all, let me say that I love the Ratchet & Clank series (with the exception of Ratchet: 
 Deadlocked (Gladiator in Europe) ) . When I heard that this series is coming to the PS3, I expected 
 something grand, like top of the line graphics and huge levels. Instead I got neither. Woopy friggin 
 doo.
  
  Ratchet & Clank: Tools of Destruction doesn't really give anything new to the franchise. Maybe 
 a few new weapons, which all kinda suck, except the Tornado Laucher, but controlling it with the 
 SIXAXIS is like steering a car with your feet. The levels are hardly any bigger than in the previous 
 games (don't know if its good or bad) and the graphics are hardly improved. Sure there is some 
 more detail, but there is really nothing that couldnt have been done with the PS2 (exept the HD 
 res) . It seems that Insomniac was desperate to get this game out as soon as possible to give PS3 
 its dose of platformers that they ignored all that could have been done with the PS3: s engine and 
 the capacity of blueray disc.
  
  I was deeply disappointed with this game. It was short, without much to extras. The guns were pretty 
 much just ported from the previous games and the level design was poor compared to previous ones. 
 I still hold Ratchet & Clank 1 as the best in the series. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GunSmith1_basic
Rating: 7
Date: Jul 21, 2008 1:24 am PT
Review:  Let me start off by saying that there is a lot of great things about this game. First off the idea 
 is good. The gameplay is amazingly diverse, to the point where diversity of gameplay is part of 
 the core of the game. It is a mix of rpg, platforming, and adventure elements, with some spaceship 
 shooting sequences to break things up. 
  
  The core of the the game is platforming with a gun. Its a mad dash for bolts (currency) and items, 
 and a lot of interesting items and weapons.
  
  Now for the bad. I will spare you the description of everything bad in this game and I will just 
 explain the root of what is bad about this game. 
  
  It seems like nobody had fun making this game. Every part of it was agonized over. Here's what 
 I mean. Take a classic game like super mario bros for example. It started with a great idea and 
 the brilliance is in the idea, but the game itself was probably made in a breeze. It was difficult 
 to come up with the idea of all the rules of the mario universe and what makes up the environments. 
 The easy part was making the game. I picture the making of mario bros being that once all the tools 
 were made, they just had a blast designing the levels: pasting blocks, enemies, etc just wherever 
 they thought seemed cool. And, I truly believe that this method is as true today as it was back 
 then, and I associate this quality with brilliance in gaming.
  
  Tools of Destruction however, seems like the easy part was the idea, but the game itself was a 
 pain to make. They just took a bunch of very different ideas and slapped them together. The Ratchet 
 universe is incoherent. There are new rules made all the time. Every level seems like struggle 
 to integrate something new and nothing seems ideally designed. It seems like the game was made 
 by committee, where everybody was equal and nobody agreed. The result is a game burdened by a lot 
 of dead weight, and maybe there are people out there who have convinced themselves that this diversity 
 counts as good gameplay, but I will never be convinced. 
  
  To be fair it is still worth a rent. The game definitely has its moments
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: MaForce
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 21, 2008 1:00 am PT
Review:  Ratchet and clank have always been fun games. Ive been playing them since the first one came out 
 but recently they just became boring. The stories were bland and the comedic value was dropping. 
 Let me just say that R&C: ToD has revived the series and made an awesome improvement to the ps3 
 system. With a whole new story fit for the next gen and slightly witier jokes, this instalment 
 will keep you playing for hours. The main story, like most rc games, is rather short but full of 
 action, but it will deserve at least 3 or playthroughs. This is because increases your weapons 
 and armor is just so darn fun you wont want to put the controller down. IMO this is one of the 
 ps3's better games and one of the best exclusives so far and should not be overlooked by gamers 
 that are looking at the score GS gave it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: greenbuk75
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 20, 2008 9:34 am PT
Review:  Who the heck reviewed this for Gamespot?? The storyline is funny and interactive as usual and the 
 cliff hanger ending is to set up the next game so its not as bad as advertised.... The weapons are 
 fun and new as u would expect and the graphics make it look like a beautiful pixar movie
  
  The Gyrocycle, yes is a bit meaningless and they prolly coulda left that out but the rest of the 
 game is classic Ratchet and Clank with new Characters and creatures and more $#!% to blow upIf 
 u played going Commando u no the spaceship battles were a bit annoying, but in this installment 
 they did a complete overhaul and actually make them fun u will actually enjoy the new look.
  
  Another good addition is the Leviathon hunting instead of looking around for sewer crystals 
 which is tedious and gets boring after the 75th one, u kill these big creatures for souls to trade 
 in to the smuggler to give u acess to things and after u meet his minimum, u can trade them in 
 for tons of bolts as u could with the crystals-i like this because u can get these challanges done 
 in reasonable time without being bored to death.
  
  ... This is a MUST buy PS3 exclusive title right here. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lovely_beauty
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jul 25, 2008 7:30 am PT
Review:  Insomniac Games is famous for many famous games on Sony consoles. Successfully start with Spyro 
 the Dragon on Play Station, but when PS2 came out, they handed over this label to Vivendi Universal 
 and started with another strategic trademark. Ratchet & Clank (R&C) series was born in this situation 
 and quickly help the studio to win many awards along with the huge turnover of 10 millions units. 
 When it came to PS3, they continued to introduce a new product, Resistance: Fall of Man, which 
 was considered a good start on this next-gen. However, Insomniac hasn't forgotten their golden 
 goose and their last effort is Ratchet & Clank Future: Tools of Destruction (TOD) .
  
  After many arduous adventures, our familiar couple Ratchet and Clank are enjoying their peaceful 
 moments on the planet Netropolis when they receives an SOS from Captain Quark. A large and well-equipped 
 corps of Robots under Emperor Tachyon's command are attacking this planet. Immediately, the two 
 get to the battlefield only to discover that Emperor Tachyon's true aim is Ratchet himself. The 
 reason dates back to The Great War between two races Cragmite and Lombax. Lombax people used their 
 modern technology to create a deadly weapon called Dimensionator to "vaporize" all Cragmite, except 
 Emperor Tachyon who was still in larva. When grown up, Emperor Tachyon built up an robot empire 
 to take vengeance on the Lombax, of whom Ratchet is known as the last after another mysterious 
 disappearance of his whole race. Once again this mystery concerns Dimensionator. With the help 
 of his friend Clank, Ratchet manages to escape the Emperor's wrath and start a new adventure to 
 exlore the truth of Dimensionator along with his own biography.
  
  Stay true to the tradition of Ratchet & Clank series, TOD offers a huge collection of original 
 weapons which surpasses many games of its genre. All of them are designed in fanciful look but 
 very effective in battle. Besides his most basic gear - the wrench - Ratchet can use 16 other weapons 
 with different usage and features which allow him to adapt to any circumstance. The Combustor with 
 rather weak fire-power but have a lot of ammunition, suitable for the first part of the game when 
 the enemies are not very powerful. When being surrounded, the electric whip Shock Ravager is the 
 best choice to wipe them out quickly; Alpha Disruptor has better fire-power but still not enough 
 for tough boss, while R. Y. N. O IV deserves to be the nightmare to even the fiercest foes. some other 
 weapons have very distinctive uses like Plasma Beasts which launch out plasma monsters to add you 
 automatically, or Nano-Swarmers which summons countless tiny nanobots to tear off enemies in its 
 scope. However, the most interesting is probably Tornado Launcher with the ability to create whirlwinds 
 you can directly control through sensor of Sixaxis or DualShock 3 game pads, a totally new feature 
 compared to prior games.
  
  At the beginning, of course Ratchet only has few basic tools like Combustor and Fusion Grenade; 
 the rest must be bought in shops scattered throughout game scenes. Monetary unit is the amount 
 of bolt collected, which is quite abundant in TOD. These shops also offer upgrading services to 
 improve fire-power, aiming scope, cartridge-clip of the weapon or help increase the ammount of 
 bolts and raritanium dropped from monsters. Raritanium is also necessary for upgrading though it's 
 rare and just enough for your most important gears. Game stimulate using weapons as much as possible 
 because they will gain level in direct ratio to the number of killed monsters. Each weapons have 
 5 levels and once reaching the highest they will have additional powerful features like firing 
 3 bullets at once, freezing or penetrating opponents. Do not worry about the lack of ammunition 
 because they can be bought at a very low price in any shop.
  
  Besides these 16 weapons, Ratchet can also use other 8 combat devices which are very helpful in 
 battles. The sphere Groovitron makes enemies dance and forget fighting; Robot Mr. Zukon is a loyal 
 companion; Grenade Transmorpher transform monsters into penguins. The gadgets that Ratchet possesses 
 includes 8 categories, most of which are used in transporting: Swingshot sticks to edges when you 
 jump through a long distance; Robo-wings help you fly into the space and the queer looking Gyro 
 Cycle brings about weird feeling on driving.
  
  Basically in TOD players will adventure through many planets, take part in shot exchanges and sometimes 
 solve several puzzles in mini games. Most of your time will be spent on shooting in the role of 
 Ratchet with all of his enormous gun collection. However, these gunning scenes do not appear violent 
 but funny, hilarious and fast-paced. The enemies are various and belong to different types so Ratchet 
 constantly has to change weapons. Fortunately, switching guns requires only a simple manipulation 
 of holding # and moving analog stick. Boss fights are also interesting because most of them are 
 tough but have different weakness which you have to figure out to save your time and effort. TOD 
 also has an Arena with plenty of quests that you should solve when gaining powerful enough weapons. 
 In some episodes you control Clank in a totally different manner of playing. Similar to game play 
 of Pikmin, Clank controls several robots called Zoni and commands them to attack enemies, clear 
 the way or interact with devices to find a new shortcut. In TOD he also possesses the ability to 
 slow down time flow so that dodging traps and carrying out complicated movement becomes easier.
 
  
  In addition to Action, there are still running scenes and puzzles like prior versions. These episodes 
 are wisely designed at proper difficulty so as not to bother you. For example, you can use your 
 wrench and bolts to control strange mechanisms or launch a meteorite with Gelanator device to jump 
 onto higher positions. More interesting you have to skid on the rails while avoiding obstacles 
 all around. Most of the mini games help players to relax and exploit sensor of game pad like controlling 
 laser ray following predefined marks on a wall to destroy it. Sometimes Ratchet has a chance to 
 show off flying skill on Clank's wings and this feels like playing a platformer. Minigame Descriptor 
 allows you to drive marbles to desired location by shaking the game pad to fix electric pulses. 
 And don't forget the shooting scenes on your space ships while moving from one planet to another. 
 While multi player is still highly appreciated, the game still have some shortcomings. Most considerable 
 is that Ratchet's weapons seems overpowering compared to opponents, or the checkpoints are too 
 near to each other...
  
  TOD is no doubt one of the most splendid games on PS3 these days. Instead of imitating real human 
 body, Insomniac stays true to hilarious comic style of the series. Light effects are remarkably 
 improved, making the game more lively and contributing greatly to vivid background sceneries through 
 out the campaign. Play scenes are distinctively designed, from desert planets to modern bustle 
 cities. Everything stimulates your desire to adventure. Most of the battles contain a great number 
 of enemies and enclosing effects but game still runs stably at a smooth frame rate. To our surprise, 
 cut scene using engine in-game is so skillfully arranged that it's hard to recognize the moment 
 of switching between playing scenes and films. Sound in TOD is also very good with expressive voice 
 play for each character and witty dialogues and remarks during battles. Fighting sound effects 
 are good, but background sound tracks are a little monotonous and lacks climax.
  
  By inheriting all strong points of its predecessor, TOD continues to be a must-buy for whoever 
 owning a PS3. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ballinxcivic
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jul 19, 2008 9:29 pm PT
Review:  After completing the game in less than 10 hours, I have to safe I was definitely satisfied with 
 this game. It met my expectations, but did not exceed them for this PS3 exclusive. There are definitly 
 some high points, but without some lows as well. Heres my breakdown:
  
      Pros:
  
  ~ Amazing Graphics: With everyone saying the same line of "Feels like your playing a Pixar movie", 
 I would have to agree that the graphics are top notch for an animated action platformer. Never 
 has the world of Ratchet and Clank seem so sharp and clear. However, sometimes the images can be 
 too sharp and its hard to tell distances during some points. But overall the visuals was great 
 and expected.
  
  ~ Inventory of Weapons and Gadgets: There are tons of creative and useful gadgets that R&C can 
 choose from. Weapons are great but since this is for the PS3, and not the PS2, I as well as many 
 others expected more weapons that are not as similiar to each other. I wanted to see more creativity 
 with the weapons; most of them were explosives and sharp metal ammos. How bought bring back that 
 one weapon from the first Ratchet game that sucks up enemies and blasts them at others. 
  
  ~ Gameplay: Gameplay was really fun and had some interesting twists like flying and rolling around 
 in a ball (like super monkey ball for the gamecube) . Probably the best reason to buy this game 
 is for the adventure thoughout the entire game, blasting away at enemies, defeating bosses to get 
 through the story. 
  
  ~ Story, Cut Scenes, Sound: The Cutscenes were well done, as well as music and voice acting. Again, 
 seems like a well put together animated Pixar Movie at times. Story was good enough to keep the 
 game going. Overall good presentation and production.
  
      Cons:
  
  ~ Save Feature: The GAME SAVE ability is very very POOR. This is a next Gen Console, and the developers 
 failed to create what almost all games have... a save feature that leaves off where the checkpoint 
 was. The levels in this game is fairly long.. so if you play for 15 mins, and your 3/4's thru the 
 level and you all of a sudden have to leave to go somewhere and you save the game and shut off 
 your PS3, you would have to come back to the game at the START of the level, but the game saves 
 your bolts and remembers that you killed certain enemies so they won't reappear again, but it really 
 blows to start all over at the beginning of the level where your ship landed. Also, sometimes checkpoints 
 during the level are too far back. If you die, you might find yourself respawning way back than 
 you imagined. This is a huge deal because of the fact that its' a Next Gen Console, no game in 
 this era should have this kind of lazy flaw of game saving.
  
  ~ Motion Control: Because the PS3 has sixaxis, they tried to input it into the game for such things 
 like flying, lazer beaming thru walls, or disarming locked doors. It works okay for flying, but 
 it can be quite difficult to motion control the dyspatcher to unlock the doors or lazer beam the 
 walls because you have to do it in a timely manner. My suggestion is go to game options and put 
 motion control to OFF, and instead you'll just use the left analog stick which works much better 
 and saves you lots of frustration.
  
  ~ Replay Value / Creativity: Once you beat the game, there really isn't a point to replay it. You 
 can unlock skins and cheats, but the gameplay is fun only one time around. You basically go thru 
 each level defeating the enemies and bosses to go onto the next planet to do the same thing there; 
 until you come to the end and defeat the final boss. For a ps3 exclusive, I wanted the developers 
 to move away from their comfort zone of Ratchet and Clank 1, 2 and 3 for the PS2. It's almost like 
 a Graphical Upgrade from the PS2 games. Nothing grealty new, no online, no real replay; unless 
 you feel like playing it over a couple months after you beat it. 
  
  - - - (8.5/10) Overall, R&C Future was a real fun game and definitely worth checking out. If your 
 the type that likes to take their time playing games, then I'd say buying it is fine (you can always 
 sell it back on ebay if you find no replay value) . If you can play a game everyday for a week without 
 feeling exhausted, then rented would be perfect because this game doesn't take extremely long, 
 and if you beat it early you can try to unlock things before you return it. I hope to see the next 
 full version of a R&C game title to be more creative, more innovating, more gaming options, more 
 like a ps3 game that can handle MORE with the blu ray discs and cell processor! Good luck Insominac! 
 Hope to see big things in the future!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: HitmansBullet
Rating: 5.5
Date: Jul 18, 2008 11:56 am PT
Review:  If you are a person like me, who bought all the Ratchet and Clank games that came out, collected 
 all the easter eggs and played it til` there was no replay value whatsoever left, you`ll probably 
 know what Iam talking about here.
  Personally, Iam a bigger fan of the Jak and Daxter saga, because R & C got to childish. I have 
 nothing against that Insomniac decides to make another R & C - PS3 exclusive, but give me a break.. 
 The R & C series used to be that charming pearl of a game with puzzles, A big Arsenal of weapons 
 (And of course the RYNO which they obviously forgot in this sequel) .
  And there`s the main problem. Unlike the Jak and Daxter games, R & C focuses more on having more 
 newcomers to the series than making it more for the fans of the series. But, what is that? Is that 
 an excuse to make the story worse, drop the multiplayer that worked so good in R & C 3, making 
 another Ratchet And Clank game that has nothing with the prequels. And if that wasn`t enough, why 
 didn`t they wrote R & C 4 on the cover?! "Ratchet And Clank", "Ratchet And Clank 2: Locked and 
 Loaded", "Ratchet And Clank 3: Up Your Arsenal" and then suddenly, Tools Of Destruction?! WTF?! 
 What is that? Just Tools Of Destruction?! Make your mind! Geez... This isn`t as nearly as good 
 as the other games, and me? Iam tired of this moneymaking aging series. it delievers the overall 
 same gameplay and even fans of the series must think it begins feeling boring.
  I chimney for the next sequel and hopes lets hope it get so bad that Insomniac realises that that 
 have to give a series (that once upon a time was so good) back on the loft. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: banjo_kazooie33
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 18, 2008 9:21 am PT
Review:  Ratchet and Clank Future: Tools Of Destruction makes its debut on the PlayStation 3 as a fifth 
 installement in the popular Ratchet and Clank franchise. 
  
  Tools of Destruction adds a whole new feel to the Ratchet and Clank series. The SIXAXIS controller 
 takes a major role in Tool of Destuction. The immensely improved graphics makes the game seem so 
 much more realistic. And Ratchet's new look makes him seem cuter, like he's been picked out of 
 a Disney Pixar movie. 
  
  In Tools of Destruction, Ratchet suffers from an identity crisis and becomes hunted by robot pirates 
 when meanwhile, Clank is being stalked by mysterious robots called Zoni. Ratchet discovers that 
 he is the only one of his kind and sets out searching for his origins. Throughout the game, you 
 will find yourself puzzled and itching to learn of Ratchet's father and his origins. But you will 
 be very dissapointed as you reach the end of the game considering it leaves you with a cliffhanger 
 ending and no answers. 
  
  The controls are the exact same as the previous games, but this time you use the SIXAXIS controller 
 for a few gadgets.
  
  Ratchet and Clank Future: Tools of Destruction is easily in the top two of the greatest Ratchet 
 and Clank games in the five game franchise. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ian_armstrong
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 18, 2008 4:37 am PT
Review:  Ratchet and Clank Future: Tools of destruction is a brilliant platformer and one of the best exclusives 
 on the PS3. I thought the graphics were crisp and well balanced and the backdrops looked stunning. 
 The gameplay was excellent as usual for a ratchet and clank game, it was really fun. There is a 
 extensive range of weaponry avaliable in the game some of which are extremely inovative. The cut 
 scenes were also fantastic, with good voice acting and it could have been a pixar movie it looked 
 so good. The only down point is that there is no multiplayer mode or online feature. It is visually 
 bright and you won't want to stop playing. It is a very good platformer and one of the best of 
 its generation. Certainly one of the best in the series and i am looking forward to the next installment 
 - Quest for Booty. A must buy for PS3 owners. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CQuark
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 17, 2008 6:23 am PT
Review:  Before i start my review i just want 2 say, I`ve played all R&C games and i have to say this is 
 one of the best ones, I don`t why GS gave a lower score than the rest but this game is GREAT, so 
 i recommend getting it, anyway onto the review.....
  
  This game starts off After Deadlocked, size matters and secret agent clank, if you haven`t played 
 any of the games this is the seventh game in the series, but thats ok because this game is great 
 4 both fans and newcomers, 
  
  This game is about a furry creature known as a lompax (Ratchet) and a small robot who helps him 
 out (clank) Ratchet is being attacked constantly by and evil emperor who wants him dead (play the 
 game and find out why!!) Anyway ratchet is trying to escape from and find out about his past in 
 the process.
  
  The gameplay is good to, you get LOADS of guns, and lots of gadgets that can do lots of things, 
 such as making your enemys dance or even turn them into penguins! The game also has a lot of replay 
 value, getting skill points, gold bolts and skins are some examples, you can also find plans to 
 make an ultimate weapon which is really fun to use!!!! Overall this game is a lot of fun over and 
 over, unfortunatley it has no multiplayer and is really easy but thats the only bad points i saw. 
 9/10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: diamond_king23
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 16, 2008 10:28 am PT
Review:  Tools of Destruction is a huge breakthrough for the Ratchet and Clank franchise on the PS3!! The 
 gameplay, graphics and storyline improve tremendously from their PS2 roots and make this a must-have 
 for the PS3 system. The gameplay is outstanding, with tons of levels to play, an on-going list 
 of fun weapons, and tons of enemies and bosses to fight. The story in the game is good too, and 
 it is much easier to follow than the games on the PS2 system. The best part of this game has got 
 to be the visuals though. They really put this game into its next-gen reputation. The visuals improve 
 the gameplay. Hopefully, they'll make the next game, Quest for Booty, even better, but that's saying 
 alot, cause I don't know how you could make the series any better. They should try adding a few 
 other types of enemies. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: naju890_963
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jul 16, 2008 9:22 am PT
Review:  Over the course of five games the Ratchet & Clank franchise has amazed me for many years and now 
 ratchet and clank are now in the future The game just can't decide what genre this game is. Is 
 it a 3D platformer or actoion adventure. The core gameplay of shooting and platforming is very 
 good and it evolved from Ratchet and clank Gladiador. A good story would have been nice but its 
 ok since the gameplay repreents every good things that fans wanted. You play as Ratchet, the last 
 of the lombax in the entire Galaxy. They are sort of kats but with big ears. Apparently one living 
 lombax is too many for the great villians. Thankfully there's some really good gameplay that is 
 the best thing in the game and if it had no good gameplay it would be a ,ediocere game. Ratchet 
 also has a lot of gadgets which are in the old ratchet games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BloodyDagger
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 13, 2008 3:43 pm PT
Review:  Ratchet & Clank: Tools of Destruction brings them back to their glory days as an exceptionally 
 well made PS3 game. Just like their other games Tools of Destruction is exciting, fun and funny 
 with a nice new arsenal of weapons.
  
  The gameplay as always is fast paced and full of funny moments, and features the best main villain 
 since Dr. Nefarious. The story is interesting with some references to previous installments of 
 the series and characters. In the game you travel to many different planets in your quest to stop 
 Percival Tachyon, 18 in all while collecting many different weapons to increase your arsenal's 
 power. The game has its share of funny moments, alot more than in Deadlocked, the laughs just add 
 to the fun level of this game. It's not a very challenging game, easily beatable in a matter of 
 hours, though it is harder than Deadlocked. The graphics are amazing, and being the powerhouse 
 that the PS3 is, there is no more slowdown when big explosions are happening onscreen unlike the 
 previous installments. The audio is exceptional with great voice acting and an amazing sountrack.
 
  
  The disappointing thing is that there is no online play which has been hugely successful in the 
 last two games. Though I don't mind having no online play, I'm pretty sure alot of you were disappointed 
 by this. I still enjoyed this game enough to give it a perfect score and in my opinion it is almost 
 as good as Up Your Arsenal which I also gave a 10 to. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LostLegacy54
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jul 8, 2008 4:18 pm PT
Review:  Ratchet and Clank Future: Tools of Destruction is a light-hearted platformer/shooter that more 
 resembles the first Ratchet game than any of the others. Not in looks mind you, the graphics in 
 this installement are nothing less than amazing, but the game feels like the a lot like Ratchet's 
 first outing. I didn't find this to be a bad thing though, it was fitting that Ratchet's first 
 time on the PS3 felt the same as his first on the PS2.
  
  The weapons are all very fun to use. And you will use ALL of them. For the first time in the Ratchet 
 series nearly every single weapon remains useful for the duration of the campaign. 
  
  The storyline is really good too. Although it does have an annoying cliffhanger ending, which I 
 hate. but it definitely kept the game moving and made me want to keep playing.
  
  Just like it says on the back of the box, this is as close to playing a Pixar movie as your probably 
 ever going to get. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chagg001
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 27, 2008 1:46 am PT
Review:  This game is the best game in the serise and the the platforming is the best aswell a dissapointment 
 that there is no mltiplayer but the colours and visiuals are great and colour which make this the 
 best single player platforming experience yet, but when jak and daxter the lostfrontier come along 
 this will be a difficult choice.
  
  ignore
  
  iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii
  iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii 
  iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii 
  iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii 
  iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii 
 
  iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii 
  iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii 
  iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii 
  iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii 
  iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii 
  iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii 
  iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii 
 
  iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii 
  iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii 
  iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii 
  iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii 
  iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii 
  iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii 
  iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii 
 
  iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii 
  iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii 
  iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii 
  iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii 
  iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii 
  iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii 
  iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii 
 
  iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii 
  iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii 
  iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii 
  iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii 
  iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii 
  iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii 
  iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii 
 
  iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii 
  iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii 
  iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii 
  iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii 
  iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii 
  iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii 
  iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii 
 
  iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii 
  iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii 
  iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii 
  iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii 
  iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii 
  iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii 
  iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii 
 
  iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii 
  iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii 
  iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii 
  iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii 
  iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii 
  iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii 
  iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii 
 
  iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii 
  iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii 
  iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii 
  iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii 
  iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii 
  iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii 
  iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii 
 
  iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii 
  iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii 
  iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii 
  iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii 
  iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii 
  iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii 
  iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii 
 
  iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii 
  iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii 
  iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii 
  iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii 
  iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii 
  iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii 
  iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii 
 
  iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii 
  iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii 
  iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii 
  iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii 
  iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii 
  iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii 
  iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii 
 
  iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii 
  iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii 
  iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii 
  iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii 
  iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii 
  iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii 
  iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii 
 
  iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii 
  iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii 
  iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii 
  iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii 
  iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii 
  iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii 
  iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii 
 
  iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii 
  iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii 
  iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii 
  iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii 
  iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii 
  iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii 
  iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii 
 
  iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii 
  iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii 
  iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii 
  iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii 
  iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii 
  iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii 
  iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii 
 
  iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii 
  iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shadowlusterx
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 4, 2008 8:41 am PT
Review:  This game is currently my favorite PS3 title. I haven't played all the R&C games before, just some 
 of them, but this was a good introduction since it starts a whole new story that can be picked 
 up from this game. But it still has all the old features plus of the other games. Except for the 
 one where you can carry weapons over from older games. The only thing that I had problems was that 
 they had lots of great features, but they didn't use all of them enough. Next game they should 
 have more side-quests that involve them more.
  
  First Look
  
  When I first say the trailer I become interested. It was one of the top of my buying list but not 
 the exact top. Then I started looking into the game more and the more interested I become. The 
 graphics were great. The game play looked good. And if it was going to have the old stuff from 
 past games I knew that we had a hit. Then the demo came out. I downloaded it instantly and played 
 it. And I knew that I would get it. The visuals are bright and colorful. And the world looks really 
 real. And as you play it looks even cooler. The weapons blast are amazing. The paths to get through 
 the level involve a lot of innovative features and entertaining challenges. I didn't want to stop 
 playing it.
  
  RATING: 10/10
  
  Graphics
  
  The graphics were great. vibrant, realistic and bright. Very good on the eyes too. It also flowed 
 very well and the framerate never suffered. It was top notch.
  
  RATING: 10/10
  
  Story
  
  Ratchet and Clank has never been much for story. And this isn't an exception. The 
 cut-scenes were funny at times but you don't need them to get through the game. The final hook 
 to get the next game wasn't very good either but I'll probably get the game because of the game 
 play. Not story.
  
  RATING: 7/10
  
  Gameplay
  
  The gameplay was great. The controls worked great. The weapons worked nicely. And moving through 
 levels was fun. It got a bit repetitive at times, but not enough to make it feel like a job. There 
 were no bugs and the mechanics also worked perfectly. But it did get simple and easy. Too easy 
 for people that have played the games before. And the big jump from really easy to the hard last 
 level might put off some people. But it was really fun.
  
  RATING: 9/10
  Missions/Mini-games
  
  A thing that a lot of people don't like about this game is that it has 
 too many mini-games. I personally think that all of them are enjoyable and as long as they're fun 
 it doesn't matter how many but some people complain. To actually complete the whole game is a task 
 that you will spend a long time doing. There are side missions that you can complete to unlock 
 cheats. You can spend time getting all the weapons and upgrading them. You can also finish the 
 fight festival. And then you can spend time getting golden bolts to unlock skins. And then you 
 can do it all again in a harder level. That's a bit overkill.
  
  RATING: 8/10
  Replay Value
  
  This game has a lot of replay value. Mainly for one reason. It gives you harder 
 mode to play at. And you start out with all weapons an you can upgrade them further and it's just 
 as fun as the first time. Then it starts getting boring.
  
  RATING: 9/10
  Other Strong\Weak Points
  
  The main weak point will be there's no multi-player. They should 
 have made something like an online Colosseum or something. Another weak point for me was playing 
 as clank. It was sort of annoying and you kept on basically doing the same things again and again, 
 just doing them more each time. But the variety of weapons and gadgets was something that has always 
 been something great about R&C and this is no exception. The length of the game while still being 
 fun was also a great point. The good parts were great and the bad parts were bad, but for the majority 
 it was good parts.
  
  RATING: 8/10
  FIRST LOOK: 10/10
  GRAPHICS: 10/10
  STORY: 7/10
  GAMEPLAY: 9/10
  MISSIONS\MINI-GAMES: 8/10
  REPLAY VALUE: 9/10
  OTHER STRONG\WEAK 
 POINTS: 8/10
  AVERAGE SCORE: 8.7/10
  FINAL SCORE: 9.5/10
  
  This game is great. If the maximum wasn't a ten I would have given the first two more. And the 
 gameplay even if a bit short and easy was still a lot of fun. If you like platformers and have 
 a PS3, this isn't a game you'd want to miss.
  
  And if you don't trust me then trust them at least. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: snorlaxmaster
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 3, 2008 5:43 pm PT
Review:  Ratchet and Clank Future Tools of Destruction is an epic journey that anyone can play and enjoy. 
 The humor is good and the plot (although admittedly simple) is enjoyable enough to warrant multiple 
 playthroughs. Not to mention all of the weapons and the RPG like upgrade system which will keep 
 even the best gamers around for a few hours. The game is slightly simple, and its not very hard 
 to find all of the gold bolts, but it offers enough to keep you busy (something very unusual nowadays) . 
 The game plays extremely well, the shooting is spot on and the camera doesn't get in the way (both 
 helped by the inclusion of an over-the-shoulder cam ala RE4.) The graphics are also top notch, 
 resembling PIXAR's best animated movies. Everything about this game fits together perfectly and 
 makes a very complete and enjoyable package. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: j5r9s2
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jul 2, 2008 2:03 pm PT
Review:  Ratchet and Clank: Tools of Destruction, "... the first game to truly deliver the long~sought 'you 
 are playing a Pixar movie' experience." quoted the New York Times. and I agree, This game has awesome 
 visuals with good game play and a pretty good storyline. A good feature is that this game is for 
 everyone. back drop of the story. Rachet and clank is about an orphin Lombax that knows nothing 
 of his past or his family tree. he is the only Lombax in the whole Universe. A alien tyrant driven 
 by his unexplainable hatred for lombaxes attacks ratchet and clank's home, they are placed into 
 an epic adventure where they will discover the past of ratchets people and the lombax are they 
 key to the furture of the galaxy as the worlds know it. This game is one player only and is only 
 supported in 720p but as far as I know most PlayStation 3 games are only in 720p so far. Great 
 game Ive played through it several times and probably will a couple more 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JONSTON007
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 26, 2008 3:50 pm PT
Review:  There is not much to say about this game except WOW! This was the best Rachet and Clank game in 
 the entire series. Because of the high sales, I expect that there will be yet another sequel. This 
 time around there was an even better gun selection along with amazing upgrades. I got this game 
 as my first bought PS3 game and I was blown away by the spectacular graphics. Unfortunately, it 
 was too short of a game and I craved more. Also, the ending pissed me off with its obscureness 
 and oddly vagueness. Later, I realized that most games had an online part of the game and it was 
 missing that, but there is no game out there that covers every aspect to perfection because it 
 is not needed, but it is wanted. If only the creators could keep the game secret, then they would 
 feel no pressure to finish the game until it is completely done. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheHazardousOne
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jun 25, 2008 3:57 pm PT
Review:  ratchet and clank: tools of destruction is a very fun and addicting game. when i got this. i played 
 for 10 hours straight. the guns kick ass. of course you can max them out and rip through armys 
 of enemys. i think the story is pretty good. boss battles are of course very fun. you get some 
 pretty kick ass weapons in this one. anybody of any age would just love this game. i think im pretty 
 close to the end. and i can not wait to see how the story ends. the levels are amazing. the colors 
 are beautiful. the sound is great. i think this is the best one in the series. and i cant wait 
 till they make another one. i know everybody says its too easy. but i really didnt see that myself. 
 there was some hard parts. either way you need to get this game. it kicks major ass. it looks perfect 
 on the playstation 3. clank gets some pretty cool power ups also. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TenP
Rating: 8
Date: Jun 25, 2008 2:34 pm PT
Review:  Ratchet and Clank Future is a great game, it's got a lot of the elements that made the series what 
 it is. But it doesn't live up to it's previous titles.
  
  Ratchet Future had a lot of potential, but was shoved out of the way to get the release out before 
 the holiday season '07.
  
  ---
  Previous Ratchet games had incredible innovations that would have made this game great. 
  
 
  -Such as Multiplayer from Up your Arsenal and Deadlocked, it's not that much of an innovation 
 to some but it was the first Platform game to have a good multiplayer system.
  -Dogfights and Spaceship customization from the second game would have been awesome, this alone 
 is what made Ratchet 2 my favourite one so far.
  -Arena Gameplay mainly from deadlocked, several of the arena challenges in deadlocked were awe 
 inspiring. The infernal tower levels were just incredible, they could have added some of these 
 ordeals into the new version with the arena. They had the "Shoot'em up" tasks but not the gauntlet 
 trials I loved in Deadlocked.
  -Explorable Mothership/base from Up Your Arsenal, don't ask me why but I've always loved these 
 things.
  ---
  
  Overall, Ratchet Future is a good game but it's lacking some things from previous titles and it's 
 lacking some spectacular innovations. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: siLVURcross
Rating: 8
Date: Jun 22, 2008 7:20 pm PT
Review:  When I first played Ratchet and Clank on the PS2, I thought it was amazing, the simple platformer 
 combined with creative and ingenious weapons as well with humorous story is what drove me from 
 start to finish. Loving every second of it.
  
  Soon after, sequels came out, Up Your Arsenal, Deadlocked etc., but those felt to me, too weapon 
 oriented, I felt as if I lost touch to what I so loved, so after playing this game for a bit, I 
 was in love.
  
  Now Tools of Destruction's main story revolves around Ratchet's Lombax history.
  
  To start 
 off, this game plays beautifully, feeling just like the original, all in HD, it's truly a stunning 
 looking game. Weapons feel natural, controls are right, and the fun to blast away wave of enemies 
 after enemies is still here with a variety of weapons that even include motion sensor of the SIXAXIS 
 controller.
  
  I just couldn't stop playing the game the moment the more I got into it, it's simple destruction 
 was all that was needed to get me hooked into the game.
  
  It's hard to describe the feeling, but R&C ToD is a must for any PS3 owner looking for a simple 
 adventure mixed in with awesome gameplay, and for any fan of the original R&C game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Funkelo
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jun 14, 2008 6:19 pm PT
Review:  I don't know why gamespot ranked this game with a merely 7.5 because this deserve a lot more!!! 
 I never played a Ratchet & Clank game before but this one is great. The characters sure are cartoonish 
 but they look great. The planets and the enviroments look great also. So the graphics are pretty 
 good for this kind of game. The story is interesting but sa little bit confusing, specially the 
 end (I think because this is going to be a sequel) . 
  The gameplay is the main thing in this game. You have tons and craziest arsenal of weapons and 
 all of them are great and useful. It's great the fact that you can upgrade them. The limit of upgrading 
 is level 5. 
  Also the dialogs and the situations are pretty fun. There's a lot to laugh in here.
  You can 
 finish the game in about 10+ hours but there's replay value so you can revisit the stages in a 
 high difficulty (of course with all the arsenal that you have gained the first time you played) . 
 
  So Tools of Destruction is a great game and a worth buying game for this system. I highly recommend 
 to buy it.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Blue_Panda
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jun 13, 2008 1:30 pm PT
Review:  To make it short, the story here is what you would expect from a Ratchet game, or from your average 
 platformer. Its not amazing, but its surely enjoyable. The graphics here are superb. Sure, they 
 arent something like MGS4, but they do look like something out of a Pixar movie, and when you think 
 about that, its not really a bad thing.
  
  The gameplay here is the best part of the game. You basically run around, jump from A to B, and 
 shoot without thinking, with an array of different weapons. Occasionly you play a minigame, use 
 the sixaxis to fly with robo-wings, or grind on rails while dodging missiles. It may feel like 
 its packed with minigames to try to take advantage of the sixaxis without thinking about how the 
 minigames will fit into the game itself. But they remain very fun.
  
  The replay value here isnt to great, you might go into Challenge mode after you beat the final 
 boss, where you re-run through the game with most of your weapons and gadgets to get more bolts, 
 and max out your weapons. Or, you might return to before you beat the final boss to get all the 
 gold bolts etc on an easier setting.
  
  The game is overall very fun, with a decent amount of replay value. Its sad to see no multiplayer 
 here, but its bearable.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: supersonikk
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 8, 2008 1:26 pm PT
Review:  I haven't really been bothered to complete this type of game in a long time. I have had a lot of 
 games like this and it has always been the same: I start the game, get bored, tell myself I will 
 complete it later and then I never do. It happened again with this game, except I got bored, but 
 then I picked the controller up again a few months later. As the game progressed more and more, 
 I realised that this game is a masterpiece! I have never played a Ratchet and Clank game before, 
 but after I completed Tools of Destruction, I started to regret this.
  
  There is only one main game, which is annoying as some adventure games like this give you a little 
 bit extra such as a co-op mode or an unlockable mode you get through collecting random items in 
 the game, but it is still well worth the money. In the only game mode, you play as Ratchet (a 'Lombax') 
 and, to a lesser extent, Clank (some midget robot) , and you travel through unknown galaxies, hopping 
 from planet to planet. Throughout to game, Ratchet is aided by many amazing weapons, gadgets, devices, 
 vehicles and people. I think the weapons really make the game and it is brilliant that the weapons 
 evolve and can be upgraded. I love the variety - all have different power, accuracy, charge times 
 and effects - as I have my favourite weapons (the lightning ravager, the shredder claws and the 
 judicator) , but the game encourages you to use as many as you can as different weapons are better 
 for defeating different enemies and the weapons evolve the more you use them.
  
  Each planet is visually different to the last and have different enemies and creatures that you 
 have to overcome. There are common features to each planet, such as boxes which contain bolts and 
 raritinium, which Ratchet uses as currency to buy and upgrade weapons and buy armour and devices. 
 In most planets, you have to fight your way through enemies until your objective is met for that 
 planet. You either do this on your own or fighting beside companions. My favourite planet has this 
 event called the 'Imperial Fight Festival' where you fight in a colloseum and overcome swarms of 
 enemies and two bosses as well as other challenges. When you complete specific planets, you may 
 unlock new weapons and you always unlock a new planet unless a task comes up on previous planets.
 
  
  The storyline is probably my second favourite thing about the game (behind the weapons) . The story 
 is well thought through and it is what makes the game experience very satisfying - Ratchet's anger 
 towards the main villain is very personal. The story is quite deep and the character of Ratchet 
 has obviously been developed more and more in previous games. I also found the story ver funny, 
 sometimes hilarious. Quotes like 'Please report to the torture room for a... er... present' and 
 'Why do we always have to choose between probable death and certain death?' were among my favourites. 
 The ending also suggests that the game's successor's story will be another meaningful one.
  
  The gameplay of this game is brilliant. Just what you would want: simple controls and basic 
 moves that are natural to perform. The game also makes great use of the SIXAXIS motion controllers, 
 whethet you are flying through the skies with wings that Clank has sprouted or trying to complete 
 a circuit to overide a door system. With every fire of every weapon, it just feels so right which 
 is what I love about this game. The least enjoyable part of the game is playing as Clank, but this 
 is only a very small (but important) part.
  
  The graphics are the best I have ever seen on a platformer - smooth and almost flawless, details 
 right down to the small hairs on Ratchet's ear and textures on the ground. The enemies are detailed 
 too as well as the landscape of the planets and outer space.
  
  The sound effects of the game are very good. Again, back to the weapons, each weapon has its own 
 sound that works well with that weapon. The voice acting was brilliant, like many other things, 
 and the music usually set the atmosphere perfectly.
  
  GameSpot criticises the difficulty of the game, for being too easy, but I think it is just right. 
 I thought the game was initially too easy and it stayed quite easy throughout until the later levels, 
 where it was kind of medium difficulty. I thought that the bosses were too easy as well, but that 
 will change once you have completed the game. Challenge mode can be entered once the game has been 
 completed with increased difficulty, and this is probably when the game is at its best. Don't be 
 fooled though, the game is very, very long.
  
  I'm sorry if this review is a little muddled - there is so much to talk about and I don't think 
 I have covered everything. Overall, this is a brilliant game for people of all ages and it is definitely 
 one not to miss for anyone who has a ps3 - even if you don't like this type of game.
  
  Add me as a friend on the PS3 if you liked this review! My PS3 ID is supersonikk, and I will kick 
 your ass =) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: djkearse36
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jun 2, 2008 2:49 pm PT
Review:  This game is fun and cool but I stopped playing it after 5 hours because it got repetitive and 
 boring. I never played a Ratchet and Clank game before and had no clue what the story was about. 
 It is pretty bright game so graphics is pretty good. This game did not appeal to me but......!!!!!!! 
 it might to you because I just did not like it but my brother loved it so. For this one I would 
 have to say a 40 bucks value or you should rent it. If you are a ratchet and clank fan there is 
 no reason why you should not buy it. I need to put more characters lol  
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pandaramaster
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jun 1, 2008 4:20 am PT
Review:  That's right! Ratchet and Clank Tools Of Destruction for the Playstation 3 is a pretty cool game. 
 So it doesn't do anything new for the franchise, that's not a bad thing because the Playstation 
 3 is in dire need of some good exclusives. This and Uncharted are perhaps the only decent games 
 for the system at the moment. The graphics are sensational, the animation is top notch and the 
 game play is as tight as ever. It may lack the abudant of features that made Ratchet and Clank 
 3 the best one in the series (I still hold the first title as my personal favourite) but that doesn't 
 stop it from being a great title. I'm tempted to give this game a 9.0 score but because it sticks 
 so close to the very first title and despite the fantastic graphical update this is still the same 
 game you all know through and through. However, I seriously recommend it for anyone and I cannot 
 wait for the sequel. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chocolate1325
Rating: 8.5
Date: May 31, 2008 11:14 am PT
Review:  Ratchet and Clank was a fantastic series on the PS2 it was different to many games and was fun 
 but I feel as this game shows that a change is needed in the series. It's good but not the best 
 in the series.
  
  Story
  
  The story is Emperor Tachyon is the main villain in this game and he wants to destroy Ratchet because 
 he doesn't seem to like Lombaxes which Ratchet is.
  
  Gameplay
  
  Ratchet and Clank main appeal is weapons and there have been some classic weapons and gadgets in 
 the past. You can upgrade your weapons by giving them more firepower, more ammunition and more 
 damage. There are some good weapons but some feel the same as others what we have seen before but 
 with a different name and different type of using vut it still feels the same. The levels are massive 
 and very creative and some of the enemies are annoying. The problem is with the vendor where you 
 can get ammunition if you go there it refills your health meter which makes it a bit easy. There 
 is an amour vendor as well giving you stronger armour and you get a health upgrade as well. You 
 fight in your ship as well sometimes during the game which I don't like much. There is also this 
 arena which lets you earn bolts but that was in Ratchet and Clank 2 and 3. It is fun though.
  
  Graphics
  
  The graphics look amazing and it shows what the PS3 is capable the detail put 
 into it is amazing.
  
  Sound
  
  Well the sound is good also and some of the cut scenes are funny to listen to but overall the sound 
 is good but Emperor Tachyon is annoying I think.
  
  Lastability
  
  It should take you a good 10 to 20 hours to finish the whole story but you can try and get all 
 the skill points upgrade all your weapons and play challenege mode which is a slighty harder version 
 of the game.
  
  Overall Opinion
  
  It's a solid effort but it could have been better. I mean it would have been very good if there 
 had been an online mode like Ratchet and Clank 3 to make it better. I am a bit dissapointed by 
 this game actually yes it was good but I have seen all this before in previous games and it lacks 
 online and it is too easy. It's fun but not brilliant but it is worth playing though.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Xcaliber26
Rating: 9
Date: May 30, 2008 8:24 pm PT
Review:  This is the best looking platform game I have ever played. It feels like you are playing a pixar 
 movie. The gameplay was nothing like I expected. I have never played a Ratchet and Clank game before 
 so the controls and gameplay actions were very fresh to me. I like that you can upgrade/customize 
 your inventory plus all the abilites you aquire throughout the game. 
  
  The levels are very well designed and some area's are puzzle centric that can be challenging. The 
 pace of the game seems to flow very nicely and you can wonder off and do your own thing if you 
 want to for a little bit and get some hidden items. 
  
  Overall this is the best platformer I have played in a very long time. Anyone looking for a 3D 
 platformer needs to look no futher than Ratchet & Clank: Future Tools of Destruction because it 
 is jam packed with action and enjoyment. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ANIALATOR136
Rating: 7.5
Date: May 26, 2008 5:35 am PT
Review:  Another Ratchet And Clank eh?!
  First You start of wizzing around the colourful city metropolis. It was a great idea to bring ratchet 
 and clank to life in HD. Not full HD im afraid but it still looks great. Your enemy in Tools Of 
 Destruction is a evil emperor called Tachyon. He is the king of a race called the cragmites. Ratchet 
 starts to discover that the cragmites are the reason for the disappearance of his own race. As 
 usual Insomniac have brainstormed a number of cool weapons and gadgets to aid you in your quest.
 
  Including a magma combuster and a transmorpher. The transmorpher funny enough, turns enemies into 
 penguins!
  There is a great use of six-axis in the game like controlling twisters from a bizarre weapon and 
 guiding a remote controlled helicopter around.
  The game has a good sense of humour and loveable cutscenes.
  Id probably reccomend a purchase 
 of this title. It may not be the highest rated game but it still packs a punch! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chrismd_50
Rating: 9.5
Date: May 19, 2008 8:37 pm PT
Review:  The graphics are beautiful; very colorful and very detailed with great resolution. The sound is 
 just as beautiful because of its HD qualities. The game is very very fun to play and although the 
 story can be complicated it is nevertheless easy to follow. In conclusion, this game is a great 
 experience and is definitely on the cutting edge.
  
  The graphics are beautiful; very colorful and very detailed with great resolution. The sound is 
 just as beautiful because of its HD qualities. The game is very very fun to play and although the 
 story can be complicated it is nevertheless easy to follow. In conclusion, this game is a great 
 experience and is definitely on the cutting edge
  
  The graphics are beautiful; very colorful and very detailed with great resolution. The sound is 
 just as beautiful because of its HD qualities. The game is very very fun to play and although the 
 story can be complicated it is nevertheless easy to follow. In conclusion, this game is a great 
 experience and is definitely on the cutting edge 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ShadowLaguna
Rating: 9
Date: May 18, 2008 3:29 pm PT
Review:  Ratchet & Clank Future: Tools of Destruction is the first installment on the PlayStation 3, and 
 a lot has changed since the last few installments. Most of them in a pretty good way. After many 
 of the flaws and letdowns in Ratchet: Deadlocked, Insomniac Games revive the series and decide 
 to make a proper Ratchet & Clank game again.
  
  The gameplay is just as addictive as ever. With the series back to normal, you're most likely gonna 
 enjoy it. But just in case you are new to the series, i'll explain how the series works. You take 
 control of Ratchet, armed with a wrench and several guns and gadgets. You wander around planets, 
 shooting the crap out of any enemies that stand in your way. You can also gain Experience points 
 for your health and your weapons. Training your health can be as simple as fighting enemies. Every 
 time you defeat an enemy, the bar goes up by a bit. When the EXP gauge fills up, your health improves. 
 This can also be done with weapons. To increase your weapon's level, you just need to frequently 
 use it in the enemies. In your first playthrough, you can get all your weapons to V5. When a weapon 
 reches V5, it gains a new feature that is very useful against the enemies, and of course the power 
 of the weapon improves every level it gains. In Challenge Mode, you will be able to get all your 
 weapons to VX (known as V10) . So, you see some pretty neat RPG elements going on there. You can 
 buy new weapons via the Weapon Shops, which are quite common. You can use these to buy new weapons 
 with your hard earned Bolts, and upgrade the ones you own with hard earned Raritanium. When upgrading 
 your weapons at the shop, you can upgrade it's power, ammo capacity, bolt and raritanium pickup, 
 range and there's also a special upgrade at the end of all the upgrading for your weapons. Armour 
 can also be upgraded. During many parts of the game, you'll be able to purchase upgrades for your 
 armour. They may all cost a fair bit, but they're worth it as they increase your defence. As mentioned, 
 you have another currency in R&C Future. You don't just collect a while bunch of bolts, but also 
 a whole bunch of raritanium.
  
  Along with the weapons you can use, you can also get 'Devices'. Devices are new to the series and 
 I don't see why they exist. They are little weapons that you can use on enemies mainly for distractions. 
 One example of this is the Groovitron, which i'm sure a lot of you have heard of. You chuck them 
 at enemies and the device turns into a disco ball and makes the enemies dance to the music. I never 
 really liked the devices. I barely used them when playing through this game. I never found any 
 use of them. Plus, you can't upgrade them. I don't see why you can't, if you could then I would 
 have used them. Other than that, they're still a neat little part of this game. I also have a few 
 problems with some of the weapons. I found that they were nowhere as good as the brilliant weapons 
 from the previous installments. None of the best weapons in R&C Future can be compared to the best 
 ones in the previous installments. Let's start with the Combuster, the first weapon you have; it's 
 shoots out fire balls and has 100 ammo. It's barely even rapid-fire, and this is supposed to compare 
 with the Lancer? Plus, I never really used it much. I thought it was mainly for the smaller enemies. 
 Then, there's the Fusion Grenade; Now this one isn't too bad, but it's very weak compared to weapons 
 like the Gravity Bomb and Bouncer. Fortunately, the RYNO (Rip Ya a New One, according to the shady 
 guy back in R&C1) is back, as it was absent in Ratchet: Deadlocked. You will find that it is called 
 the RYNO IV. Though many of the weapons may not be so great in this one, the RYNO IV truly is wonderful. 
 Enough said.
  
  Clank is playable yet again in R&C Future. It's pretty much like in the previous installments, 
 except with a few new features. Instead of controlling the little robots that you did in the older 
 games, you control a fascinating race called the Zoni. They guide Clank and tell him what he should 
 do. Another cool new feature when controlling Clank, is the slow-mo. When you Hold R1, time slows 
 down, making it so you can get through those fast-flicking barriers and such. I've seen it before, 
 but it's always nice to see it in games. Another cool feature is the Levitation. This allows the 
 Zoni to pick you up and lift you across hot surfaces. Unfortunately, Giant Clank is not playable. 
 In R&C 1, 2 and 3, Clank could be enlarged and you could crush enemies with him. Though it may 
 not be a serious loss, it would've been a cool addition.
  
  Of course there are heaps of hidden objects throughout the game, making it worth all the time to 
 go look for those Gold Bolts. Gold Bolts are in some of the most unexpected areas, and you won't 
 dare to get them all during your first playthrough. Unfortunately, they are just Gold Bolts. This 
 may not matter, but in R&C2 and 3 they were more than Gold Bolts (Platinum and Titanium Bolts) . 
 Gold Bolts can be used to buy extra skins for Ratchet, including the recently passed away Dan Johnson. 
 Skill Points can also be awarded for doing some of the most interesting things, an example being 
 Disco Inferno. To earn this, you need to use the Groovitron on an enemy, and then destroy it with 
 the Pyro Blaster. Some of the Skill Points have the funniest names too, such as 'No, Up YOUR Arsenal' 
 or 'Roflcopter'.
  
  I thought R&C Future missed quite a few cool features that some of the previous installmets had. 
 I've already mentioned Giant Clank, but I'm actually thinking of multiplayer. Ratchet & Clank 3: 
 Up Your Arsenal introduced multiplayer to the series. The multiplayer wasn't to shabby either, 
 plus it had online. This feature was carried onto Deadlocked too. But R&C Future doesn't even have 
 it! My question is, why? I hope this is something Insomniac will think about for the next installment. 
 I also thought that it was quite short compared to the previous games. If you play it enough, you'll 
 find that the main story can be beaten in less than 10 hours or so. Some of the planets were a 
 tad short and didn't have much significance. But fortunately, there is a lot of replay value that 
 will keep you hooked for another 50-100 hours or so, building up your stats and such.
  
  The controls are brilliant. The SIXAXIS is used a lot, and it's used in a very good way. The regular 
 controls are pretty much just like on the PS2, except for a few little changes. As for the SIXAXIS, 
 it is used for a lot of things. It used for HALO jumps, which you control Ratchet by waving the 
 controller around. Another example is the new unlocking puzzle, you have to control a ball with 
 the controller. Other examples include using the Tornado Launcher and the Visicopter.
  
  The graphics in R&C Future are amazing! They have improved a lot from the PlayStation 2 installments, 
 and many say it looks very close to a Pixar film. I couldn't agree more. There are cinematics in 
 R&C Future, but they don't look that much different from the gameplay. That's what's so good about 
 the graphics. I never found anything wrong with the graphics. The colours are brilliant. It's not 
 too bright, which i've found a bit of a problem with some games these days. But Insomniac Games 
 manage to do it right.
  
  The characters aren't too bad. Of course it's starring non other than Ratchet & Clank, with Captain 
 Qwark as..... uhh... a support? You have new allies too. Talwyn is the female protagonist, who is 
 teamed up with Cronk and Zephyr, two robot guardians. New bad guys too. Tachyon is the main antagonist, 
 and he seeks universe domination and wants to end the Lombax race by killing Ratchet. There are 
 also the space pirates that keep nagging you. Unfortunately, this installment lacks many of the 
 classic characters that made the previous installments interesting. It lacks Big Al, Skidd McMarx, 
 Helga and Sasha. Plus, Angela is still absent from the series. Apart from these unneeded absences, 
 the characters are still pretty cool, and they are quite humourous.
  
  The story is quite good too. Ratchet and Clank respond to Captain Qwark's call for help while on 
 the planet Metropolis. They find that a large army of robotic commandos have laid a full-scale 
 assault on the capital city, led by Emperor Tachyon, crown prince of the Cragmites. Tachyon reveals 
 that he is after Ratchet, the last Lombax in the galaxy; outnumbered and overpowered, Ratchet and 
 Clank flee. The two decide they must learn more about Tachyon and begin to search the universe 
 for answers. During their investigation, Clank is visited by small robots called the Zoni that 
 only he can see; the Zoni upgrade Clank and tell him that he is special, and that he must help 
 Ratchet make a difficult choice in their current adventure.
  
  As they travel from planet to planet, they learn from allies that during the Great War long ago, 
 the Lombaxes had wiped out all of the Cragmites, and were considered heroes of the universe. Exactly 
 how the Lombaxes had done so, however, was unknown, and that had become known as the Lombax Secret. 
 Ratchet learns of the abandoned home planet of the Lombaxes, Fastoon, and goes there to learn of 
 the Lombax Secret, revealed to be the "Dimensionator", a helmet that is able to open wormholes 
 to other dimensions. The Lombax had used it to banish all the Cragmites to an alternate dimension, 
 except for one; Tachyon was found as an egg after the Great War, and was raised by the Lombaxes; 
 after learning what the Lombax had done to his species, he launched an all-out attack on Fastoon. 
 The Lombaxes realized that the best solution was to send themselves to another dimension with the 
 Dimensionator, attempting to fool Tachyon that he had destroyed the race, though two were left 
 behind: the Guardian of the Dimensionator and his son. Tachyon reveals that he ended up killing 
 the Guardian but not before he could send his son to the Solana galaxy, and that Ratchet is that 
 son. Overall, the story is great, although I didn't find the ending very clear.
  
  Ratchet & Clank Future: Tools of Destruction may have a few slight letdowns here and there, but 
 it is overall a great and addictive adventure. Any Ratchet & Clank fan will enjoy this new PS3 
 installment, and it's also a good game for newcomers. If you own a PlayStation 3, then you have 
 to get this at some stage. It's a wonderful experience.
  9/10
  
  BUY 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ZenesisX
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 30, 2008 12:07 pm PT
Review:  This game follows the story of a Lombax named Rachet and his robot buddy Clank. Rachet is the last 
 known Lombax that is alive and the rest of the cat-like creatures have disappeared. Rachet knows 
 nothing of his past or the other Lombax. Though he knows so little for some reason Emperor Percival 
 Tachyon wants to destroy him and end the race once and for all. One thing though that Rachet has 
 found out is that there is a secret weapon left behind by the Lombax which is said to be very powerful, 
 also which Tachyon wants to possess for himself. Throughout your adventure you meet up with allies 
 and very odd people as Rachet tries to uncover his mysteries past.
  
  Gameplay: The gameplay in this game is easy to say the least. The controls are simple and you should 
 have no trouble adjusting to them. This game is a basic platformer, so in order to get around the 
 controls are as responsive as can be. As always, Rachet is equipped with a whole bunch of gadgets 
 and weaponry he obtains throughout his adventure from a gun that can produce tornadoes to a disco 
 bomb that forces your enemies to dance, whatever weapon you need to get the job done is available 
 in the game. The fighting in this game is classic but it feels to have gotten easier then the last 
 installments. enemies are easy to destroy and the bosses are no real challenge and might make the 
 fans of the series feel like this game is a bit of a letdown.
  
  Graphics: the visuals have improved greatly since the last installment. The characters look great, 
 the scenery is amazing and it makes exploring feel so much better. This is really good since you 
 will be doing alot of sight seeing as you travel from one world to the next.
  
  Sound: What can i say, the sound is great and is standard. the voice acting is good. To top it 
 of the backround music isnt bad either, it will keep you entertained as you fight against enemies.
 
  
  Value: The value in this game is alright actually. Despite its easy interface and simple gameplay, 
 this game is really good and i can say its replay value is really high because after you beat the 
 game you can play through it again with a harder difficulty. as a added bonus the developers of 
 the game added concept art and other extras such as costumes and cheats. This game does alot to 
 keep previous fans interested and at the same time try to draw new fans in aswell.
  
  All in all this game will be fun to any fan of the series and some new ones who enjoy platformers 
 and light humor which this game has alot of. This game i can easily say isnt for everybody especially 
 after its WTF ending, but if you have a PS3 i say its worth a buy or rent, its completely up to 
 you since both are good i guess . 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sony_Soilder78
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 26, 2008 9:05 pm PT
Review:  I must say I am surprised with Ratchet and Clank Future: Tools of Destruction mainly because it 
 delivered more on the action and less on the platforming then I expected, which worked more for 
 it then against it.
  
  Story 7.5/10
  This game deliverers, as much, if not more then what you would expect from a platormer in terms 
 of a storyline, but the fact is that isn't much and I am a gamer who enjoys a storyline above all 
 else, but for what it is it isn't bad. You play as Ratchet who is a Lombax (An extinct species) 
 and you are accompanied Clank, your trusty Robot Companion. Together you must evade EmperorTakion 
 and find out what happened to your species. 
  
  Graphics- 9/10
  The graphics are colourful, the inviorments are varied and I their were only one or two noticeable, 
 graphical glitches through out the game experience. For the subject matter and the universe this 
 games graphics are a perfect fit and great looking in their own right. The only real knock I have 
 against it is that it doesn't play in 1080p but that is easy to overlook.
  
  Audio- 7.5/10
  The game sounds as good as it looks, everything from the weapon sound effects 
 th the VO work immerses you in the world of Ratchet and Clank. I must say their was never a particular 
 point in the game were I was impressed but the hole experience was supported by slightly above 
 average sound. 
  
  Gameplay- 9/10
  Well at first glance the game looks kind of repetitive but this is not the case, not only are their 
 a plethora of weapons to choose from to blow up the next wave of bad guys, but they all upgrade 
 with every use. This keeps you diversifying your method of attack and since these wepons range 
 from flame throwers to lightning claws to grenades that make your enemys penquins you aren't likely 
 to get bored any time soon. On top of that I might be in the minority when I say I enjoy the use 
 of the Six-Axis. You use it with some of your wepons and for using some of the items in the game 
 to further your progress. It may be called an identity crisis by some but I thought it worked quite 
 well.
  
  All and all Ratchet and Clank Future: Tools of Destrution gets and 8/10. It is fun, a visual treat 
 and an experience that will keep you waiting for a sequel.
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: carl_may_cry
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 23, 2008 6:03 pm PT
Review:  Come on. This game deserves more than a weak 7.5!!! Look at the gorgeous graphics, the excellent 
 gameplay and the... bad story. The guns and gadgets are top-notch. You know controlling the sort 
 of deltaplane with the sixaxis controller is just awesome! And maybe the combat is on the easy 
 side but come on, does it really matter..? How many times have you stopped playing a game because 
 you were blocked somewhere..? I bet it happened more than five times. So having the combat on the 
 easy side is just making the game better. Now lets compare this game to mario galaxy who got a 
 9.5. Both have excellent controls, both have gorgeous visuals who are easy on the eyes and both 
 have a  I think it isn't fair for Mario to get a 9.5 and 
 ratchet to get a mere 7.5. This is all I have to say and I hope after reading this review you will 
 have the reflex to go buy this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bagman34
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 21, 2008 5:28 am PT
Review:  I love Ratchet and Clank, I'll just put that out there to start with, because if you don't love 
 them, you might not like this game nearly as much as I did. Given that your still reading and agree 
 with me, this installment of the dynamic duo has everything that has made the previous games so 
 great, with hi-def graphics, skill points, and many extras that will keep you coming back for more. 
 
  
  The one thing that has always made Ratchet and Clank games so great is their replay value. I have 
 never played one less than three times. I never usually play a game more than once, so this is 
 saying a lot. There is so much content in these games that it is nearly impossible to play through 
 once and experience it all. I've played this game twice now and still don't have all the weapons, 
 skill points, gold bolts..... you get the point. It isn't a chore to get these things either, it's 
 a challenge, and it's fun. These are not difficult, but the fun isn't in the challenge, it's in 
 finding stuff, using weapons and seeing what happens next.
  
  The fact that this nearly endless package of stuff comes with an interesting storyline and plenty 
 of laughs makes it only that much better. If the rest of the game was boring you wouldn't care 
 if you had all the stuff, but it's fun to get it all and see it work. Monsters have comments when 
 you use new weapons on them, and each weapon kills your enemies in interesting new ways. 
  
  I'm sure that Ratchet and Clank is a love it or hate it kind of game for most people, but if 
 you have ever thought you might like the game and haven't tried it until now, this installment 
 is certainly a great start and well worth the money you will spend to pick it up. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ragdollsrock012
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 19, 2008 11:35 am PT
Review:  Ratchet and Clank has always been one of my top ten series (GTA being the first) , and Ratchet and 
 Clank continue the wackiness on the Playstation 3. From the Humorous Captain Qwark to the Dancing 
 Space Pirates, Ratchet and Clank never fails to please its audience. Gorgeous Pixar style graphics 
 and semi-destructible environments make this another reason to buy this. The world is ambient, 
 so normal citzen robots do their every-day things, flying cars fly meanwhile a building is tumbling 
 down in the background, AND a war is going on. Welcome to Ratchet and Clank Future: Tools of Destruction.
 
  
  So, starting with the ambience. I only scratched the surface when I listed those things going on 
 in only the first level. Bridges crumble over an endless pit. If you turn the camera around so 
 you see Ratchets face, you can see that he looks around the city and actually blinks, his mouth 
 moves when he talks, and you can see your reflection in passing cars' windshields. Whew! As all 
 hardcore Ratchet and Clank fans know, the weapons and gadgets are a main highlight of the gameplay. 
 Many weapons and gadgets get added each new installment, and this one is no exception. Of course, 
 the R. Y. N. O. (Rip ya' a new one) returns with the R. Y. N. O. IV, which of course is the best weapon 
 in the game. Some new additions are a gel gun that acts as a trampoline. Then the classic Disk 
 Blade Gun. As well as weapons, Clanks thrusters and heli blades return. Golden bolts are in the 
 game, acheivments are still here The bonuses aren't as good as they used to be, and it will take 
 you a long time to complete all of them. 
  
  Many things, in fact, most things are good about the game, but there are some flaws. One is that 
 the Single player is way too short. It took me about 6-8 hours to complete. Even though there are 
 many variations in maps, it does get pretty old quickly. Plus there is no multiplayer. 
  
  Basically, Ratchet and Clank Future: Tools of Destruction is a very good game. All die-hard Ratchet 
 and Clank fans will seriously enjoy this and will notice little tid bits from past games. While 
 not the best for everyone, Ratchet and Clank still remains in the top ten platforming series ever 
 made. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Hessian823
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 17, 2008 6:22 pm PT
Review:  With this latest installment of the Ratchet and Clank duo, PS3 did justice by the franchise by 
 making this game true to the series and fun fun fun in a big way. The graphics are great, how could 
 they not be in 720p, but the worlds are fun the gadgets are great and the weapons are really cool. 
 There are a few points where the game can get monotonous but that's to be expected in a game like 
 this. What you'll find in this one is loads of cool worlds, kick ass villans and a pretty immersive 
 stroyline. The game play itself is pretty easy to get the hang of but that doesn't mean that they 
 give the game away. There is plenty of challenging moments and some pretty neat puzzles. The game 
 also makes pretty good use of the sixaxis controller when in flight or falling through traffic. 
 Check it out, its a great game to rent but may not be a buyer because, once you get sucked in, 
 you'll finish this bad boy in no time. Great game, beautiful graphics and a lot of fun. job well 
 done. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Green940
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 12, 2008 7:46 am PT
Review:  Ratchet and Clank: Tools of Destruction finally makes its debut on the Playstation 3 and also as 
 an exclusive title for the system.
  
  I didn't plan to buy this game however when I decided to buy a PS3 starter pack I got this game 
 in the bundle along with Uncharted: Drakes Fortune. Looking at the game's box and reading the features 
 I was disappointed and thought to myself that this game was going to be another typical babyish 
 hack and slash game and nothing much. I was proven wrong.
  
  Ratchet and Clank offers wide ranges of amazing gameplay and very colourful backgrounds and sceneries. 
 Even though your main character is a furry little Lombax (alien creature) fighting alongside a 
 tiny robot the gameplay will keep you hooked on and wanting you to keep on playing so you can get 
 better weapons and upgrades.
  
  In the game when playing Ratchet you have your main ax/hammer weapon along with lots of different 
 custom side guns and devices which you can never get bored of because of the huge variety available! 
 Also the few times you get to play as Clank, there are more tactical ways to progress through the 
 mission such as slowing down time and levitating.
  
  To upgrade weapons or buy new ones you will have to get bolts or crystals which are found all over 
 the game. Devices are fun to use such as transforming you enemy's into little penguins, controlling 
 mini helicopters or even having a tiny flying robot buddy to kill most of the enemies for you!
 
  
  Another cool thing is that there is so much SIXAXIS motion sensor control used in the game to fly 
 and maneuver around objects, using your spaceship that it just takes the experience to a whole 
 new level which is just fantastic!
  
  So in terms of gameplay this game owns big time with the only exception that the game is very easy 
 to beat.
  The story line for the game is nothing much and Ratchet trying to get to the Emperor Techyon (big 
 bad boss) is just OK along with Ratchet and Clank finding out more about where they come from.
 
  
  Another let down is that there is no online play which Insomniac could have really made Ratchet 
 and Clank brilliant!
  
  Once you complete the game there are more modes to play in and much more replay value which keeps 
 you playing the game for quite some time. If your looking for a third person hack and shooting 
 game then this is one of the best titles to get for your PlayStation 3! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: guerillaKZ2
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 9, 2008 8:29 pm PT
Review:  I don't feel like writing, but fine i will do it. I rented this game for five days and about ten 
 hours of those ten games was filled action fun!!!!!! Just buy the game you'll be impressed. If 
 you beat the game once you can play on a harder diffuculty wear it'll be your turn to have your 
 butt kicked. The weapons arsenal is  
 Just buy the game, you will get a lot out of your purchase! I know i sound like i'm advertising 
 the game, but i just have to, it's so darn good!!!! The only downfall is that they failed to somehow 
 include an online. But you won't care about that too much because the single player campgain is 
 fun with plenty of replay value. you'll want to kill enemys with different weapons and find cool 
 collectables. so in the end,,,,,, JUST BUY THE GAME!!!!!!!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: -ArchAngeL-777-
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 9, 2008 12:37 am PT
Review:  Ratchet and Clank: Tools of Destruction is one of the best games I have played on PS3. Gamespot 
 totally blew the review on this one. Sure it is a bit easy if you stay on top of the weapon upgrades. 
 That is fine, because the game itself is something to behold. I mean it looks FANTASTIC. You will 
 feel as if you are playing a Pixar movie. If the gameplay was any more difficult, then I would 
 not be able to take in the scenery. Yes, the graphics are good enough that you will occasionally 
 just stop and "take in the view."
  
  
  The weapons are fantastic, fun, and very plentiful. Also the characters you interact with make 
 for a great story. GS dropped the ball on this part of their review as well. The story is as immersing 
 as always with a lot of allies and adversaries along the way.
  
  Dont let the low difficulty fool you either. When you beat the game the first time, you can play 
 it through again on a harder difficulty. And believe me, you will find it hard not to go ahead 
 and do so. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gameboy2k
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 7, 2008 6:56 am PT
Review:  This game is great. Why is it that Gamespot only gave it a 7.5? Because it's not an FPS on the 
 Xbox360? (I have both a 360 and PS3, btw) . I highly enjoy this game. Being a Halo Addict, I was 
 skeptical on buying this game. I generally agree with 80% of Gamespot's reviews.... but they blew 
 it on this one. But, I have lost faith in their grading system after playing this game. This game 
 should get at least a 9, because it's just as strong a platformer as Mario or Sonic. This is Sony's 
 flagship cool character and Ratchet lives up to the hype. If you have a PS3, stop reading this 
 review and get this game!!! Every PS3 owner needs this in their Library. If you have a 360 and 
 a PS3 (Like me) , you'll not be playing your 360 as much. Trust me. I think we all can get caught 
 up in the Fanboyism. PS3 made me love playing diverse games again. I have yet to see such a similar 
 game on the xbox. And, to make matters more interesting, Blu-ray disks allow games to be more than 
 6 or 8 hours (Like some popular xbox titles) . Maybe Microsoft needs to step their game up and present 
 this same quality. If not, I'm putting my 360 on Ebay. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rareware2006
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 6, 2008 6:20 am PT
Review:  Ratchet & Clank Future: Tools of Destruction is the best platformer on the Playstation 3 system 
 to date. The graphics are fantastic, with some of the most wonderfull colours you have ever seen.
 
  The sound is great too, very great voiceacting an sound effects.
  The gameplay is also very great, just funny. The Story will surprice you, and you will ekspect 
 a Ratchet and Clank Furure 2.
  
  The game uses the sixaxis very good, and the only game that does this better is Heavenly Swords.
 
  
  It is the best in the series and the best game on Playstation 3.
  The game is easy, but not too easy, so go get it.
  
  Gameplay: 9/10
  Graphics: 10/10
  Sound: 
 10/10
  Value: 8/10
  Tilt: 9/10
  
  800 characters, 800 characters, 800 characters, 800 characters, 800 characters, great game, great 
 game, my english sucks, my english sucks 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Shortbob
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 6, 2008 4:34 pm PT
Review:  I have absolutly no clue how gamespot could possible give it a 7.5. Let me explain to you why. 
 1.) This game has the best graphics a game has ever had. 2.) Very funny story line. 3.) This game 
 isnt ment to have a huge storyline it is made so you can enjoy it calm down a little. 4.) WOW the 
 biggest weapons ever, when they get upgraded to full you feel like pooping yourself. 5.) Clank, 
 playing as clank, slowing down time, getting the zony (sony) sounds funny. To do stuff for you 
 is just awesome. His hand turns into a giant fist. 6.) Dreams come true, you finally get to kill 
 cute little piquins. 7.) Mustachio 8.) The sound is amazing it sounds very realistic. 9.) So SO 
 SOSOSOOSOSO much stuff happens in the background just look, you see planes flying and mountains 
 and so much stuff in great detail. 10.) It is a one of a kind game, no game will ever be like it. 
 11.) The Negotiator 
  
  IGN = 9.4 (seems perfect) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: prodiqy32
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 6, 2008 6:47 am PT
Review:  uncharted was great, but this is the best first party game on the system.
  here is why.......
  the graphics are amazing and get my vote for best looking game of all time. 
 each level is completely unique and ther is no pop up or framerate problems.
  the control is great and it has the best use of motion control on the system thats not warhawk.
 
  the story is more serious then the other games in the series but its also the funniest.
  the graphics are freaking amazing.
  it really doesnt do anything the other games havent done. 
 sure there are new weopons like the tornado and the dance gun (priceless by the way) but its the 
 same old formula. thats the games only flaw. its been done before and this is the finest of the 
 bunch. all those years of polishing has made the perfect platformer.
  man these 
  2 other gripes are the 2-D clank missions that are 
 not quite up to par with the older versions and they took out the multiplayer. the multiplayer 
 was a nice bonus in the older games.
  this will be a short review because anyone who has ever played a ratchet game should no what to 
 expect. you get a new level of graphics and some new guns. thats it.
  but this is still the pinnacle of insomniacs hard work. bravo! normally a 10 would not be handed 
 to a game that does nothing new, but i dont see how a platformer could be better without the name 
 mario in the title. and ive only played one ratchet game before this. its a 10 for me and a classic 
 moment in my gaming history. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jekyll
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 1, 2008 12:12 pm PT
Review:  After falling a bit quality-wise towards the end of its PS2 life, and getting away from its roots 
 a bit, the Ratchet and Clank series return in an adventure more like what series fans fell in love 
 with. With some new modes and minigames (that mostly, but not completely, add to the affair) , and 
 some clever use of motion sensing in the SIXAXIS controller, the series feels like home, but brand 
 new, at the same time.
  
  Since the series' debut, Ratchet's been a tad depressed from being the final Lombax in the universe, 
 and now Ratchet is summoned by Captain Quark to assist (read: rescue) him, and before he knows 
 it, the answers to what happened to his kind may be in sight. Across the typical array of planets 
 and asteroids, Ratchet chases the evil Emperor Tachyon, a fellow final-of-his-species survivor, 
 but of a race the Lombax destroyed long ago. As usual, the more popular weapons and gadgets return, 
 accompanied by new items like an energy net shooter and health-transference bombs to steal opponents' 
 life force. The levels feel and look very familiar, though they're now bigger than ever, taking 
 advantage of the PS3's oomph. It all leads to Ratchet and company's final confrontation to stop 
 Emperor Tachyon and try to learn exactly what happened to the Lombax all those years ago.
  
  The graphics for the cartoon-style game are lush, and are like playing a Pixar movie. They're 
 more than most would've imagined the jump to HD would accomplish, with everything shinier, sharper, 
 and brighter (and a bit of self-aware humor, to boot) . While the unfolding of the story is merely 
 so-so, the trademark humor of the series is still right on target, with cutscenes filled with laugh-out 
 loud moments and pop culture allusions. The updates to gaming mechanics generally work well, such 
 as extended periods of Ratchet sliding up grindrails, and having him start with all the thruster 
 packs he's received in earlier outings was a smart choice. Using the SIXAXIS to fly or manipulate 
 a circuit board minigame (this iteration's version of the hacking minigames) feels senisible and 
 intuitive, and never overdone.
  
  The game is almost too easy, especially if you're a series veteran, and you're not flying off to 
 your death in desperate searches for Golden Bolts. This is augmented (or caused) by one or two 
 weapons being a bit overpowered, and even with their limited ammo-holding capacity, the game's 
 tendency to have ammo crates only give you what you need undoes this attempt to manufacture game 
 balance. There are the occasional camera issues that leave you pulling your hair out for a better 
 view, and even the briefest of slow-downs in one or two spots. As usual, there are some Clank missions, 
 and as usual most are far less fun than the standard missions with Ratchet.
  
  The controls are well enough, though with a total of 24 quick select slots and only about 27 total 
 weapons, devices, and gadgets, why they couldn't give you another screen of quick select menu to 
 hold them all is a mystery. The graphics really couldn't be any nicer for the cartoon style that 
 they're done in. The sound is loud and orchestral, though pretty much just like in previous installments, 
 but the sound off bolts hurtling at you from all corners of your surround sound system is undeniably 
 impressive. Barreling through the story only with your eyes only on getting to the end, you might 
 be able to do this in about 10 hours, but if you're a completist for Golden Bolts and Skill Points, 
 you'll get far more bang for your buck. If the series ended here it would be a fairly decent ending, 
 story-wise and in terms of going out on the strength of a good game, but this game proves there's 
 plenty left to do in Ratchet's universe. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dawnbylaw
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 1, 2008 9:15 am PT
Review:  RATCHET AND CLANK: Tools Of Destruction
  
  So TOD is the debut game of the well known franchise in the ps3 powerful console. I am glad to inform 
 you that this game lives definately up to its hype and maybe a bit more. It is the sixth eeer or 
 fifth installment of the series thus far. It is sure that you will not be dissapointed if you have 
 played the previous installments. Everything here will seem like something you have seen before 
 not exactly refined but surely improved.
  
  GRAPHICS: There is plenty of art here. Dont think that you wont be able to close your mouth after 
 this one but you WILL be impressed by the game's colourful places (EVERY single planet looks really 
 different) and the staff that go on in the always busy backround. The characters all look really 
 beautiful with great facial animations. It all has a cartoonish feel without being so childish by 
 any means. The new camera over the shoulder view is a great addition that gives you a resident evil 
 4 feel (well not exactly) and is sure to let you see the detailed polygons from a much more closer 
 point of view. The frame rate never slows down despite all the staff that goes on. The weapons are 
 all impressively modeled.
  
  
  STORY: Ok here is a bit of a weak point but you wont turn away either. An emperor Tachyon is searching 
 the galaxy for left lombaxes in order to kill them all. He attacks every planet in order to find 
 a single one so as RATCHET is a lombax you are in big trouble. Past games of the series like Up 
 Your Arsenal have told the story better and have managed at the same time to keep a good amount 
 of humour in them. Here you wont find any line increadibly funny and you wont get much immersed 
 by any plot twist that happens. You wont almost feel anything about any character here and thats 
 too bad.
  
  GAMEPLAY: It is old school ratchet and clank as we all know and love it. There is not at all any 
 identity crisis that gamepsot is mentioning (aaaaaaa WHERE ARE YOU GERSTMANN AND KASAVIN????!!!) in 
 its review and the weapons along with ther upgrade system are all hellishly great. You see apart 
 from the fact that a weapon levels up the more you use it, know you can pay in machines to upgrade 
 other aspects of it like ammo capacity, ower, firing speed etc. Every piece of boomstick is really 
 well detailed as i said before and you will not find anyone to be out of place. Well of course there 
 are always preferances but anything is handy. There are a few hack minigames that are not anything 
 truly worth mentioning but will not make you curse either. If there is an amount of laughter to 
 be had you will have it with these new bombs mostly the groovitron which can make your enemies 
 dance. AND THE GREAT THING IS ANYONE DANCES from the most pathetic little robots till every BOSS. Anyway 
 shooting is fun as always and much much more.. the planets are all great you will not get bored 
 by any environment till the very end. The only problem is that indeed you may find the game a bit 
 easy. Really you may reach the end without dying more than five times or so and these will be from 
 a wrong jump or fall.
  
  
  LASTING APPEAL: You will be playing for about 13 to 15 hours for the main story along with the arena 
 fights (which are back again) . There is much replay value at least for one more time as insomniac 
 practically designed the game to be played again carrying over your data in challenge mode with 
 more difficult opponents (you will feel this now, despite the first time) more weapon and armor upgrades.
 
  
  
  In the end TOD is a very enjoyable game that will not dissapoint any series fun and in general 
 any action and platforming fan. You will get most of your money worth here. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: killzonemaniac
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 1, 2008 6:30 am PT
Review:  I thought overall the game was good. But some stuff could have been inproved. Like the boss battles 
 in the game where ok but good. If you beat the game its gets really hard the second time around 
 like 3-4 hits ad your dead. They came to play. The guns are good on the game some really good and 
 some where not. Like they had 3 kind of rocket launchers in the game and the razor claws where 
 fun but I felt they gave you those to late in the game. But I like the fact they gave you skill 
 points liek the old ones and having skins, and cheats you can unlock ,and the gold bolts it gives 
 you something to work for. And the raritanium in the game was cool to do by upgrading your gun 
 to ful potential. I was hopping it would be online but it wasnt. The stroy mode was good it filled 
 in all the holes of the game. The final weapon I like was because it took a while to find all the 
 things for the weapon but in the end its worth the wait. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wallyllama1
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 28, 2008 11:36 am PT
Review:  It is usually not wise to play a sequel without playing the previous games, especially when plot 
 events and characters are carried over. The ending of Halo 3 is just another driving level without 
 Halo. I would not have understood Silent Hill 3 without having first played Silent Hill, not having 
 done so would have rendered me blind and lost. This is what I expected from Ratchet and Clank Future; 
 I have not played any of the previous four titles. All I knew them for were good reviews, good 
 demos and thinly veiled phallic names (Size Matters, Ha!) , and I expected to be punished for my 
 lazy, elitist gaming habits. Thankfully Insomniac saw fit to make their second PS3 outing an excellent 
 game in its own right, and instead of alienating me for having missed the PS2 Ratchet's it has 
 sent me on a quest to find and add them all to my collection.
  
  Right around the PS2 launch Sony promised Toy Story quality visuals rendered in real time. Like 
 many things that Sony says, this never came true. It never really even came close. Flash forward 
 to the PS3 and this long forgotten promise has finally been fulfilled. Ratchet and Clank Future 
 is easily one of the best looking PS3 games to date. Its quality does not rest in excruciating 
 (and usually fleeting) detail, but in the over all polish and look of the game. Ratchet's world 
 is visually and audibly seamless. It has the look and feel of a Pixar film minus the talking cars 
 and cooking rats. Add some sweet weapons and bolt collecting to Monsters, Inc., then swap Clank 
 for the talking eyeball thing and this game is the beautiful, bastard child.
  
  Ratchet and Clank Future also distills the previous games down into a single game that is solid 
 from beginning to end. As the previous titles went on, wandering further from their platform roots 
 and growing more complicated they decreased in quality. More did not always mean better. Like many 
 multiple sequel games (Twisted Metal, Burnout, Gran Turismo, etc) Ratchet and Clank hit the sweet 
 spot around two or three. Future leaves behind the death match heavy Deadlocked for the finely 
 tuned platforming with big guns that were previously successful. Mario, if he were a member of 
 some future NRA and had a tail, would be proud. The level design is solid, rewarding careful exploration 
 without being tedious, and even unlocking more when returning with newly purchased weapons.
  
  The more is not always better issue does crop up occasionally, and one major problem is indeed 
 the sheer number of weapons. Not all of then are useful, and a few are drastically over powered, 
 especially once they are leveled up. It would be quite tempting to blow through the entire game 
 using the guided missiles, and that tactic would be successful right up to the first real boss 
 encounter. Boss's force careful ammunition rationing and are difficult enough that having each 
 weapon leveled up a few times helps a great deal. They are a welcome, if drastic, jump in difficulty 
 to an otherwise easy game.
  
  In the end the PS3 may have finally gotten what the average Heavenly Sword and unfortunate Lair 
 failed to deliver: a solid, mass market, exclusive title. There is much untapped potential in the 
 PS3, and only Insomniac has managed to coax it out thus far. It has become difficult to choose 
 which future sequel to anticipate more: Resistance 2 (Even More Brown) or Ratchet and Clank Future 
 (Here's Hoping for a Wii joke) . My money's on the lombax. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rester
Rating: 7.5
Date: Mar 26, 2008 8:33 pm PT
Review:  Graphics
  R&C looks pretty amazing. It's the closest thing to a Pixar movie you'll see on a console. Even 
 though you rarely stop enjoying the sceneries and characters model in the middle of all the madness 
 going on on screen, the beauty of the art direction and graphics is pretty apparent in the frequent 
 cut-scenes. Action is fast and furious, never slows down. Art direction is gorgeous and very consistent, 
 but different world sometimes look quite similar. Camera might be a problem at times but never 
 get seriously in the way. 
  
  Sound
  Sound FX are spot on. Music is amazing, no different from what you would hear in a big production 
 animation movies. Voice acting is extremely well put together, with professional performances and 
 plenty of funny moments
  
  Gameplay
  All you would expect from a R&C game. Fast action, plenty of fun and unpredictable weapons, explosions, 
 platforming mayhem. A few six-axis based minigames and sections are thrown in but, even though 
 well put together, still feel marginal. The game does not push the envelop in any direction previous 
 games haven't gone. Level design is pretty flat: platforming is pretty trivial, enemies are on 
 the dumb side, nothing really stands out as particularly interesting or challenging. In other words, 
 this is your meat and potato R&C experience, same as you would find on your PS2 or PSP, just bigger 
 and messier. Boss battles are not particularly difficult not require any particular strategy beyond 
 very basic pattern recognition and dodge/shoot. Last boss battle is particularly underwhelming, 
 everything is very predictable and there is no particular surprise once you kill him (e. g., no 
 multi-stage boss, a standard for end of game bosses) . 
  
  Longevity
  Action gets repetitive after a while, especially since it's pretty easy to lose track of the story 
 (that bears no interest anyway) . The game is long enough to make you feel you have played enough 
 by the time it ends. Once you finish the game, you will be offered to re-start with all your weapons 
 and a higher difficulty level - that's it.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Malckeor
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 24, 2008 4:45 pm PT
Review:  Ratchet and Clank future: tools of destruction is a game about an alien race called The Cragmites, 
 led by Tachyon, who are trying to kill Ratchet, the last Lombax (Ratchet's race) . The storyline 
 is good, but it jumps around at some times. The gameplay is just right, the same as the past games 
 in the series. The boss fights are also compelling, especially the last one against Tachyon, where 
 you are facing him on an asteroid in space. But the reason that it doesn't get a perfect 10 is 
 because of its cliffhanger ending.
  
  The graphics are also astounding, but this would be expected for a PS3 game.
  
  The weapons 
 in the game are also creative and fun to play with. There is a weapon that shoots a huge beam at 
 an enemy and explodes on contact, hitting all enemies around it. 
  
  Overall, Ratchet and Clank is the one reason why you should buy a Playstation 3. its beautiful, 
 fun, and its fun to blow stuff up.
  
  Gameplay: 9
  
  Graphics: 10
  
  Sound: 8
  
  Value: 9
  
  Tilt: 8 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gunblade55hz
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 23, 2008 5:14 pm PT
Review:  I'd have to say it would of been the best in the series if it had a multiplayer system.
  But the rest of the game is excellent, insomniac have created so many weapons for ratchet to use 
 during the game, such as a tornadoe launcher, mini turrets, a nano swarmer, a type of claws wolverine 
 would use, there are so much weapons jam packed into this game, that is truly amazing. 
  The game is relatively easy but it makes up for it by being a decently long game that could take 
 maybe up to 20hours if your not rushing. The game also incorperates alot of sixaxis in the game 
 for example, flying around, making a laser which breaks through walls, the tornadoe launcher, i 
 don't want to ruin it, but their is quite a bit more sixiaxis waiting for you.
  The graphics are stunning they are so well crafted and designed you will want to explore the city 
 just to look at their amazing graphics, along with the graphics is incredible sound, it seems insomniac 
 have taken the time to make the sound of the game, and it payed of because evrything looks and 
 sounds better than ever.
  The game is funnier than ever aswell bringing back captain Quark, will always make this game funny, 
 they also have a grenade where it fires a disco ball and sends any of your enemies surronding it 
 into a dancing frenzy, their other grenades in the game is alot of fun aswell. 
  
  Overall this is a truly amazing game that any ratchet and clank fan or any person wanting to try 
 this game must buy!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: In-line_Vitel
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 20, 2008 11:49 am PT
Review:  First of all, 
  i just bought my PS3 with Assassins Creed, and with the PS3 there was Uncharted: Drake's Fortune 
 and Ratchet & Clank.
  The second day was like, lets play "the other" game. I played a demo on PS2 but didnt enjoyed, 
 it wa only for fans i thought.
  I had WRONG!
  The graphics are AMAZING! 
  Gameplay and controls are easy and enjoying
  The sound was for my languae, its cool, alot of 
 humor and pretty casted
  
  The mobs (computer bots) robots, are easy, some are boss-like, so you have to shoot on them or 
 throw a grenade at it, wich is UBER cool effect !!
  Its ALWAYS different, i haved to grind with my Grind-Boot gadget on rails, avoid trains and lasers, 
 i see building coming to the ground of destruction,
  SOOOOO beatifull
  
  COLORFULL, whoo, 
  
  +Graphics!
  +Envoriment and background
  +Gameplay
  +Easy controls 
 
  
  -NO BAD POINTS!
  
  In-Line V i tel,
  also know as Kzaf 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MGSSnakeRacer27
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 16, 2008 7:52 am PT
Review:  Most people say that Ratchet & Clank is one of the best PS2 series of all time because of weapons, 
 platforming and a very smart story. To me, I've always loved the PS2 games. Now I've bought the 
 game on the PS3, Tools of Destruction, and it is one of the best PS3 games I've played so far. 
 It's just so entertaining. It's everything you'd expect from a Ratchet & Clank game. So what do 
 I think of this game?
  
  STORY:
  This is a sequel to Ratchet & Clank 3. It's starts off with Ratchet & Clank in Metropolis; Ratchet 
 is fixing a vehicle and they receive a call from Captain Quark, who says he's being attacked by 
 aliens that are destroying the Metropolis. The villain, Emperor Tachyon, wants to take over Ratchet's 
 species. This is the best story in the series, with good humour. The reason for that being is that 
 the friendship between Ratchet and Clank is shown as quite strong. Also, all the characters are 
 great. 
  Score: 10
  
  GAMEPLAY:
  Even though it is the easiest in the series, it offers amazing gameplay much like the PS2 games. 
 The controls are similar. First off, you can now fire with the R1 button, which I feel is much 
 better than the circle button; it feels closer to an FPS game. The main element of Ratchet & Clank 
 is upgrading weapons to become stronger. You collect bolts from enemies and boxes to buy new weapons 
 which is very entertaining. You also collect Raritanium which you can use to make your weapons 
 more powerful, with more ammo and it effects you getting more bolts, which is quite fascinating 
 to me personally. 
  
  The reason why the game is easy is because I feel the AI is a bit off in some places and it doesn't 
 take as much ammo to kill enemies, but the challenge mode makes up for it. Besides upgrading weapons 
 and gadgets, which includes the classic Swingshot, Ratchet's trusty wrench. For new weapons, you 
 can use a disco ball to make enemies dance, which actually makes the game quite easy but at the 
 same time, quite funny. You can turn enemies into penguins, you can use a helicopter with the tilt 
 function. Also Ratchet jumps on rails like he usually does.
  
  There are new platform elements to the game which is very fun. You can use the tilt function in 
 situations such as flying down, moving the controller around to land him carefully, which is actually 
 very smart, and the only near-challenging moment I found in the game. You can navigate a ball around 
 electricity to open a gate. Once you've beaten the game, you can acquire skill points or go through 
 the game again to further upgrade your weapons.
  Score: 9.5
  
  GRAPHICS: 
  Simply, I have never seen a next-gen look this beautiful. Colours and level design looks absolutely 
 incredible. The characters look awesome, in my opinion. It looks like a Pixar movie, and this is 
 next generation graphics. I have still yet to find a game that looks better than this.
  Score: 10
  
  SOUND: 
  The music fits perfectly, very fun to listen to, and that's all I can 
 really say about that. The sound effects are great, and the voice-acting is great and it fits every 
 character's personality.
  Score: 10
  
  OVERALL:
  I say that if you own a PS3, you should definitely get this game. For people who don't own one, 
 should probably consider getting a PS3 for this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: allright715
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 13, 2008 3:19 pm PT
Review:  I got this game because I saw a friend of mine play the PS2 version of the game and I thought that 
 it would be a very good game. Plus, it is a platformer/shooter game. I started playing this game 
 and what I saw was a movie clip with Pixar-like graphics. I thought that the game will have cutscenes 
 like this throughout the whole game. Turns out it didn't. When I started playing, the whole place 
 was very good and detailed. And through the whole game, all the places were detailed good. Although 
 the thing that kind of bothered me is the high frame rate which is HD. Gameplay was very good and 
 has an array of weapons you can pick from with different properties and uses. The storyline was 
 kind of childish, however, with a taste of an older teenage mind. That kind of what brought me 
 down I bit. The game suffers from a few glitches like enemies getting stuck in terrain instead 
 of disappearing after hitting stuck terrain. That's what also brought down the rating for me a 
 bit too. Plus some enemies like the Kerchu had glitchy movements. My final thought: Fix the storyline 
 and glitches and work a little longer on it. That will bring the ratings up. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tikiz
Rating: 7
Date: Mar 12, 2008 12:02 pm PT
Review:  Pros: Excellent graphics and nice voice acting | Great sense of humor | The best selection of weapons 
 in a Ratchet and Clank game yet | Lots of replay value, what with all the upgrades.
  
  Cons: Glitchy at times | Long, but too easy | A lame storyline. Not what you'd expect from a Ratchet 
 and Clank game | Challenge Mode isn't much harder.
  
  Ratchet and Clank is a series that never leaves you with that disappointed fealing, though a lot 
 of times the games are flawed. Size matters, for example, was good, but it was glitchy and short. 
 Up Your Arsenal was good, but it was somewhat repetetive and got old quick. Tools of Destruction 
 isn't any different, it's still as good as you'd expect from a Ratchet and Clank game, but it's 
 one of the more flawed titles in the series.
  
  The storyline is lame. Emperor Tachyan (Or however it's spelled) hates Lombaxes, so he wants to 
 destroy them all. Ratchet is the last living Lombax, so he attempts to kill him, or something like 
 that, it's not really worth remembering. It's cool to learn more about Ratchet's past, but you 
 don't really learn much. The biggest thing you learn is that he's the last Lombax, and that's not 
 enough to make the story good. I was very disappointed with Ratchet and Clank Futures storyline.
 
  
  On the up-side, the game's graphics are some of the best the PS3 has seen, and the music and voice 
 acting are both great. Characters like Qwuark, Ratchet and Clank all sound the same, which is a 
 good thing. The new characters have nice voices, as you'd expect. The sound is definately NOT a 
 disappointment in this game, as it's some of the best in any Ratchet game yet.
  
  However, for every good thing that Tools of Destruction does right, it does something else wrong. 
 The game is extremely glitchy, these glitches vary from walking through walls, to getting stuck, 
 to falling through the floor. If you're looking for a game with tons of funny glitches, then look 
 no further. The glitches ARE funny sometimes, but they're usually gameplay-effecting, so they're 
 not a good addition. Here's a tip, if you see a rail, don't walk up to it, you'll walk right through 
 it. You're welcome.
  
  Ratchet and Clank Future has some very nice ideas, but none of them are exicuted as well as they 
 were in previous games. Fans of the Ratchet and Clank series won't be disappointed, but newcomers 
 might get the wrong impression, even though it's probably just me who thinks all of this. The thing 
 that really makes Ratchet and Clank Future good, however, are the weapons, so if you're looking 
 for some awesome weapons and satisfying explosions, Tools of Destruction is a good way to get all 
 that. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: majadamus
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 11, 2008 9:27 am PT
Review:  There have been many platformers that have tried to steal Mario's spotlight over the past 20+ years 
 of gaming. Although, Ratchet & Clank does not stay true its platforming roots, which isn't a bad 
 thing at all. 
  
  SOUND: The game has a lot of neat sound effects. While smashing and bashing the baddies, you will 
 feel as if you're in a factory, or maybe an auto shop because you'll hear the clanking of tools 
 like nuts, bolts, metal, and other mechanical objects bouncing all over the place that explode 
 out of them. The sound effects from the space fights really help drawn you into the experience. 
 It gives that Space Invaders feel to it. 
  
  The voice acting is great. There are a lot of recognizable voice actors voicing the characters. 
 They do a good job of brining the characters alive. The hordes of creatures that you have to smash 
 your way through have great voice work behind them as well. They also do a good job of making them 
 sound very annoying.
  
  The soundtrack is great. It's mixed with house, hip hop, and orchestration. They all come together 
 nicely in this game. The boss themes help really intesfiy the seriousness of battle and approrpiatetly 
 takes you away from lightheartedness of the game. 
  
  GRAPHICS: Tools of Destruction is colorful, vibrant, and the character models are well animated. 
 As the characters speak, the body language flows nicely along with it. Never do the characters 
 seem robotic. The characters are very lifelike. Although not on the level of Pixar studio animation, 
 but this is the closest thing to a Pixar movie you will get in a video game. 
  
  GAMEPLAY: So far in this review I've talked about the good of this video game, and here's where 
 I talk about the bad. There isn't much of it though. Complexity and Platformers aren't what most 
 gamers are use to seeing. Ratchet & Clank is a surprisingly complex Platformer. There are tons 
 of weapons to choose from, and almost every one of them can be leveled up. Most gamers playing 
 this will probably not even use all ot them and just stick to maybe 5-7 weapons, but it's almost 
 a sin to not put them to use. 
  
  With the complexity of this game, I was expecting to be a more chlallenging experince along with 
 it. The amount of weapons to choose from, and getting use to of the strange names of the weapons 
 and icons may pose enough of a challenge to some. Once that has been accomplished, the game becomes 
 a cakewalk.
  
  BOTTOM-LINE: The game is a lil too easy, but it's still an enjoyable experience. That's all that 
 should matter. This is a Playstation 3 title that can be enjoyed by anyone. 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: LosDaddie
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 10, 2008 8:58 am PT
Review:  This is game is difficult for me to review & score because not only is the plaforming genre my 
 favorite type, I'm also a fan of the R&C franchise. So, I have to put aside my inherent biases 
 when reviewing this game.
  
  On one hand, R&C: ToD is a very solid action-platformer with great graphics and fun gameplay. On 
 the other hand (if you've played previous R&C games) , this game is too easy to the point where 
 there is almost no challenge.
  
  Ok, let's break down this game:
  
  Graphics: 9/10
  This game is gorgeous. GameSpot said it best, Tools of Destruction is probably one of the most 
 vibrant and colorful games you've ever seen."
  
  Insomniac could make a cartoon using R&C ToD's graphics engine, it's that good. If you played any 
 previous R&C game, then Tools of Destruction is exactly what you'd hope a next-gen R&C would look.
 
  
  My sole complaint, however, is that there were parts in the game where everything was extremely 
 DARK. It may have been my HDTV, but there isn't a game option to increase brightness.
  
  
  
  Sound: 9/10
  Tools of Destruction sounded great on my dolby digital 5.1 system. Voice 
 acting is good. And the guns sound powerful.
  
  
  
  Gameplay: 7/10
  Oh boy.... where do I start? First, GameSpot's review said it best: "There's some really good gameplay 
 along the way. One of the game's best aspects is the controls, which are simple and very responsive. 
 You'll be jumping around and blowing bad guys away in a matter of seconds"
  
  Sounds great, right? Well, GameSpot also correctly nailed another aspect of Tools of Destruction's 
 gameplay: The game is extremely easy and gets remotely difficult only in the last hour or so. 
 The difficulty will be fine for kids, but anyone who has played a Ratchet game before will likely 
 find this adventure to be too easy".
  
  I couldn't have said it better myself. There was virtually no challenge while playing this game. 
 Swarms of enemies were a joke to blast through because of how powerful your weapons get. I tried 
 to max-out as many guns as I could, but (as usual for R&C games) there are too many weapons AND 
 some weapons are useless.
  
  Other gameplay complaints include the StarFox/Space ship levels with average-at-best controls, 
 the pathetic Pirate dancing mini-game, and the boring & uninspired Clank levels.
  
  
  Conclusion: 8/10
  I'll just say it: R&C: Up Your Arsenal is a better game in every game apsect 
 besides (duh!) graphics. UYA's lock-on targeting was better, the Clank levels were far more enjoyable, 
 and (this is just a personal thing) the whip was more enjoyable to use. While that shouldn't stop 
 you from playing & enjoying Tools of Destruction, I was expecting more from this game.
  
  A solid rental or bargain-priced game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Hotjim129
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 8, 2008 3:36 pm PT
Review:  R&C: Tools of Destruction for PS3 is a very, very good game. I just can't believe that some people 
 don't like this game, because it is fun! It combines absolutely fun new weapons, with trememndous 
 gameplay!
  
  Graphics: **8.5** I gave it an 8.5 because the graphics are tremendously good, but also have some 
 weak points. First off when you collect new "skins" the mouth doesn't move, and the hands go through 
 objects, the graphics just don't work very well with "skins". Having said that they are still very 
 good, amazing detail on scenery, enemies, and people alike.
  Gameplay: **9.0** I gave it a 9.0 because I love the gameplay, I believe that it is terriffic. 
 It has an interesting, and intriguing story line. A very strange ending however, I am examining 
 every part of the game to help me understand the ending a little more, which is why I didn't give 
 it a full 10!
  Overall: 9.5 for its stunning graphics, and lovely gameplay!
  
  
   MUST-HAVE  
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheDuskwalker
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 7, 2008 6:38 pm PT
Review:  The Ratchet and Clank series started back in 2002 and quickly became one of the best platformer 
 franchises and kept getting better with the shooter elements in the sequels. So how does Future 
 stand up to the rest of the series? Find out now!
  
  Future picks up with our lovable heroes stranded working on there vehicle, until they get a message 
 from Quark and they rush off to save him and this begins Ratchet's new quest to discover his origins 
 and to stop the return of the Cragmite. 
  
  Gameplay:
  As always the strongest point in the series. Future goes back to the more shooter/platforming focus 
 of Going Commando (thankfully) with a new arsenal of weapons. A cool new one is the tornado weapon 
 which obviously makes a tornado and you control it's motion with the sixxaxis, however it's really 
 hard to control that way so you will only use it a few times just to see it in action (looks cool 
 though) . There is some weapons that are new versions of previous weapons so you won't be completely 
 lost. There is new class of weapons that are called devices introduced in Future and there ammo 
 is more expensive and harder to come by, but they are useful for getting out of some situations, 
 turn your enemy into a penguin or make them disco dance, your choice. Controls are all around solid 
 and responsive with solid shooter gameplay with control layout improvements over previous installments. 
 It replaces the FPS view with a Gears of War style over the shoulder look when zooming and thankfully 
 you can now move and shoot at the same time when zooming. It's little improvements like that which 
 make this the best playing in the series. Of course you have the platforming and mini games, so 
 you will have on rails shooter levels, bike driving thing, arena battles, hacking mini games, gliding, 
 and so on. Other than the hacking mini game they are fun and don't really do much but add more 
 variety to the game to break up the shooting and platforming sections but they don't hurt the game 
 either. Overall you really won't find a much better playing game than this.
  
  Audio:
  Very solid! Like in previous games in the series it focuses on humor and goofiness to make the 
 story more fun. Everything is well acted and mostly delivers and the music is good, but sound effects 
 for guns are still sadly lacking, but they get the job done. Overall it's really good, not the 
 best you will hear, but the high rate cast makes you forgive the sometimes lackluster sound effects.
 
  
  Graphics:
  Gorgeous, and runs at a solid 60 frames per second to top it off. Everything is highly detailed 
 and colorful with plenty of action going on in the background. Sometimes you will just want to 
 stop and stare and the lovely world your in. It runs at a solid 60 frames per second although I 
 did notice some small slowdown in a city planet your in that's under attack which I believe is 
 the 3rd level of the game and well that was it. So it's barely worth mentioning and doesn't effect 
 the game in the slightest since it never drops low enough to make everything go into slow motion. 
 One problem though! While the outdoor areas are totally gorgeous, the indoor section are pretty 
 dull and shiny, but it's not a big deal. I did notice some graphical glitches in which objects 
 were frozen in air, it's minor but distracting. Overall it's easily one of the best looking PS3 
 games that shows off what the platform is capable of and it runs at a solid 60 frames per second 
 to top it off. It's not the best looking console game out there, but it's still very beautiful.
 
  
  Closing Comments:
  This is easily one of the best platformers to date and probably the best game in the Ratchet series. 
 It's a lot of fun and just try playing threw the game only once. If you have a PS3 this is a must 
 own if you don't mind having a silly fun time. 
  
  Overall: 9/10
  
  Pros:
  Smooth and responsive controls
  All around fun gameplay
  Great graphics
  Silly and funny
 
  Best R. Y. N. O. yet in the series (fans of the first 3 will know why that's a major pro)
  
  Cons:
  Hacking mini game is a little tedious
  A few minor glitches
  Lacks the multiplayer 
 found in Up Your Arsenal and Deadlocked
  Indoor areas are barren with a generic shiny look (minor con) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tlandry23
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 3, 2008 5:36 pm PT
Review:  ah, Ratchet and clank, the awesome duo have never let us down with a bad game, and they succeed 
 once again with their first outing on the Playstation 3. Future is a lengthy game with tons of 
 places to explore, things to do, and have an amazing adventure. 
  
  Story
  Ratchet and Clank's "Pal" captain Quork has gotten in deep, being captured by their enemies and 
 having to become a servent. They find out things that they're planning and have to stop them while 
 also finding out a bit on Ratchet's Past, and the history of the Lombax's. The Voice acting is 
 stupendous and they always sound like they're the actual characters, and not paid actors.
  
  Graphics
  Easily one of the best looking games available on any console right now. There 
 are some amazing effects and all character models look amazing, with facial detail right down to 
 every hair, you'll feel like your watching monster's inc. or the incredibles.
  
  Gameplay
  Pretty much the same as any ratchet and clank game, which is great, these controls 
 have always worked, and continue to work, the only new thing is the function of the six-axis controller, 
 and the parts you use it in are pretty cool and well executed.
  
  The only complaint is that sometimes while playing through the game, yes i did get bored and had 
 to turn it off for another time. It's repetitive, yet still amazing, it's one of those games that 
 are repetitive yet never get old, cept sometimes i did get tired of it.
  
  Overall
  That shoulden't stop you from getting this incredible game, insomiac succeded at what they tried 
 to do, make a fun game, and it is that and more.... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fantasyfighter
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 8, 2008 2:03 pm PT
Review:  Ratchet and Clank Future: Tools of Destruction is a surprisingly good game. My dad picked it out 
 for me and I was a little skeptical at first, especially since the boy I babysit owns games from 
 the R&C series. I myself had never tried them out. Rachet and Clank combines witty dialogue with 
 interesting challenges and definitely keeps you wanting more. Some parts are a little too easy, 
 especially once you've upgraded your weapons to their maximum capacity, but overall it is a decent 
 game. The graphics are amazing on the PS3 console and it's possible to see all of the fine detail. 
 If anything, the game is too short. I spent a few hours after school playing the game and I finished 
 within a week. However, each level is a different scenario with a new goal. Planets range from 
 a prehistoric-type setting to an advanced prison break-out to a high tech floating city. The battle 
 system is very repetative though, and it's almost too easy to take out an entire hoard of enemies 
 with a weapon like the shock ravager. There are plenty of upgradable items and weaponry to choose 
 from as you advance through the game, and once you've beaten it, there is an oppurtunity to play 
 in challenge mode and you can unlock multiple characters to play as, including the game's creator 
 and believe it or not, a snowman (0. o) Also, in the game itself, there is a chance to wear a pirate 
 suit. Who doesn't love dressing up like a robo-pirate. If you're looking for a serious hack and 
 slash kind of game, go look somewhere else. However, If you're just looking for an entertaining 
 game, Ratchet and Clank is a good choice. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MrWeymes
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 26, 2008 8:29 pm PT
Review:  Let me start off by saying that this is a must buy for the PS3 if you enjoyed the previous Ratchet 
 & Clank games. The gameplay remains unchanged for the most part, but the graphics in this game 
 are truly spectacular.
  
  Gameplay- The gameplay is very fun, and will keep you playing from start to finish without ever 
 getting bored. The game features a nice lineup of weaponry as well as some interesting enemies 
 to face. On the downside, the game is very easy. I died in this game a few times, but only when 
 I was trying to upgrade weapons. If you were to try as hard as you could to beat this game using 
 only your favorite weapons, you may die only a few times, besides the occasional "falling" death. 
 
  
  Graphics- The graphics in Tools of Destuction are amazing. The enviornments are very detailed, 
 and almost beg to be explored. Each planet in the game is very different from the next, and is 
 never a disappointment. The characters all look fantastic, and the animations in the game are very 
 smooth and well done. There is really nothing negative to say about the graphics. 
  
  Sound- Everything in this game sounded great in my opinion. Weapons sounded like they should, and 
 were all very distinct. Voiceovers were well done, and the music always fit the mood.
  
  Storyline- The storyline in this game was good, although it will not go down in time as one of 
 the more memorable stories ever told. I didn't go into this game thinking the story was going to 
 be extremely engaging, though. It was as I thought it would be. There was alot of humour which 
 I enjoyed, and the story was interesting enough to not skip the cutscenes, so I'm satisfied.
  
  Overall- I loved playing this game. It is a little upsetting that the developers decided to 
 make it so easy. Perhaps they were trying to appeal to a larger audience, but I can't help but 
 feel like a 5 year old could have beaten this game. The last boss is far too easy in my opinion. 
 I died twice because I was trying to upgrade my last two weapons on him. Besides the simplicity, 
 I still have to recommend this game to anyone that enjoys platformers. The humour is great, the 
 gameplay is fun, although easy, and the graphics are stunning. I believe this is a must buy for 
 the PS3. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ILOVETHEENOT
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 25, 2008 8:16 pm PT
Review:  Ratchet & Clank Future: Tools Of Destruction is a very fun game for fans of not only platforming 
 but fans of previous ratchet and clank games. If this is your first ratchet & clank game then you 
 might not get the jokes mentioned from previous games however it's enjoyable anyways.
  
  The graphics in this game are great even though their cartoony (they're ment to be like that however) .
 
  
  the gameplay is fun for young and old and doesn't get old. And the sound is absolutely amazing, 
 with little subtle things noticable.
  
  Pros:
  -Fun
  -Easy to pick up and play
  -Story sucks you in
  -Great Graphics
  -Good sound effects
  -Good Camera
  
  Cons:
  -Some 
 of the platforming elements can be annoying
  -Clank levels are boring
  -Armour hardly does anything
  
  even though Ratchet & Clank doesn't re-invent the wheel of 
 the genre it's a game that all PS3 owners should look into getting! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: smithbubbajones
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 15, 2009 5:05 pm PT
Review:  This has been a long time coming, but I've finally managed to get a review out on the highly anticipated 
 debut of Ratchet and Clank on next gen consoles. Like every Ratchet and Clank game, it's blow up 
 first, and platforming second. Luckily, the guys at Insomniac down right perfected both kinds of 
 gameplay, and the result is one of the best Ps3 exclusives to date.
  
  This time around, the universe is being overtaken by Emperor Tachyon, a little evil dude sworn 
 to destroy every last Lombax alive. This takes Ratchet and Clank across the universe, trying to 
 save it piece by piece, while trying to keep their own duo together. Ratchet is trying to figure 
 out the Lombax secret, while Clank is possibly going crazy, because he can see these invisible 
 robots called the Zoni, that can uber-pwn anything in their path. There are a few slight twists 
 and turns in the story, and with some witty writing, as always, Tools of Destruction has an overall 
 decent story, that is worth paying attention to.
  
  As I said earlier, Ratchet and Clank Future one of the best Ps3 exclusives. This is due to many 
 reasons, but it's the gameplay that separates it from games like Uncharted and Heavenly Sword. 
 The game is called "Tools of Destruction" for a reason. That reason is that you will be at the 
 helm of dozens of weapons, all capable of blowing the hell out of anything. There's a large variety 
 to the weapons. There's the combuster, which shoots fireballs, there's the shard reaper, that reaps 
 shards. There's an alpha cannon that obliterates anything, pretty much, there's fusion bombs, an 
 electric whip, and the list just goes on. Each weapon is clearly capable of kicking ass. Some just 
 do it better than others.
  
  Adding some depth to the already deep arsenal of weapons, is the upgrade system. As you progress 
 through the game, you pick up hundreds of thousands of these bolts, which are the fruit of the 
 battle, so it's worth it to pick up as many as possible. These bolts can be used to purchase ammo 
 and new weapons, which is the only way to get new weapons, so it's really important. Also, there's 
 raritanium, which are dropped by some of the tougher baddies. This is used to upgrade your weapons. 
 The upgrade screen is simple to use, as everything is in a honeycomb type of setup. Attributes 
 for your weapons are inside the honeycombs, and your can purchase better attributes for your weapons, 
 such as more ammo capacity, and more damage. This is extremely helpful in completing the game.
 
  
  Also, the more you use your weapons, naturally, they get more powerful on their own. So, if your 
 can fully upgrade your weapon using raritanium, and using your weapon a lot, then the name of your 
 weapon will change, and it will be the ultimate.
  
  Ratchet and Clank is one of the best looking games out there. The immense amount of detail is great, 
 and everything looks like it is a CG cutscene. Adding to that, artistically, this game is a real 
 pallet. The amount of color on the screen, and the shine and lighting effects, and the enemy models, 
 not to mention the non enemy character models are fantastic. Explosions (which there are a lot of) 
 look amazing. Everything runs at a blistering 60 frames, without one drop, in the entire game. 
 Not one. And finally, if you haven't noticed from screenshots, the game looks like a Pixar movie. 
 No joke. This game looks fantastic. There are no issues with physics, as gravity is in full effect, 
 and there are no clipping issues. Everything behaves realistically. Hell, you just need to see 
 this game in motion in your living room, and the only way to do that is to play it.
  
  The soundtrack is okay, and it sets the tone well. But, the series is known for its witty writing. 
 Tools of Destruction doesn't disappoint there. Every line is hit perfectly, and it really adds 
 to the entertainment. It's what makes the already great story even better to watch unfold. If you 
 play through this whole game, and don't even smile once, you are a robot, with no sense of humor 
 whatsoever. There's nothing that will really blow you away, but there's nothing to keep you from 
 turning the volume up. In surround, this could be a real aural masterpiece.
  
  As perfect as this game is, it isn't without its issues. For starters, there are way too many things 
 to do in this game. There are dance minigames, which you must do 5 or 6 times, there are rails, 
 which undoubtedly are fun, but nonetheless odd. There are awkward SIXAXIS minigames. Variety is 
 great, but this game kind of pushes the limits. There's no naggin issues with this, it's just that 
 it can get a little annoying.
  
  Remember that huge arsenal of weapons? Yeah, that kind of makes the game a little too easy. It 
 doesn't take away from any of the fun, it just kind of takes away from the challenge. At least 
 the bosses are a little difficult, especially the last one. Insomniac has a way of balancing things 
 out.
  
  And my last complaint is the fact that you have to take control of Clank on a few occasions. These 
 are just annoying, but make you really appreciate your time as Ratchet. And these sections are 
 essential for the story, so you should pay attention anyways.
  
  No more flaws.
  
  This game takes about 12 hours to beat, and once you beat it, you can do challenge mode, which 
 allows you to go back through the game, with every weapon you have. The difficulty is upped, and 
 it makes up for the first time around. There are also a bunch of achievements necessary for unlocking 
 cheats and extras, sort of like in Uncharted. Also, the game is flat out fun, so you should play 
 through at least twice.
  
  Insomniac has done it again. Ratchet and Clank Future Tools of Destruction is amazing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AceDonald
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 24, 2008 10:30 am PT
Review:  This is one the best game i've ever played! I thought the best game i ever played was Resistance, 
 but Ratchet and Clank Future has somehow surpassed its brothers in everything you can possibly 
 imagine. Sure, it still has to brawl it out with Jak for my all time favorites, but they are tied 
 no doubt for 1st! It has draw dropping visuals, great controls, impressive gaming layout, awesome 
 weapons, superb story, and immersive SIXAXIS usage. The ending does not suck! You know they're 
 gonna make more Ratchet and Clank game you idiot (whoever reviewed the game for Gamspot) , so why 
 say the ending sucks!? This game is perfect! There's plenty to do, its fun, its has a lot of unlockables 
 and so much more that Gamespot has apparently ignored. This game is nowhere near a 7.5, but being 
 PS3's best adventure yet, it gets a 10/10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: only-in-dreams
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 24, 2008 6:43 am PT
Review:  The latest instalment of Ratchet and Clank finds the heroes on a quest for the Lombax Secret. Ratchet 
 discovers he is the final remaining Lombax and he needs to unravel the Lombax Secret to stop the 
 return of the evil, ancient race the Cragmites. There are all new weapons, characters and gadgets 
 and a great range of plants for Ratchet and Clank to explore as the secrets are untangled. The 
 game itself still has a huge amount of smash able/explodable environmental objects, Which are very 
 fun to look for and they're great if you need additional bolts. As with previous games there are 
 things moving everywhere like flying vehicles, birds and running water which all look stunning 
 in HD. The landscape and vehicle/transport design is of a very similar style to its previous games, 
 however the occasional use of the SIXAXIS controller reminds you it's on the PS3. In addition there 
 are still the classic aspects of the game like the grind rail and slingshot for getting around 
 areas/buildings. There are new collectible items, including golden bolts, which allow you to buy 
 new skins or upgrade the weapons. There is a new wide range of skill points to acquire by doing 
 varied things on the game. There are skill points for each planet then there are general skill 
 points to collect throughout the whole game. This game is a great addition to the series as there 
 are still the little comments/jokes made by the duo during the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: weddlecm
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 20, 2008 3:28 pm PT
Review:  Ratchet and Clank Tools of Destruction is a fasinating game. This game has all of that classic 
 gameplay into the newly dameginal type of gameplay. You basically have to save your planet by going 
 to other planets and destroying intertesting enemies. The storyline in this game is possibly one 
 of the best I have ever heard. The graphics, are just phonominal for it's kind of game with the 
 cartoonish kind of look. This game is just action packed and will keep you worth while for about 
 five hours to complete the main missions. During the story mode you collect tools and bolts and 
 nuts to use and buy things. It's like tool money and you can by a wide verity of awesome weapons 
 to destroy your enemy and make it look like a fool. This game also has a colorfull and wide verity 
 of enemies, but they sometimes get repeptive. So, if your looking for a great action packed game 
 get this game. Thanks for reading, and send me a friend request if you wish to be my friend on 
 gamespot. 8.5/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Baron_Kenobi
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 19, 2008 7:38 pm PT
Review:  If you are buying Ratchet and Clank for a serious shooter hit you back button now and go check 
 out Resistance: Fall of Man. If you want a zany, humorous game that is as ridiculously easy as 
 it is ridiculously funny, then you should close your browser and go buy this game. 
  
  First and foremost, this game is funny. And it is not dirty humor that you wouldn't want your kids 
 to be listening to, nor is it humor that you have to be under the age of ten to find funny. It 
 is just quality laughs. 
  
  Second, it is equally fun. The gameplay is simple and easy for anyone to hop into, yet there are 
 plenty of challenges and enough to do that you won't get bored with this game for a while. 
  
  Graphics and Sound are good, but not unbelievable. However, this isn't a game that you need 
 to have them to enjoy it. You will be to busy enjoying yourself to notice.
  
  All in all, this game can be summed up by three important words: JUST PLAIN FUN! (And your girlfriend 
 always says that the three important words are "I Love You." Whats up with that?) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Protector99
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 7, 2008 8:44 am PT
Review:  From start to finish this game delivers a true and exicting experience!!!!!
  The guns.... the guns are massive theres like 25+ guns and they all do somthing very diffrent. 
 From a fire ball machine gun, to a rocket launcher!!
  The guns feel really nice! Oh and did i menchin the guns???
  
  The visuals are amazing!!!! 
 There not nessisarly "life like" looking
  but the box says it a pixar movie!!!!!!!!! Its so cool!!!!!!!
  
  Well yea thats about what 
 i have to say there much more but i dont feel like writing.
  
  So you owe it to yourself to go and pick up this  
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 67gt500
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 16, 2008 8:01 pm PT
Review:  ... so says the New york Times, on the back of the game case. And I have to agree - Ratchet & Clank's 
 first foray into HD space is amazing to behold. The environments are colorful and well realized 
 and the characters all look great in their new High Definition skins.
  
  Unlike the graphics, the gameplay (while staying true to the R&C formula) just doesn't really take 
 advantage of the next-gen tech. The Sixaxis parts are - well - a pain in the arse, and feel tacked-on, 
 as if their inclusion was merely obligatory instead of innovative. While playing, you can really 
 tell that Insomniac just didn't want to mess with the formula too much... and that's fine (it's 
 good enough to stand on it's own merits) . 
  
  Blasting things to bits - erm - bolts, is a R&C staple and there's lots of it here folks. Your 
 available arsenal is creative and up-gradeable, and there are many weapons to try, but you will 
 likely play through the entire game using only a few of them. Precision aiming feels cumbersome, 
 but the area-effects of some of the weaponry makes up for all that.
  
  The storyline fits well with the Ratchet & Clank universe, but again doesn't take any chances. 
 Strong character development is not this game's forte, which is too bad because Insomniac has the 
 chops to create really compelling characters. There are some interesting NPC's along for the ride, 
 but their motivations aren't fleshed out as fully as they could have been.
  
  The bottom line: For a one-player game (read: no online, no multiplayer support) Future manages 
 to deliver an experience that's worth the price of admission for fans of Ratchet & Clank on the 
 merits of a campaign mode alone. And that speaks volumes about the over-all quality of this title. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Zakum2
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 16, 2008 1:49 pm PT
Review:  Okay, so this is the first Ratchet and Clank game I've played, but it is REALLY AWESOME. Unlike 
 the combat oriented games (Up Your Aresnal, Deadlocked) , this game returns to the platform roots 
 of the original and Going Commando (I've only played this game, but I have quite a lot of knowledge 
 of the other games) . The game runs at about 60 fps, yet still as great physics (though sometimes 
 some objects got stuck in the air) , and good lighting. Weapons are good and funny (I laughed at 
 some of the enemies' dances with the Groovitron) . 
  
  Good:
  -Great platforming
  -Funny
  -Plenty of weapons
  -Upgrade system has a deeper depth
  
  Bad:
  -Ending is a 
 cliffhanger (and we all know how much we hate cliffhangers, and, yes, I'm talking about you, Halo 
 2)
  -The great visuals can cause your PS3 to overheat without proper ventilation (do NOT put your PS3 
 next to a Wii that is running when playing this game) . The game is nice, but it uses up about all 
 of the PS3's horsepower. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bustew
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 16, 2008 12:19 pm PT
Review:  R&C is a lot of fun to play. The visuals are very impressive, not only on their technical merits, 
 but more importantly on their creativity in art direction. There is a lot happening on the screen 
 all of the time, and it makes for an enjoyable experience. Also, the weapons are all pretty unique 
 and require a little bit of practice to master. They are all useful in their own way (some of them 
 are pretty goofy, and i found them very amusing) . They are also almost all upgradeable and you 
 can earn new functions on most of the weapons.
  
  The one downside to the game is that completing the story is not terribly difficult. Most of the 
 enemies are relatively easy to beat once you have powered up all of your weapons, even the bosses. 
 This one quibble not withstanding, there is a lot of content here that makes the game worth playing, 
 even after the story line is finished. 
  
  Once you complete the game (which, while not difficult, is lengthy) , you have the option to teleport 
 back in time to just before you beat the final boss, and return to your ship, where you can access 
 any of the games planets (levels) . By doing this, you can hunt down all of the gold bolts that 
 you missed, complete the holoplan and trade it for the RYNO gun, and complete more of the skill 
 point challenges to unlock more of the bonus content.
  
  Just like with Resistance, Insomniac did a great job of packing a lot of content, and making a 
 long and memorable campaign. Their games are always a unique twist on a familiar format, and they 
 are always fun to play.
  
  I recommend this game for no other reason than as a whole, its a lot of fun. I found myself losing 
 entire afternoons to this game, without ever realizing it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ratchet20751
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 31, 2008 4:53 pm PT
Review:  Ratchet and Clank is really my favorite game series and they did not dissapoint with this one, 
 it's not the best in the series but is still one of the best games for the Playstation 3. I also 
 want to say that I completely dissagree with Gamespot's review and their new rating system. Before, 
 you rated individual things on games; Gameplay, Graphics, Sound, ect. and the system gives a fair 
 score, now you just come up with a random number that you think fits the game, it is simpler though.
 
  
  OK here we go, the gameplay is standard R&C, perfect platforming, shooting, puzzles, big levels, 
 great graphics. Insomniac threw in all new weapons but you can see some similarities to some old 
 weapons, even still the weapons feel freash.
  
  The graphics are unbelievable, managing to look real and cartoony at the same time, for example, 
 in a later level there are some air ducts that you use the gravity boots on and they bends in the 
 metal and glare to the different surfaces just look very real.
  
  The weapons are all new, they look as real as cartoony weapons can and they give a great amount 
 of satisfaction when you completely trash an enemy, some minor improvments from the old PS2 games 
 are things like instead of boxes just falling, now they can tumble as they fall. Also, Ratchet 
 has different expressions to fit the different situations he happends to find himself in.
  
  Overall I found the game to be too easy and the difficulty varies from very easy to very hard 
 and back again in certain levels, but this is a great game that every PS3 owner should have. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MogFromLeipzig
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 12, 2008 2:16 pm PT
Review:  Ratchet and Clank: Tools of Destruction is a firework of fun, rockets and flying buzz saws blades!
 
  
  The graphics are bright and colorful but not in a way that hurts your eyes. The environments are 
 detailed and have a lot of depth. And Ratchet and Clank look as realistic as a lombax and his robot 
 friend need to look.
  
  The fast pace and the never ending action keep you playing a long time after you initially wanted 
 to stop. To fight against the massive amount of enemies you have the choice between 10+ weapons 
 and gadgets including rocket launchers, flame throwers, slime monster canons, disco balls and trash 
 talking flying defense systems. In normal mode these weapons can be levelled up to level 5 in challenge 
 mode to level 10.
  
  Like GameSpot has recognized there are a lot of different tasks to shake up your every day straving 
 and alien shooting, though this is still the main ingredient to the game. There are the known Star 
 Fox-like space battles and arena battles and more peacefull mini games that grand you access to 
 new areas via flying, grinding, wall breaking or hacking. Many of the games (and also some weapons 
 and gadgeds) use the motion controls of the Sixaxis controller and once you got used to it they 
 work actually pretty well and add to the overall game experience.
  
  Next to your main goals you can try to find the usual giant bolts to unlock new costumes for Ratchet 
 and gather all pieces of the plan for your ultimate weapon. All hiding places are fair and findable 
 without a FAQ. For accomplishing different easy and hard tasks you get skill points to unlock cheats 
 and bonus material.
  
  Then why on earth do I rate the game so horribly low with 1.5 points under perfect?! There are 
 some minor glitches and the story (including the cliff hanger ending) could be better but the main 
 reason is the lack of challenge in challenge mode. This mode is just ridiculously easy when you 
 did care about buying and levelling your weapons and especially when you got the ultimate weapon 
 in normal mode. Since the game isn't incredibly long (about 10 hours) challenge mode has its importance 
 and thus it is kinda disappointing.
  
  This is still a great game which you can probably play without any frustration. Have a good time! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FireNForget
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 9, 2008 10:11 pm PT
Review:  As far as I'm concerned, this installment of R&C solidifies it's place in the annuls of platformer 
 history. This is a pure platformer, one that follows the same tried and true formula as others 
 before it; innovative, lovable character design, cool interactive elements, and an expansive universe. 
 Mario, Link, Kong, and Sonic have nothing on R&C. If you're new to R&C and think this is another 
 "kiddie" adventure, let me alay your fears, there is plenty of tongue and cheek humor, but nothing 
 that insults your intelligence. In fact, there were several unexpected moments where I laughed 
 aloud.
  
  Now for the nitty gritty.
  
  First the visuals: Everything in the environment is very "Pixar" like; beautiful lighting and character 
 modeling, enhanced by motion and particle effects that make the world really come alive.
  
  Gameplay: The gameplay follows the same scrumptious formula; way over the top weaponry (and a dizzying 
 array of them I might add) , and 101 ways to open up the biggest can of whoop @ss. The madmen at 
 Insomniac have struck gold with some of the most imaginative weapons you've ever seen. While the 
 difficulty level was fairly easy, even in challenge mode, I found it a great way to kick back, 
 relax, and get my beatdown on.
  
  Amid all the wizardary of level design, Insomniac saw fit to throw in a few "old school" gaming 
 segments. These take place as your piloting your ship and kind of remind me of the old Atari Tempest 
 Space themed games (for most of you this will be way before your time) . While some of you might 
 find this simplicity annoying I found it refreshing.
  
  There is a lot of content here. I played the snot out of this for the first 2 days and was pleasantly 
 surprised to find I had only completed 25% of the game. If you judge a title by hours of playing 
 time, I would say you will find this well worth the purchase price.
  
  As if all of this wasn't enough... yes, there are pirates! [Standing O for Insomnic]
  
  Controls: 
 You would think that with so many "toys" at your disposal, the control would be cumbersome and 
 annoying, but everything is layed out easily, and customizing your weapons/gadgets menu couldn't 
 be easier. Action controls were all spot on, and very predictable.
  
  Sound: The sound effects were superb, the quality and depth of which you would expect from a feature 
 film, and the voice acting was absolutely top notch.
  
  I can't really find much to complain about except that it eventually came to an end. I won't spoil 
 the cliffhanger end, but it left me wanting more. I loved this game; it's infinitely accessible 
 whether you're young or old, a fan of platformers or not. This is required playing for any PS3 
 owner. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bella1970
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 9, 2008 4:43 am PT
Review:  Gameplay- The gameplay is actually really fun, even though I have to admit it is pretty easy, but 
 you have to beat the game in order to unlock challenge mode which makes the game surprisingly much 
 harder. 
  
  Graphics- This is a cartoon, so graphics must be good. The PS3 definitely made them better. You 
 will definitely see the gameing experiance on the PS3 through this game.
  
  Sounds- This game (like all other PS3 games) has amazing surround sound, even though the voices 
 are sometimes a little quiet.
  
  Value- This game is definitely worth buying for anyone of any age. Even though I do agree it is 
 a bit pricey because its 60 bucks!!! But in all you will be glad becase this game is lots of fun 
 to play.
  
  
  Overall- This game is getting a 10 because even though easy at first, its worth playing because 
 it is fun, and just wait till challenge mode because it will be your turn to get your butt kicked. 
 And this game does really reflect on PS3 graphics... nuff said. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Cupcake117
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 7, 2008 2:29 pm PT
Review:  Ratchet and Clank Future Tools of Destruction is probably the best in the series. Insomniac Games 
 delivered with this one using the PS3 technology to create a beutiful, fun, and interactive game. 
 If your a fan of the series and have played the previous games the first thing you will notice 
 are the beutiful graphics. A perfect combination of CG and hand drawn images in the background 
 to give extrodinary color. People who have played Up Your Arsenal will notice that Metropolis has 
 change, greatly, it is bigger, brighter, and buissier.
  
  The story this time is much more interesting, it keeps you moving but also makes you want to know 
 what happens next. The story is great, I don't know why Gamespot didn't think so.
  
  The sound and music is pretty good though it could have been better. The sound effects sound great 
 but they don't sound like their for the right weapon.
  
  Gameplay is great, the six-axis is used a lot and the controls feel right. The guns shoot like 
 they should which is always great for a shooter. 
  
  The game is pretty easy but other than that it is great., a good buy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pspitus
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 6, 2008 7:06 pm PT
Review:  (4.5 out of 5) Story: Out of all the Ratchet and Clank games so far, I can easily say that Ratchet 
 and Clank Future: TOD has the best story by far. Ratchet is being hunted down by the Cragmite Prince 
 named known as Emperor Tachyon. He has a hatred for all Lombaxes, and luckily for Ratchet he isn't 
 one, or is he? Throughout the game Ratchet will discover secrets from his past, as well as Clank's 
 purpose, and does it in a humorous fashion. I loved the story in the game but the bad cliff hanger 
 ending is enough to stop me from giving the story a perfect 5. Oh well, at least it gives a glaring 
 hint that there will in fact be another Ratchet and Clank game in the near future.
  
  (4 out of 5) Gameplay: Just like all the other Ratchet and Clank games, a unique variety of weapons 
 are available in TOD, from electrically induced nets, to a controllable tornado. You will still 
 be battling robots, and blowing the crap out of everything you see moving, but hey I'm not complaining. 
 What really sets this game apart from all the others though is the unique upgrading system. By 
 using raritanium you can upgrade things such as the ammo capacity, field of range, power of the 
 weapon, and raritanium earned for your weapons. Although the game doesn't necessarily NEED the 
 six axis controls, it does a good job in incorporating it into the game for uses such as sky diving. 
 The game is loads of fun and will make you come back for more, but it can be pretty easy. So if 
 you are one of those gamers who like challenges, you may not find one in this game.
  
  (5 out of 5) Graphics: The visuals are simply gorgeous in Tools of Destruction. It really brings 
 out the processing power of the PS3. Everything from the environments to the characters is colorful 
 and detailed. It's hard to believe that so many beautiful and nicely designed worlds could fit 
 in one disc. It feels like you are watching a Pixar quality animated movie, then playing a game. 
 Actually that wouldn't be a bad idea for Pixar to make a Ratchet and Clank animated movie.
  
  (4.5 out of 5) Sound: The voice acting in the game is done well, especially Emperor Tachyon. 
 The explosions, collapsing buildings, and the robot's cries for mercy sound believable and awesome. 
 The in-game music was alright, but I think they could have done better, MUCH BETTER! Tools of Destruction 
 still delivers a wonderful sounds presentation.
  
  Overall: Tools of Destruction may possibly be the best game in the Ratchet and Clank series. Nice 
 arsenal of weapons, many fascinating worlds, excellent storyline, and incredible sound design make 
 it one of the must haves for PS3 owners. What makes it even better is that the game has dancing 
 space pirates, what other game doesn't have that!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: ramsboy39
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 6, 2008 4:26 pm PT
Review:  Ratchet and Clank Future is the first R&C game to hit the PS3. It was a huge success on the PS2. 
 And it sure doesn't dissapoint here.
  
  Gameplay:
  Ratchet and Clank revolves around building your weapon base and constantly switching around your 
 weapons to see which ones work best against certain enemies. You still have the Omni-Wrench, but 
 as your enemies become stronger, you will stop using it, and begin using your "Tools of Destruction", 
 and trust me, Ratchet's weapons are definitely destructive. When using "gun" type weapons, a cross 
 hair will appear for you to aim, u can shoot on the go, but it is very difficult to do. The variety 
 of weapons make the gameplay very fun to play, and it is not repetitive at all. Overall, the weapons 
 are very fun to use, and Insomniac did a great job with them, as weapons are what define Ratchet 
 and Clank games.
  
  This game is definitely one of variety, you'll be running from enemies, swimming underground, grindrailing, 
 jumping like spiderman, flying, etc. You get the point, there's so much variety in this game that 
 you will never be doing the samething twice. It also does an excellent job of not making you play 
 through levels.
  
  The story is definitely intriguing, as it provides clues to Ratchet and Clank's backgrounds. Unfortunately 
 though, even though you will feel satisfied at first with the ending, the game leaves you with 
 a total cliffhanger, which is a bit of a dissapointment. Oh yeah, you'll also be saving the world 
 once again. 
  Gamplay Score: 9.5/10
  
  Graphics:
  A lot will be going on in this game at times. You will be surrounded by a dozen enemies while you 
 use about 5 different weapons in a second, with absolutely no hiccups. The game is as smooth as 
 a baby's skin. The cutscenes are dead gorgeous, the different assortment of colors in this game 
 makes it fun to stare it.
  
  9.5/10
  Sound:
  The music is nothing great, but it's enough to keep your interest. The voice acting is fantastic, 
 each voice uniquly fits the attitude of the character, and is some of the best voice acting I've 
 ever seen in a video game.
  
  10/10
  
  Length/Extras/Replay Value/Overall:
  The game is rather easy, but you won't be dying just from falls, the enemy AI is relatively poor, 
 but it matches with the comedic look of the game, as it all balances out with the number of enemies 
 you'll be facing. The game is about 15-20 hours long the first time through, and it provides a 
 couple of interesting sidequests, like collecting documents and competing in arena tournaments. 
 It does a solid job with the replay value system, as there are plenty of custom costumes for Ratchet 
 to morph into. Also, there are plenty of Gold Bolts to find in the game, and you're bound to have 
 missed more than half of them the first time through. And once you beat the game, you enter a Bolt 
 Mode where you can get up to 4x the number of bolts you'd originally get, which allows you to upgrade 
 your weapons to omega, and get the ultimate armour. There are some other extras like big head, 
 and even though there are endless amounts of small goals (like making 10 enemies dance together) , 
 the replay value isn't strong enough to keep making you want to come back to this game. 
  
  Overall:
  Ratchet and Clank Future: Tools of Destruction is definitely worth a buy, especially 
 if you are one of those gamers who want to finish their games 100%; because trust me, it's gonna 
 take you a while to finsih the game completely. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sdwhitby
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 5, 2008 11:41 am PT
Review:  Ratchet and clank: future tools of destruction is a very fun third person shooter and platformer. 
 The main gameplay is fun and smooth however simply ridiculous weapons make this game even more 
 interesting. However with no multiplayer hows the replay value? well there is actually quite a 
 lot of replay value because there is a mode wich allows you to go back through the game at a harder 
 difficulty. Theres also a levelling system for the weapons wich allow you to make your favourite 
 weapons more powerful. There are also Golden bolts and other things to collect on each planet. 
 The story is reasonably interesting making you want to find out whats going to happen but there 
 is a cliffhanger ending which makes you want to beat the answer as to whats going to happen next 
 out of the TV. However dont let that take anything away from the game. the characters are very 
 loveable and funny and you will be able to play as both ratchet and clank in certain areas in the 
 game. What really keeps this game interesting and refreshing though is little bits of gameplay 
 such as flying and falling through the sky dodging through traffic (excluding the ball one) which 
 are all fun and not overused. so if you own a ps3 and want a new game consider this one 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Snakeeyes190
Rating: 7
Date: Feb 4, 2008 6:28 am PT
Review:  To begin I enjoy mindless action and blowing things up, which in Ratchet and Clank TOD there is 
 plenty of. It also has a good sense of humor and a large amount of variety in game play and weapons.
 
  This being said it is easy, very easy. in some ways it feels like your cheating because of how 
 easy some of the enemies are. The game itself is really set up for small children to be able to 
 play even with the E +10 rating. Really a 7 year old is not going to find this game all that hard. 
 And then there is the six Axis controller sections which are a Pain and its only because they have 
 to be played with the controller in a level position you can't lean the controller to any one angle 
 to play these sections because it will throw you off course and make it hard to control.
  The weapons in the game are while good there are ones you will only use out of a need to get a 
 hundred percent of the game completed. Other's you will use all the time and some just for the 
 fun of it, namely the groovitron a weapon when used makes all the enemies near it dance no matter 
 what making very easy targets. The weapons will both evolve from use as well as being upgradeable 
 with fire rate, Damage, and increase the drop rate of items.
  The story while funny in a way does feel tacked on just so the game has something more then just 
 mindless action, think bad action movie or just about ever movie based on a video game. 
  Graphically its Beautiful in its cartoon style.
  
  if your a huge fan of the series buy it, 
 if not rent it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jblaze56
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 3, 2008 10:25 pm PT
Review:  This game is very fun to play and the graphics are amazing! The gameplay is soild and the difficulty 
 is just right. But for some ratchet and clank fanatics likes me it seems a bit easier then the 
 other Ratchet and Clank games. There are many weapons at your disposal and many many gadgets. The 
 Ratchet and Clank series is also know for its really good replays for there is new upgrades to 
 weapons and other things to collect. The bad thing is that sometimes you will get glitches like 
 enemies will fly below the ground and stil lbe alive but still killable. There are also these invisible 
 creatures called the zoni... i mean wtf.... their abilities are aweosme but the name and wat they 
 do when u awake them is just kinda childish. When u wake them by pressing follow they go wiht this 
 loud ZONI. This game is a must buy for the ps3 and sometimes you will get the game with the ps3 
 which is just SO AWESOME! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gaza-for-wii
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 2, 2008 10:35 am PT
Review:  
  Good: - At least 10 hours of gameplay here
  - Keeps the great look of ratchet and clank
  - Weapons give the right amount of ooomh!
  - Great 
 use of SIXAXIS
  - Actually funny
  
  BAD - Not a drop of multiplayer
  - Total cakewalk
  - SIXAXIS is sometimes frustrating to use! 
  - No upragedable ship! 
  
 
  
  
  Gladiator brought bigger weapons to ratchet and clank and was pretty much a shooter. Now ratchet 
 and clank are back to their roots with platforming puzzles and action! Clank has his gameplay parts 
 too, though these are puzzlers not actioners.
  
  After attacking a midget emporer and getting jiggy with some pirates, ratchet has alot of fighting 
 to do. Thankfully they have SIXAXIS which is implemented in gadgets eg. tornado launcher, geo laser, 
 flying wings etc.
  
  With no multiplayer this game feels like theres a huge chunk miising especially with online play 
 being all the rage! Also, the games so easy why would you want to keep it after 10 -15 hours of 
 gameplay?? Heres a few
  
  - R. Y. N. O
  - Bolts, Bolts galore!
  - Challenge mode brings somewhat of an OOOMH! to the gameplay! 
  
  All in all it seems like 
 insomniac are trying to recover from gladaitor and working from the ground up to bring it back 
 to what its supposed to be - a platformer. If it is as I say... then well.... we may see mu; ltiplayer 
 next game 'round! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rijahs
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 2, 2008 9:41 am PT
Review:  Let's start with what I liked throughout the game: the graphics. R&C: Tools of Destruction definitely 
 delivers in the visuals department giving a real visual treat for all. The graphics is truly a 
 jaw dropping experience. The best part is that the game's frame-rate never dips or suffers. There 
 are lots of gadgets and weapons that you get to use. As you progress through the story, you acquire 
 bolts to purchases weapons with and the precious metal called raritanium to upgrade your weapons. 
 The upgrade system is used to purchase slots on the grid that unlocks upgrades in strength, ammo 
 capacity, range, and other attributes. This adds an additional depth and customization to the playing 
 experience and will add to the game life as you can replay the whole game to see how maximum you 
 can upgrade the weapons with. The weapons are also as inventive and vicious as ever. You will love 
 the way they are designed and will laugh seeing some of them in operation. Cool Stuff
  Other than the weapons you will use the Sixaxis to control Ratchet at certain points during the 
 game. You must use the motion sensor of the Sixaxis to take ratchet through different situations. 
 Kind of cool and you only need to do this for a short time to get out of the situation for which 
 this was designed. 
  R&C: Tools of Destruction is an amazing PS3 game that fully utilizes the power of the console. 
 It sets the standards high for the PS3 and has given the glimpse of what PS3 is capable of. This 
 is a definite game for anyone who loves good platform shooters. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: YoungLink89
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 30, 2008 11:35 am PT
Review:  When I First Got This For My Playstation 3 I Seriously Became Addicted to It I Literally Could 
 Not Stop Playing This Game At All. The Weapons Are Awesome The Graphics, The Storyline, The Music 
 Everything About This Game Is Perfect. However There Are A Few Slight Thing I Would Tweak i would 
 Increase The Ammo Of Some weapons and Make Gadgets regular Weapons instead of just gadgets I Mean 
 Could You Imangine What It Would Be Like To Have the Disco Ball as a main weapon? it would be awesome. 
 also maybe create More Planets and Seeing as after 1 week i'm already about half way through the 
 game. This Is A Must But That I Recommend For Ratchet and Clank Fans And Also People Of All Ages. 
 This Game HAs A Pretty Small Selection Of Weapons But Of the Limited Weapons Feautured There All 
 Equally Awesome My Personal Favorites Being The Alpha Disrupter and The Shock Ravager. All Ratchet 
 and Clank Games Are Addictive But This One Takes The Cake For Being The Best Every made. And A 
 Possible Choice for one of the top 10 PS3 games Of 2007 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CrashMacKenzie
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 26, 2008 2:43 pm PT
Review:  I've always liked the Ratchet and Clank series, so when I acquired my PS3 'Ratchet ans Clank Future: 
 Tools of Destruction' was my first game purchase.
  
  The first thing that caught my eye about this game were the visuals. The R&C universe has always 
 been a colorful one, but the PS3 really brings it to life.
  
  The gameplay will immediately be familiar to anyone who has played any of the PS2 games and the 
 bizarre and over-the-top weapons are back as well. A new edition, however, are the devices.
  
  While I didn't get much use out of most of them, Mr. Zarcon and the Groovitron were awesome. 
 The Groovitron made nearby enemies break into dance and Mr. Zarcon was a robot that fought with 
 you and made several rather malicious comments.
  
  The Sixaxis was implemented well into the game and the mini-games were fun. Clank's portion of 
 the game is very similar to the earlier games, only this time he commands the invisible zoni to 
 do his bidding. 
  
  The story was solid but not terribly impressive and had a lousy ending. However, the franchise's 
 humor is still intact.
  
  Many players will find the game to be way too easy. It really didn't bother me, but some people 
 will be turned off by it.
  
  All in all, R&CF is a good platform game that continues a great franchise. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ninjacat11
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 26, 2008 11:27 am PT
Review:  The Ratchet and Clank series has always been a favorite of mine. Ever since the original one came 
 out for the PS2, I have always been a huge fan. Insomniac worked wonders with the platforming formula 
 back in the day. Up Your Arsenal for the PS2 was the zenith of the series, with the best humor, 
 best weapons, and best gameplay. The series has gone slightly downhill since the disappointing 
 Ratchet: Deadlocked. 
  
  So when Future was announced for the PS3, I was both incredibly excited and nervous about it. Mostly 
 excited, but still. I have played this one and I can safely say that Insomniac has brought the 
 Ratchet and Clank series back to greatness, as well as saved the PS3's hides. Future is quite simply 
 the best game on the PS3 right now as well as the best in the series. 
  
  The graphics are mindblowingly good. Sony has boasted for a while that they would make games whose 
 graphics rival even Pixar's. I never thought it would be this game that actually fulfilled this 
 promise. This new stylized, yet highly detailed approach works extremely well for the series. I 
 hope they keep it.
  
  The gameplay is just as great as ever. Is it a big departure from the series? No. But is it still 
 fun as all hell? Of course. The weaponry in this game includes some of the series' best inventions. 
 The humor in this game is some of the funniest in years. If you don't even chuckle at enemies breaking 
 out dance moves, you are a Communist.
  
  Overall, Insomniac has proven themselves to be Sony's most viable first-party developer. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chex81
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 22, 2008 8:06 am PT
Review:  This was my first Rachet game i've played from beginning to end... never really took interest when 
 it was out on PS2 but i thought id give it a shot. I did try the demo first and enjoyed it, so 
 i knew what to expect. I would say i beat the game in just over 10 hours... but i will admit i did 
 sort of rush through it. There are tons of hidden secrets and unlockables for the hunting type 
 of gamer... but it's easy enough to blast straight through for someone like myself (with regards 
 to this game) . There are tons of cool guns and weapons to use... I really enjoyed the robot that 
 follows you around and shoots at enemies, the predator, nanoswarmer and others... cant forget the 
 discoball, man i laughed so many times. I must admit the animation and voiceovers are outstanding... probably 
 the best i've see for a cartoon videogame. Although the story is sort of "been there, done that" 
 but its done so well with the characters and dialogue that it pulls you in. If you like the series 
 im sure you'll love this game... the visuals are definitely next-gen. My complaints are that it 
 did get sort of repetitive, especially by the end i just wanted it to finish. There are a ton of 
 planets to visit, but all feel too similar to eachother. The flight battle scenes aren't very fun. 
 The story was meh. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: travis73005
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 22, 2008 7:04 am PT
Review:  WOW
  
  I had been waiting on this game for a long time for my PS3, and i was not disappointed. I want 
 to really tell you about the great graphics, gameplay, , weapons, and story.
  
  This at it's release, was the best game on the PS3. it was released at 720p and that was fine, 
 it looked awesome. The sound was great, and music as well.
  
  The gameplay follows the same basic perameters as the previous R&C games, as far as weapon selection, 
 quick select, clank's abilities and puzzles. there is the 3 page quick select to help you quickly 
 find anything in your inventory. leveling up all weapons game be frustrating, especially with one 
 not that affective, and even more so when you have to rebuy them at extraordinary costs in Challenge 
 Mode, but thankfully they kept the multiplier, and getting 20 million bolts in a level is no problem 
 at all. In between planets, you are caught up in space fights. they have this galaga/ star fox 
 mentatlity to them. you are on a set path of bad guys and obstacles, absolutely no freedom. unfortunately 
 you can not level your ship in this game. 
  
  skill points are much easier than in previous installments, and gold bolts are useless, (only for 
 skins) . 
  
  i did enjoy the story, it was compelling, not that far stretched and well executed. some of the 
 same 'ol characters are reference or make cameos for that nostalgic feeling. 
  
  RHYNO is awesome.
  
  Definitely expect a sequel. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sony-PS3-fan89
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 10, 2008 7:56 am PT
Review:  I dont get it ?How come it was 7.5 ?Well i liked it alot, trhe graphics ,the gameplay everything.
 
  
  
  You can easilly get confuesed that the looks like a Pixar movie. Sound wa pretty okay ,you wont 
 be intrseted in sound, all you would be intrstted in having fun. Weopens may didnt get alot of apperance 
 in the game but still ,at least they are cool. The good thing about This game ,that the plot seems 
 having fun (noy like skate, being frustrated all the time)
  
  
  The graphics are simply amazing , the game is fun but feels short at times, The game is really Humoures 
 that i nearly laughed the whole way through. The gameplay is simply amazing rolling through super 
 monkey ball , steering ship, glide , shoot badies and swim. Yea ToD is all about gameplay , but 
 the story is not so bad. Shooting and platforming is always fun, It doesnt get reppetive and its 
 entartaining to.
  
  There arent alot of problems in the story ,only 1st ratchet wants the lombax secret, then pirates 
 comeout, then tachkyon wants the hat and blah blah.
  
  I think Microsoft send 250 $ to Gamespot for rating it to low ,or mabey GSpot has a bad taste of 
 games ?
  
  Gameplay: Exxelent (10)
  Story: Great: (8.8)
  Controls: Outstanding (9.8)
  Visauls: Exxelent (10)
  Graphics: Exxelent (10)
  Tilt: Superb (9.0)
  
  This game is fun and when 
 you beat it, youi can play it again till.... you get GTA 4
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: gamfaqs2gamfaqs
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 21, 2008 8:09 am PT
Review:  The developers of the Ratchet & Clank series were at it again but this time they brought more arsenal 
 in their latest game, Ratchet & Clank: Future Tools of Destruction. Over the past five games, Ratchet 
 & Clank has grown to become one of the best games to deliver a Pixar movie experience, stated by 
 the New York Times. Given that I own all the Ratchet & Clank games with the exception of the second 
 game, I have truly been given the Pixar experience. From the beginning to the end, Ratchet & Clank 
 continues to strive to get your attention. Let it be the variety of guns, the vibrant graphics, 
 the fast passed game play, the pleasing experience or just shoving Captain Qwarks rear end 
 on the screen (It honestly doesnt get better then a guy in spandex) . 
  
  Graphics: As many have stated before Ratchet & Clank has a nag to deliver vibrant and appealing 
 graphics. So appealing that you find youre self starring at Captain Qwarks rear end 
 or Clanks girlfriend, Venus (Just make sure Clank doesnt see you or he may blast the Negotiator 
 at you) . All in all, the graphics are fantastic!
  
  Gameplay: One of the most engaging aspects of Ratchet & Clank: Future Tools of Destruction is its 
 fast passed gameplay. It not only serves up to be fun but all satisfying as you dont find 
 yourself struggling to beat the game. Even if you do struggle theres a variety of guns and 
 widgets to help you along the way.
  
  Innovative: What made this game so original then previous Ratchet & Clank games is that it incorporated 
 the new Playstation 3 motion sensor technology. This included flying, hacking security circuits 
 or dancing the pirate Jig. 
  
  Storyline: Unfortunately the storyline was not as entertaining as previous games. I guess the jokes 
 are getting a little old. However, unlike the other games I found the storyline more sophisticated 
 then previous games. I assume that was the reason behind the unsatisfying storyline but every game 
 has its weaknesses. 
  
  Value: Definitely worth buying, if not for the storyline for the gameplay. Though, I suggest getting 
 one of the previous games for a cheap price before purchasing this game. I only suggest this because 
 you have missed out on a lot of humor, story, weapons and action that is not included in Ratchet 
 & Clank: Future Tools of Destruction. 
  
  In the end, this game proved to be one of the best Ratchet & Clank games so far. Although it lacked 
 aspects of previous games there was much originality applied to this game that made this game enjoyable.
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: RMANPOWER
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 21, 2008 2:04 am PT
Review:  Well, I just wanted to point out that this is my first Ratchet & Clank game. This is a very fun 
 game that I believe that everyone should at least play it or own it. 
  
  Graphics: It has some next textures to it that makes it really stand out, I love every level in 
 this game and still playing it till this date. Awesome graphics on each stage. 
  
  Gameplay: This is the most important thing of them all, I had alot of fun with the gameplay. Everything 
 worked so well with the story and I don't know if the story went along with the other R&C games, 
 but it was very funny to watch and the animation was done well. Even my 3 year old son liked it, 
 Thanks for the good game.
  
  Sound: Great sound, I could hear everything being shot and the voices were crystal clear. 
  
 
  Overall: This game was underrated and I don't know how it got a low score, It was a really fun 
 game to play and having it being my first time playing theses type of games made me understand 
 what I'm missing out on. If you never played one in your gaming career, I suggest you try it out 
 and you won't be let down by R&C. 
  
  Thanks 
::::::

::::::
UserName: imacritic814
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 20, 2008 12:04 pm PT
Review:  I've played tons of other Ratchet and Clank games, but this is the best there is so far. Ratchet 
 has to find out about his past, while trying to stop an evil empire trying to find a secret weapon. 
 The story is a little disappointing, but tons of stuff make up for that.
  
  New weapons to use that are just pure fun to destroy enemies
  New enemies, big, strong, and tough
 
  Get to fly a Lombax ship through obstacles and enemies in space
  Get skill points to unlock fun cheats you can use in the game
  Travel around galaxies to new 
 planets
  Meet new allies that help you out
  Upgrade your weapons for more guilty pleasure in fighting
  Use new gadgets
  Use the motion 
 sensor on the PS3 to help you out in dire situations
  
  This Ratchet and Clank game is just the coolest PS3 game there is. I have to give this a high grade. 
 Another fun thing are the cheats you can use with the many skill points you can find in the game! 
 Plus, many new gadgets and weapons are the way in this game!
  
  9.5/10 I say its amazing. Making it for the PS3 is a great idea!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: theamitgoyal
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 19, 2008 8:15 am PT
Review:  I usually play 3 games at a given time just to mix things up a little. However, ever since I put 
 the Ratchet and Clank Future: Tools of Destruction disc into my PS3, I just couldn't take it out 
 till I was done (at least once!)
  
  The gameplay is just mind blowing. So many guns and so many ways to play with them. Each weapon 
 upgrades in two ways: first, the more you use the better it gets and second, by spending raritarium 
 found right through the game to improve various aspects of the weapons. With so many 'tools of 
 destruction' to play with, its very hard to put the game down.
  
  Add to that a diverse set of level, some of them are quite jaw dropping (for me, it was the level 
 set upon the Comet and the Dinosaur-like creatures level) . The humour in this game is spot on, 
 though I wish they had used Captain Qwark a bit more. But that's purely a personal preference.
 
  
  The story this time around is also very well fleshed out. It's not just the typical  
 story. I think Insomniac has taken the series to a different level in terms of story-telling; taking 
 a somewhat serious theme through the game with the humour that is the trademark of the series is 
 quite a job. 
  
  The audio, in my opinion, could have been a lot better. Sometimes the background music and the 
 explosions can drown the messages being received. Also, the background score could have probably 
 been a better. 
  
  This game is a blast. The weapons are diverse (Groovitron is just kickass!) but some of them, for 
 e. g., the nanoswarmer makes things a little too easy. In fact it makes the minibosses look like 
 a joke. The difficulty could have most probably been tweaked (or atleast an option should have 
 been added up front instead of being unlocked once the game is finished. 
  
  That said, I would definitely be going back to Ratchet and Clank. It's just too good a game to 
 be played just once. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Austrianator
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 18, 2008 12:36 pm PT
Review:  It is the first Ratchet and Clank game of the Future series. The game is really really great from 
 the beginning to the end. It has a very interesting story mode that will capture your interests 
 instantly. The story is very exciting from the beginning to the end and will certainly not let 
 you down, the game is worth its price and if you are a Ratchet and Clank fan you should have it. 
 It also has great graphics and loads of new weapons. The game is not perfect because some parts 
 are very very similar to the last Ratchet and Clank game, that can sometimes be a little bit anoying, 
 and sadly there is no online play, but all in all the game is really great and i think that it 
 diserves better than the 7.5 that it was given in the official review, and I think that it is save 
 to say that all the gamers who enjoy playing ratchet and clank future: tools of destruction agree 
 with me!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gearsman92
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 17, 2008 1:17 pm PT
Review:  If you bought A PS3, The only game your playing is Insomniac's Ressitance: Fall of man. Now you 
 can Play the PS3 game know as Ratchet and Clank Future: Tools of Destruction. This is, with out 
 a dought, the best in the series and the best game in the series. From game start, you will be 
 amazed. Tool's of Destruction's story's hummor is still damm funny, but not the best in the series. 
 The story however, is. Ratchet and Clank must find something called "The Lombax secret" before 
 Takion, the new villain, finds it and kill Ratchet since he is a Lobax. The story has a lot of 
 heart string tugs, and the voice acting is solid. 10 years ago, a guy at Time Magazine compared 
 Super Mario 64 to being inside a pixar Movie. WRONG!!!! Ratchet and Clank looks like one. The levels 
 always have something going on. They look like living breating Planets. Tools of Destruction gameplay 
 is the best. The game keeps the linear dezien while keeping the solid gameplay experance. Ratchet 
 and Clank is always has a simple premis. The weapons are all new, but you'll notice some similarites 
 between them. My favorate Weapon is the Preditor launcher. Then there's the Groveatron, that makes 
 enemies dance. This weapon can lock on to multiple enemies. What Insomniac has truly done is put 
 the depth into there upgrade ability. You can now up grade in different feilds instead of all at 
 once. Power, Distance, and how many bolts will be come from the enemies turn of destruction. In 
 order to upgrade, you have to get rareitainium. This was truely made for veterains, and easy to 
 use for new comers. The Combat is just as good as the last games. It's the same difficulty. There 
 are also the return of Classic Clank Levels. There are some new abilities for Clank and there just 
 perfect. If you have to get 1 game for the PS3, then this is it. Ratchet and Clank Future: Tools 
 of Destruction is the best in a series of increadble games. Do your self a favor, play it!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: EnzoLake
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 17, 2008 11:17 am PT
Review:  Well, before playing this game the only Ratchet & Clank that I had played was Ratchet & Clank 3, 
 and I don't know why, but I didn't enjoy it so much. However, I have to admit that it was a really 
 good game, and specially very fun.
  
  After having read the players' impressions and having played the demo, I decided that I must own 
 this game. The campaign took me about 2 weeks, but I didn't played more than one hour a day, because 
 I was also playing Uncharted.
  
  The game is amazing, but that is something that you can experience in the demo. However, there 
 are things that you cannot see in a demo. For example, the addiction that this game provocates.
 
  
  As long as you play throughout the game, you improve your weapons, your health, your armor... It's 
 a great incentive, because sometimes I used some weapons just to arrive to their max level and 
 see how the change.
  
  The graphics are perfect, as I said in the deck, it looks like a Pixar movie. I would say that 
 the Anti-Alias is infinite, because I couldn't find any jaggie. It's also incredible how much solid 
 the framerate is, like a rock, sometimes you could have 15-20 enemies in the screen and the framerate 
 keeps the same.
  
  I recommend this game to everybody, even if you haven't played any Ratchet & Clank game. It's a 
 must-have, superb in every aspect. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NateFK
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 17, 2008 5:46 am PT
Review:  Pros and Cons (+ & - )
  --------------------------------
  
  + Beautiful visuals/ Vast worlds
  + Crazy Weapons
  + Has a little of everything
  + Tons of 
 Desturction
  + Simple gameplay, tight controls
  + Decent replay value
  
  - SixAxis required instead of optional
  - No multiplayer
  - Extra content isn't really worth 
 all the work
  - Some weapons we could just do without
  
  Review
  --------------------------------
  
  Sadly this won't be a quick review, however, this is must 
 own for all R&T fans. Great visuals, Vast worlds, great gameplay and crazy weapon ideas.
  
  However, I must name three main reasons why I gave the game an 8.0 instead of anything higher. 
 
  
  First off, and this is getting very annoying, once again the weapons you start out with become 
 virtually pointless to use about 1/3 of the way through game and most of the weapons you get half 
 way through game you just don't want use and/or upgrade. Even fully upgraded the weapon is almost 
 useless except on the weakest of guys. (And for future reference, making it a skill point doesn't 
 help)
  
  Second, the forceful use of the sixAxis. To clearify, as great of a feature as it is, the calibration 
 just isn't tight enough to be satisfactory. Don't get me wrong, it's second nature for most people, 
 but sometimes the best control is with the joystick. And why would you put a "disable SixAxis" 
 option and right below it write "required for flight and puzzles" (or something like that) .
  
  And third, lack of multiplayer. Now I've heard that during a press conference when asked why 
 this installment of R&T wasn't going to have multiplayer the lead programmer said that most gamers 
 perfered it single player only and that the company didn't want it to have multiplayer in the first 
 place. The problem with that is, A) . most of the gamers I talked to begged for a multiplayer after 
 that was announced. and B) . With the successfulness of 'Up Your Arsenal' and 'Deadlocked' multiplay, 
 suddenly getting rid of it on a nex-gen console isn't the best plan.
  
  All and all it's strengths easily outweigh it's weaknesses. Now that might sound hard to believe 
 considering all the negatives I just described but the positives would go three pages. I would 
 fully recommend this game but sadly not for full price. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RabbidDawg
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 15, 2008 2:17 pm PT
Review:  You are ratchet and Clank, you are out to stop the Cragmite invasion, and save the universe. This 
 is the first Ratchet game I have ever played so honestly I'm not sure how this ties in with the 
 other games, but its a hell of ride. lets get started shall we!
  
  Graphics: To start the texture work is excellent. There is good, and plentiful use of bump-mapping, 
 nice sharp big textures that just pop out at you in beautiful detail and color. From the sides 
 of buildings to the fine intricate details of plants, light fixtures, and the enemies themselves, 
 this game just reeks of quality all around visually. The environments have to be seen to be believed, 
 for a platformer there is no equal visually.
  
  Lighting and particle effects are plentiful, something the cell processor is turning out to be 
 great for, and the color...... just wow. Its so rich and vibrant, you really feel like your playing 
 a Disney Pixar movie, visually this game sets the stage for platformers. All others should be held 
 to this standard of quality.
  
  Sound: On the sound side, its good. What you would expect from a futureristic setting. Blaster 
 guns, and mechanical enemies all sound great, voice acting is good. Everything is spot on. No glitches 
 of any kind.
  
  Gameplay: The controls are excellent good use of the buttons and analog sticks, although you can 
 only quick select 2 weapons at a time and this game has TONS of weapons so that is kind of drag 
 to have to bring up the menu to change guns when you want something different than the 2 presets 
 you have. It doesn't destroy the game but its annoying.
  
  On the weapon's side of things there are just a bountiful amount of them. From rockets, to grenades 
 to, your wrench and blaster cannon, there is just SO MUCH to choose from. Its a good thing this 
 game has a game save plus mode, because you may not upgrade or even use all of your guns the first 
 time through, which is also a great thing this game has the ability to do is upgrade weapons. Also 
 the more you use the weapon it actually levels up and becomes more powerful, as you do to. A platformer 
 with almost a role-playing leveling up style, very very cool I must say.
  
  Also there are a few devices to use to such as your trusty disco ball, which makes your enemies 
 dance a jig before getting pwned very humorous to watch and it works well. Weapons and gadgets 
 wise there are too many to list, but its excellent to see a game have such variety.
  
  On the story side it does jump around a lot, and I have never played a ratchet game before this 
 so I'm not sure how or IF it ties in with the other games. Your main objective is to quell the 
 cragmite uprising. Along the way you meet a smuggler who has you run few errands, make some allies 
 in the form of 2 old war bots and some hot alien chick with a tail lol. Once you beat a planet 
 you can also go back find all the hidden goodies and objectives too. There is just a ton to do, 
 but I must admit some times I find the story confusing as it jumps around to different objectives 
 so much but like having so many weapons, the variety in story game play is a treat, and the vehicle 
 based levels provide a nice break from the platforming.
  
  The AI is as you would expect, not to easy but not to hard. The run and shoot at you and try to 
 over whelm you. A decent challenge but even on the harder game save plus you shouldn't have too 
 much trouble. Its just right in my opinion.
  
  Value: This game is chock full of things to do, from the graphics, to the gameplay if you like 
 action/platformers you cant go wrong. The visuals are beautiful the game play is excellent, even 
 with the little annoyances like the story jumping around, and the weapons menu being a bit annoying, 
 you cant go wrong with this game in my honest opinion. If you like platformer's I'd say go for 
 it. you wont be disappointed.
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: flavort
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 14, 2008 7:58 am PT
Review:  Ratchet is one of the best games of all time. This one is no let down at all. Now first I will 
 give you the negatives. It does not change much from the others, but is that bad? No, I dont think 
 so. I hear a lot of talk about the story not being good but what ever. I thought it was good and 
 the end is even better. So dont listen to that. The real issue is the weapons and mini games and 
 graphics. The weapons are awesome, you always get cool weapons in this game. I would have to say 
 they should offer some in a different order but this is the key, the second time around they fit 
 just nice. What I mean is there is a melee weapon you get but why are you going to use it that 
 late in the game? So you have to replay it to build it up. So I am glad it worked out that way. 
 Again like the other Ratchet games you get to upgrade the weapon over and over and they do a great 
 job of that. You get a chance to upgrade the by buying upgrades and using them same as the others 
 do, for the most part. Graphics are incredible! This is what a video game is supposed to be, colorful, 
 fun, and exciting, loaded with bonus features and it is loaded with them. There are a few mini 
 games in this game but they are fun and a little funny, dont want to spill the beans for some that 
 have not played it. The game itself uses the sixaxis motion sensing aspect very well. I have heard 
 a lot about how it is useless in most games, not this one. One thing I miss with this series is 
 when you got to play as GIANT CLANK! I forgot which one ot was but probally commando. There are 
 so many little ways that they add to the bonus aspect of the game. You have the weapon upgrades, 
 the multipliers, hidden bolts and other little hidden things (play it to find out) , skill points, 
 more weapons, more challenge. It basically what Ratchet is supposed to be, FUN! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: playmemike01
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 13, 2008 7:39 am PT
Review:  Where to start?
  
  Ratchet on PS2 was a landmark of gaming, it was a looker and it played fantastically. Nothing could 
 beat it in terms of its genuine rush of platforming excitement. However, on PS3 this isn't the 
 case, instead, the rush is bigger and the excitement is cranked up to 11. It is astonshingly fun 
 to play and to look at.
  
  The story to the game is solid, it perhaps lacks some depth, but it's strong enough to bind the 
 game together, though sometimes there is a lack of purpose to why you travel to planets and perform 
 specific things. I doubt you will fuss too much over this after seeing how much fun it is to play.
 
  
  The narrative is though genuinely funny and as compared to many videogames nowadays, well written.
 
  
  Guns have visually and physically evolved in this game, effects from them are superb and provide 
 the biggest sense on satisfaction available on the PS3. The Judicator being my firm favourite followed 
 by the awsomely named Predator Launcher. The explosions are simply dazzling and the animations 
 of bad guys getting their asses kicked - priceless. Despite a great deal of weapons being hyper-exciting, 
 a few fall short and don't perform as well as others, The Plasma Beasts to name one.
  
  Combat devices are also a highly welcomed feature to the series, introducing the galaxy to The 
 Groovatron, perhaps one of the single greatest weapons in videogame history. Dance animations are 
 fantastic and will provide a laugh.
  
  Scenary will blow you away from the Metropolis of Kerwan with its bustling city scape jam-packed 
 with hover cars to the lush jungles of Jasmindu. Every planet feels as great as the last and feel 
 different in atmosphere from one another.
  
  To put it simply, you can not own a PS3 without owning this game. Its visually mind-blowing and 
 sticks to the bare roots of what made the original fantastic without making it feel too much like 
 covered ground. It's fresh but familiar and a great introduction to the series. Once again, great 
 job Insomniac!
  
  Gamespot got it WRONG!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: brandao25
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 13, 2008 7:38 am PT
Review:  I've got my Ratchet & Clank as a bonus to my PS3 for free, and I couldn't be happier. When I launched 
 it first, I spent 3 hours playing it, and it felt like 1h. Playing Ratchet & Clank Future: TOD 
 is simply fun. You don't have to load a level over and over because you don't know whereto go and 
 some silly guy shoots you all the time. Yes, this game is easy, but the developers wanted people 
 to experience a cartoon, right?
  
  Giving R&C: TOD is under rated by GS. C'mon guys, this game deserves, not less than 8 points.
 
  
  What I loved in this game is the use of the motion sensor of PS3. Steering your flight, tornados, 
 using decryptor, freefaling with motion sensor gives you a lot of fun, which makes this game very 
 exciting, from beginning to the end.
  
  The only thing I didn't like was that space battles with big guys is all about luck and rapid-action, 
 because they use some very dangerous weapons. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: eldertaco
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 12, 2008 2:43 pm PT
Review:  OK.. I have to say without a doubt that this is the closest to perfection you can get. Ratchet 
 and clank is a beautiful game with lots of shooting action with a variety of guns and the charm 
 of a pixar movie. The guns are varied and because you can upgrade it helps to continue to use several 
 different weapons rather than playing with just one or two. Yes it's kind of cheezy but I mean 
 that in a good way. I don't mind playing it with my nephew around and is one of the few games that 
 is just as much fun to watch as it is to play.
  I just finished the challenge mode and finished finding all of the gold bolts. This game sucked 
 me in. The first time I played I only had about 20min because of Christmas festivities with family 
 but the second time I lost complete track of time and played for 14hrs and finished the game the 
 first time around. With all the games that seem very similar this game breaks the mold. The game 
 is slightly on the easy side but I feel that it was a little more chalenging the second time around. 
 Gamespot has really Underated this one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: veggie530
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 11, 2008 10:07 am PT
Review:  Let me jump right in to the bad... I don't think there is any -- some people may be a little turned 
 off by the "kiddie" nature of the game but that's a misrepresentation. It's clean and comical (almost 
 like Shrek, without the fart jokes and whatnot) and it's very witty. So don't let the rating fool 
 you -- I'm a shooter game guy myself and I absolutely love this game.
  
  The graphics are phenominal. The facial expressions of Ratchet, Clank, or any of the other characters 
 are perfectly visualized. The characters and game itself all look sharp (the bad guys, the machines, 
 ships, planets, everything) and they bring this comical world to life. Excellent display of the 
 PS3's capabilities.
  
  The controls are slick and efficient. Easy to use, easy to learn, and easy to execute when the 
 situation need be. The controls couldn't be better, IMO.
  
  The sound to this game is ridiculously good. The sounds of the weapons, the voiceovers, everything 
 is just done with precision. Excellent, excellent sound all the way through. The best part of the 
 sound is the voice overs of when you're flying/fighting through space and the bad guys are saying 
 things -- funny stuff.
  
  The presentation is great, as well. The cutscenes/voiceovers are awesome and the storyline is top 
 notch fun. It includes a lot of characters and has a lot of twists/plots involved that keep you 
 engaged in the game and makes you want to keep playing.
  
  The weapons in this game are really neat. The disco ball is awesome... launch it out and your enemies 
 start disco dancing -- making them easier to kill (this helps a lot with big bosses) . The thing 
 is, they aren't all the same. Each individual bad guy bot dances differently than the other -- 
 their dances match their shape, size and personality. The effort that had to go into that part 
 of the game is a testament to the attention to detail that this game had. The other weapons are 
 awesome, too, and there are "vendors" around levels for you to buy new weapons, buy devices, fill 
 all ammo or upgrade the weapons you have. It makes for a great way to upgrade your arsenal and 
 keeps you motivated for finding as many bolts and crystals as you can!
  
  Overall, this game is just fantastic. I feel a bit guilty giving it a 10 because I think only a 
 few games ever deserve that score... but I think this game really does deserve it. There's never 
 a dull moment, never a dull character, never a dull dialogue, never a dull weapon, never a dull 
 ANYTHING. I can't justify giving this game anything BUT a 10, and therefore I am.
  
  If you're not into adventure games... rent it and I bet you'll be sucked in. If you enjoy adventure 
 games... buy it. Well worth the cash. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Quadrifoglio
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 7, 2008 6:25 am PT
Review:  The Ratchet and Clank formula has always been a mix of highflying action and great platforming 
 bits mixed with some solid puzzles and that formula remains in this iteration. 
  
  Ratchet and Clank Future: Tools of Destructions gameplay is more reminiscent of the first Ratchet 
 and Clank for the PS2 but a lot of new gameplay additions make it feel fresh and new at the same 
 time. 
  
  The new gameplay additions vary from a little pirate dancing minigame to a 
  whole new method of hacking. The hacking system in this game is pretty simple. You have to guide 
 an electric current over to a point so the door will open and you use a small metal ball to do 
 it. You control the ball with a SIXAXIS controller.
  
  The best thing about the new gameplay additions though is that they just feel right. None of them 
 feel rushed or last minute additions and it really makes you appreciate the work that Insomniac 
 put into this game.
  
  Humor has always been a big part of the Ratchet and Clank games and that certainly hasn't changed 
 here. From the ironic and sarcastic comments Clank makes, to the bold and dumb actions Ratchet 
 take, you just can't do anything but chuckle and that is quite a feat in the video game industry 
 nowadays. 
  
  I can't really comment fully on the story in Ratchet and Clank Future: Tools of Destruction, since 
 I haven't actually completed it yet. I can tell you what I know though. Metropolis is suddenly 
 attacked by an evil emperor named Percival and he wants to kill the Ratchet, since he is the last 
 remainder of the Lombax race. 
  
  Ratchet and Clank obviously escapes the attack and proceed to travel to different planets while 
 searching for something that will stop Percival from global domination. It runs much deeper than 
 that though, because Ratchet will learn a lot more about his species, which is something that hasn't 
 been touched upon in the previous games.
  
  Ratchet and Clank Future: Tools of Destruction also has a lot more Clank in it. Clank gets punched 
 in the face by a boxing glove on a spring (a hilarious moment!) and he gets in touch with a sort 
 of alien species that go by the name of Zoni. Clank gets to use the Zoni in specific gameplay scenarios 
 where Ratchet isn't useful. He also gets to use some of the Zoni's powers such as levitation and 
 manipulation. The name also makes for some good puns on the Sony Corporation
  
  The voice acting in Ratchet and Clank Future: Tools of Destruction is also quite phenomenal. 
 
  
  The voice for Clank sounds as robotic and ironic as he should and Ratchets voice is also spot-on. 
 The wannabe-superhero Captain Quark is also pretty much perfect. The voice actor perfectly pulls 
 off the stereotypical superhero voice and he also pulls off an amazing neurotic and scared voice 
 that perfectly suits Quark.
  
  Funny dialogue, amazing graphics, great gameplay and a satisfying story all add up to make Ratchet 
 and Clank Future: Tools of Destruction the first big blockbuster game for the PS3 and one of the 
 best games of the year and it is certainly not one you would want to miss.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: gocanes222
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 6, 2008 3:54 pm PT
Review:  Man, this is some game. It's probably the second best looking game to come out... ever. Only Call 
 of Duty 4 really looks better than this game. It's got a good story although it does get confusing 
 sometimes. One of the best things about this game is the fun weapon selection. It's gone past all 
 the other Ratchet and Clanks with weapons like the Predator Launcher and gadgets like the grooveitron 
 or the confusion gas. This is an wonderfully fun and addictive game that is so good. I disaggree 
 with Gamespots 7.5 rating. In no way does this game suffer from an identity crisis. It Ratchet 
 and Clank for sure. One of the best ones.
  
  -Go Canes! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MusashiSensi
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 6, 2008 12:15 pm PT
Review:  Summary- This game was a very good game even though it was short I still enjoyed myself very much. 
 This was the first R&C game that I ever played and at the end of the day I'm very glad to say that 
 I played it.
  
  
  
  Graphics- The graphics are truely beautiful & very vivid. This game should be played on an hdtv 
 to experience the true quality of this game.
  
  
  Story- The story was done well & keeps you wanting more. The voices/dialouge was done very well.
 
  
  
  Music- I loved all the music this game had to offer. I'm a producer from NYC, so believe me when 
 I say this games soundtrack was done very very well. 
  
  Replay- I would say it has a very good replay value especially in the tournament. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ajcarlotti
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 6, 2008 9:07 am PT
Review:  This latest adventure of R&C is definityly one of the best in the series. The graphics are a 10 
 and the new weapons are a real blast. There are endless combinations of weapons to use at your 
 disposal all of which are very unique. The story is a little flat and the endiing is dissapointing 
 at best but if definitly will be continued in the future (which is not a bad thing) . The use of 
 the six axis controller is a new twist and has its fun moments. The game is not as long as I would 
 have liked but you can replay the game with all your weapons intact on a more difficult level. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: podboy1
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 4, 2008 8:17 pm PT
Review:  I was a little reluctant to buy R&C: Tools of Destruction based on the review by Gamespot. Just 
 as you cannot judge a book by its cover, this game was surprisingly refreshing, engaging, and fun 
 to play. I got this game as a T Christmas as a gift, and granted, I would not have bought this 
 game myself, I am glad that I got the opportunity to play this gem.
  
  The game play is relatively simple and linear. It is very difficult to get lost in this game but 
 occasionally it can happen. However, the simple straight forward game controls and addictive game 
 play more than compensates for the seeming lack of ground breaking game design. That's okay though 
 because throughout the game I found myself mesmerized by the beautiful graphics and colors which 
 was reminiscent of a Pixar movie. The beautifully laid out graphics and stellar animation with 
 quirky humerous one liners and cut scenes kept me on my toes. Many of the situations and cut scenes 
 are humerous and many times I found myself laughing hysterically in midst of destroying baddies.
 
  
  The game also takes advantage of the Six Axis motion control of the PS3 controller but it feels 
 as though the game designers just threw this feature in to say that it is included as part of the 
 game play. It is nothing to write home about but it does show case the possibilities of the PS3 
 controller. 
  
  Overall, the game is addictive and easy to play. I liked it so much that I got my friend a copy 
 and he is addicted as well. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: arsefacex
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 3, 2008 4:01 pm PT
Review:  To tell you right now, I'm feeling a bit lazy so this review is gonna be short:
  
  Story: The story wasn't terrible. I wasn't paying much attention to it anyways, because (IMHO) 
 R&C is all about the guns.  :) From what I understand, the Lombax race destroyed the Cragmites, 
 but missed Tachyon. So Tachyon becomes emperor and kills all the Lombaxes but missed Ratchet and 
 plans to take'em out too. Yada-yada-yada time for explosions!!!
  
  Gameplay: I love all of the guns! GUNS, GUNS, GUNS!!! I love to upgrade them, I love to shoot'em, 
 I love to make my enemies into dancing penguins!!! I can't get enough of the platforming. This 
 sequel has it's innovations and improvements. New guns, gadgets, and armor. What's also very interesting 
 is the Starfox64 style space-shooting madness! 
  
  Visuals: I was taken away from the visuals, because it's a nice leap over the PS2 successors' visuals. 
 It's great to have the old-school R&C gameplay with new HD graphics. The guns are beautiful, the 
 scenery is mesmerizing, and the explosions are AWESOME!!!
  
  When I first bought this game I was a bit skeptical about it. I didn't think it'd be worth my $60, 
 but ohhhh how I was wrong, wrong, wrong! I don't care what Gamespot has to say, because this game 
 is just plain FUN! I'm so glad I bought this game, because I had a blast with it. I don't care 
 if you rent it or buy it, just PLAY IT!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mugen76
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 1, 2008 12:01 pm PT
Review:  This game is so much more deserving than a 7.5. The reason being is that for one, Ratchet & Clank 
 Future: Tools of Destruction is just plain old fun to play, going back to the one central tenent 
 that made the Ratchet series fun in the first place: lots of weapons and great humor. Insomniac 
 kind of dropped the ball with Deadlocked, but gets back on the horse with Future.
  
  Now, I'm no graphics nut like most people I talk to nowadays (especially fellow PS3 owners) , but 
 the graphics in Future look gorgeous, and that's just the in-game engine. The scope is just so 
 vast and far-reaching that it will just make your jaw drop. This is most likely the best looking 
 first-generation PS3 game out there. When one first lays eyes on a CG sequence, it will make you 
 think that you're watching Ratchet & Clank: The Movie. Pixar quality cut-scenes make that already 
 dropped jaw hit the floor with how gorgeous this game looks.
  
  But surely, looks aren't everything (I'm looking at you, Genji!) , and this game follows through 
 on the gameplay elements with some of the tightest platforming gameplay this side of Super Mario 
 Galaxy. The jumping controls are tight, which make up for the loose SIXAXIS analog sticks, and 
 also the game just feels right when you're jumping between walls. 
  
  Speaking of SIXAXIS controls, everyone's favorite palindrome controller is also used to steer Ratchet 
 during some sky-diving/falling sequences, and is also used to hack computers. These don't feel 
 as tacked-on or contrived as, say, grenade throwing or log balancing in Uncharted: Drake's Fortune, 
 but I still think that the SIXAXIS controls are a joke and should be used sparingly. The ones in 
 Future don't really enhance the gameplay experience, but they're by no means an essential part 
 of the gameplay.
  
  When it comes to combat, which is the central part of the game, melee attacks can be a little stiff-feeling, 
 but by no means are these melee attacks Dynasty Warriors stiff and clunky. Besdies, this is a Ratchet 
 game, how many times are you going to use a melee attack anyway? In the words of the MythBusters, 
 "Jamie wants big boom!" 
  
  True to form, Insomniac has given you many ways to make the bad robots go boom! Even though the 
 3rd-person aiming can be a little clunky sometimes, the satisfaction of blowing stuff up is unparalleled 
 here. However, one of my favorite weapons doesn't involve blowing stuff up. The Groovitron is easily 
 one of the funniest weapons ever created in a video game, as it shoots out a giant disco ball and 
 makes your enemies dance uncontrollably to '70s disco hits! I want this gun!
  
  However, the one real downside is that the weapons and gadgets have been reduced from previous 
 Ratchet games. With only 15 weapons and about 11 gadgets, the count is only 26 between the two, 
 and we're used to seeing over 30 combined in most Ratchet games. Still, this game is a hell of 
 a lot of fun to play, and there is also a challenge there with trying to find all the gold bolts 
 and Raritanium parts to upgrade your weapons.
  
  While it may be a little too easy, there is an undeniable charm with Ratchet & Clank Future: Tools 
 of Destruction. The game is just a blast to play, and it is more of a back-to-basics platformer, 
 with a bunch of awesome explosions, graphics, and tight gameplay. No annoying arena fights here!
 
  
  Ratchet & Clank Future: Tools of Destruction gets a 5 out of 5 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Pokerman21
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 31, 2007 9:52 pm PT
Review:  This game was wonderful. The game had a great storyline and the weapons were highly deastructive 
 and creative. One thing i would like to bring up about the game is that the graphics were great. 
 The game look like a pixar movie in blu-ray. Their are only two things I did not enjoy about this 
 game. The first is a certain error or glich in the game. The glich happens when you enter your 
 ship after finish your first visit in the battle arena in the cragmite fight festival level. A 
 soon as the screne goes blank,
  a certain computer error happens and I can't get out of it unless I manually turn off the PS3. The 
 second is their is no multiplyer whatsoever. In conculsion, the Insominac team did a great job and 
 I look forward to their next ratchet and clank installment.
  
  Oh, one quick thing I wanted to bring up. The ending was terrible (I mean come on, the ending is pretty 
 much the zoni take clank to someplace and leave ratchet depressed and sad) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MitsubishiGTO
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 29, 2007 3:46 pm PT
Review:  I am not a previous Ratchet and Clank fan since this is the first time I actually played a Ratchet 
 and Clank game. I am sure if another reviewer that is a fan of the series would give this game 
 a higher rating. The game is fun and creative in many parts. There are many weapons and upgrades 
 you can get. Destroying enemies is creative and the graphics are stunning. This game is fun for 
 the youth and adults. Definitely worth taking a look at if you would like to play a game with your 
 kids or younger siblings. The game is action packed and has a lot of game play. The overall story 
 on the other hand is confusing since I sometimes didn't know why I was doing somethings. Although 
 the story isn't confusing to the point you don't know what to do. The game also has comments from 
 characters that are funny and will keep you playing. There are parts that make it cool and futuristic. 
 Overall the game looks great and plain fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BRM-Billy
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 29, 2007 7:50 am PT
Review:  Ratchet and clank have certainly made the transition to HD in style. The graphics are outstanding 
 and the backgrounds full movement and colour which really gives depth to the action. This time 
 round Ratchet and Clank must save the galaxy from Emperor Percival Tachyon and his army of fish 
 controlled robotic commandos. Travelling from planet to planet, Ratchet and Clank unlock the secret 
 to a powerful weapon created by a long lost civilisation which has the power to destroy a planet. 
 As our heroes travel thorough the game they can collect bolts which can are used to pay for weapons, 
 armour and items which can be used to defeat enemies. What I love about the Ratchet and clank games 
 is the humour which is reflected in the weapons. Such as the Groovitron, which is a disco ball 
 that when used makes the enemies on screen disco dance while you blast them into bolts. The controls 
 are simple enough to master and soon you'll be jumping around like an expert in no time. The quick 
 select function can be set up to your personal preference so finding the right weapon is simply 
 a case of holding the triangle button then using the stick to select the weapon then letting go 
 of the triangle button. The other controls are easy to pick up and you'll be jumping around like 
 an expert in no time. The camera follows the action smoothly and can be controlled by the right 
 stick if need be. Some levels are huge and can take well over an hour to explore thoroughly. This 
 game makes good use of the six axis control by using the movement to control Ratchet while he is 
 gliding using his robowings back pack or skydiving through a missile attack. The background music 
 is well scored and suits the theme of the level whether it's the cold heart of a comet or the bowels 
 of Captain Slag's pirate ship. The ending is a little bit of an anticlimax but I'm looking forward 
 to the sequel that the ending without a doubt hints too. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PS3Champ
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 27, 2007 10:01 pm PT
Review:  If you have a PlayStation 3 you must get this game. Its the best game out right now! Ratchat and 
 Clank Future is a massive adventure set in the Polaris Galaxy where the Lombax secret is hidden. 
 I cannon tell you what the secret is as that would be spoinlng the ending but I can tell you that 
 it is surprising. This time around the game is much longer than any other previous Ratchet title 
 and has many more weapons and gadgets. The planets have been revolutionizes as well, they all have 
 a different feel than other planets in previous games. They're much more detailed and bigger. For 
 example there is one planet called Sargasso which is basically like prehistoric Earth. The planet 
 is littered with Leviathan dinosaurs and you have to kil them to capture their souls. Once you 
 kill one you get a soul which can be traded for 8,000 bolts. You will also obtain Raritanium which 
 can be used to add mods to any of your weapons. That should be proof enough that Ratchat and Clank 
 Future is one of the most inovative games in the series and fresh enough for a new player to pick 
 it up and get it right away. GET THIS GAME IF YOU HAVE A PLAYSTATION 3!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dropkickgamer
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 27, 2007 7:49 pm PT
Review:  Don't get me wrong, It's a good game, but being a fan of the ideals that Going commando and Deadlocked 
 made, it think this is not as good of a sequel. The first of my complaints is the lack of the multi-player 
 modes, siege and juggernaut especially. Second complaint is the weapon level up system, all that 
 was upgraded was damage done by the weapons, and it was maybe a ten or twelve points for most weapons, 
 which caused the weapons to become practically useless, i. e, they should go back to the Thirds 
 upgrade system which every level gave a new ability. 
  Second was the lack of weapons and gadgets, I don't care if they have to recycle, i want my tractor 
 beam, levitator, and dynamo from the second game, as well the gadgets and weapons being easy to 
 get or find.
  Third, the lack of planets was a huge disappointment, as well as the fact that some levels were 
 well to boring to explore so you wanted to get out of there as soon as possible.
  Finally the ending did not leave you happy, you know, how the others left you laughing.
  Overall 
 my ranting, it's a great game. The graphics are awesome, it's really amazing being a fan of the 
 series and saying, holy crap thats some planet from the other games. Another thing about it is 
 the devices, the Groovatron is awesome and so is the Death Slinky. Overall it's a must have for 
 any gamer with a playstation and hunger for destruction. Keep in mind, i would wait a little for 
 the price to go down, the complaints a something to consider when buying it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: HeartOfStone013
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 27, 2007 7:20 pm PT
Review:  Out of all the games out there.... Ratchet & Clank have to be at the top for my favorite series. 
 Ratchet & Clank is one of those games that's not gonna make you kill yourself because of the insane 
 difficulty, but aside from what others say, I don't think it's too easy either! It has a lot of 
 weapons to buy, and then you can eventually upgrade them by buying upgrades or just by using them 
 a lot. Ratchet & Clank has quite a bit of humor in it and the characters are very unique. You will 
 end up getting attached to them throughout the game! Ratchet is always trying to fix something 
 or make something better, while Clank is always using his "brains" and logic. This is a GREAT addition 
 and probably my favorite one of the series! If you're doubting this game, I at least encourage 
 you to rent it so you can think about buying it!
  
  Thanks!
  -Regan- 
::::::

::::::
UserName: naughtydogmania
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 28, 2007 5:21 am PT
Review:  ATTENTION READERS THIS REVIEW HAS SOME SPOILERS!!
  THE SPOILERS WILL BE BETWEEN ( ) 
  
  I don't like the new system of rantings of GS because now I can't distinguish games that deserve 
 8,5 from games that deserve 8,8... 
  
  Personally i think this game deserves more than 8,5 but not 9, maybe a 8,8 or something...
  
 
  Anyway... 
  
  This game is fantastic!
  
  The good things:
  
  - it maybe the best game of Ratchet history!
  - lots of guns and devices to obliterate your enemies!
 
  - funny game, good adventure game: makes you want to play the game!
  - pretty lights 0. o ... from the explosions and the normal light as well...
  - the pirates are 
 the coolest characters of the game (so funny)
  - Sixaxis is used in very cool things such as gliding, or hacking in a computer with a metal ball....
 
  - the music is great and the pirates music is a something like the pirates of the Caribbeans musics 
 XD
  - the voice acting is great but nothing compared to heavenly sword... but its good!!
  - the controls aren't very hard, there the same of ratchet 3 if I'm not mistaken...
  - fish as 
 enemies? LOL XD
  - uiiii you can fight with your star fighter again!
  - one of the best things in R&C is the possibility of upgrading your weapons!!!! cool 
  - there 
 is going to be a R&C 2 for PS3
  
  Now the bad things:
  
  - No multi player... WTF!?
  - Where are the cool weapons? Where are the cool DUAL VIPERS!?
  - ratchet and clank tools of 
 destruction? where are those guns? deadlock had more tools of destruction than this game!
  - most of the guns are copies from the previous games...
  - there are some bugs in the game that 
 must be fixed... sometimes when i kill an enemy he gets stuck on the wall and he can't disappear...
 
  - you can't customize your spaceship...
  - you don't play many times with clank...
  
  ( - The story isn't that great... clank goes away... and what happens next?)
  
  there are somethings 
 missing... i may edit later..
  This is your host Naughtydogmania with is 4th review!
  hope you enjoyed it!
  
  PLZ comment my review at:
  
  http://www. gamespot. com/users/naughtydogmania/show_blog_entry. php? topic_id=m-100-25263708
 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: hornymushroom
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 26, 2007 5:05 pm PT
Review:  Rachet and clank tools of destruction is an amazing looking game. It is full of guns, beautiful 
 graphics and lovable charectors. It has a average story but not a basic one but can be a drag. 
 The levels are all different ranging from snow to desert to lush forest. Although the game is about 
 10 hours the battles are memarable and destructive. Those facts are the basic pros of the game. 
 The cons it is 10 hours which is pretty short for a only singleplayer game. The game is extremly 
 easy but can be hard if you maybe havent played any of the rachet and clank games. The replay value 
 is not very high and is similair to the uncharted because you pretty much put into the game and 
 can unlock skins and more powerful versions of your current weapon. But it cant be said enough 
 that this game is an amazing gorgeous piece of work and should be experienced by everyone with 
 a ps3.
  It is a buy for newcomers and is a rent for vetrans because it is pretty much the same game that 
 came out i think 4 years ago. So go now and rent or buy Itttt 
::::::

::::::
UserName: stefanlek
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 25, 2007 11:52 am PT
Review:  As a newcomer to the series i was impressed with the clear love and attention that this game was 
 shown. Ratchet and Clank Future: Tools of Destruction plays and looks like a pixar movie. Its fun 
 to play and at the same time addicting to level up your weapons as you progress. One of Ratchet 
 and Clanks strongest points is its set of weapons. Nearly every one of the weapons at your disposal 
 can and will kick some serious ass. They are what keeps this game afloat and what makes it great 
 as a whole.
  
  The graphics deserve a big mention here because they are probably some of the best the ps3 has 
 to offer at the moment along with Uncharted. R&C runs and looks silky smooth and unlike many other 
 games out there it adds a splash of colour. Instances in the game where they may distract you include 
 the very first level where a crumbling building may just distract your attention long enough for 
 you to actually fall to your death as a result of missing the gap in the grind rail :) Futhermore 
 the draw distance is incredibly detailed and aids to immerse you into the game.
  
  The gameplay is supposedly classic R&C from what i've heard from fans of the series but this isnt 
 a bad thing. It is simple yet fun to play as Ratchet, however this may be a downside to the game. 
 The game does nothing revolutionary in terms of gameplay which i feel is important for this type 
 of game. This and the fact that there is no multiplayer to keep the game alive once you finish 
 keeps the game from getting a 9 rather then an 8 for me.
  
  In conclusion yes this is a great game which deserves a purchase and yes it looks great and sounds 
 great but i know Insomniac could of done a bit more to make the experience more innovative. So 
 i will restrain myself from giving Ratchet the 9 many of you probably think it deserves simply 
 because it has even more potential to give. 
  
  Closing comments: If you love platforming, shooting, great graphics and an epic story you must 
 buy this game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Spencer_Wolf
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 24, 2007 11:33 pm PT
Review:  new to the whole ratchet and clank series this is my first time playin it and loved it weapons 
 are cool might have balanced them a little differently new to the whole ratchet and clank series 
 this is my first time playin it and loved it weapons are cool might have balanced them a little 
 differently new to the whole ratchet and clank series this is my first time playin it and loved 
 it weapons are cool might have balanced them a little differently new to the whole ratchet and 
 clank series this is my first time playin it and loved it weapons are cool might have balanced 
 them a little differently
  new to the whole ratchet and clank series this is my first time playin it and loved it weapons 
 are cool might have balanced them a little differently new to the whole ratchet and clank series 
 this is my first time playin it and loved it weapons are cool might have balanced them a little 
 differently new to the whole ratchet and clank series this is my first time playin it and loved 
 it weapons are cool might have balanced them a little differently new to the whole ratchet and 
 clank series this is my first time playin it and loved it weapons are cool might have balanced 
 them a little differently 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bebito_damon
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 4, 2008 10:53 pm PT
Review:  After reading all the other reviews about this game on this site, I decided why not buy this game. 
 From the moment I started playing it, I felt this game was one of the best games of the year. Seriously, 
 the game pulls you in immediately and doesn't let you go. I've always thought this series was one 
 of the most underrated series in gaming history. It's time Ratchet and Clank gets it due. Insomniac 
 studios... you guys are geniuses. I can see this series being turned into a movie. But let me digress.
 
  
  (SUBLIMINAL MSG HERE: ARE YOU STILL READING THIS? GO OUT AND BUY IT)
  
  Ratchet and Clank is funny, easy to learn how to play, and flows smoothly. It's not super challenging 
 (as far as puzzles go) but who cares? Sometimes challenging puzzles stop the action for too long. 
 This game wants you to keep advancing. 
  
  (SUBLIMINAL MSG #2: STOP READING AND GO!!!!!)
  
  I really hope you at least rent this game. Just be sure to return it! You're not going to want 
 to but you must. This is the most complete game since COD4 or Assassin's Creed. I wouldn't be surprised 
 though if it has 2 sequels, though.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: funkybreakbts
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 23, 2007 9:52 pm PT
Review:  Love it, fun mindless game. LOVE THE WEAPONS!! So fun to make your enemies dance then blow them 
 up. One of the best buys this year, dont hesitate with this game its a funny, fairly easy, and 
 totally out there. If you liked crash bandicoot and bad furr day, you will really like this one. 
 Instant classic in my book. You run around in levels picking up weapons and flying around to the 
 objective, looking for parts, and pieces, and good ole shoot em up action. Its really a great time, 
 with lots of great visuals to look at. Quite the adventure when your not in the mood for that heavy 
 thought video game.
  
  Graphics - Great smooth, colorful
  Gameplay - Fun, adventurous, remindes me of Super Mario World, with a better twist.
  
  Value 
 - worth every penny.
  
  Just buy it already. It wasn't nominated for game of the year for nothing.
  
  I feel like it 
 was a perfect buy, I'm almost finished with it and my girlfriend loves it too. I promise you wont 
 be dissatisfied.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: WALSH117
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 23, 2007 2:52 pm PT
Review:  Wow another amazing game that cannot be missed, its truly incredbile and tops anything on the wii 
 or 360 right now
  
  
  the voice acting is from the original guys from all the guys
  
  the music is better than ever
  
  graphics are soo good you feel like your watching a pixar 
 movie
  
  gameplay is same as before, but who the hell said thats a bad thing?
  
  length is great
  
  Overall, it's
  
  Amazing Amazing Amazing Amazing Amazing Amazing Amazing 
 Amazing Amazing Amazing Amazing Amazing Amazing Amazing Amazing Amazing Amazing Amazing Amazing 
 Amazing Amazing Amazing Amazing Amazing Amazing Amazing Amazing Amazing Amazing Amazing Amazing 
 Amazing Amazing Amazing Amazing Amazing Amazing Amazing Amazing Amazing Amazing Amazing Amazing 
 Amazing Amazing Amazing Amazing Amazing Amazing Amazing Amazing Amazing Amazing Amazing Amazing 
 Amazing Amazing Amazing Amazing 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ExtremeMagnion2
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 23, 2007 7:18 am PT
Review:  Ratchet and Clank return, this time in HD with bigger weapons, Bigger Enemies and Beautiful environments.
 
  The series ceases to amaze me, with its large array of weapons from pistols the launch fireballs 
 to a laser launching machine gun (type thing) .
  The gameplay is still the same old platform shooting, But seriously? Who gives? sometimes Oldschool 
 can teach new tricks. The Animation is great and can even rival Uncharted. Maybe most of you would 
 disagree, but let me tell you, the game gives a great sence of humor with its cartoon like animations. 
 Its a great break from all those 'real life' character movements. It seems like Insomniac is the 
 only game company able to rival Pixar in the animations department. Facial expressions and body 
 language is present in every character, including the games numerous enemies.
  The gameplay will continue to amaze, with explosions and colorful designs.
  The sound will be 
 a treat to the ears as well. A great soundtrack and talking enemies will never get old.
  Btw, the enemies, they come in HUGE numbers, they're even bigger than before. This shows what the 
 PS3 can actually do now. ALong with great aniamtion, graphics and stuff, the story is top notch 
 and will keep you hooked.
  So what if Gamespot says that the ending is questionable? i dont see anything wrong with it, in 
 fact, it was great, i cant wait for thesequal now! 
  This is a MUST HAVE GAME for the PS3, so what are you still doing here readging this? GO GET IT! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mariogalaxyfan
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 21, 2007 11:42 am PT
Review:  This ratchet and clank is the best in series. The graphics are very good ,the jogability is excelent, the 
 story is cool, the dificulty level is just right in the challenge mode and the music is perfect. 
 this is the one of the best games on the playstation 3 . the fans of the will like it very very 
 much (like me) but other people that never played ratchet will like it to. The levels that you 
 need to play with clank are cool. this game uses very much the motion sensor of the six axis, your 
 arsenal is very creative ,my prefered gun is the alfa cannon. 
  Your arsenal can be upgraded by V1, v2, v3 .... VX when your gun reach VX 
  you cant upgrade more.
 
  your gadgets is very cool ,one of the can transform your enemies into penguins ,other can make 
 your enemies dance while you kill then, and other is a helicopter that can be controled by the motion 
 sensor of the six axis and fire rockets in the enemies.
  you wont be disappointed with this game : D 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Badfellah
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 21, 2007 10:42 am PT
Review:  I have never played a Ratchet and Clank game before. It is a very delighting encounter I make. 
 Throughout the game, I many times really was impressed by the way the graphics looked. It did the 
 game very much good. This is how such an adventurous cartoon game is suppose to look!
  
  The game was a lot of fun. There is little reason for me to go more into this. Others have already 
 said it all. So what more can I say?
  
  I can say that it is a very good game, I can say you won't be disappointed! But I can also say 
 that this game did not feel quite right for me as a 20 year old. The humour was not right for me, 
 it was for a younger audience. But there was a lot of humour!
  
  Further more, it was a bit too easy. It has been said by Gamespot, and it is true. But again, the 
 game was more targeting a younger audience. Last, I have to agree that the story is uninteresting, 
 I did not really pay attention.
  
  Other than that, this is a great game. It is really fun, and a game every PS3 owner should have. 
 But have in mind, this is a game which is good looking and fun. It is not a great challenge.
  
  If you have in mind what I have said, and better don't care for it, you will have a 9.5 or 
 10 game. But I felt just a bit too old for this game, this is why I gave it 9.0!
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: dog64
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 20, 2007 12:36 pm PT
Review:  The Ratchet series sprung on the PS2 as being a great platformer and shooter rolled into one. With 
 all the weapons, gadgets, and action, it's hard not to love the Ratchet series. The series took 
 an odd turn with Deadlocked, which got rid of the platforming and adventure, and just had you competing 
 in arena battles the entire game. Thankfully, this game isn't like that, and it brings back the 
 Ratchet gameplay that we know and love.
  
  The story is that Ratchet and Clank receive a call from their green friend who is supposed to be 
 a super hero. Turns out, Ratchet's species is in danger and Ratchet and Clank set out to defeat 
 the dude who wants to do so. The story is sometimes hard to follow, but you do get the gist of 
 it and it gets better as the game progresses. 
  
  The game has a variey of gameplay. While Gamespot thinks that's a bad thing, it's not. The game 
 isn't flooded with gameplay mechanics so much that it makes the game seem like it's going through 
 an "idenity crisis". Rather, the game brings a good variety of gameplay to the table. Not only 
 will you be doing the standard jumping and shooting, you'll also be flying in beautiful space enviroments 
 in a starfox-like shootout. You'll also complete puzzles that require you to use the sixaxis. The 
 sixaxis controlls well, although sometimes it felt like it would be better to just use the analog 
 stick. But the sixaxis does do its job well and it is fun. None of the puzzles are very hard, but 
 some may require you to do over again a few times. Sometimes Clank goes solo. Here, you'll command 
 some alien-like creatures that can open doors, assemble things, and make Clank levitate. These 
 puzzles aren't as fun as playing Ratchet, but it does add another good dose of gameplay. 
  
  "All right, chief. What can we do you for"? You will hear that and many other funny comments 
 as you play the game. This particular phrase you will hear when you activate the vendors to purchases 
 weapons and weapon upgrades. There is a wide-variety of weapons, from your basic shooters to your 
 bombs and missles. There are also plasma beasts, which hide in the ground and then sprout up and 
 attack when an enemy approaches. Of course, there's also the disco ball that makes your enemies 
 dance to some nice disco music, even the bosses. Hands down, you'll never say there isn't enough 
 ammo. Bada bing, bada boom.
  
  The graphics are very colorful and crisp. Although not as colorful and cute as a game like Viva 
 Pinata, it still stands out as a great looking PS3 game. The framerate hardly ever slows down, 
 which makes the game run smooth and steady, even when there's plenty of action going on. The animations 
 are smooth, and the future-like enviroments look excellent as well. Just like the gameplay, the 
 graphics are solid.
  
  The sound is also solid. With explosive sound effects and great voice acting, along with funny 
 dialog, you'll think you're watching a great movie. The musical score of the game is basically 
 the same: to set the mood for shooting things. 
  
  When you finish the game, it's doesn't mean that it's over. The game is fun so you would want to 
 play it again, and now you have another reason to. After the credits, you can set the game to challenge 
 mode. In this mode, you can start the game from the start with all of your weapons and max health 
 intact. The difficulty is increased with the enemies doing more damage. So if you though the game 
 was too easy, challenge mode may satisfy you. But challenge mode doesn't make the game impossible 
 to play either. But it does bring an extra challenge, and a good reason to play the game again.
 
  
  Overall, this is a very excellent game, and the PS3 needed just that. If you have a PS3 and are 
 a fan of Ratchet, I'm sure you already own it 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dnshy
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 19, 2007 8:24 pm PT
Review:  I personally loved the previous entries in the series, so I had a pretty good idea what to expect 
 here and that's exactly what this game delivers. I have read gamespot and several other user's 
 reviews and I just don't understand how you couldn't enjoy this game. It's not meant to be anything 
 other than what it is and what's always been... a whacky easy platformer. If you have kids this 
 is one of the few games you can sit and play with them without having to worry about them seeing 
 violence or cussing that is so evident. This is only the 3rd ps3 title I have played and I really 
 don't have a bad thing to say about any of it so far. This and Assassins Creed are both amazing 
 graphically and a ton of fun to play. The other being motorstorm that was included was fine, just 
 not a big racing fan. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KaiserWebb
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 19, 2007 9:16 am PT
Review:  Graphics:
  Remember years back when people said Mario 64 was like playing a pixar movie, well looking back 
 they were off dramatically but Ratchet and Clank finally has reached that status of "playing a 
 pixar film". The graphics are stunning and the animation is top notch and in an industry obsessed 
 with photo realism its nice to see a Insomniac create a cartoony world but with an epic scale the 
 likes of which we haven't seen in any platformer up until now.
  
  Story:
  The story is top notch, best of the series, focusing on Ratchet and Clanks relationship to create 
 a story that is actually touching and the writing is still top notch as in all Ratchet and Clank 
 games.
  
  Gameplay:
  From the pitch perfect platforming, great level design and some of the best and most creative weapons 
 in not only the series but gaming history, the gameplay is truelly perfect, only one small problem 
 is the game is rather easy so dont expect challenge but do expect some of the most fun you have 
 had in a platformer in years =]
  
  Overall:
  This is the first MUST buy PS3 title, a great first next gen outing for the duo, Ratchet and Clank, 
 and by far the best game in the franchise.
  
  9.5/10
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: munu9
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 18, 2007 12:11 am PT
Review:  ---GAMEPLAY ---
  It's ratchet and clank! Yes, at it's core it's the same old gameplay, only more refined. You can 
 strafe easily and it has this close up over the shoulder view where you can use the R1 to fire. 
 Overall the controls and camera are very smooth. I couldn't really expect anything better.
  
  Now there are multiple game elements that set the game apart. First there is the use of motion 
 control. Such as when you're falling, when you're flying, when you controlling the hurricane. Thankfully 
 they're generally fun and light. The only time where I didn't want the motion control was when 
 you had to use it to control the visi-copter. It just seemed a bit forced.
  
  Then there are the space battles. They're similar to ones in size matters only I find them to better. 
 You control the ship and the gun fire at the same time using both analog sticks. It's not like 
 the ones in going commando, it's more linear. You go along the same path; you just move your ship 
 across screen. (2D wise) Some may find this to be kind of boring but I though it was okay... but 
 I could have lived without it.
  
  Unfortunately there are a few things that keep gameplay from being truly great. Specifically the 
 difficultly. It's pretty damn easy. Sure challenge mode is... challenging but I'm sure a lot of 
 ratchet and clank veterans would have wanted the normal single player to have the same difficulty 
 as challenge mode. Also, the easiness of the game somewhat makes it feel repetitive, but it isn't 
 a major problem, the gameplay is still great.
  
  I don't understand why gamespot lowered the score just because they were a lot of gameply mechanics. 
 At worst it didn't add to the game. It didn't detract anything from the game. It's more variety 
 than anything. While still keeping the core gameplay the majority of the gameplay.
  
  ---GRAPHICS ---
  Do I even have to say it? Tools of destruction's graphics are amazing. Everything 
 about the game is basically amazing. The textures, animations and the number of things that can 
 go on the screen at one time. The graphics are the some of the most vibrant I've ever seen. I don't 
 care what people say about SMG graphics. This ratchet and clank's graphics put SMG to shame.
  
  The minor complaints I would have is that sometimes the game doesn't look all that great. Specifically 
 some the textures in certain areas. Some areas don't look as good as the rest of the game. Insomniac 
 tried really hard to get the game running at 60 or near 60 frames per second. Which is very good. 
 But I'm sure they had to cut a few corners which most likely caused this minor graphics complaint.
 
  
  Another gripe would be the falling animation; when you fall off a ledge or something the animations 
 are pretty bland compared to the rest of the game. Only slightly better than ps2 falling animations. 
 But otherwise the graphics are amazing at 60fps! The frame rate does dip a few times but it dips 
 to 30fps! (never less)
  
  ---SOUND ---
  The sound of the game is also pretty good. The voice acting and explosions are quite nice. The 
 theme music is also very good in the way that it varies through the game. Some really powerful 
 theme music. Good, good, good! It's good but's not anything truly exceptional.
  
  ---VALUE ---
  How long is this game? It's a pretty decent length. If you don't rush through the 
 single player, maybe explore a little, it will take you about 12 hours to beat the game. Then there's 
 challenge mode which is fun. You unlock the omega weapons and you can upgrade them too. Plus the 
 golden groovitron (you'll find out)
  
  GAMEPLAY: 9.0
  GRAPHICS: 9.3
  SOUND: 8.5
  VALUE: 8.8
  
  ---Additional Note ---
  This game deserved higher than a 7.5. I think it's a 
 flaw of the grading scale they have now. What this game have gotten if we still used the old system? 
 At worst it would be a 9 in graphics, 7 in gameplay, 8 in sound, 7 in value, and 8 in tilt. Which 
 is still higher than 7.5. (about 8.0) But this new grading scale seems almost arbitrary. Kind like 
 a bloated tilt score from the original reviewing system. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: smootheyes2
Rating: 7
Date: Dec 17, 2007 5:17 pm PT
Review:  Ratchet and Clank games have always been good. The main focus was the shooting, and it's the same 
 for this one. The weapons are quite good, but basically the same as all the other Ratchet and Clank 
 games. The best addition was the Groovitron, which is as fun as it sounds. Another thing that lets 
 it down id the worlds you go to. Most of them are actually quite poor and linear. Usually there 
 are some little areas you can go to, but in this game, it's really linear with no other places 
 to go generally. The environments look good, but aren't fun at all really. They're really repetitive 
 with the same pirate crew being in 4 different worlds! It's really disappointing! The storyline 
 is quite confusing and lacking also. Thee's the big baddie as usual that you have to defeat, but 
 then there's another one that keeps coming back. It's really annoying. There are also too many 
 stupid mini game like the Pirate Jig and the same crack the code to open the door as usual.
  
  On the other hand, the enemies are still fun to destroy, and the weapons are generally good. 
 Some worlds look really good, but not many.
  
  Overall, it's a good solid game with a few too many things that disappoint. If you're a fan of 
 the series like I am, you might still like it, but it's pretty hard to love it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MorkkiTH
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 17, 2007 2:10 am PT
Review:  There has been lots of Rachet &amp; Clank games on PS2 but this one is first at the PS3 system. 
 Development team shows what PS3 is capable of. This game brings all together, graphics, sound, 
 story and characters are all great!
  
  Story starts when the city where Ratchet &amp; Clank are is attacked. Trough the game you will 
 learn more about Ratchets past but more secrets are revealed (what, you have play the game and 
 find out) . You will visit different planets, big cities and jungles where you will fight evil alien 
 power which is trying to destroy you and rule the galaxy. (Like always!)
  This game shows what PS3 is capable of and I think it's only scratches the unleashed power of PS3! 
 Sometimes this game looks like pixar animation movie, yes that good looking this game is! Ratchet 
 is modeled very well and you can see the all kinds of little details on characters and environments. 
 Cities has lots of things going on, flying cars, big TV: s, character ect. First you are just amazed 
 for all the things that are going on.
  When playing you collect bolts to get experience points. You level up yourself and weapons. But 
 let me tell you more about weapons. There is so much weapons and are all great. You will hard to 
 choose the weapon sometimes not because you are low on ammo, but because are weapons have their 
 own "good" thing and sometimes funny thing. You have groovitron which will make enemies dance at 
 the beat of disco and then when they dance you can shoot them with weapon which will change them 
 to penguins! Yes Penguins which are dancing! Then you can shoot the penguins on tornado launcher. 
 This is one thing that makes this game so great. Lots of great weapons! You can level up all the 
 weapons, first time you play the game you can only level up weapons to level 5 but when you play 
 the game on challenge mode you can level up weapons to 10. When leveling up the weapons they are 
 more powerful and get special attack mode.
  
  Not only the weapons are funny but also conversations of characters are fun to watch. Animation 
 is good with the voice of the characters. They have chosen good voice actors on this game. So, 
 in the end this game is all about having fun! If you die you die but you come back to fight the 
 evil power once more!
  
  There is hidden stuff to get, weapons, gold bolts and skill poinst. Getting these all will get 
 you busy for long time! But hey you will have lots of fun playing this games so go collect all 
 the things you can!
  I will be waiting more adventures of Ratchet &amp; Clank! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: biscuit9
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 13, 2007 2:00 pm PT
Review:  Very imaginative, makes great use of the potential power of the PS3. Downside it is kind of an 
 unimaginative storyline... Just started after buying it based on having ended up playing demo in 
 store and getting addicted. Definite change of pace from Mass Effect, Assasin's Creed and Crysis 
 (my current playlist) . This is a fun game, but more happy blue toast-like fun. Downside is kinda 
 confusing, having never played previous versions, what the point of the game is. Don't be looking 
 for some relatively deep Bioshock-type storyline. The characters are pretty shallow, and the humor 
 is not, well, very humorous. All things said, though, I am not disappointed with the purchase. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Fat_Boy_PT
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 13, 2007 12:21 pm PT
Review:  "Ratchet and Clank: Tools of Destruction" is quite simply one of the best games I've played in 
 my life. As I played, many times I found myself in awe, just thinking how amazing this game really 
 was. The graphics are stunning. From the first level, till the last, the design is magnificent. 
 It's full of life, colour, and detail. It's just plain beautiful, perhaps the best looking game 
 I've ever seen. The gameplay is entertaining. There's a huge variety of imaginative weapons which 
 are loads of fun to use. The controls are perfect. The sense of humour is "laugh out loud". The 
 story is simple, perhaps too simple and could have used more work but I was always interested in 
 seeing it progress and how it would end. The ending however is a bit of a letdown, with its obvious 
 nod to a sequel, almost as if this is only half of the game. Still it doesn't take anything away 
 from what is a gaming masterpiece. R&C is fun, fun, fun, from start to finish. It's not childish 
 or simple. It's a wild adventure, filled with great characters, and a challenging experience for 
 the casual gamer without being overly difficult. It really is a shame it didn't get all the praise 
 it deserved. It's a gaming experience, I'll always remember fondly, which was worth the price of 
 the PS3 just to play it 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wars45
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 13, 2007 2:55 am PT
Review:  well wher do i start with this game . it his the 1 ratchet a clank game iv played , and iam a big 
 fan after playing tools . its a joy from the start to the end i love it . the gameplay is fast 
 and a lot of fun it has stunning next gen hd visuals that u will see in eney game u play i think 
 its thebest looking game on the ps3 . u get awesome gadgets and outrageous weapons .. my favorite 
 weapon in the game is .the tornado launcher . i love useing that allso i love useing disco balls 
 and seeing u enemies dance . and u can allso turn u enemies into penguins .thats so cool u have 
 plasma beast which are u bodygurds they pack a meen punch . the razorclaws are cool allso u got 
 swinshot jetpack and too many cool things to use to name . but one of my favorites is the vi radio 
 controlled assault copter its ace . i love the game . its a big game to play and it starts of with 
 a bang and dose not let up. the futuristic worlds are the best iv seen to date .thers a lot to 
 do in the game . and u will go back to places u been to do something u havent done . if u a fan 
 its a must . if u not its a must the game is a joy go out and buy this .roll on the next 1 tools 
 rules 
  t 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GTA5Addict
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 12, 2007 8:59 pm PT
Review:  After the wildly successful Ratchet and Clank series on the PlayStation 2, and the critically acclaimed 
 Ratchet and Clank PSP game, Insomniac games has bought the franchise to Sony's next generation 
 console. Nothing has been lost in the transition to the PlayStation 3. With better enemy AI, crazier 
 weapons, and ridiculous graphics, the state of Ratchet and Clank is better than ever.
  
  The first impression of Ratchet and Clank future tools of destruction is: "Wow, this looks exactly 
 like a Pixar Movie" The background is full of life, with cars constantly moving back and forth 
 all over the screen. Another thing that is noticed right away is the sheer number of enemies on 
 the screen; now made possible with the cell processor of the Playstation 3. Even if you have never 
 played any game in the Ratchet and Clank series you can pick this game up and have a good time.
 
  
  You play as a Ratchet: a fury Lombax; along with his sidekick Clank: a toaster shaped robot. Ratchet 
 and Clank starts out with a message from Captain Quark (Ratchet and Clank's supposive Captain.) 
 He has been captured by an intergalactic robotic space armada, and of course Ratchet and Clank 
 have to go find him. Ratchet and Clank soon find themselves in the middle of a full scale attack 
 by Emperor Percival Tachyon, emperor of the Cragmites. The Cragmites were a race that destoryed 
 Ratchet's race: The Lombaxes. Its Ratchet and Clanks mission to stop Emperor Percival Tachyon from 
 getting and controlling a powerful weapon that is capable of wiping out the universe. Along the 
 way Ratchet finds about his past; which is interesting for long time Ratchet and Clank fans. Although 
 you should be warned; the story will end in a bit of a cliff hanger ending; which will be solved 
 in the next Ratchet and Clank game. Overall the ending does not do a very good job in tieing together 
 the story.
  
  While the story may not be one of Ratchet and Clank's strong points; the gameplay certainly is. 
 As soon as you take control of Ratchet the controls are very easy to pick up and control. The array 
 of weapons used is simply cool. Ranging from a simple blasting gun, to sending a tornado out, to 
 electrocuting your enemies with an electcric whip; the weapons keep the game very diverse. The 
 weapons could use a bit of balancing though; as you'll find that a handful of the same weapons 
 are the most effective. There are parts in the game were clank is controlled, which can sometimes 
 lead to some frustration; but this is a very little part of the game. Its is fun to upgrade your 
 weapons throughout the game, it really keeps you striving for a goal. There is also some pointless 
 sixaxis control parts. Thankfully, you have the option to turn the motion sensing off and simply 
 use the joystick.
  
  The sound in Ratchet and Clank really immerses you in the game. The different types of music kick 
 on and off at the right times. When you are running around killing hordes of enemies; an adventerous 
 music starts very similar to some of the music that Pirates of the Carribean uses during its fighting 
 scenes. The sound of the guns really makes you feel like your using the weapon with force. When 
 you hit an enemy it really makes it feel like your bluntly hitting the enemy because of the sound 
 effects.
  
  Ratchet and Clank simply looks amazing in 720p high definition. You can literally see the hairs 
 on Ratchet's face. There are no frame rate issues with the game, even when there are dozens upon 
 dozens of enemies, and numerous attacks on screen at once. When playing this game, you might as 
 well be playing a Pixar Movie.
  
  An average game player will finish Ratchet and Clank in about 10-12 hours. Once finished you can 
 go back and play on challenge mode; which offers different factors while playing through the game 
 again. You can also get skill points, and find hidden bolts. The game is pretty replayable in the 
 fact that its just flat out fun to play. You'll also probably want to upgrade all of your weapons 
 to their max. Unfortunately there is no online play like in the last Ratchet and Clank game for 
 the PlayStation 2. Past the main storyline there is nothing else to offer in Ratchet and Clank. 
 The game is probably a little bit too easy, using certain weapons just simply obliterates enemies.
 
  
  If you have a PlayStation 3 you should pick up Ratchet and Clank Future: Tools of Destruction. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: EoSCaboose
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 12, 2007 2:27 am PT
Review:  I have to say gamespot was really wrong about this game mostly because this is a better version 
 and the others wre exstrmly good and the fact of the matter is that if u liked the first 4 games 
 u will like this 1 too so pretty much if u liked the first 4 i reccomend picking this 1 up and 
 playing it. The Game Play Is increadable the same with the graphics in my book this is a really 
 good game and im picky about my games. So I really dont like this review by gamespot and i mean 
 this game went from PS2 graphic to amazing HD graphics. Game Spot U Disappoint me so much. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: styndall
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 11, 2007 6:34 pm PT
Review:  This game was not one that I was waiting for like GT5 or Little Big Planet but had I had known 
 how much I would enjoy it I would have been. I have always been a fan of Mario, Sonic and other 
 such platform games but was never comfortable with the 3D aspect that has been implemented with 
 these games over time. You though feel in control of Ratchet and you are not left struggling to 
 see what you are trying to do because of some awkward camera angle. 
  
  This game is a great mixture of gameplay styles and could keep most people interested for a long 
 time without them necessarily being into gaming. I really enjoy this game and think it showcases 
 the PS3 graphics and sixaxis controller well. 
  
  I have the dualshock 3 and while it does work as it claims it does not utilise the rumble as much 
 as I would have expected. I do recommend this game to anyone who was looking for a truly fun game 
 to add to their collection. 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: rac-1992
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 11, 2007 12:58 pm PT
Review:  I hate to say it but Gamespot was wrong about this game. They said the game was to easy but all 
 Ratchet and Clank games in the past was easy also. Another thing is what they said about the weapons 
 having something to do in the past, F. Y. I. it's called "Ratchet and Clank Future" so of course 
 some of the weapons in it's early precessors will be here but what they will look like in the future. 
 The gadgets and weapons in this game are awesome I espically like that they added the robo-wings 
 and the geo-laser those gadgets are the best. The weapons that are the best are theR. Y. N. O. VI (four) 
 and the tornado launcher which shoots outs tornadoes and can be control by the SIXAXIS controller.
 
  
  This game is the best game out there for kids, teens, adults anybody. The graphics are beautiful 
 the sound is almost perfect, above all it would be a great game to give to somebody on their birthday 
 or Christmas Wish List. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: luigisDAwinner
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 10, 2007 8:31 pm PT
Review:  they did a great job of bringing the old ratchet to next-gen. im not a big fan of change and like 
 the fact that they kept it pretty close to the original. SO MUCH BETTER THAN DEADLOCKED. the graphics 
 are amazing and the of course the weopns are awesome. they are awesome but not a whole lot of new 
 stuff kinda disappointing. although the disco thing was pretty sweet. i wish it was longer but 
 i guess had they made it too long it would have gotten old. if ratchet gets a great multiplayer 
 system it will be untouchable. keep em comin insomiac, you guys keep gettin better and better 
::::::

::::::
UserName: robertcain
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 10, 2007 10:08 am PT
Review:  This is the game I have been waiting for ever since Playstation 3 launched ( this is my first written 
 review) . Insomniac are the best ever and I have always played their games. I dont care what Gamespot 
 says about it, It is an absolute revoulution and every single PS3 owner should own this game. I 
 cannot wait for the sequel as much as I cant wait for the sequel to Resistence Fall of man. It 
 will be a huge success and Insomiac will be the best company in the history of game companies. 
 Wether it can top the likes of Halo 3 and Super Mario Galaxy is another matter. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FalconG1
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 7, 2007 5:56 pm PT
Review:  extremely fun, prety easy , great graphics and visual effects, long game, what else more could u 
 ask. just buy this game if you have a ps3 its THE BEST RATCHET AND CLANK EVER!!!! the only bad 
 thing is that its the esiest one but that still doesnt take away how fun it is. it took me 4 days 
 to beat while the others took me 2 weeks to beat so i guess u could say this ones alot shorter 
 than the others. or maybe its just the difficulty. but it gives kids a good way to just pick up a 
 controller and play and not get stuck on the game for 5 hours its a game that anyone can play so 
 go buy it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: robthemachine
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 7, 2007 7:34 am PT
Review:  I would have to say that out of all the great games that I have played this year such as Bioshock, 
 Halo 3, Crysis, Assassin's Creed, and Gears of War, Ratchet and Clank Future is the most enjoyable 
 game I have played so far. While games like Halo 3 and Gears of War can be played for a very long 
 time because of their replay value, Ratchet and Clank Future was just the most fun game I have 
 every played. I could not believe the amount of fun I had playing this game. The game also has 
 among the best visuals I have every seen, and while it couldn't compare to Crysis, the game still 
 looked visually amazing. The game is the best in its series and among the best games to come out 
 this year on any platform. If you have not played the series yet then I recommend that you give 
 this game a try, and if you have played and enjoyed the series, this is a must have. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pspman45
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 6, 2007 2:45 pm PT
Review:  the graphics were great, the game play got me to keep playing for 9 hours strait, the humor was 
 hilarious, it was fun getting the unlocklockables, and I'm probably still playing it now (Whats 
 not to like) overall TOD has the best graphics, the best gameplay, and the best in the series. 
 I seriosly think that you guys should give it a 10 if you lowered the score because of no multiplayer 
 SHAME ON YOU the multiplayer in Ratchet and Clank always made me want to PUKE so i say farewell 
 to the multiplayer . so giving the perfect game a 7.5 is an understatement of its beauty i give 
 it a 10 out of 10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: oceansandearth
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 6, 2007 8:32 am PT
Review:  Ever since the very first Ratchet & Clank, Insomniac Games has been garnering a fan-following that 
 very few platform game creators barring Miyamoto-san has achieved. Insomniac's last Ratchet & Clank 
 offering was Deadlocked way back in 2005 and therefore has come back to its beloved series in the 
 form of Tools Of Destruction. It has reverted to its original formula of action with dollops of 
 platforming for the fans who had complained of not enough platforming elelments in its last venture, 
 Deadlocked. 
  
  At the very beginning we find Ratchet and Clank being called by Captain Qwark who claims to be 
 attacked by an army of robotic warriors, who are then identified to be the minions of Emperor Percival 
 Tachyon, the last remaining member of the Cragmite species. In amidst all of the chaos Ratchet 
 finds himself to be the target of Tachyon, bent upon eliminating him, the last known member of 
 the Lombax species. The game is about Ratchet, escaping the clutches of Tachyon and finding out 
 more about himself and his species in the process. Not to be left out, Clank is also being affected 
 by little alien creatures called the Zoni, whom only he can see. The story tries to delve in the 
 history of Ratchet and Clank, who find out more about themselves and learn to trust each other 
 more deeply than before. However, the story ends on a disappointing note (read cliffhanger) and 
 refuses to play out more than to a certain point. This of course, leaves us anticipating for the 
 sequel.
  
  The game itself is played out in the Third Person mode and the core of the gameplay revolves around 
 shooting and platforming. A very healthy balance of these two elements make R&C a very fun and 
 immersive experience. The strength of R&C has always been the weapons, the crazy arsenal with which 
 you wreck havoc on the thousands of enemies that you encounter on your adventure and even this 
 time around, Insomniac delivers with its insanely creative mind. Though, Ratchet starts out with 
 the basic blaster, grenades and his wrench, as he explores and advances into the game he collects 
 more weapons and gadgets which he can either purchase or exchange for help given to other NPCs 
 (Non-Playable Character) . The currency used in the game is still the very familiar bolts which 
 Ratchet can earn by destroying enemies, boxes and crates and other objects encountered. The biggest 
 change introduced into the game is the customisable weaponry, that is, you can modify or upgrade 
 the weapons with attributes you would like such as more power, blast radius, ammo etc. Also, the 
 more you use the weapon, the better it becomes, it is just like Character/Object level up system 
 with experience points found in role-playing games. This new feature lends a nice touch to game.
 
  Clank remains more of the same using his fists and controlling "mini robots" to help him out in 
 his segments. These segments are more of platforming and puzzles which is great way to complement 
 the non-stop action in the Ratchet segments. There are also segments where you would engaging in 
 space battles with the scum of the galaxy, namely the space pirates. There are also segments where 
 Ratchet rolls up into a Gyro-Cycle, which is sphere like vehicle which the player has to navigate 
 through a series of obstacles. What is exceptional is that all this variety does not tend to tire 
 the player and enforces the feeling that Insomniac wanted this game to represent all that could 
 be done to entertain us. It is worth mentioning that TOD probably has the best usage of the Six-Axis 
 motion sensing. Whether you be guiding your fall from a HALO jump, gliding past obstacles using 
 Clank's new found wings or riding the Gyro-Cycle, the motion sensing is spot on. The only disappointment 
 was the Tornado Launcher, where it becomes really hard to control tornadoes using the motion sensing.
 
  
  
  One of the most entertaining factors about R&C is the humor. This is probably what makes R&C games 
 stand out, the efforts at humour, unpretentious and omni-present. Whether you would be making your 
 enemies do the disco with Groovitron or turning them into lovable penguins or probably taking a 
 dig at the hardware failure rate of a competing console, R&C does it all. My personal favourite 
 is the Pirate dance, where Ratchet has to dress up as a pirate and do a dancing mini-game.
  
  
  One of the strongest features of R&C is its graphical prowress and how! The game shines 
 through and through with its extensive use of vibrant colours. The lighting sets the game ablaze 
 and whether you are in the very first planet or the last, the visuals amaze you with its attention 
 to detail. The explosions, the enemies, the animated background does give that feeling that probably 
 the Playstation 3 has achieved what was promised for in the Playstation 2, real-time graphics which 
 reflect the quality of pre-rendered Pixar movies. There is quite a bit of activity going on the 
 screen, from multiple enemies to multiple vehicles moving in the background but there is never 
 a time where you feel that the frame-rates have dropped. Insomniac effort is a cut above the rest 
 as it has proved with successive games that consistent frame-rates are their forte. The game's 
 audio is also solid, whether be it the voice-overs or the sound-effects or the back-ground music. 
 The music suits the situation and has that "Platformy" feel to it. 
  
  
  Despite all of this, R&C is not flawless. The first complaint is the lack of difficulty in the 
 game. It's not that games need you to throw the console or the controller out of the window with 
 its difficulty but games should provide a sense of challenge to the player. This is probably where 
 R&C fails. Apart from the last few planets, the game is very easy. Also, there are so many gadgets 
 and weapons in the game, it will be such that some of them are almost useless and hardly convincing. 
 Later in the game, you will find yourself usingh only a few of them. Lastly, Insomniac can be accused 
 of not trying too hard to change the R&C formula. They have put in all the best features of the 
 previous games and added a few to come up with Tools Of Destruction. But is this really a point 
 for criticism? We need to ask ourselves this question. In this era of the next-gen where every 
 game takes itself too seriously, with its hues of grey and white, R&C is a breath of fresh air. 
 It is all about having a thoroughly good time and is very old-school in that respect. It is very 
 hard to hold this against Insomniac as they have yet again delivered a game which celebrates next-gen 
 while making you oblivious of your day-today worries as you pick up that controller one more time 
 to rid the galaxy of the scum.
  
  
  SCORE: 9/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Psychadelichaos
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 5, 2007 8:59 pm PT
Review:  i usually agree with gamespot but this deserved a higher rating then what they gave it, i don't 
 see how it has a "identity crisis" because without those "unnecessary" gameplay add ons whats left 
 to do besides shoot? everything they say is unnecessary usually isnt and adds fun to what would 
 be boring without it. so your falling down into the atmosphere and it lets you control ratchet 
 as you fall, ok so would i rather just watch this happening or would i rather dodge missiles myself? 
 would i rather just watch the locked doors open or would i rather unlock them myself with a gadget? 
 hmmm... its not so ridiculously easy, i never ended up using the same weapons over and over and 
 if you do that your gonna die alot more, if you use all the weapons equally you will be more successful 
 because you will end up with a full arsenal of powerful weapons rather then a few powerful ones 
 and several starter caliber ones. the only thing i agree with is the ending is a let down. great 
 sequel for die hard fans and newbies. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rocket1010
Rating: 7.5
Date: Dec 3, 2007 7:20 pm PT
Review:  Unfortunatly this one really sucked. I have played and beaten all the R and C games and this one 
 is the same thing as the last one. dif. storyline but generally the same game. graphics look good 
 in HD but if you don't have an HD tv than don't bother with this reapeat of a game. I mean don't 
 get me wrong, I love me some big asplosions but still... It's the same freeken game as the last 
 one. A couple twists and turns more than the last one but still I want bigger and better guns not 
 some soap opera of a $60 video game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ross2211
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 3, 2007 12:56 pm PT
Review:  best yet best yet best yet best yet best yet best yet best yet best yet best yet best yet best 
 yet best yet best yet best yet best yet best yet best yet vbest yet best yet best yet best yet 
 best yet best yet best yet best yet best yet best yet best yet best yet best yet best yet best 
 yet best yet best yet best yet best yet best yet best yet best yet best yet best yet best yet best 
 yet best yet best yet best yet best yet best yet best yet best yet best yet best yet best yet best 
 yet best yet best yet best yet best yet best yet best yet best yet best yet best yet best yet best 
 yet best yet best yet best yet best yet best yet best yet best yet best yet best yet best yet best 
 yet best yet best yet best yet best yet best yet best yet best yet best yet best yet best yet best 
 yet best yet best yet best yet best yet best yet best yet best yet best yet best yet best yet best 
 yet best yet best yet best yet best yet best yet best yet best yet best yet best yet best yet best 
 yet best yet best yet best yet best yet best yet best yet best yet best yet best yet best yet best 
 yet best yet best yet best yet best yet best yet best yet best yet best yet best yet best yet best 
 yet best yet best yet best yet best yet best yet best yet best yet best yet best yet best yet best 
 yet best yet best yet best yet best yet best yet best yet best yet best yet best yet best yet best 
 yet best yet best yet best yet best yet best yet best yet best yet best yet best yet best yet best 
 yet best yet best yet best yet best yet best yet best yet best yet best yet best yet best yet best 
 yet best yet best yet best yet best yet best yet best yet best yet 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bodboy466
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 2, 2007 4:39 pm PT
Review:  When I saw the review for this game, although I try to ignore 'professional" opinions, with a 7.5 
 I was a little worried about the game itself, but I was moreso skeptical of the review since it 
 really didn't line up with any other reviews. 
  
  After playing through the game, I'm not so sure the reviewer was even paying attention. There's 
 mention of "crisis of identity" but I'm just not seeing it. In the first hour I laughed more than 
 any game has ever made me laugh before. The weapons are as varied and enjoyable as ever, along 
 with the introduction of a new class called Combat Devices which are sometimes silly, sometimes 
 super handy, but at all times very Ratchet & Clank. Though, that is not what the reviewer was referring 
 to, but rather the variation of modes to an extreme, but once again I don't see it. In fact, there 
 isn't too much different from the way the previous games were broken up storywise. Really, there's 
 just the same R&C goodness we've come to know and love. But that's enough about GS, because this 
 really isn't about them; it's about the wonderful game that is Ratchet & Clank Future: Tools of 
 Destruction.
  
  With the step to the PlayStation 3, Ratchet & Clank are looking in a new direction from the usual 
 "Save the Universe" formula. With this iteration they're looking more within themselves. I'm going 
 to avoid getting too much into the story, just to avoid spoilers. I'll just say that it's probably 
 the best one in the series (thus far) . 
  
  Weapons take from the previous iterations quite a bit, but that in no way means you won't be getting 
 your fill of new goodies to mess with. One notable addition is the Tornado Launcher which does 
 exactly what it sounds like: launches tornados. It's quite an impressive weapon controlled by the 
 Sixaxis leaving you open to pull out another gun and shoot away rather than focusing all of your 
 attention on it, leaving you open to attack. But it should be noted that camera adjustments can 
 throw off your control of the tornado. This can be pretty annoying, but it can be adjusted to. 
 
  
  Another notable tool is a pretty well known one, the Groovitron. This is part of the tool set known 
 as Combat Devices that don't upgrade. They're sort of like "items" in that respect. This particular 
 device makes any nearby enemies dance, and I mean *any* enemies. Even bosses aren't immune. 
  
  The platforming elements are, of course, still present and accounted for, from jumping from 
 island to island, to HALO jumps (skydiving in a battlefield) , to a sort of "race bubble." And just 
 like always there's the spacefighting but it's defintely not a major point in the game. 
  
  True enough, this game can be quite easy, but not so easy that it doesn't keep things interesting. 
 I've never really considered Ratchet & Clank games to be about challenge so much as over-the-top 
 humor and fun with destruction. And like all titles in the past, this one does it very well. Congratulations 
 to Insomniac on another hit! I look forward to the next one! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: yas5938
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 1, 2007 5:51 pm PT
Review:  This game is worth the 60 dollar spent on it. The weopons were the best I'v used yet and they are 
 all fun to use. It is definetly longer than it's predecessors and is even more fun. I still havn't 
 beaten it because I want the awesomeness of the game to last. I still havn't beaten it because 
 I want the awesomeness of the game to last. I still havn't beaten it because I want the awesomeness 
 of the game to last. I still havn't beaten it because I want the awesomeness of the game to last. I 
 still havn't beaten it because I want the awesomeness of the game to last. I still havn't beaten 
 it because I want the awesomeness of the game to last. I still havn't beaten it because I want the 
 awesomeness of the game to last. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Latinbro1
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 10, 2008 11:04 am PT
Review:  Ratchet and Clank Future steps up to the PS3 and in it's first appearance on the system it delivers 
 quite a punch. To start off, the game is simply graphically stunning. The scenery is always something 
 that can be appreciated in this game. From huge metropolis-like cities to abandoned planets, the 
 game has a lot of depth in the visuals. Characters are as animated as ever. There are little subtleties 
 about the characters' movement that easily allows one to be involved in them. Now, the story is 
 not that deep but it is entertaining and definitely leaves you wanting more at the ending. In fact, 
 it is the best told story in the Ratchet and Clank Universe (UYA being a close 2nd in my opinion) . 
 The stars of this franchise are the weapons, and they don't disappoint. However, by now fans of 
 the series will have noticed that there are always your standard guns, shotguns, rocket/grenade 
 launchers, and blade luncher. That is not to say that they are not fun but some of thee weapons 
 leave you feeling like you've seen them before. The customizations are slightly deeper by allowing 
 people to control which weapons will be more powerful, have more ammo, and have more range effect. 
 I like tye upgrade system but i wish they kept deadlock's approach and allowed users choose their 
 added effects, instead of having a predetermined effect assigned after a full upgrade. The enemies 
 are easy but I assume that that is what allows the game to be rated "E" for everyone. The sixaxis 
 controls are used nicely (they are simple to grasp and entertaining when they do appear) . Overall, 
 the game is worth playing and being part of your collection. The game has some really goofy moments 
 with pirates and those rusty robots that help you along the way. This game doesn't break new ground 
 but it always brings the fun (enhanced by the always present skill points, bolt collecting, and 
 the stupid/funy weapons; groovatron & pinguinator) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: smartgun91
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 30, 2007 4:32 pm PT
Review:  AFTER PLAYING THE GAME I FOUND THAT THE INSOMNIAC CREW HAS DONE IT AGAIN. BEGING A FAN OF THIS 
 GAME SINCE THE GAME THAT STARTED IT ALL I FEEL THAT THE GAME IF NOT FALL SHORT OF MY EXPECTATIONS, 
 FOR THE ADDICTIVE WEAPONS ; SOME WITH SIMILARITIES OR FAMILIARITIES AN MISSIONS TO THE HUMORUS 
 CHARACTERS, ALTHOUGH I MISS THE ORIGINAL ADORABLE FACE THE HEROIC LOM BAX IVE BEEN CRAVING TO SEE 
 WHERE THE NEXT GAME AFTER DEADLOCKED WOULD TAKE ME. EVEN LEVELS FEELS AS IF IT HAS ITS OWN STORY 
 OR A PIECE OF THE PUZZLE, THE LAY OUT AND GRAPHICS ARE VERY IMPRESSIVE. THE IMMERSES YOU FOR THE 
 BEINING BEAUTIFULLY WITH A GOOD MIX OF PLATFORMING AND SHOOTING WHILE DROPING YOU DIRECTLY INTO 
 THE PS3 PROCESSING MODEL.
  
  THE DISTINICTIVE STYLE OF RACHET AND CLANK GAMES CAN NOT BE IGNORED. WASN'T PLANNING ON GIVING 
 AWAY ANY OF THE NEW THINGS BROUGHT TO THE TABLE, THE WITH SOME OF THE NEW FEATURES LIKE THE WAY 
 TO UP-GRADE YOUR WEAPON IS SURE TO KEEP YOU BUSY, GIVING YOU MORE "BANG FOR THE BUCK". AS FOR ME 
 MY FAVORITE WEAPON; OBVIOUSLY IS THE DISCP BALL - OF COARSE. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DigitalWatch
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 30, 2007 3:51 am PT
Review:  This was a game many people were waiting for-one of the exclusives that Sony has managed to keep 
 solely for the PS3 audience. Sadly it was delivered without enough fanfare, being washed-over by 
 the mass amount of other "must-have" games that came out during the release date. Make no mistake 
 though-just because you haven't heard as much about it doesn't mean it's not worth playing. And 
 for those fans of this series, it is worth playing.
  
  As stated by previous people the game from start to finish is a tad bit too easy. But I at least 
 took that in stride to just simply have fun with the game instead of trying to battle through on 
 Veteran difficulty. The variety of weapons has always, and continues to be my favorite part of 
 the game and they're definitely not lacking here. The weapon-select system is also insanely fluid 
 and in less than a second you can switch between everything you've collected. The only fault about 
 the weapons system that I could pick out is that when you've leveled up the Swarmers to V5 with 
 full upgrades, the thing is so powerful that you drop one, stand back, and watch your enemies explode. 
 It takes away a bit of the (little) challenge that's in the game. I usually just switched between 
 all the weapons I had to fight a boss because it's simply more fun that way.
  
  Unlike some of the other titles, you start with all the flying/underwater/gravityboot gear that 
 you normally had to collect. Instead you collect pieces of a blue-print throughout the game that 
 turn into a weapon, or golden bolts that let you unlock extra features of the game i. e. costumes 
 to run around in. Just a little different spin on things to make it less rinse-and-repeat. There 
 are, however, still sections on planets that you cannot get to right away and have to come back 
 to once you get different weapons so, like previously, you've got to remember all the interesting 
 things you found but couldn't get to at that moment.
  
  Arena battles are back but sadly in short supply! They are a fun segment of the game but there 
 just simply aren't enough of them. Also lacking are longer grind-rail segments-the one long one 
 in the game is really just too easy. Unless you have a dog to walk in front of your TV and block 
 your view then you'd be hard-pressed to die at all. 
  
  Story-line wise I thought it was pretty good, granted that you know all the quirks of the returning 
 characters. The ending wasn't so blaringly blatant about a sequel as a slap in the face but the 
 programmers definitely have that intention. And why not? Afterall this is the, what, 6th... 7th? 
 installment in this game series. I, for one, wouldn't not complain about more.
  
  Now for the bad.. or rather, just irksome.
  
  The campaign was short. Not super short, just 
 short. And normally that is OK, but the game didn't come with any multiplayer whatsoever; and sans-multiplayer 
 combined with a short campaign is a thumbs-down in my book. With the cost of games nowadays I can't 
 justify spending the same amount of money on something that gets 6-10 hours of my time vs. open-ended 
 multiplayer.
  
  Replay value . . ? Like the others, when you finish you can start immediately over from the beginning, 
 but with everything you've collected throughout the whole game. The only problem is, they didn't 
 seem to make the difficulty harder (or if they did I didn't notice) . Also, you cannot continue 
 leveling your weapons up. You can collect massive amounts of bolts because of a "bolt-multiplier" 
 system they integrated but I didn't see anything new to buy, and I had already had everything before 
 I finished the game the first time. Granted I didn't play all the way through the second go so 
 there might have been new things I didn't see after the 4th level.
  
  Other than that I can't really find much fault with the game. The controls were great, the graphics 
 were very crisp and still maintained the normal cartoon-style from previous games. They integrated 
 6-axis very well in a couple of mini-games/segments. Overall it is a well-polished final product. 
 It's not the best installment of the series but it is a definite play. If more content was included 
 then it would easily be pushing a 9 to 10.
  
  Final score -- 8.0
  
  C. Leschinsky
  (Digitalwatch)
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: fortysix_too
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 29, 2007 3:50 am PT
Review:  I had to write a short review of this game just in case some kid out there is on the fence out 
 there about this game and read the gamespot review. I have to say this is a really fun game. I 
 just got my PS3 a couple of weeks ago and I went and got this and Heavenly Sword right away. I 
 have hardly played Heavenly Sword because I was so into this game. I liked that game, but I just 
 loved this one. It has awesome graphics, great music and sound, great, exciting, explosive action, 
 and a decent story. I don't think you could ask for much more out of a platformer these days. I 
 haven't played Mario Galaxy yet, but I can't see how it could be THAT much better. This game is 
 just that good. It has VERY good replay value as well, with all the collectibles and harder difficulties. 
 I loved every minute of this game, and I think anyone who likes platformers should, too. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PS360Fanboy
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 28, 2007 11:12 pm PT
Review:  I have never previously played a Ratchet & Clank game before, but as soon as i saw details of what 
 this titled promised to deliver, I knew it was a shoe-in that I would want it. My PS3 has sat proudly 
 in my TV unit getting increasing use over the last few months, but has been longing for a real 
 showcase of its abilities. And along came R&C. 
  It is worth pointing out that there is an installation glitch in this title, whereby it will claim 
 that you have insufficient space on your hard-drive. Fear not, it's easily resolved by adding or 
 deleting about 500MBs of content from the drive, such as a demo or a couple of movie clips you 
 may have downloaded from the store. 
  Once into the game, you're presented with a fantastically details world. There is plenty going 
 on in the background to create the illusion that you're immersed in something on a grand scale. 
 
  
  The controls are spot on, and the camera usually knows where to point. Only on a couple of occasions 
 have I found it in the wrong place, which a flick of the right analogue stick will usually correct. 
 
  The utilisation of the SIXAXIS motion controls are exactly how I would want them - ie. There are 
 parts of the game that require you to use it, but they are sensible and actually seem to benefit 
 from that control method. Under no occasion does the motion-sensing seem contrived or tacked on. 
 
  The creativity and originality in the game is excellent, and the voice acting and script are very 
 well done. There's some great humour in this game, which is carried off far better than most could 
 hope. 
  I don't profess to be very good at this kind of game, but even with my limited skills I have done 
 quite well so far (I think) . You get a decent sense of achievement and the game encourages you 
 to think outside the box. 
  There are optional side-quests for the more highly-skilled gamer to add an extra degree of challenge, 
 but for the humble semi-casual gamer such as myself, it's an excellent gaming experience. 
  
  I fully recommend this title to anyone looking for a decent and most importantly Fun title 
 to add to their PS3 collection. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ken1311
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 28, 2007 4:39 pm PT
Review:  The Ratchet and Clank series still goes as Ratchet and Clank Tools of Distruction comes out. Ratchet 
 and Clank is one of the BEST game ever made... I have all the Ratchet and Clank games from the 
 first... and this is one of the best one that I have... This Ratchet and Clank is masterfull. Its 
 like the others but continues... witch makes it real good. This is one of the games that gets u 
 playing all day. And this game may be $60 but it was worth it. Graghics, gameplay, weapons, fighting, 
 ... it cant get better than that... They should keep on makin' Ratchet games... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Oxymandias
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 5, 2008 2:17 am PT
Review:  We know what to expect.. Cartoon weapon madness with quirky humor filled plot line that keeps us 
 interested. Apart from the Ratchet "Deadlocked" I've been very pleased with the Ratchet and Clank 
 games. The new next-gen addition is a fantastic addition. Both my girl and myself have enjoyed 
 playing through the game first time and a couple of times though in challenge mode.
  
  Graphics and Audio are best ever.. Humor fantastic. My only gripe is that some of Pirate ship bosses 
 where simply a matter of keeping your finger on the trigger. Would have been nice to have had to 
 shoot something guys?
  
  If you enjoy platformers and/or have enjoyed the Ratchet series on the PS3 this is a must buy.
 
  
  Now I must get back to teaching Tachon how to dance to my Ryno iV... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: topher78714
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 27, 2007 1:24 pm PT
Review:  Ratchet and Clank Future: Tools of Destruction is a game that any PS3 owner should pick up. Like 
 the rest of the R&C games you play as Ratchet who is the only Lombax left to his knowledge, and 
 clank who is his robot companion. The humor during this game is out time laugh out loud funny. 
 In this game Ratchet discovers why he is the last Lombax remaining and what happened to the rest 
 of his kind while battling the Cragmite (a race of fish like aliens) emperor. The game plays really 
 well and utilizes the motion controls often, however do not make them too excessive or difficult 
 to master. The game will take an experienced player anywhere from 8-12 hours to complete on the 
 first time through. After completing the game, you then have the option to begin challenge mode 
 and play through the game again on a harder difficulty level with all the weapons and armor you 
 have collected from your first run through. Better than the game play however, is just how beautiful 
 the game looks. It doesn't matter if you are playing on a SDTV or HDTV this game will look beautiful 
 on either one. Yes of course on a HDTV you will be able to see each hair on Ratchet's fur and more 
 detail work, but even on a SDTV this game still looks awesome. There are also sequences in the 
 game where you play an almost "Starfox" type space shooter where you are running from and shooting 
 down space pirates. So though the first run through of this game may be short, it will leave you 
 wanting to constantly return to it to keep trying to find more and more gold bolts and upgrade 
 everyone of your weapons to see just how destructive they can be. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ToxicInferno
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 27, 2007 9:29 am PT
Review:  Platformers aren't usually very popular. I mean, yeah, Super Mario, Sonic, Crash bandiccot etc 
 are.... but people tend to think of them as kids games.
  
  Ratchet and Clank, along with Jak and Daxter have always been different.
  
  This trend follow 
 with Tools Of Destruction. It just isn't a rubbish kids game at all, it's very solidly built, with 
 good storylines, good characters, and excellent controls.
  
  With the removal of any multiplayer modes, you would think that they are going back to basics. 
 But you'd be wrong. |It turns out that the game is virtually full, due to the size, detail and 
 length of the story!
  
  The amount of detail even extends to being able to update each weapon as you like, and even being 
 able to choose how Clank works, to a slight extent.
  
  Talking about the weapons, there are loads! ranging from the common grenades, to brand new weapons. 
 Ones that shoot green goo, that can be used to climb on, or attack enemies, to the infamous groovitron: 
 a disco ball that forces enemies locally to start dancing!
  
  So the lack of multiplayer is completely made up for. Entirely.
  
  The graphics are incredible. 
 Something which reminds you that buying a PS3 wasn't a bad decision. The actual gameplay fits in 
 seamlessly with the cutscenes, to such extent that I sat there for about 30 seconds the first time 
 I played it, thinking that it was still a cutscene, before realising that I could move Ratchet!
 
  
  However, as much as I said that the lack of 2-player and online is made up for, it is sad for it 
 not to be there. After talking to mates, we all agree that another feature that is waiting to be 
 released, and will hopefully be featured sooner or later is what we have Christened....
  
  PIMP MY CLANK! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Anamosa41
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 26, 2007 8:50 pm PT
Review:  This is tied with Resistance: Fall of Man for the best game I have played on the PLAYSTATION 3. 
 Why? Because it is so exciting and unique! The weapons are amazing, the graphics are amazing, and 
 the sound is amazing just to name a few things. Here's my take on Ratchet and Clank Future: Tools 
 of Destruction.
  
  First let's start with the story. Ratchet and Clank are on vacation when they are interrupted by 
 Emperor Percival Tanchian (I think that is how to spell that name) who hates Lombaxes for some 
 reason you will learn in the game. In the game Ratchet searches for answers about his race and 
 past while Clank is trying to figure out what some little creatures want with him. What is interesting 
 is the fact that the game's ending begs for a sequel.
  
  The sound in the game is also very impressive. I can't hook my surround sound up to my PS3 but 
 it still was impresive. Everything sounds great. Explosions are fantastic and the voice acting 
 is very good!
  
  The graphics are so close to being on par with Pixar. In some places it is but there are spots 
 that could be better but overall the graphics are very impressive.
  
  You can't talk about a game made by Insomniac without talking about the weapons. They are SO unique 
 and fun! They range from electric whips to monsters of gunk attacking your foes. They really come 
 in handy!
  
  Now, the main reason why this game is so good is the fact that once you finish it (Which doesn't 
 take very long) you can go back in a harder difficulty and try new stuff AND explore the levels 
 for things you never saw in the first or second time play the game. So this really adds to the 
 replay value in the game.
  
  I give this game a 9.8 (I would put that as my rating if GS didn't have crap for a rating system) 
 for being so deep and addictive. 
  
  BTW this won't be your last game in the series if it is you first time playing a R&C game.
  
 
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: warewolf77
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 26, 2007 5:50 pm PT
Review:  This is a great game but like the review says it has no plot. I played all the R&C games so far 
 and they have all ways been funny and exciting..... not so much in this one. You should still buy 
 it because the fighting and game-play is still amazing. But you might be disappointed when see 
 the cut scene. All around great game. I still think it is a awesome game and a must have for PS3 
 owners. Oh and the guns are the best thing ever. Thats probably the biggest reason i got this game. 
 Who knew such arsenal existed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JMZorko
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 26, 2007 4:58 pm PT
Review:  This is the most fun i've had on my PS3, easily. It's super fun to play, gorgeous to look at, and 
 I giggled more than a few times while playing it (especially wearing the pirate costume and doing 
 the jig) . Outfitting Ratchet with all of the latest weapons (nano-swarmers rock!) was mega fun, 
 visuals are superb, the framerate is super smooth, and making your enemies dance underneath a disco 
 orb is just too funny :-) So far, this is by far the most fun i've had on my PS3, and I really 
 hope more games like this are released for it :-) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xkal318
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 25, 2007 9:55 pm PT
Review:  Ratchet And Clank Future: Tools Of Destruction is one of the games that you will keep on playing 
 for years to come. I had way more fun playing it than Ninja Gaiden Sigma. The controls just felt 
 looser and the worlds are more immersive. The story is tight and keeps the player waiting for the 
 next piece of information to move on to discover the greater story of the characters involved. 
 The levels are amazing. The graphics are outstanding. The gameplay is superb. It could always have 
 been longer, but like any other platformer, they tend to eedge off around 8 to 16 hours. I cannot 
 wait for the Ratchet And Clank Future 2 because i can always expect quality from this franchise 
 when it comes to story development, gameplay, visuals, and control. This game belongs in any Playstation 
 3 owner's collection. Next on my radar is Assassin's Creed, stay tuned... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: catana431
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 25, 2007 5:11 pm PT
Review:  This is my first ratchet and clank game and I am very surprised. Before i was under the impression 
 that this was a kiddie game, not a serious one. However this is hands down the best game for PS3 
 to date (that might change with assassins creed.) if you are returning to the ratchet and clank 
 series then it will be a welcome experience. Tools of Destruction improves on the previous games 
 a lot. The weapons are all that you would expect from Ratchet and Clank. The baddies are not that 
 difficult but still fun. Finally a great story and awesome graphics tie the whole thing together. 
 The only let down is the difficulty. But it is easy to overlook this with all the action presented. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Spoonful
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 24, 2007 4:19 pm PT
Review:  Playing a Ratchet & Clank game is a bit like listening to a new AC/DC record: you know exactly 
 what you're going to get before the disc hits the tray. It's probably only a matter of time before 
 the Insomniac PR types begin dressing like school boys and start paraphrasing Angus Young famous 
 quotation: it's an outright lie that they've made four games that play the same, it's actually 
 been five.
  
  The experimental but fan dissociating Deadlocked/Gladiator aside, the Ratchet & Clank games have 
 all followed the same basic structure: you play as the weird chinchilla/furry  
 creature Ratchet as he ventures around the universe with his robot/Lego person/50's-looking-android 
 buddy Clank attempting to stop a suitably evil villain type. So you jet from planet to planet picking 
 up gadgets and guns while the marvellous Captain Qwark hinders you in his irrepressible attempts 
 to help. Tools of Destruction does exactly nothing to meddle with the formula. But by God is it 
 pretty.
  
  Remember the bold proclamation of Pixar quality graphics? Turns out they just got the generation 
 wrong. Tools of Destruction is a beautiful game. Even by the ridiculously high graphical standards 
 of late, the first current gen iteration of Ratchet & Clank still stands out as a spectacular looking 
 game. Most games have a weak graphical link somewhere but everything in Tools of Destruction looks 
 phenomenal, from the fur on Ratchet's ears to the huge explosions your weapons bring about. The 
 planets are the visual stars of the game, diverse but with a cohesive look, vibrant but never overpoweringly 
 bright, and filled with genuinely spectacular lighting effects. There's so much going on in the 
 backgrounds of the planets that they really feel alive.
  
  The graphics may have made a pretty impressive leap forward but the gameplay, well, kinda hasn't. 
 But after five games, Insomniac really do have the Ratchet & Clank formula down to a fine art. 
 The Ratchet games are always pigeon holed as platformers, which is true in the sense that yes, 
 there are platforms and yes, you do have to jump between. Since Going Commando, the emphasis has 
 been on collecting and firing an array of ludicrous weaponry. It's weird to think of such a cute 
 and fluffy game as a shooter, but that's exactly what Tools of Destruction is; a third person shooter 
 that gives you grenades that turn baddies into penguins and a gun that fires controllable tornadoes.
 
  
  Even the controls are shooter like. At least, once you've been to the options menu and changed 
 them. When you first fire up Tools of Destruction the controls are set up as per a third person 
 platformer, which gives you a crapload of camera problems and means you're relying on lock on targeting. 
 Switching to the 'Lock-Strafe' setting irons out most of the camera issues (it still plays up on 
 occasion but it's nowhere near as awkward) , puts a cross hair on the screen, and opens up circle 
 strafing, which makes the heavier fire fights a fair bit easier.
  
  While you're in the options menu, it's probably best to switch off the sixaxis stuff. Tools of 
 Destruction doesn't go overboard with the motion controls, only using them in the occasional mini-game, 
 but given you need to complete the mini-games to progress and having to tilt the controller around 
 makes them a lot tougher, more frustrating, and brick walls the game's momentum, turning the motion 
 sensing off actually improves the game. It does mean that you can't steer the tornado gun's projectiles 
 around but the rest of Ratchet's arsenal, which includes a disco ball grenade that makes the baddies 
 dance, take up the slack. The mini-game ideas are interesting, involving laser guiding and tilting 
 a circuit board around to fill in missing contacts, but the sixaxis just doesn't feel responsive 
 enough to make them fun.
  
  Mini-games and a few on rails space shooter sections aside Tools of Destruction play like, well, 
 a Ratchet & Clank game. You land on a planet, amble down some pretty linear paths (though some 
 of the planets in Tools of Destruction feel a lot more open) , shoot baddies with guns that level 
 up with use, leap, glide, swing, or grind between platforms, and have an absolute whale of a time 
 because the Ratchet & Clank games have always been incredibly fun. And incredibly easy. You have 
 infinite lives and rarely respawn too far from the point you died at, though you'll probably not 
 be dying all that often. Some of the larger scale fire fights need some strategy (if noticing that 
 hiding behind a rock stops the enemy bullets hitting you is all that strategic) but there's nothing 
 hair tearingly difficult here. Death being nothing more than a minor convenience is either a god 
 send or a crippling lack of challenge depending on your point of view but it does make Tools of 
 Destruction more accessible. Even with the lack of serious challenge it'll take about ten or twelve 
 hours to blast through the story, which unlocks a far more difficult challenge mode.
  
  You can work out Tools of Destruction's main problem yourself. Have a quick look back through the 
 review and pick out the number of variations on "Like in the old games!" Hell, turn it into a drinking 
 game. Tools of Destruction is Ratchet & Clank game but prettier. And that's not a bad thing really, 
 unless you hated the previous games, obviously. But if you loved the PS2 games you'll likely love 
 Tools of Destruction. If you're never played a Ratchet & Clank game before but you're the typical 
 starved for software PS3 owner and you like 3rd person shooters/platformers then you'll enjoy Tools 
 of Destruction. And it's just so pretty. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: insomniac_dog
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 6, 2008 5:06 pm PT
Review:  The Ratchet & Clank series (made by Insomniac games) has always set the benchmark for both the 
 adventure and platforming genres in each and every game in the franchise, and Tools of Destruction 
 is no different. With the power of the PS3, ToD provides us with the best and biggest R&C adventure 
 yet!
  
  Ratchet and Clank start the game in Metropolis a massive, futuristic city which never sleeps. They 
 get a message from Captain Qwark, a superhero fraud who is always a coward and relies on the duo 
 to do his dirty work. It seems the planet is under attack! After the first level, R&C sets off 
 to the Polaris Galaxy in search of answers to questions of their origins. Why is Ratchet the last 
 Lombax in existance? Why was the invading army after Ratchet? What is the Lombax secret? And why 
 does Clank keep on seeing tiny hovering robots that only he can see?
  
  The story is surprisingly engaging and some cutscenes contain a cliffhanger quality to them. Previous 
 R&C games only had a "good vs. evil" type plot, but you'll find yourself wrapped in this epic storyline. 
 The graphics are absolutely mind-boggling, spell-binding and breath-taking. Even the swampy, murky 
 levels are so crisp and vibrant, let alone the cities filled with skyscrapers and hovercars. The 
 draw distance is basically endless. The attention to detail is also superb. The sounds of explosions 
 and firepower are sharp and suitable, and the music gives the gameplay that extra excitement. 
 
  
  ToD has some new gameplay enhancements, too. Space combat from GC (Going Commando, the second Ratchet 
 game) has been heavily tweaked, and these new on-rails shooter sections are definitely exhilirating. 
 There are new gadgets and items, like the Gyro-Cycle, a small ball that you can roll around in. 
 The Decryptor, which hacks into machinery to open up new doors and areas. There's also a pirate 
 disguise, and you'll have to use it to get past pirate-only levels. Apart from the platforming 
 and combat sections, these new additions are welcome, and provide tons of fun and sometimes quite 
 a challenge.
  
  This brings me to the weapons, and boy are they cool! Insomniac have done it again, and now you 
 can command a massive arsenal of firepower to unleash on your foes. It's hard to describe the sheer 
 joy of buying, upgrading and using these amazingly creative weapons. The game also makes you use 
 each one evenly, so you'll never replace one gun with another. There are also the "Devices" which 
 add a strategic element to the combat. There's the addictive Groovitron, which throws out a disco 
 ball which makes your enemies start to dance. Another device is the Transmorpher, which turns your 
 foes into harmless penguins. There's an overall of 31 weapons, gadgets and devices to use, and 
 they're all excrutiatingly enjoyable.
  
  Humour is still so very funny, and the game has a sense of clever wit, but the game can't go wrong 
 with slapstick either. Replay value is still amazing, and you can collect skill points, Leviathan 
 souls, holo-plans, gold bolts and numerous weapon upgrades. There's easily 20+ hours there to enjoy. 
 There's also a Challenge Mode, which is complete walkthrough of the main game but harder. It's 
 basically infinite replay value.
  
  Overall, this is a must-buy. ToD is fun, fun, fun and is surrounded by amazing visuals (the PS3's 
 best on offer) , varied and enjoyable gameplay, great humour and sound as well as the the other, 
 little things which add up to a big package. PlayStation 3 owners, acquire this game immediately! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pigsybum
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 23, 2007 6:29 am PT
Review:  I've just completed it today. It was really a tears-dropping scenario at the end where ratchet 
 and clank had to seperate althought half they time, their bodies were sticking to one another.
 
  The storyline starts out pretty plain i would say, and so ratchet received a video chat from his 
 captain, the superhero? well the vilians techrone caught him and made him a commentary job at the 
 arena lol!!!
  Well, the story isn't bad, i quite like the ending, it was really a emotion moment and makes for 
 a second episode of R&C future. Ratchet and clank sometimes do makes some jokes, but only 1/3 of 
 them actually would make a smile off ur face. I believe i took around 11hours to complete.
  
  Pros:
  -Incredible Graphics
  -Some form of humour
  -Voiceacting is great
  -Level designs 
 varied
  -An Arsenal of weapons
  -great gameplay
  -no graphical issues at all
  -lots of cutscene makes game lively
  
  Cons:
  -Limited flying area
  -Storyline doesn't 
 impress during start
  -hard to earn the extras
  -animation during space travel is boring, repititive
  
  All in all, i can possibly say that 
 this is PS3 Game Of The Year title. A deadly title i would say. The storyline is long enough, there's 
 bonus for completing it again, the box arts, the graphics are all next-gen. i was so glad this 
 was a ps3 exclusive. but im quite sadden this game isn't hyped enough, it's a good game, even better 
 than Assasin's creed or Uncharted.
  Wad's more it's available in multiple region, which i know are cheaper sometimes.
  Seriously 
 i had no idea why gamespot gave this a 7.5. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: stew122
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 22, 2007 3:22 pm PT
Review:  Wow, Gamespot has gotten realy messed up in regards of their reviews lately (no offence) they give 
 the lowest scores to the PS3 exclusives out of all the sites, especially this holiday season's 
 two big hitters : Ratchet & Clank as well as Uncharted - Drake's Fortune, every other reviewer 
 gave them both atleast a 9 and so am I, Coincidence I think not, I dont know what's between Gamespot 
 and Whoever but these have to stop.
  
  Now that that's out of the way, The Review:
  I'll Just Keep It short & Sweet
  
  Pros:
  - Amazing Story
  - Professional Cutscenes
  
 - Stunning Graphics : Pixar Movie Feel (gameplay and cutscenes)
  - Realistic Sound
  - Realistic Physics, boxes move more freely
  - Tight Controls, excellent use of Sixaxis
  - 
 Wide Selection of weapons
  - Cool Upgrade System
  - Explore each planet beyond the set out goals, find new things
  - Overall verywell Polished
 
  
  Cons:
  - It has to end
  - Farily Easy Until the last few planets
  - The game is too short, or atleast feels too short because it is so much fun
  - Space ship battles 
 suck, just panning around the screen
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: TOTAL_DEFENSE_0
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 21, 2007 6:13 pm PT
Review:  This game is amazing. That's pretty much all that you have to say about it. It is easily the best 
 Ratchet and Clank ever. The graphics, for starters, are just amazing. Everything takes your breath 
 away and it's like you are playing a Pixar movie. The texture and physics are also really good, 
 with boxes reacting realistically when you crash into them. However, this game does have some occasional 
 glitches like all your money adding itself over again and pieces of boxes floating in the air. 
 However nothing that hurts the gaming experience. The story in the game is also fantastic and the 
 best of any Ratchet so far. it really draws you into the game and you wanna find out the truth 
 behind everything. However, the best part of this game like all other Ratchet and Clanks, is the 
 weapons. In my opinion, this game deserves a 9.0 alone because of the Groovitron, the Tornado gun, 
 and Mr. Zirkon. Those three things are the coolest things ever. However, all of the weapons are 
 just super creative . The game is also a good length and has ton of replay value. The game is also 
 of good difficulty though it does get a bit hard towards the end, especially two specific bosses 
 that i wont mention. All in all, this game is by far one of the best games so far this generation. 
 Everyone who has a PS3 should buy this game or at the very least play through it once. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: filmfreak1138
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 20, 2007 1:04 pm PT
Review:  Well... I would have to say this game is ONE reason why I bought a PS3.
  
  I Got my PS3 and I bought this game 2 days later... never played a R&C game before...
  
  WOW!! 
 This game is an amazing platform! I have enjoyed this game so much more than some of the "SO CALLED" 
 year blockbusters. 
  
  I am one that enjoys story. If you read any of my other reviews I base alot around STORY. And i 
 do like the stroy that this game took me on. I do want to go out and buy the other R&C games now.
 
  
  The look of this game... HOLY PIXAR! Amazing The look of this game alone is an amazing 10. We have 
 not seen a game that look this good on a platform.
  
  The voice acting... WONDERFUL... I have laughed a lot while playing this game. 
  
  The sound... 
 music to my ears... this games need to get some sort of a medal just for SOUND.
  
  and the game play... I enjoyed the feel of this game from start to finish.
  
  This is one game 
 that I am glad I piced up this year... and this is one reason why I picked up an 80 gig PS3...
 
  
  BUY IT! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hardcore_nate
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 20, 2007 12:04 pm PT
Review:  Man this game is great! I dont understand the bad reviews! This game has great graphics, gameplay, sounds! Its 
 funny I laughed a whole-lot! The bad thing is its short, no multiplayer (that made me really mad) . Overall 
 its really good and Iam a huge fan of R&C so this game was added to my collection! Basicly its a 
 fun-filled game! Really though this is a must buy! Go pick this wonderful title up! And one more disadvantage 
 is its soooo easy! I love challenging games but this game just didnt have it! Anyways its fun and 
 funny! The best weapon is the groove-a-tron! lol its so funny! But the weapons are cool but some of 
 the angles are just crazy! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: whocares9
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 20, 2007 10:23 am PT
Review:  This is Ratchet and Clank's biggest adventure yet. The game play is not changed much and neither 
 is the music. This all of course is a good thing. This series did not need a change and it does 
 what it does well. It gives you fun platforming gameplay with an unmatched musical score. Maybe 
 it is just me but I have found the music in all the Ratchet and Clank games to be superior to all 
 other plat formers. As for the game play people who have been playing R&C games for a while will 
 feel like they are at home and even though the game is easier than some of the previous R&C games 
 it still is fun as it ever was. It is satisfyingly long and maybe one of the under-rated titles 
 this year. If you never liked these games than I would not recommend it but if it looks at all 
 even slightly appealing to you than you will love every bit of it. The visuals are fantastic and 
 the gameplay is good old R&C with a musical score to send goose bumps down the spine. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jryi
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 20, 2007 1:34 am PT
Review:  Ratchet & Clank series has been one of my favorites - if not THE favorite - on PS2, and I was disappointed, 
 when Insomniac's first game for PS3 was going to be something else. Well, Resistance was not bad, 
 in fact it is still one of the best games on the platform (yes, even better than Tools of Destruction) . 
 But it tells something about my attitude towards Ratchet and his tin can of a friend, that I nearly 
 peed my pants when I heard the first mention of next game of the franchise coming to PS3.
  
  First of all: it does look gorgeous. I would not go quite as far as to say it's the best looking 
 game on the platform (Heavenly Sword has a slight edge) , but some planets are jaw dropping. With 
 visual style closer to Finding Nemo than Sky Captain, you could hardly expect the game to be photo 
 realistic. Instead, some scenes are like from a painting. The beautiful background art and subtle 
 textures combined with an amazing amount of small details make you stare in awe. Sometimes it's 
 difficult to concentrate on playing the game, as everything happening on the screen at the same 
 time tends to distract you (case in point: grinding your way to a boss battle in Jasindu) .
  
  Best part of all Insomniac's games is the uncompromising quality of controls. With all the 
 explosions, flying objects, enemies and ammunition on the screen, the frame rate keeps steady. 
 If only all developers were as ambitious with their otherwise good looking games (*cough*oblivion*cough*) .
 
  
  Weapons are of course an integral part of any R&C experience. You have you usual assortment of 
 zany tools of destruction (gee, where did I pick that one up?) , but in addition to the actual weapons, 
 you also have a more limited number of so called combat devices. If you haven't heard of the Groovitron, 
 I suggest you climb out of the barrel you've been dwelling in for the past year. It is fun!
  
  Which nicely sums up the whole game. It is sheer, unadulterated fun. Sure, it's not the most 
 innovative game out there, and it might not have a deep message to convey, but man, are you going 
 to have a blast when playing this game. I can't wait for the sequel. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Princeneptunes
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 19, 2007 5:26 pm PT
Review:  Ratchet & Clank Future: Tools of Destruction. The name says it all. It's Ratchet, Clank, and futuristic 
 with tools of destruction! But aside from this anticipated next-gen release in the R&C franchise, 
 there are a few, shall we say, elements missing that make the game somewhat incomplete.
  
  Let's start off with the gameplay. It's amazing, just like any other Ratchet & Clank game of the 
 past. Running around collecting bolts, weapons, and kicking alien butt is the dramatic duo's favorite 
 pastime. I especially like the new addition to collectibles- devices. Devices are handy gadgets 
 you can purchase from special device vendors that either aid in combat in some way or serve as 
 an additional mini-weapon. Some of the coolest devices (in my opinion) are the Groovitron and the 
 Confuzzler Gas. However, these useful toys aren't cheap, and most of the time it's hard to find 
 a device vendor to restock at. On the plus side, sometimes you can pick up lone devices by smashing 
 crates.
  
  A few other aspects of the game have made their mark as well; mainly the graphics and sound. The 
 graphics are absolutely AMAZING! It's obvious the PS3 is known most for it's graphics, but no doubt 
 this game looks like you're traveling straight through a Pixar movie! The visual effects, such 
 as gloss, framebuffers, and lighting all contribute to the awesome experience of Ratchet & Clank. 
 The sound is also very stunning. With high-quality surround sound effects and voices, it does nothing 
 but add to the experience.
  
  Among the noticeable, positive corners of the game, there are several flukes and glitches that 
 simply wear down its solid feel. One of the biggest problems is the lacking storyline. We've all 
 seen the same thing- alien race invades the galaxy, Ratchet & Clank battle through multiple planets 
 of enemies, and the boss fight. This storyline seems to follow the same path. Often I find myself 
 wondering why I have to be taken from planet to planet; the only time I know the purpose is during 
 the last cutscene and 10 seconds after. But the storyline isn't all bad, even though it follows 
 in the trite footsteps of past games. For example, the humor seen in a massive alien race run merely 
 by a creature the size of a termite (hint, hint) really adds to the humor and perspective of the 
 game. Although crude humor may be frowned upon by moms all over the world, it is indeed welcome 
 in any R&C game. In my opinion, jokes add flavor and enjoyment to the adventure. Along with a storyline 
 that needs improvement, certain in-game glitches, such as floating boxes, stuck enemies, and random 
 falls, distract and deduct from the overall gameplay experience. On the other hand, more glitches 
 that actually happen are mostly funny and random and don't affect the main focus of the game.
 
  
  Some my most favorite changes made to Ratchet & Clank Future: Tools of Destruction are devices, 
 new characters, new game modes, and, of course, the mysterious Gadgetron holo-plan. In my opinion, 
 new characters and modes actually add to the experience, offering breaks from the overall method 
 of gameplay. Some minigames, such as Dance the Jig, are extremely short, easy, and pointless. But 
 there's a majestic relic that has always waited to be unearthed in previous Ratchet & Clank games, 
 and the secret Gadgetron holo-plan may hold the key. Veterans know what I'm talking about, but 
 for rookies who are new to Ratchet & Clank, well, you can find out for yourselves.
  
  Overall, Ratchet & Clank Future: Tools of Destruction is DEFINATELY worth a purchase and many replays 
 to come. As with past R&C games, there's either a lot of replay value, or just plain old addictive 
 butt-kicking to tie you down for a few more months. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Crash_Dance
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 19, 2007 4:03 pm PT
Review:  Ratchet & Clank Future: Tools of Destruction. The name says it all. It's Ratchet, Clank, and futuristic 
 with tools of destruction! But aside from this anticipated next-gen release in the R&C franchise, 
 there are a few, shall we say, elements missing that make the game somewhat incomplete.
  
  Let's start off with the gameplay. It's amazing, just like any other Ratchet & Clank game of the 
 past. Running around collecting bolts, weapons, and kicking alien butt is the dramatic duo's favorite 
 pastime. I especially like the new addition to collectibles- devices. Devices are handy gadgets 
 you can purchase from special device vendors that either aid in combat in some way or serve as 
 an additional mini-weapon. Some of the coolest devices (in my opinion) are the Groovitron and the 
 Confuzzler Gas. However, these useful toys aren't cheap, and most of the time it's hard to find 
 a device vendor to restock at. On the plus side, sometimes you can pick up lone devices by smashing 
 crates.
  
  A few other aspects of the game have made their mark as well; mainly the graphics and sound. The 
 graphics are absolutely AMAZING! It's obvious the PS3 is known most for it's graphics, but no doubt 
 this game looks like you're traveling straight through a Pixar movie! The visual effects, such 
 as gloss, framebuffers, and lighting all contribute to the awesome experience of Ratchet & Clank. 
 The sound is also very stunning. With high-quality surround sound effects and voices, it does nothing 
 but add to the experience.
  
  Among the noticeable, positive corners of the game, there are several flukes and glitches that 
 simply wear down its solid feel. One of the biggest problems is the lacking storyline. We've all 
 seen the same thing- alien race invades the galaxy, Ratchet & Clank battle through multiple planets 
 of enemies, and the boss fight. This storyline seems to follow the same path. Often I find myself 
 wondering why I have to be taken from planet to planet; the only time I know the purpose is during 
 the last cutscene and 10 seconds after. But the storyline isn't all bad, even though it follows 
 in the trite footsteps of past games. For example, the humor seen in a massive alien race run merely 
 by a creature the size of a termite (hint, hint) really adds to the humor and perspective of the 
 game. Although crude humor may be frowned upon by moms all over the world, it is indeed welcome 
 in any R&C game. In my opinion, jokes add flavor and enjoyment to the adventure. Along with a storyline 
 that needs improvement, certain in-game glitches, such as floating boxes, stuck enemies, and random 
 falls, distract and deduct from the overall gameplay experience. On the other hand, more glitches 
 that actually happen are mostly funny and random and don't affect the main focus of the game.
 
  
  Some my most favorite changes made to Ratchet & Clank Future: Tools of Destruction are devices, 
 new characters, new game modes, and, of course, the mysterious Gadgetron holo-plan. In my opinion, 
 new characters and modes actually add to the experience, offering breaks from the overall method 
 of gameplay. Some minigames, such as Dance the Jig, are extremely short, easy, and pointless. But 
 there's a majestic relic that has always waited to be unearthed in previous Ratchet & Clank games, 
 and the secret Gadgetron holo-plan may hold the key. Veterans know what I'm talking about, but 
 for rookies who are new to Ratchet & Clank, well, you can find out for yourselves.
  
  Overall, Ratchet & Clank Future: Tools of Destruction is DEFINATELY worth a purchase and many replays 
 to come. As with past R&C games, there's either a lot of replay value, or just plain old addictive 
 butt-kicking to tie you down for a few more months. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MonkishGamer
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 17, 2007 10:38 am PT
Review:  I was dissapointed when I found out that Ratchet and Clank 5 was going to be a PS3 exclusive. However, 
 playing the game, I realize next-gen is it's new home. Goodbye PS2. The game takes place, of course, 
 in he future. Ratchet is the only living Lombax in the universe, thanks to a mad man, leader of 
 the Cragmites, Emperor Percivile Tachyon. He claims revenge on the Lombaxes, including Ratchet, 
 and there is soon a race to find the weapon that the Lombaxes used to wipe out the Cragmites in 
 the first place. The story finally comes down to a climactic Boss Battle, and a cliffhanger ending, 
 involving Clank. The characters and dialogue, in the story, as always, are hillarious. From the 
 Plumber "not recognizingRatchet and Clank in HD", Tachyon not being able to crank start his doomsday 
 helmet and having to resay his final threat, or anything Captain Quark says, this game is hillarious, 
 even to rival that of the humor in Up Your Arsenal. The graphics in the game are gorgeous, each 
 character having a shiny look not seen in previous games. The voice acting is also great, as it 
 has always been. The weapons, are solid, however, Insomniac has done better. The Groovitron is 
 a classic that even made Tachyon dance, leaving him vulnerable to attacks. The new upgrade system 
 using Raratanium is a welcome addition I hope is in future installments. The game just has an overall 
 cinematic feel in its boss battles, grind segments, and overall combat. I feel as if I'm too picky 
 with this title since Up Your Arsenal was my favorite. The microscopic nitpicky faults are there 
 though. My major would be the fact that I couldn't really hear most of the dialogue from other 
 characters during firefights, which I really wish I could have. Second, there are a couple of glitches 
 in the game that could have been smoothed out, providing a neater package. Some of the vendor's 
 lines can seem repetitive. Overall, Tools of Destruction is a great game for the PS3 that any PS3 
 owner should have in their collection. And besides some minor nitpicky flaws that keep it from 
 perfection that was acheived in Up Your Arsenal, this is a hillarious, epic title that noone should 
 miss. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: STAG-ghost
Rating: 6
Date: Nov 16, 2007 3:13 pm PT
Review:  Well ill just do a simple layout on this so it will be easier to read.
  
  PLEASE TAKE NOTE: THE LAST R&C GAME I PLAYED WAS GOING COMMANDO.
  
  GAMEPLAY- The gameplay 
 is fun and has alot of planets. The storyline has a good concept but was not well developed which 
 makes it seem boring.
  
  DIFFICULTY- It is a very easy game and I only died 3-4 times throughout the whole game.
  
  
 GRAPHICS- The graphics are much better then R&C: GC. As for the last R&C games to come out i cant 
 tell you about how much better the graphics will be.
  
  WEAPONS- The weapons are very weak it seemed. There was only a few that gave me the impression 
 that it would blow anything away.
  
  BEST PART- Sixaxis, this game uses the sixaxis the PS3 users like to see
  WORST PART- Storyline 
 is the worst ive seen in the series. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ChaosXeno
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 16, 2007 5:19 am PT
Review:  This game has it all amazing gameplay, great graphics, exellent replayability, and is a true AAA 
 game for the PS3. The voice acting is great, the cutscenes are hilarious, and the music is all 
 you expect from a R&C game plus more. I recommend this game to anybody who owns a PS3 and to anybody 
 who plans to own a PS3. You could notice shots taken at 360 in certain cutscenes and music from 
 previous Insomniac games including Resistance: Fall of Man. With the cliffhanger leaving you for 
 more I say Insomniac has a lot of work due for them in the year 2008 with resistance 2 and r&c 
 2.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: skyking_1993
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 15, 2007 3:30 pm PT
Review:  The graphics on this game are amazing, the new weapon selection is great, and some of the enemies 
 are pretty challenging. All the game needs is the local multi-player. Other than that the game 
 is excellent. Ratchet looks so real, so does Clank. The enemies look like they would be real. The 
 story line is long enough to last a few days. The challenging parts start when you enter challenge 
 mode. The final boss is sort of challenging, but that's only because I am a Ratchet & Clank PRO. 
 Some of the levels might be short but it makes up for it by the enemies that are in every corner. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: surfer3000
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 15, 2007 8:18 am PT
Review:  I have played all the Ratchet and Clank games and have loced them. This R&C is even better. Gameplay 
 is about the same, the real differeence is in the quality of the graphics and the amazing numer 
 of weapons. Great weapons such as the '"disco ball" which makes all your enemies start to dance. 
 Also many bomb throwing weapons. It is a fast paced game with a lot of variety. The one minute 
 you are shooting up a planet and the next you are on the train rails dodging trains. Graphics are 
 very fluid and very colorful. Also the use of the six axis directional controller has been incorporated 
 into flying scenes.
  
  Enjoy 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KingKnightGamer
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 15, 2007 7:05 am PT
Review:  This game was awesome! Sorry Gamespot, you were wrong. INDENTITY CRISIS!? WHAT THE HECK DOES THAT 
 EVEN MEAN!? Anyway, this game has awesome graphics and the gameplay is super! Plus, new kinds of 
 weapons like the Tornado Laucher, where you can use the SIXIAS controller to tilit the twister. 
 Plus, cool and powerful devices like the Groovi-tron, Mr. Zurkon, and the Transformer (where you 
 can turn enemies into penguins!) The story starts off when Ratchet's home is attacked by a madman 
 named Emporer Tachyon, who wants to rid the galaxy of all Lombaxes. He says that Ratchet is the 
 last Lombax. Wanting to know about his past, he decides to travel the unverse in search of answers, 
 and the Lombax superweapon, said to have wiped out Tachyon's kind during the Great War. This is 
 the perfect PS3 game. I recommend you buy it.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: pieboyjr
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 14, 2007 4:58 pm PT
Review:  the game has a ton of guns in all size and power. But the game is a little to easy compared to 
 the others in the seires. The graphics are good but there are quiet abit to many glitches in the 
 game. the gameplay is good and fun but it is a little to over rated. the story is a little loose 
 and goes almost no were. But if you are looking to buy this game you should buy it. Lastly the 
 game has a let down of a ending that leaves you frustrated. Over all the game has lots of guns 
 good gameplay but it is to easy of a game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: avelblue
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 14, 2007 11:58 am PT
Review:  Honestly I hate to rate this game low, as a fan of the series it feels as though I should instinctively 
 be giving this a 9+, but with all the shortcomings this game still feels like a work in progress. 
 Luckily it appears that insomniac has the pieces there for a much improved sequel.
  
  As a whole the game is fully deserving of the 7.5 (good) score that it received and is a solid 
 game in a still somewhat bare PS3 library. The graphics are pretty, the base gameplay is still 
 fun, but many of the little additions don't pan out as well as they could of.
  
  Graphics: Very pretty and shiny, but the game still suffers from the occasional graphical hiccup 
 (as well as a bit of collision wonky-ness that I wasn't expecting in this era of the almighty 'next-gen') 
 that take away a bit of the experience. I have to say that I like the bright and sunny style of 
 the graphics, especially after a darker outing in Deadlocked, but a bit more contrast would have 
 helped.
  
  Sound: While the majority of the sound effects and BG music is solid, some of the choices and timing 
 of the music is off. This is most noticeable in the ending of the game where we have an awe inspiring 
 piece where a sadder, more foreboding piece could have been more sucessful given the cliff-hanger 
 ending.
  
  Gameplay: The core of the gameplay is for the most part still the same old R&C formula that we've 
 all (save for those who didn't) know and love. The extended gameplay mechanics are for the most 
 part fun and add to the experience, but some are just somewhat pointless. Fun: The foreward on-rails 
 flying (ratchet) , the glider/robot wings sequences, slow-mo/floating clank and not-so-fun: dancing 
 sequences, rear facing on-rails flying (clank) and tedious: most of the hacking (since there's 
 only one form.
  
  Story: This is where I'm most divided on this game. On the one hand, I do love the move to a more 
 epic plot line, but on the other it causes the typical R&C humor to be a burden... this is where 
 the game has its real identity crisis as the game is a bit torn between the old and new. For the 
 early parts of the game Insomniac struck a good balance between humor and seriousness, but as it 
 moved on it degraded into the old humors and lost that epic feeling. An attempt is made to bring 
 it back on course during the latter third of the game, but it is never truly brought to light. 
 With its dramatic conclusion, one is ultimately left unsatisfied with a 'to be continued' tacked 
 onto the end. Some will claim an alusion to Pixar, but if there's one thing Pixar does well, it's 
 ending their movies on a satisfactory note. With Future we don't even get an end bit of dialogue... just 
 a dramatic musical finish. 
  
  Overall: This is a solid game, that simply dissappoints because of its and Insomniac's potential 
 on PS3. There are moments where we catch glimpses of the grandeur that could exist within the game, 
 but it is never fully realized and serve only to tease you.
  
  Graphics: 9 (pretty, with some minor hiccups)
  Sound: 8 (solid, but with some poor choices)
 
  Story: 7.5 (poor pacing, unrealized potential)
  Gameplay: 8 (same old R&C, not that that's a bad thing)
  
  Overall: 8+ (Good, solid game, but 
 still just shy of Great)
  
  Ending Note: Anyone else getting Jak 3/Naughty Dog vibes during this game? Honestly, why does Insomniac 
 often feel like ND's little brother? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AVAthewar991
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 12, 2007 7:05 am PT
Review:  This game was great. It had plenty of new weapons and upgrades that let you fully customize your 
 array of weapons. However it ended to quickly and the ending was not what i had hoped for... The 
 second play through was also very enjoyable but lacked a certain difficulty... And once I acquired 
 the R. Y. N. O IV the game became altogether boring... I almost with the producers had thought ahead 
 and made an extreme 3rd play through with a third set of upgrades for weapons and enemies that 
 refused to die. However, this game is a great addition for Ratchet and Clank fans and an awesome 
 game to spend some time on. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rragnaar
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 11, 2007 9:59 pm PT
Review:  In less than a year Insomniac games has delivered two very different and very enjoyable games to 
 the PS3. While Resistance was a darker and more mature game, Ratchet follows in its footsteps by 
 having Insomniac's wonderful weapon designs, gorgeous graphics, and by being a well paced adventure 
 that continuously ramps up as you progress through the game.
  
  
  Graphics and Performance-
  
  From the second that the opening cutscene ends and you begin playing 
 Ratchet and Clank, you will be amazed at not only the sheer graphical prowess, but the sense of 
 scale that Insomniac has managed to pull off in the game. There is so much going on at once that 
 it can almost be too much to take in from a visual standpoint. All of the different planets in 
 the game are gorgeous and unique from a visual standpoint.
  
  The game also maintains a very steady framerate which is essential given the games frantic combat.
 
  
  Presentation and Sound-
  
  The presentation in Ratchet and Clank is as magnificent as the rest of the game. Not only are there 
 the standard cutscenes to advance the story, but you also get comedic gems such as Captain Quark's 
 blueprints (crudely illustrated with crayons) that he uses to detail how you will break into a heavily 
 guarded prison. 
  
  
  The game's voice actors do a fantastic job, as do the writers. Ratchet is a very humorous game, 
 with a well paced story.
  
  The sound effectsfor the weapons and spaceships in the game are very satisfying, and the musical 
 score is top notch. 
  
  Gameplay-
  
  Ratchet and Clank is much more focused on combat than it is on platforming, but you will find great 
 examples of both in the game. Most levels have large secret areas that you can explore if you want 
 to find the game's hidden items. These are some of my favorite sections of the game as they are 
 a nice break from the game's almost nonstop combat.
  
  Being such a combat heavy game Ratchet and Clank would fall flat on its face if it didn't provide 
 you with varied and interesting ways to dispatch your opponents. This is easily the game's strong 
 point. There are a variety of direct and indirect weapons to use in the game, from your standard 
 blaster, to big rocket launchers, and support turrets and droids. You will need every single one 
 to overcome your enemies in this game, especially as it nears the end. Ratchet starts off as a 
 fairly easy going game, letting you ease into its contols before it ramps up the challenge in the 
 later levels. Thankfully the game has very responsive controls to deal with the onslaught of soldiers, 
 and space pirates.
  
  Ratchet and Clank also makes excellent use of the SIXAXIS motion controls in a very fun hacking 
 minigame, and as a means of flight control in certain levels.
  
  The one part of the game that isn't as polished as the rest are the space shooting missions that 
 can occur between planets. The controls aren't as tight as they could be, and the space combat 
 itself isn't as fun as the rest of the game.
  
  Story- 
  
  Ratchet and Clank would have a fairly generic sci-fi 'save the universe' story if it wasn't for 
 the excellent dialogue and voice acting. In the game Ratchet is being hunted down by Emperor Tachyon, 
 a Cragmite. Tachyon, the last Cragmite in the galaxy is hunting Ratchet because the Lombax destroyed 
 his kind in the great war. Ratchet must seek out an ancient weapon to be able to destroy Tachyon's 
 evil empire. The story is told well, and while it has a satisfying ending, it, obviously, leaves 
 things open for a sequel. One that I eagerly await.
  
  Lasting Appeal-
  
  I spent about 18 hours with Ratchet and Clank beating all of the arena missions, seeking out hidden 
 bolts, and working my way through the story, and I still don't have all of the upgrades and all 
 of the game's weapons. The game is easily worth the price of admission. Upon beating the game I 
 immediately started in with the Challenge Mode that you unlock. Challenge mode features more difficult 
 enemies, and is centered around beating the game as fast as you can to get more bolts.
  
  Overall-
  
  Ratchet and Clank delivers a varied, but cohesive, experience that is long, challenging, 
 and charming. You can't help but like all of the characters in the game. All ina all, Ratchet and 
 Clank is an easy game to recommend. I had never played a Ratchet and Clank game before this, and 
 it was a very easy series to jump into. If you own a PS3, you owe it to yourself to check this 
 game out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Stevie19
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 11, 2007 7:21 pm PT
Review:  Gamespots score on this game was a bit harsh in my opinion. Ya, the game is a tad on the easy side, 
 they got that right, but the story is interesting, the weapon selecton is as good as usual and 
 the gameplay is total fun. If you've played through the PS2 ratchet and clank series and enjoyed 
 them (i was not a big fan of Deadlock) then you'll love everything about this game. Id say it took 
 about 10-15 hours to beat this game but unlike most other games, i actually wouldnt mind playing 
 through this again. Usually once i beat a game, im done with it. This game left me wanting to play 
 more. 
  
  If you're a platformer fan, this is the best sony's got, and one of the best you'll every find 
 on any console. Its as good as any of the other games in the series, if not the best of the bunch. 
 I would say its worth buying. Once the game is beat, its fun enough to want to go through it again 
 on the harder difficulty selection that gets unlocked. 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: tryfe_lyn
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 23, 2008 10:17 am PT
Review:  Ratchet and Clank: Future Tools of Destruction is a solid 3D platformer created by Insomniac Games 
 on the Playstation 3. It stars Ratchet (a Lombax) and his counterpart sidekick Clank (a robot) 
 as they venture throughout the galaxy in search of a very powerful Lombax weapon. This weapon is 
 sought after by the evil Emperor Percival Tachyon, a pint sized big-headed alien bent on ruling 
 the galaxy. It is similar in terms of game play mechanics to the previous installments where the 
 goal is to destroy as much as possible using a variety of weapons. The game looks beautiful and 
 plays at 720p with no hang ups in frame rate at all. Although the game is fairly easy to advance, 
 it does challenge players with epic boss battles and by throwing alot of enemies at you at once. 
 The game can be completed in roughly 12-15 hours depending on how much side missions you complete. 
 The ending leaves more to be desired, however, it does leave the door open for a sequel as you'll 
 be wondering what happened to Clank. If you're looking for a fun platformer game with good humor, 
 game play and graphics (think Pixar) then this game may be for you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: azteca89
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 11, 2007 10:49 am PT
Review:  First I under estimated the game since it got the E rating, but it is still kicks ass like every 
 other one in the series . The graphics are amazing, really colorful. I thought the controls were 
 pretty weird since sometimes you have to use the sixaxis feature to do certain things like hack, 
 skydive, use a laser to cut rocks, and even dance, but sooner or later you'll get the hang of it. 
 There is still a wide variety of weapons and gadgets. The story seems long but if you are an average 
 gamer you'll beat it in 1-2 days tops, I'm about to beat it, but I'm doing some exploring through 
 all the planets to find more bolts, golden bolts, etc. Anyway, if you are a big fan of the series, 
 you'll really like it. Well I did. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: eztarg8
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 10, 2007 12:01 pm PT
Review:  Ratchet and Clank Future: Tools of Destruction is back to what made the original game so fun. For 
 newcomers and dedicated fans alike, this is a must have for the PS3. It even makes many references 
 to previous games let it be the bots from the first or hearing the intercom call for a Dr. Nefarious.
 
  
  You start off just tuning up your faulty modified rocket ship like normal when you get attacked 
 by goldfish in mecha-commando suits. Their leader, Emperor Tachyon (tacky-on) want to kill Ratchet, 
 the last know lombax. It is up to Ratchet and Clank to find his motives and discover what happened 
 to the other lombaxes.
  
  Ok the graphics; the game looks good, REAL good. Everything is crisp, clean, colorful and vibrant. 
 Explosions feel very nice and more destructive weapons are blasts of awesome that take up the whole 
 screen. Before starting each level the camera steps back and lets you get a glimpse of the beautiful 
 landscape you about to blowup, either serene or full of explosions.
  
  You normally fight fishbots, pirates, or monsters. They range from tiny guardbots to giant dino-monsters. 
 The more you kill, the more your health goes up and your weapons upgrade. You only gain a damage 
 bonus for just using weapons, but you need raritanium if you want to upgrade ammo and fire rate.
 
  
  Like every R&C game, you have some ridiculously awesome weapons at your dispossal. Every enemy 
 has a certain weapons more suited to fighting it. For instance, you could use you flamethrower 
 all day, but that doesn't mean you will kill an armored opponent. This helps using different weapons 
 yet with such a huge variety, some weapons are still not very useful. You also have gadgets in 
 you arsenal. Not a weapon, they must be purchased at a different vendor and cost more than your 
 average ammo. They have very usefull powers such as draining out a large amount of health or making 
 them stop what they are doing to dance. Gadgets are rather forgetable, but could make a hard battle 
 really easy.
  
  They story is not very deep, but has corky and has fun humor. Along the way you play minigames 
 such as spaceship dogfights, monster hunting, battle area, gliding, rail grinding, freefalling, 
 lock breaking and pirate dancing (which I hate) . There are still parts where you can play as clank 
 and you control these robot spirit things.
  
  Ratchet and Clank is a great game, with a goofy vibe, that is fun for all ages. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Stumpt25
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 10, 2007 9:57 am PT
Review:  Ratchet & Clank: Future Tools of Destruction is possibley the greatest platformer of this generation 
 of consoles. The game in itself is a joy to watch, let alone play. Through beautiful graphics, 
 voice acting, story and gameplay, this game has a whole array of comical and entertaining querks 
 for the whole family to enjoy.
  
  So often it is labeled 'An interactive pixar movie'. This is a great description, because nothing 
 could be so close to the truth. We see beautifully rendered cities, jungles, prisons and environments 
 buzzing with life, and maintaining a beautiful framerate. The characters in themselves give clever 
 one liners which make us chuckle. From the moment we hear a clumsy space-craft say: "Landing in 
 5...4.... [Crash] Oops! 3...2..1"
  We know that we are in for one entertaining ride.
  
  The Ratchet and Clank duo are a pair of protagonists with a surprising amount of chemistry to make 
 the whole series feel meaningful. The story, however predictable, and even basic, is totally satisfying 
 (despite a pretty disgusting cliffhanger) . The pair discover that the Emperor Trachyon is a cragmite, 
 and the only surviving member of his race, after his entire species was destroyed by the Lombax's. 
 Lo, from an insignificant being in the world, he manages to crawl his way back up to become the 
 tyrannous emperor, who is despised across the galaxy.
  
  We then discover, that Ratchet (being the last Lombax) , needs to be exterminated incase he ever 
 feels the need to return the favour. The story, however, is not totally predictable in a sense 
 that we are always asking questions. Namely 'What are the Zoni, and why is Clank the only one who 
 can see them?' this all adds up to an intriguing and dynamic game.
  
  The gameplay in itself is extraordinarily exciting, with a huge range of weapons and devices (and 
 even armour) which are at your disposal. Soon, your enemies will fear your wrath. However, these 
 weapons do not make for a catastrophically easier game. You will certainly experience plenty of 
 missed jumps, plenty of un-avoided gun blasts (especially in front of a machine gun turret, which 
 never seems to reload) .
  
  Possibley my favourite device was the Mr. Crunk, a trashtalking robot who fights enemies for you. 
 Screaming insults (in an accent which resembles the terminator) .
  
  Running around smashing crates, robots, and pirates is not all that is available. There is a huge 
 variety of things which fit in nicely to the gameplay, and never seem tacked on. Breaking security 
 systems, Flying from place to place, and even a few space ship battles, all add up for a better 
 experience. The gameplay is hardly dominated by these activites, but it certainly gives variety 
 to the tempo of the game.
  
  Overall, this game offers a huge amount of entertainment and excitement. The graphics are most 
 definatley the best on the Playstation 3, the gameplay is witty, humourous and incredibley enjoyable 
 and the characters, to say the least are loveable.
  
  Aaron said in his review of this game: "Variety is the spice of life, but there is such thing as 
 too much spice". Well Aaron, sometimes it nice to have my food extra hot. This game is a 9.5 
::::::

::::::
UserName: knicknut17
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 10, 2007 1:46 am PT
Review:  9.7
  
  For those interested in a quick review: The only reason I didn't give this game a 10 is lack of 
 online play and relatively easy difficulty. Insomniac, if you're listening, I'll pay for you 10 
 bucks to patch the game with harder difficulties and an arena mode, 20 if you add online too. And 
 it's not the fact that online is missing that upsets me. It is the fact that this feature was included 
 in previous games in the series. Insomniac stated that they removed online so that they could focus 
 more on the single player experience. After beating the game I can see very clearly the benefits 
 of their focus. This game is an absolute masterpiece and a boatload of fun.
  
  Now for the review...
  
  IF you have never played a Ratchet and Clank game before and own a 
 PS3, HDTV, and surround sound system, immediately stop reading, get into your car, find the nearest 
 retailer of this video game and buy this game. This game is worth every single cent and is one 
 of the most downright entertaining games you will EVER play. It is a complete package in every 
 sense of the word and is so polished that it makes the majority of other games look downright bad 
 in comparison. It is a feast for your eyes and ears when played with the proper system. The story 
 is well written and the characters are downright hilarious. Is this game worth spending $400 on 
 a PS3?
  
  YES! After playing it, I can't think of a better game to start a PS3 collection.
  
  The story, 
 in a nutshell, follows the adventures of Ratchet and Clank. At the beginning of the story, the 
 city they are visiting is attacked by Emperor Percival Tachyon and his army. Tachyon is a hilarious 
 midget sized creature called a Cragmite who seeks to exterminate the race of Lombaxes. Unfortunately, 
 Ratchet is the last remaining lombax. Fortunately, he's not going to go down without a fight. The 
 ensuing journey is full of intense action, exploration and platforming through beautiful, colorful 
 environments, and lots of hilarious moments that will be sure to leave a smile on your face. You 
 will meet many new friends along the way and spend time battling a hilarious group of Space Pirates. 
 Lots of great stuff to experience people!
  
  The weapons in Ratchet and Clank are some of the most ingenious and fun to use weapons in ANY video 
 game. Everyone loves the Groovitron, and rightfully so because of its charm and usefullness. Some 
 of my other favorites include the Lightning Ravenger (think Force Lightning from Star Wars) , Tornado 
 Launcher (more on this later) , and Confuzzler Grenades (Releases gas that make enemies fight each 
 other) . There are SO MANY WEAPONS... all of them are useful, especially towards the end of the game, 
 and they all feel different. Combat is so ridiculously fun. If I could change anything, I would 
 make L3 or R3 allow Ratchet to lock-on to different enemies (ala Devil May Cry) and I would give 
 an option to really ramp up the difficulty.
  
  Did I mention that the graphics are drop dead gorgeous and that the sound effects are amazing? 
 Play this game at loud volumes if possible because it's awesome to hear those weapons in action. 
 The music is also really good and fits the mood of the game. There are many different enemies and 
 each of them has different strengths and weaknesses, AI is average on normal difficulty.
  
  The controls of this game are simple and responsive. No complaints from me other than the desire 
 to be able switch the enemies I'm locking onto without having to change the angle of my strafe. 
 SIXAXIS controls are BRILLIANTLY placed in the game. I love the Decryptor mini-games! The last 
 one was particularly fun in my opinion. In these games, you have control over a metal marble that 
 you must place between gaps on the board to run an electrical circuit. Although it may be a little 
 difficult in the beginning, it makes sense and controls well. Other uses of SIXAXIS are using it 
 to control a laser drill, steering Ratchet while he halo jumps from airplanes, and controlling 
 him while he uses special wings to fly. Unlike Gamespot reviewer, Aaron Thomas, I fully appreciate 
 the variety that this game offers and believe that it helps gives R&C Future, the balance and depth 
 needed to differentiate an exceptional game from a great game. This ladies and gentlemen is an 
 example of an EXCEPTIONAL VIDEO GAME. The developers at Insomniac put a lot of love, care, and 
 pride into creating this game. It shows. VERY CLEARLY.
  
  This game was designed with multiple play throughs in mind. Excellent idea! I'm addicted to getting 
 new weapons and upgrading them. I jumped right into challenge mode after beating this game the 
 first time through. This game takes about 10-15 hours to beat if you take your time and do some 
 exploring. By the time it's all said and done, I think I'll have a good 30 hours invested in the 
 game.
  
  I can't even imagine how good this game would be if it had a good online component... I never had 
 the opportunity to play Ratchet and Clank: Up Your Arsenal online, but I heard that it was one 
 of PS2's best online experiences. Obviously, this game does not have an online mode, but since 
 the campaign is SO GOOD... I have no complaints. I am only docking points because this is a feature 
 that was included in past iterations of the series.
  
  The ending sets up perfectly for the sequel; it is a no brainer that Ratchet and Clank Future will 
 be a trilogy. After playing this game, I can't wait for a sequel. Honestly, I don't want Insomniac 
 to released Resistance 2 next year. I want another Ratchet and Clank game! I know I won't get my 
 wish, but that's ok. I now have a strong purpose for beating the PS2 R&C games while I wait for 
 the next installment in this fabulous series.
  
  Ratchet and Clank is hands down the best PS3 game available at this time. This game is genuinely 
 funny, it has some of the most original and fun to use weapons (an Insomniac trademark) , it is 
 super polished to a T, has a compelling storyline, excellent music and sound effects, and... do 
 you get the point yet? I am going to eat my words, change my mind, and nominate it for PS3 Game 
 of the Year. I don't care that Uncharted: Drake's Fortune hasn't arrived yet. I conclude that Ratchet 
 and Clank Future: Tools of Destruction, while not a 10, is pretty damn close. It might say 9.5 
 in my Gamespot Review, but trust me, in my opinion, this game is better than a 9.5.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: greenpyro33
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 9, 2007 5:38 pm PT
Review:  I was extremely hyped for Ratchet. I loved the other ones and they were some of my favorite games. 
 This one did not disappoint.
  
  This game is the start of a new Ratchet series. It reveals a lot about Ratchet and the lombaxes. 
 It also has other surprises that are not wrapped up in this game.
  
  This is the first Ratchet game that can be played in HD. I personally don't have an HDTV, but it 
 still looks amazing. Other people have said that it looks like your playing in a Pixar movie and 
 they were absolutely right.
  
  The gameplay is perfect. I personally like using lock-strafe for my gameplay, but there is another 
 choice. The game has all of the fun shooting and jumping that is expected of Ratchet and Clank. 
 It has lots of fun weapons to level up and lots of enemies to blow up. It has a fair amount of 
 bosses that range from the big, to the ones you fight several times. The overall game isn't very 
 tough, but the ending is challenging. Also, there is a challenge mode where the game gets very 
 tough. It takes as low as 2 shots to kill Ratchet at times during challenge mode. The game also 
 has the grinding, ship fighting, and minigames that this series always has. A lot of the minigames 
 use sixaxis. This is fun for a while, but it gets frustrating later in the game. Luckily, it can 
 be turned off. 
  
  This game has lots to do. There are skill points that unlock concept art and fun cheats. There 
 are gold bolts that unlock new skins. This game is funny as it is, but watching a cut-scene while 
 wearing the snowman skin is priceless. There are also holoplans hidden in boxes. If you find them 
 all, you unlock the Rhino. It is basically a murder everything gun. As I mentioned before, there 
 is a challenge mode once you beat the game. In challenge mode, you can further level up your weapons.
 
  
  Tools of Destruction brought some new things to the Ratchet series. It brought devices. These devices 
 are expensive, but they are fun and effective. the best one is the disco ball. It makes any enemy 
 dance, even bosses. There is also a weapons upgrade system that is new and improved. In addition 
 to the weapons you can upgrade your weapons with crystals called raritanium. It is a great addition 
 to the usual V1-V5 system. In challenge mode, there is a golden disco ball available for 2 million 
 raritanium. It is an unlimited disco ball that can make the game a complete cake walk or it can 
 be used to level up your weaker guns.
  
  My only real complaint is the lack of online play. I hope to see it in the next Ratchet game.
 
  
  Pros
  -amazing gameplay
  -looks awesome
  -new additions to the series
  -replay value
  -funny
  
  Cons
  -sixaxis can get frustrating
  -a bit easy, but it is E10, 
 so kids should be able to beat it
  -no online play 
::::::

::::::
UserName: uklegendkiller
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 9, 2007 9:43 am PT
Review:  The PS3 needs a hero. For every game like Heavenly Sword that demonstrates what the console's capable 
 of, along comes an unmitigated disaster like Lair that shakes our confidence in the new console. 
 But now that Ratchet & Clank are on the scene, Sony's big hunk o' plastic finally has an action 
 adventure worth shouting about.
  
  Like previous games in the series, the main appeal of Tools Of Destruction is its diverse gameplay; 
 the action is staged across a wide variety of sprawling levels, each crawling with imaginative 
 enemies, structures that can be blasted into dust, and dozens of fun mini games that keep the action 
 fresh and exciting. Richly detailed graphics help elevate the experience beyond the odd couple's 
 outings on earlier consoles, and the larger levels also mean there's more opportunity to tackle 
 challenges in an order that suits you, rather than being forced along a narrow, linear path.
  
  But what really sets TOD apart from the competition is its inventive weapons and hilarious 
 set pieces. As well as a range of outrageous rocket launchers that fire missiles at multiple targets, 
 the game also features guns that hurl blob-like creatures to attack enemies and a disco ray that 
 makes monsters dance themselves into a frenzy, the ability to upgrade weapons and make them deadlier 
 also helping to keep the carnage from becoming stale.
  
  Amazingly, TOD also does a fine job of harnessing the Sixaxis' motion-controls during the myriad 
 flight sequences, showing that the PS3 pad can ape the Wii's gesture-based gaming if used correctly, 
 and making a game like Lair seem even clumsier.
  
  A love of cartoon humour is essential to enjoying this game - and you may want to knock a star 
 off the final score if gratuitous surrealism and animated hijinks leave you cold - but TOD is still 
 one of the most inspired and enjoyable PS3 romps to date. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jermaki
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 8, 2007 6:10 pm PT
Review:  R&amp; C is an awesome game. The environments are sweet. The colors of everything make this game 
 visually spectacular. Especially when playing the outer space levels. The game play, I will agree, 
 is very easy. Anyone can blast through the game in no time. However, I don't agree with GS's view 
 of the game as having a weak storyline. I though it was rather creative. After all, what do you 
 expect with R&amp; C. I want the dry humor and Quark rattling of like he's the galaxy's greatest 
 hero. I like a lot of the new weapons, they bring a lot of extra spice into the game that make 
 it feel like your not doing the same thing over and over again. They did keep my favorites from 
 past games, I'm a sucker for the Buzz Saw. There are plenty of upgrades for weapons, armor, and 
 devices. I do like the fact that they separated the issue of bolts/rareanite. This makes for more 
 creative game play. It forces you to use the different weapons in order to upgrade. I have a problem 
 with using the same weapons all the time. For anyone thats looking to purchase R&amp; C I will say 
 you won't regret it. You will get through the game fast so you'd buy this game for it's replay 
 value. Insomniac is great for collectibles. But, if your looking for a game to immerse yourself 
 into I suggest choosing another game or renting it first. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cbswordfish8
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 8, 2007 1:11 pm PT
Review:  More of the awesome weapons you've come to know and love! About 25 of them! The graphics are awesome.
 
  The multiplayer is missing, but you should still have some fun collecting millions of weapons, 
 upgrades, and skins. The best Ratchet and Clank since up your arsenal. Infact, it IS the best exclusive 
 PS3 game yet!
  The Story: Ratchet &amp; Clank still some sort of spacecraft and journey across the Universe in 
 search of Ratchet's past and why he is the only Lombax left. Who destroyed his planet? No body 
 knows.
  Gameplay: 9.5
  Graphics: 10.0
  Sound: 9.0
  Value: 9.0
  Tilt: 9.5 -cbswordfish8 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheCarl
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 7, 2007 6:27 pm PT
Review:  Ratchet and Clank FToD is another AAA title for the PS3 which just doesn't live up to the expectations 
 set by the gaming community.
  
  It is a solid game with great graphics and tight controls matched with a variety of weapons but 
 the average gameplay and lack of a meaningful story bring R&amp; C back into the pack of just good 
 games.
  
  The adventure will take you across a variety of planets as well as other natural and man-made satellites 
 in the local galaxy each sporting its own look and layout. Every level is very linear and up until 
 the last 4 destinations, are very easy. Even after encountering this last, difficult section, the 
 whole game will take you around 10 hours.
  
  The 10 hour number does not include searching for all the golden bolts, holo-plans or trying to 
 complete the numerous challenges put forth by Insomniac. These are very similar to the challenges 
 included in Resistance: FoM, another Insomniac title. This adds limited play value but can only 
 last so long. With no muliplayer to speak of, this title will not be in the forefront of many peoples 
 minds after the next few weeks.
  
  All in all, R&amp; C is worth playing as it is one of the better PS3 titles available but a short, 
 easy game with limited replay value lead to just an average adventure. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Brads_Cruel
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 7, 2007 5:03 pm PT
Review:  It didn't take me very long to get used to the somewhat newer controls that RACF: TOD had to offer, 
 but it was something to get used to none the less. The sixaxis doesn't play a very big role in 
 the game, unless you are a fan of sucking up enimies and crates into a large tornado, the only 
 real timeyou will really have to use the sixaxis is when you are free falling for 30 seconds and 
 whaen you use calnk to flay. I quite enjoyed the wepon selection in this game, but when you spend 
 all of your time looking for the holo- plans in order to get the massive weapon at the end (the 
 ynoray ourfay) , the gun itself isn't the best. After beating the game, you of couse get asked if 
 you would like to start the game riht before beating the final boss or if you would like to start 
 a new game on challenge mode... of course nobody ever chooses anything other than challenge mode. 
 Callenge mode has alot to offer, I'm not going to give to much away, but like in previous RAC games, 
 you can further upgrade your weapons, which was a sigh of relief since i beat the first part of 
 the game in about 15 hours... and no it wasn't all at one time, it was in the span of 4 days. I 
 thoroughly enjoyed this game and would recommend it to anybody who has ever played and enjoyed 
 ratchet and clank...
  
  PS. dont expect much from the ending....... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Suliman-Uchia
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 7, 2008 4:50 pm PT
Review:  It is the best Ratchet & Clank made. The game play it is great sometimes a little easy sometimes 
 very hard it is rated E what do you expect? The graphics are on pixar level on my Samsung it looks 
 great with all the colorful levels. The controls are good and the way the six-axis is handled is 
 great the controls work perfectly. The camera it is good but sometime like 1/100 chance does it 
 give a problem. The game play is smooth as butter too. Smashing enemies and blowing things up is 
 a real joy in this game and the action never lets up, not for a bit. The game has a pace to keep 
 even the most hardcore gamer on their toes moving faster then a Lombax with his tail on fire it 
 just keeps the adrenaline junky satisfied. You will not get bored playing this game.
  
  Humor wise this is one of those rare games will you be laughing out loud to. This is like I stated 
 above playing a Pixar movie. Not only for the graphics but the actual content of voice acting and 
 story line. It's just fun all the way around.
  
  One thing I wanted to point out that had me smiling from ear to ear was the sound. WOW! If you 
 have a 7.1 system you will be blown away by the uncompressed 7.1 PCM that this game delivers. This 
 is what your home theater system was bought for and it really shines in this game. Totally immersing 
 and very impressive down to the last bolt pinging across the room in glorious 7.1! IT ROCKS!!!!!!!!!!!!
 
  
  Update: This game is great but sometimes too easy and boring. Nothing against Super Mario galaxy 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jaysongx
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 7, 2007 10:14 am PT
Review:  This game is alot of fun as all of the old Ratchet and Clank games have been. Great sense of humor, 
 amazing graphics (Wow games have come a long way from sonic on the Genesis) , and alot of fun weapons..... 
 you can even guide some of them with the six-axis controller.
  
  The difficulty is not so hard that a young kid would be crippled playing it.... but not so easy 
 that a seasoned gamer won't have a good time either.
  
  I'd highly suggest this game to all users of the PS3 and especially fans of games like Ratchet 
 and Clank, Sly Cooper, Jak and Daxter and the sort.
  
  It's worth every penny!
  
  More games like this and PS3 will be back on top again in no time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: simulation
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 6, 2007 5:56 pm PT
Review:  As I have never played any of the other ratchet games, i cannot compare the different versions, 
 but as a brand new series on the PS3 its great. I loved the story going through every bit, I found 
 it to be fun, although the ending is a bit of a letdown. One thing I can guarantee that this game 
 has is, graphics, which are beautiful, with a wide variety of levels, and clearly one of the most 
 colorful games I've played. Of course graphics doesn't make the game, the game play does, and here 
 too, it is the best, and easily best quality of the game. From the multitude of enemies and bosses 
 to the ever changing classes of weapons and their respective upgrades.
  
  Although the ease of the game is quite noticeable, the only difficulty i had was just learning 
 the various aspects of the game, as I had never played, other than that theres nothing else. There 
 is also replayability in the game from the challenge mode, skill points, and other collectibles. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: subotai
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 6, 2007 10:44 am PT
Review:  I can't get enough from this series. I have played them all and am so happy to see it come back 
 to it's roots. After some mildly disappointing releases as of late from the Ratchet galaxy that 
 focused more on multiplayer and arena-type play, I couldn't be happier that the platformer is back 
 alive again. Some complain that the game doesn't have focus... but I think that is ok. There are 
 so many different aspects of play that it always stays fresh and exciting. Others say it is short. 
 I think more than anything, everyone just wants more, even if it were 100 hours long. Luckily, 
 replayability has always gone hand in hand with any R&amp; C game. Bring it on challenge mode! You 
 will all want to get 100% completion with this Insomniac masterpiece. If you are still not sure 
 whether this title is worth your hard-earned cashola, just remember that the guys that are putting 
 this out are the same guys that brought you Resistance FoM. Awesome, awesome, awesome!
  
  My only gripe... yes, the game is pretty easy. Especially if you end up getting the *big-O* guns. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gamefan274
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 6, 2007 8:01 am PT
Review:  I've played and beaten every Ratchet and Clank game 100% including this one and astounding visuals 
 definately make you wnat to play through again to stare in awe. The gameplay is great fun and each 
 weapon has advantages in different places (except the RYNO which works everywhere and the Cumbuster 
 which works nowhere) . The series has added devices which don't level up and work great in specific 
 spots. Devices make the game a joy but because device vendors aren't everywhere you find yourself 
 saving them for when you need them. Yeah, not a bad strategy except you never NEED them making 
 them scarcely used. Either way, if you have the guts to use your devices then you'll have the time 
 of your life with them on every planet. Because of the bright lights in Ratchet and Clank every 
 visual looks astounding. The game is bright and really feels like there's more to the area you 
 can move around in. Different designs also make each planet feel like a planet, not a differnt 
 area. This game is just plain fun unfortuanetly between the combat and graphics is the thing that 
 hurts the game very badely, the platforming. The fast paced combat, although easy, is exciting 
 and fast in alot of parts but the platforming and gadgets slow everything down wayyyyyy to much. 
 Clank just doesn't move fast enough and gadgets too seem to slow. Throughout the game you find 
 yourself running not stopping to admire the visuals (except on Plsnet Jasindu that planet is a 
 god) or even look for collectables. Why exactly does this happen? Well I found the game was too 
 easy and because of that you rush. Your heart never beats much faster like in Resistance fall of 
 man or Halo when you are afraid to find out whats next. You don't have to strategize like you do 
 in Halo or Resistance because everything is to easy. The game does have you itching for more combat 
 which is great but platforming slowing the game down it almost ruins everything! Of not all platforming 
 is bad, the robo-wings are a blast and the free falling sequences are just as fast as the game 
 itself. both of these use the sixas and that puts you even closer to the game. Next up, optional 
 collectables. Wow what a disaster! Once you aquire the treasure mapper finding gold bolts is a 
 breeze. Not only are they easy to find but all they do is buy crappy skins. Next we have skill 
 points, which are too hard (man insomniac is difficulty challenged) and, although easy to gett, 
 are hard to figure out how to get. You have to go on the internet for help and when you get there 
 guess what!? Its just too easy. Finally we have holo-plans which are really cool. Its an interesting 
 quest requiring enough experimenting to find them. It'll take you a good 4-5 hours to find them 
 all without help and they unlock the deadliest tool of destruction in the game. Definately worth 
 looking for. Well I've told you about the gorgeouse graphics and the amazing gameplay. I've also 
 told you about collectables and platformin aspects. That leaves one thing, the story. I've really 
 got mixed feelings on this one (man is there a single good game out there with a good friggin ending!?) . 
 Its pretty epic and you'll want to know what happens but you'll find youself asking, why didn't 
 he just kill him while he had the chance!? Its still a pretty good story though and you'll watch 
 the cutscenes (unlike SOME games Zelda) and admire the graphics. Its too bad its too short. Challenge 
 mode adds some great replay vaues so you have something to do after you beat the game. You'll have 
 fun and (although you likely won't play 100 hours like me) you'll have a game worth your $60. The 
 game is excellent but when you realize all the potential it has you'll shoot yourself in the foot. 
 Its one of the best games for the PS3 but all the things this game could do but won't makes it 
 a sad disapointment. After all that Its a joy and is the best game I've ever played and you'll 
 enjoy those 15+ weapons. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: allko
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 5, 2007 10:38 pm PT
Review:  Ratchet and Clank is a great game, but has some problems with it. I am now working on the second 
 round of the game, and still find the game very fun to play, but glitches and a bad camera hinder 
 it. Good: Great visual details. Great sound effects. As always, many different weapons and gadgets. 
 Finally, the story is ok, not the greatest, but ok. Bad: I have had situations where the friendly 
 npcs have continuously fired on the ground, but there are no fiends around. This has messed up 
 my mission, making me have to suicide. Another time i have gotten stuck in a door path with the 
 Gyrocycle. Fiends also tend to get stuck in the walls after knocking them back. Finally, the Camera. 
 There have been many times where i have fallen off a platform and be able to glide back to grab 
 the ledge, when i return to the top, the camera stays below the platform. Many times i have died 
 due to this. Even with these problems, i still play the game and love every minute of it (unless 
 i get stuck again) . I'm sure that anyone who gets it will feel the same to. Now that you have read 
 my review, go get the RYNO and blow stuff up!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rahstar
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 5, 2007 12:47 am PT
Review:  Ratchet and clank, one of the ps3 games expected to move systems. Can it do it? One word, YES! 
 I must say after playing the demo i was skeptical. Let me just start out by saying that the demo 
 did ratchet no justice. The number of weapons and upgrades is enough to keep you playing for hours. 
 We all know its a beautiful game, but the animation is also beautiful. Everything moves so fluently 
 and there are many animations in the game for each character. Very entertaing story line, even 
 though the ending was a let down. The most important part, the gameplay, was phenomanal. All the 
 mechanics and different ideas keep the game fresh and inviting. Replay value is also very high. 
 After i beat the game i found myself playing for another hour even though i was already on the 
 game half the day. You can still upgrade to new heights on every weapon and gadget the second time 
 around. Definately worth the buy! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Itsdewdewbabiee
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 4, 2007 10:24 pm PT
Review:  Is it me or is GS really bias when it comes to PS3 games. They completly rip almost all the games 
 that come out to the system. For the record I still think Heavenly Sword still deserves a 9.0 and 
 this game deserves a 9.0. First off you stated that HS was a short game and yet Bioshock was also 
 a short game, but you gave that a 9 something while you only gave HS a 8. Its a good thing that 
 I never go with your reveiews otherwise I'd miss out on a lot of good games. I never followed the 
 RC series on the PS2 but this game is pretty addicting and fun. Isomniac is a solid game developer 
 Resistance is a game I still play today. So all of you who are caught in the middle, buy it you 
 will not be dissappointed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Worshond
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 4, 2007 9:46 pm PT
Review:  The GS reviewer must have been hung-over, or a complete idiot, or on drugs, or just another one 
 of those anti PS3 idiots - wake up dude. How can all the other sites give it awesome reviews??? 
 Seriously, a 10 out of 10 contender and game of 2007 for the PS3. The action is constant and always 
 innovative. Voice acting is brilliant and the art / graphics just plain jaw-dropping. No matter 
 how old you are, you will enjoy this. Even my wife thougt it was good, and that is saying somthing 
 which I though was impossible! Have fun. Hope GS can wake-up and admit they made a mistake??? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GTAIV07
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 9, 2007 2:02 pm PT
Review:  This game is incredible!!! Amazing graphics, awesome gameplay, good uses of the SIXAXIS controller, etc..... 
 The game is a little bit easy at first then it gets hard in the middle towards the ending. The 
 storyline gets wrapped in the game very well. No online play : ( but so what this game is good for 
 children-adults. I've played all the Ratchet and Clank games and I am VERY impressed with this 
 game. This game will go down in PlayStation history. I've pre-ordered this game from gamestop and 
 got a 5% discount which made it $55. Any ways EVERY PS3 owner should get this game. Best game out 
 there for the PS3 for now! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Space-Q
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 4, 2007 5:10 pm PT
Review:  I don't know what the guy at gamespot was thinking... this is a great game. the story , the adventure, 
 the weapons, the enemies, the amount of action on screen... they are all amazing. There is so much 
 variety in this game it's amazing. it's a platformer/shooter and it pulls of both with out sacrificing 
 anything... and the use of sixaxis is incredible. this is definitely one of the best games of the 
 year.
  
  it's long. there are about 18-20 different planets that are each pretty big and all of them are 
 beautiful. lots of variety in the enemies and weapons. It's ashame a game like halo 3 or bioshock 
 is going to win game of the year... even though they bring nothing new to the table in terms of 
 weapons and enemies.. and for a shooter to beconsidered for game of the year I don't think that 
 that is too much to ask.
  
  this is a true gamer's game. don't let the gamespot review fool you read any other review on the 
 planet and you will see that a lot of people agree with me.
  
  good job insomniac! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Spyro4President
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 2, 2008 8:55 am PT
Review:  The Ups: Great sound and visuals - Awesome gameplay - Great replay value - Good length - Introduces 
 new features and controls without straying too far from the old ones - Clank returns! - Colorful 
 and a fun style - Best in series.
  
  The Downs: It may be long, but it's too easy - Glitches can make saving the galaxy sometimes frustrating 
 - Some Weapons/Combat Devices seem useless.
  
  This game is awesome, and by far the best Ratchet and Clank game to-date, and deffiantly one of 
 the best PlayStation 3 games of all time. But, sadly, it suffers a critical flaw, glitches. The 
 game is great, graphics, visuals and gameplay wise, but it has some pretty bad glitches, such as 
 getting stuck in between a plant and a wall, or an enemy dying, but laying on the ground twitching 
 it's neck around like some kind of creap.
  
  Overall, the game looks great, the characters look great, the environments look great and the weapons 
 are as cool as ever! First of all, I'd like to say that the use of the SIXAXIS controls are very 
 improssive. It takes full advantage of the SIXAXIS wireless controller. But if you are a party-pooper 
 and don't like the SIXAXIS, or if you're just stuck at an area and want to make it a little bit 
 easier, the option to turn off the SIXAXIS controls is conviently placed in the options page on 
 the pause screen. There is a lot to be said about this game, but for the sake of keeping this review 
 some-what short and on-topic, I won't roll out the list.
  
  Now, let's talk a little bit about the Combat Devices. The Combat Devices are a new edition to 
 your already glamourous arsenal of tools of destruction. The Combat Devices are basically super-powered 
 (or over-powered) weapons of destruction that come in a wide variaty of options. Let's take for 
 instance, Mr. Zurkon, Mr. Zurkon is a little robot that you can throw out in the middle of combat 
 to help you out if you're in danger, and to add to the awesomeness that Mr. Zurkon already has, 
 he makes hilarious comments about the enemies and sometimes even threatens them (genious!) . We 
 can also talk about the Groovitron, the Groovitron is a disco ball that you can throw out to make 
 your opponents dance to the beat. The Groovitron plays actual music instead of actually playing 
 original music of the series. (Now, that would just be bland and boring) Some of the music is classic 
 80's disco toons like songs from the Bee-Gees and such. Another cool thing we enjoy are the hacker 
 puzzles. If you've been a fan of the series before this game, then you would know that every game 
 has a very different kind of hacker puzzle, well, this one happens to have the best one yet, it 
 takes advantage of the SIXAXIS too! Freakin' awesome! Okay, now, back on-topic (dang, I wanted 
 to keep from going too off-topic this time...) Anyways, the hacker puzzle this time is called the 
 Decrypter puzzle, and the basic idea is to tilt the SIXAXIS to move the litle ball over to the 
 certain areas of the puzzle where there happens to be a gap, so the little spark can pass through 
 you and onto the other side, you have to get it to it's 'home' to complete the puzzle. There are 
 plenty of other combat devices but I won't go into it right now.
  
  If you've played previous Ratchet game then you know about cheats, skill points, skins etc. For 
 example, you might know of the Snowman skin from Up Your Arsenal? Well he's back and he's better 
 than ever! There's also a creapy new Dan skin and Cronk and Zephyr skins to make the game even 
 more interesting. However you want to master the game, it's sure to be a long and fun adventure. 
 It's a 8.5/10!
  
  -Spyro4President 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ironcreed
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 4, 2007 10:16 am PT
Review:  Quite simply, some of the most fun I have had playing a game in a very long time. It is a sheer 
 blast. It never gets dull or repetitve because the variety and gameplay is so rich. There are so 
 many different types of environments, weapons, gadgets, and situations that the game stays fresh 
 and unbelievably fun the whole way through.
  
  The variety was not added for the sake of just having a big inventory either, as each weapon and 
 gadget has it's own use, and I found myself using nearly all of them (my favorite is the nano swarmers) 
 to get out of certain situations and take certain enemies out.
  
  For example, it let's you get so crazy and inventive that you can throw out a 'grooveatron' to 
 make the boss start dancing to funny disco music while making statements like I am going to kill 
 you just as soon as this song is over , lol. While the enemy is mesmerized by the grooveatron, 
 you can throw out a 'nano swarmer' spike which attacks on it's own for you from one angle, while 
 you take cover and blast away with another of many powerful, and fully upgradable weapons of choice.
 
  
  The possibilities and choices are indeed wide, and that is what makes this game excell, as the 
 gameplay delivers in spades. But, of course one must not forget to factor in the other essentials 
 which make this game shine either, which I will do below:
  
  Incredibly beautful, very near Pixar like graphics, superb voice acting, humorous, exciting and 
 fun story, amazingly rendered and varied environments, fun little additions in this game like the 
 decryptor sequences, in which you can use the six axis or analog sticks.... your choice. And also 
 Star Foxesque spaceship scenarios which are not only beautiful and fun, but adds even more richness 
 and quality to the variety of gameplay on display in this game. Oh yes, how could I forget, (winks) 
 last but not least, the extremely fun and clever platforming. Everything from the familiar, but 
 exceedingly fun rail grinding to the new and brilliantly implemented Sixaxis features such as Halo 
 Jumps and robowings which work flawlessly.
  
  In closing, if you are a PS3 owner and have been waiting on the PS3's first killer app... look no 
 further, as this is it, just like the vast majority of reviews around the globe say themselves. 
 Pick it up, you will not regret it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DominicanAG
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 3, 2007 5:19 pm PT
Review:  I must say it took the PS3 to finally put out a game that looks like a Pixar film. If you're new 
 to the series like me than you're in for a load of fun and if you're a fan of the series you won't 
 be disappointed. Why because it's based from the reviews this game uses the same formula from the 
 previous game to make it a great next gen experience on the PS3. You'll be playing with the two 
 main star of the game Ratchet &amp; Clank and you're on a mission to stop the evil Emperor Tachyon 
 which is a funny character from destroying your planet. The controls feel tight with so many weapons 
 in your arsenal is not even funny. The graphics has to be the best so far it's like every game 
 on the PS3 just gets better graphically and this is just the first couple of months of the PS3 
 release. You can just imagine how the games will look in the near future if they are coming out 
 this hot in the first year.
  
  If you're a fan of the series you will not be disappointed with this game and if you're new to 
 the series you will enjoy it just as much as I've been enjoying it so far. The game it's lengthy 
 enough for your $60 bucks but there is not multiplayer but once you beat the game on the regular 
 mode you can unlock another mode to beat it with all your weapons you've unlock during your first 
 place through. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PS3_Champ
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 20, 2007 6:09 am PT
Review:  I cant Belive that Gamespot rated it a 7.5 such a low mark for such a Superb game. Aaron Thomas 
 Alwayz Reviws low like Heavenly Sword, Worlds End and Now Ratchet. Only Gamespot rated it a 7.5 
 check on www. gamestats. com evryone rated it like 9.0 and higher.
  
  Graphics ar awsome better than Halo 3 ( i played that game with my lil bro) the game is quite easy 
 but even though its easy it cant ruin how game is awsome. My bro had a REALLY hard time passing 
 the game so its really good for kids. Also it has a good humor in it i even laughed at some points.
 
  
  The graphics are simply amazing , the game is fun but feels short at times, The game is really Humoures 
 that i nearly laughed the whole way through. The gameplay is simply amazing rolling through super 
 monkey ball , steering ship, glide , shoot badies and swim. Yea ToD is all about gameplay , but 
 the story is not so bad. The game is really entartaing and fun.
  
  its still like old Ratchet games But thats what makes those games so popular. Now how come its 
 a 7.5 it should be 9.6 or 10! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bloodsoul
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 2, 2007 11:47 am PT
Review:  But this one really deserves it. Ratchet and clank come back with and extremely fun new adventure, 
 dont beliebe gamespots baised review, the story is complete, but finishes with a hook for a new 
 storyline
  
  graphics 9.5 all i can say is that its like palying a pixar movie, great effects, even breathtaking.
 
  
  story 9.5 very awesome humor, solid story, great voice acting
  
  gameplay 11
  seriosuly the gameplay is fast action, very fun, never gets old and always they are varied and 
 new.
  
  i dont have time for a full review, but this is one of the best ps3 games so far 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jbul
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 2, 2007 1:50 am PT
Review:  For years, players around the world have come to love the R&amp; C series for a host of reasons; 
 the fun gameplay, the humor, the cast of characters, and the inventive weaponry. Well, the good 
 news is, the jump to Next-Gen has only made this game even better. Most of those familiar with 
 the series will feel right at home. We've come to expect a certain type of gameplay from Ratchet 
 games, and Insomniac keeps to the formula for good reasons. It works, it's fun, and they've polished 
 to near-perfection with this game. Ratchet still does an assortment of expected gameplay activities; 
 smashes boxes for bolts, finds and buys new weapons, upgrades them, and explores huge, varied worlds. 
 Speaking of worlds, WOW. The beauty and artistic merit that went into creating this games worlds' 
 simply has to be seen to be believed. This is one of the best looking video games ever
  made, period. Tropical Forrests, Galactic Space stations, Lava Mines, Underground Space Fortresses, 
 traversing a fleet of Airborne pirate ships - the variety alone is staggering. The PS3's power 
 is on display here, with bright, colorful, alive worlds. The soundtrack is also surprisingly good. 
 While I could go on about the technical merits of this game - and there are many - I'd like to 
 discuss an aspect of this game that I've discovered is missing in alot of todays dreary military 
 shooters - pure fun. When you're not blasting through a herd of Dinosaurs in the beautiful prehistoric 
 level with your Negotiator (my favorite weapon) , you'll be laughing out loud at one of the game's 
 many amazingly sharp, hilarious cinematic sequences. It's rare that a game can make me laugh - 
 and I did more times than I can
  count here. Ratchet And Clank continues to entertain with amazing graphics, huge, varied worlds, 
 hilarious characters and dialogue, and enough gameplay variety to satisfy the most discerning action 
 gamer. It should take you 15 or so hours to complete your first time through, and the replay value 
 is high. If you're a PS3 owner of any age, you'd be doing yourself a disservice by not picking 
 up this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ggame91
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 1, 2007 7:39 pm PT
Review:  I've enjoyed all the ratchet, and clank games since i saw my friend play the first one on ps2 years 
 ago. He got me hooked, and this game does not dissopoint, and is a must buy for the ps3.
  
  The Difficult settings have remained the same through-out the game which is a down fall IMO, they 
 need to have settings for this since just running through shooting your gun, throwing gernades, 
 or setting plasma beast everywhere is easy since your enemies die fast. I Normally die when i dont 
 see a cliff infront of me and fall down into which pisses me off! &gt;.&lt;
  
  Graphics: are amazing nuff said.
  Sound: can lack at times, when i was running through a level 
 on ratchets home planet fighting off the cragmites every sound kind of stopped, and you could just 
 hear the robots foot steps. (allys)
  
  The story is random which seems to be the most case for the R@C series, but its still fun none 
 the less, and easy to follow
  
  With that said i was just dissopointed by the ending T. T.. poor clank, o well cant wait for the 
 sequal. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: haesuse
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 1, 2007 2:20 pm PT
Review:  There is really not much to be said about ToD. Game excels in every possible way. Graphics are 
 amazing, as they say on the box , you do get the pixar experience on your PS3. of course 50 of 
 HD plasma helps a lot. Voice acting and the dialogue are loaded with the zany, space humor that 
 we all got to love in previous installments. Story itself its very plain, you are saving the universe 
 again, discovering some ancient secret that can save it all, and sadly the ending is a bit blank, 
 but overall the game is not about the story.
  
  Biggest things about ToD to love are by far some awesome platformer elements that are rarely seen 
 in games today. Also the gadgets, weapons and devices are amazing, i mean AMAZING. There is plenty 
 of stuff to use and while it is not mandatory to utilize em all, trying to do so makes this remarkable 
 game even more fun. I do have to add that some of weapons are a bit too much. For example, the 
 ion bug swarm thingy is just plain OP. I've pretty much stuck 2 in the middle of arena and ran 
 around while they handled all of the enemies. And while it does take some serious upgrading to 
 get to that lvl it is still somewhat over the top.
  Except for that you get to enjoy some neat space battles, style of lets say KH series, but with 
 more depth and difficulty. This was by far the only part of the game that required some trial-and-error 
 to master but it was fun. Transportational and SIXAXIS levels are fun also but entirely too easy.
 
  
  All in all the only flaw of the game is the difficulty but the depth, size, quality, humor, fun 
 level, graphics, gimmicks and so on definitely more than compensate for it. Ratchet and Clank: 
 ToD is a must buy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: drbob33
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 31, 2007 11:48 pm PT
Review:  PS3 owners have been waiting for some awesome games. Let me be the first to say that R&amp; C made 
 me put down Halo 3 and Metroid Prime 3, and that is no small feat for me, an admitted FPS junkie. 
 Also, I'd like to say that I do not generally enjoy platformers. It is not my style of game and 
 I rarely enjoy them. For R&amp; C to truly impress me, it had to overcome quite a bit of initial 
 bias... take that for what you will.
  
  So, R&amp; C is a truly phenomenal game. It is thrilling and funny the whole way through. The dialog 
 is hilarious and so is the general feel of the game. I laughed out loud more than once. The one 
 thing I can honestly say about this game is that it is just plain fun. There is no other description 
 necessary. If you want to play a game to have fun, this is a great choice. It is lighthearted and 
 relatively easy to master. Here is the breakdown:
  
  Good- Graphics. Holy nuts, this is a Pixar movie. Sound. Awesome FX, voice acting, and music. Really 
 no complaints about the technical aspects of this game... very well put together. Fun. This game 
 is one of the most genuinely fun games in my library. Design/Presentation. Simply Top Notch... 
 Insomniac is starting to gain a reputation for excellence and it is not an accident.
  
  Bad- Very little. For what it tries to do, it succeeds admirably. I really have never disagreed 
 more with a GS review than this game. Lack of variety is a bad thing? Come on, the game is varied 
 enough to be interesting, and simple enough that my 9 year old cousin can play it and have a blast. 
 What gives? I will admit though, that lack of online play is puzzling... this game could be totally 
 awesome online. Turning your friends into sheep would be pretty much the funniest MP experience 
 ever. Also, the story is no tour de force, but it's really hard to knock it for that... I don't 
 think its really supposed to be. And the difficulty is too easy? That is what makes it so fun for 
 me, I just would not enjoy it nearly as much if i was just getting wasted all the time and had 
 to repeat levels over and over.
  
  Verdict- Buy. I don't like platform games yet I am an unabashed fan of this game. One of the best 
 games of the holiday season for me, and easily the best game on the PS3 since launch. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: adamVH1984
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 31, 2007 8:27 pm PT
Review:  Ratchet and Clank Future is an action adventure platformer. It mostly focuses on action with its 
 weapons but it is a very diverse experience. I always thought that these games were very story 
 heavy and since this is my first one, I thought I would miss out. but honestly, I think i've pretty 
 much sucken myself right in.
  
  First off, you can very easily tell this was made by the same people that made Resistance. The 
 graphic and art style is very simlar, and mainly the weapons are just as crazy as Resistance's 
 were. The game took me about 11 hours to beat and I had a ball discovering all the weapons and 
 upgrading them. The levels are extremely varied since they go from a metropolis to a deserted planet, 
 to a pirate snow astroid. This is my favorite level design I have played in a long time. They are 
 pretty linear but there are some secret places for skill points (just like resistance) and gold 
 bolt which let you buy extra skins. The story is pretty easy to understand and don't worry if this 
 is your first game. There are a ton of gadgets to use and the discoball is soo funny. every single 
 thing dances and it may be cheap, but it is a hell of a lot of fun to use. You can use it on the 
 final boss! how cool is that? And once you finsih your first play through, you can get the secret 
 weapon which is beastly and get all the o***** weapons I won't spoil anything. and you can play 
 it on challenge mode to get all the skill points and weapon upgrades. Even though this game as 
 not multiplayer whatsoever, its campaign is long enough, so good, and there are enough hidden things 
 to make several play throughs. I bought it and I am definately satisfied.
  
  The graphics are cartoonish and they are definately at the top end of PS3's graphics at the moment. 
 there is a ton of activity going on in the backgrounds and sometimes in the arena, there will be 
 so much going on your jaw will drop. But the best part is that the frame rate very rarely slows 
 down. The same was true with Resistance so obviously this team knows how to program for this machine. 
 They have proven to me that they know what they're doing so from here on out, i'm buying every 
 PS3 game they make. Resistance and Ratchet are just that good.
  
  The music changes from level to level. For example: the pirate levels have a pirates of the caribbean 
 type theme and the metropolis has a very superheroish sound to it. It sounds a lot like the music 
 did in Resistance. There is a lot of voice acting and it is very well done. There are some very 
 funny jokes in this game and it will make you laugh pretty hard at parts. Although some of them 
 are corney. The guns sound great and overall the sound is pretty solid.
  
  Ratchet proves that if the game itself is good enough, it doesn't need multiplayer. the campaign 
 is so good and long enough, and there are so many skill points and things to find, it is definately 
 worth a buy. Insomiac has not disappointed yet. I'd say this is my second best game, right behind 
 resistance and just ahead of Motorstorm. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ra-Devil
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 31, 2007 3:38 pm PT
Review:  GORGEOUS: The visuals in this game are something special. It's a bright, colorful and downright 
 nice looking game, but it's not the silly kind of colorful. It does a great job of being cartoony, 
 without using cel-shading, which is fairly impressive.
  
  THE GOOD: The number of weapons, their wonky traits, and the number of other special goodies is 
 pretty impressive. The game's got that ol' R&amp; C feeling to it, which isn't necessarily a bad 
 thing.
  
  THE BAD: The game's pretty easy, even for Ratchet &amp; Clank. You get a lot of new and cool toys 
 to mess with, but it feels like none of them are really fleshed out entirely. They could have integrated 
 them more into the game.
  
  REVIEW: I played two of the other Ratchet &amp; Clank games, and for a PS2, they were gorgeous. 
 Ratchet &amp; Clank: Tools of Destruction is still a fine looking game, and really pushes this 
 whole epic feeling into the level design with how large some of the environments look. The weapons 
 are still their over-the-top, funny selves, along with some other cool features, the only problem 
 I have with them though is that some of them aren't used all that much. Your weapons are all cool, 
 but it seems like the instances you use some of them in are isolated, meaning you'll be using your 
 weapons as you please, or you'll just be using a few of the weapons you deem useful. The story 
 is pretty weak, right on track with the Halo 2 idea of, here's your AWESOME story,... but instead 
 of really doing anything with it, we're just going to get you from level to level so you can shoot 
 things. The story feels like it's going somewhere, but then you soon realise it's just a place 
 holder between and around mission. Oh, and there's a cliffhanger ending. Any of this sounding familiar 
 (if you've played Halo 2) ? This isn't a big problem, just kinda' wanted a nice, complete story 
 with the game, but since it's all about the platforming and shooting, it's only a minor problem. 
 Aside from having this lack-luster grand story, the games too easy for a R&amp; C title. As I said 
 before, you can really just use your weapons as you please, as long as you're competent enough 
 with them, there's really no trouble. The sound doesn't make you say, Wow! too often, but it is 
 really great to hear all the yelling and explosions when your blasting away at you enemies. Not 
 just that, but this game doesn't slow down either. One thing I've noticed on a few PS3 games is 
 that the frame-rate will drop during intense moments, but that's not the case with Tool of Destruction, 
 which was really nice to see. From graphic design to gameplay, R&amp; C: ToD is a pretty good game, 
 it's just a few hook-ups that pull it back a bit. I still recommend this to any PS3 owner looking 
 form some playful action. I like challenging games, for example: Ninja Gaiden, so the easy-ness 
 factor did play a part in the Review, but if you don't mind if the games just a bit too easy, then 
 the Review Score is a 9.0. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Opalescent
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 31, 2007 11:29 am PT
Review:  Having never played any other Ratchet and Clank game besides Size Matters, and some of Deadlocked, 
 I consider myself a newcomer to the series. As such I will write this review from the viewpoint 
 of an outsider, someone who comes into R&amp; C without any prior information. Because of this, 
 I can't speak to what some people are saying (i. e. worth the wait , since I wasn't waiting for 
 it) .
  
  Before I start, I should mention that I purchased the game essentially on a whim. The clerk at 
 the store, having known me from the fact that I go to the same store for pretty much all my gaming 
 needs, knew what sort of games I enjoyed. She recommended Ratchet and Clank Future after I told 
 her that I enjoyed her last R&amp; C recommendation (Size Matters) . Figuring that there was little 
 to lose, I purchased the game with very few preconceptions, except that it would probably be pretty 
 similar to the PSP version I had played before.
  
  In a certain sense I wasn't disappointed, and in a certain other sense I was. It was indeed very 
 much like Size Matters, except of course the fact that it was infinitely better looking and took 
 place on a way bigger screen. On the downside, I thought that R&amp; C Future was, as the Gamespot 
 review here has already stated, a tad too easy.
  
  One of the things about me is that I must be a bit of a masochist, because I like my games to be 
 challenging nearly to the point of frustration (hence my love of Ninja Gaiden Sigma) . This may 
 not be the case for everyone and I appreciate that fact, but for those looking for a challenge 
 I don't think you'll find it here. R&amp; C Future seems (at least to me) to be significantly easier 
 than Size Matters. Perhaps it was the fact that Size Matters took place on a smaller screen, or 
 maybe because the PSP did not have a second analog nub, or maybe the game itself was just more 
 challenging, but I remember spending at least a few weeks on Size Matters, whereas I finished Future 
 in about three days.
  
  That's not to say that the game wasn't fun for those three days. I found the disco ball groovitron 
 especially entertaining, although I thought some of the mini-games were boring and frankly a little 
 pointless. Was I the only one who thought that the dance challenge for the pirate doors was a bit 
 silly and unnecessary?
  
  Graphically, Ratchet and Clank Future: Tools of Destruction is one of the most impressive games 
 I've ever seen. The people at Insomniac weren't lying when they said that R&amp; CF: ToD would be 
 Pixar-like , because it is. Some people attribute good graphics to being able to see the pores 
 on a person's face. I attribute good graphics to achieving a particular artistic style . In this 
 case, Ratchet and Clank is spot on: I would even hearken this game to Sly Cooper in the way it 
 has the potential to revolutionize the way people think about a game's graphics.
  
  For a more direct comparison: why do people flinch when they look at the near-misses for movies 
 like Final Fantasy: The Spirits Within, but have no problem accepting the super-deformed characters 
 in The Incredibles? Read up on the Uncanny Valley (just Google it) to find out. Anyway, I find 
 the graphics, in some sense, better than some of the high-end games out there (even better, in 
 my opinion, than Resistance: Fall of Man, despite both games being released by the same company) , 
 because I was more comfortable looking at Ratchet's face than I was looking at the facsimile human 
 faces of Resistance.
  
  I also liked the sound of the game. The music was appropriate although I did get a bit tired of 
 it at some points in the game. The voice acting was spot on.
  
  Having gotten used to Ratchet and Clank's unique brand of humor in Size Matters, I'm pleased to 
 announce that Future has not lost any of it. The game is genuinely funny at places, especially 
 Captain Quark (I love this guy for some reason) . The game never takes itself too seriously, which 
 is a welcome change from Deadlocked, and I feel that's a good thing.
  
  There's no multiplayer, which is a bit of a bummer for me. I liked Size Matters, partially because 
 it had a very nice multiplayer option. It would have also aided the ease of the single-player if 
 there had been a multiplayer to extend the life of the game, in my opinion. And yes, I am aware 
 there's a harder challenge-mode after you've beaten the game, and the challenge mode is marginally 
 harder. However, it would have been nicer if we'd been given the option of choosing a difficulty 
 at the beginning.
  
  It's a solid package, all in all, and you really don't need to know anything about Ratchet and 
 Clank to enjoy it, which is a really good thing in my opinion. Many games, like Halo 3 for instance, 
 really relied on the player having completed the previous installations to fully appreciate what 
 was going on. Thankfully anyone, even a newcomer, can enjoy Ratchet and Clank without having to 
 worry too much about getting lost. With excellent graphics and solid voice acting, the game could 
 be forgiven for it's slightly easy gameplay. Most importantly, it's just plain fun, which means 
 that you'll probably not notice how easy it is, unless you're like me. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NodgeDaFunk
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 31, 2007 7:09 am PT
Review:  Some might say this is too easy, and it might be at times. But there are places in the game that 
 provide a challenge. So I think it is just right.
  
  Graphics : Blows my mind how much detail there is packed into every polygon on screen. It really 
 is a beautiful game. I've seen it compared to Pixar, and they might be right.
  
  Sound : It is what could be expected from a developer like Insomniac. Great sound track and totally 
 immersive.
  
  Gameplay : For me, it was like putting on an old pair of shoes. It fit just like it should. They 
 didn't make so many changes that the game lost its appeal, but they added enough little thing to 
 make it a better package.
  
  I know this is a short review, but I'm still playing the game. But from my point of view, it is 
 a great game. If you love the series, you will love this addition and welcome it with open arms. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: suleiman89
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 30, 2007 2:46 pm PT
Review:  Ratchet and Clank: Tools Of Destruction has finally arrived and let me say that this game just 
 looks amazing, the graphics are amazing, even better when you play it on 720p HD. It looks brilliant 
 and clear. Possibly a game that could save the PS3 perhaps from total anihilation perhaps... As 
 for the story, its great at last we found about our favorite and only Lombax Ratchet's past, of 
 course with the help of Clank. The gameplay is great weapons leveling up and the introduction of 
 devices into a battle can make a difficult fight become entertaining, and managerble.
  The difficulty of the game is just right and the introduction of raritanium for perchasing weopons 
 is great if not anything more. I'll try to come up with flaws, but at most the game is smooth except 
 for a few giitches here and there, with physics of objects such as boxes or parts of a box in the 
 air same with fragments of glass. Except from that the game is GREAT!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chrislovesdana
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 30, 2007 2:28 pm PT
Review:  7.5, right. The game is stunning. The gameplay is everything fans of the series have come to expect, 
 it's fun and I'd say worth the wait. This thing is miles above the last game (Deadlocked) and I 
 was happy to drop my $60 for it. Great work Insomniac. What caught my attention the most is how 
 vivid the colors are and how immersive the environments are. You can break everything. The soundtrack 
 is also top notch. This title is a must have for all PS3 owners and the fact that the gamespot 
 reviewer gave it a 7.5 just goes to show how little he knows about what the public actually appreciates 
 in a game. Sure it might not be his style of play, but then don't review it. Trashing an obviously 
 great game in a (mostly) respected publication is just wrong. Go home and play Halo. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AIH_PSP
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 30, 2007 2:23 pm PT
Review:  I'll start off with saying that the game looks absolutely stunning. The graphics in this game beat 
 most of the other games you've ever seen. The HDR light, the reflections, shadowing, etc. are truly 
 amazing. Even with all those bolts, enemies, explosions, and destruction on the screen, the game 
 runs solid and the framerate never goes down.
  
  But it's not all about graphics. This game incorporates most of what we've seen in Ratchet and 
 Clank before, but adds new weapons, new gameplay (using the SIXAXIS wireless controller) , and of 
 course adds rumble support to the PS3 (with the 1.94 update included on the disc) .
  
  In this game, you play as Ratchet and Clank, trying to find out what the Lombax secret is because 
 Ratchet is the only Lombax left in the universe. The game is about you going along the way, trying 
 to discover the secret as you play each level.
  
  This game is truely amazing. I think I would best describe this as the first time you played Mega 
 Man X on SNES. It's just pure, genuine fun. If you are a PS3 owner, this is a MUST BUY. Trust me 
 and all the other reviewers, you won't regret it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Shivercraft
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 30, 2007 7:58 am PT
Review:  Ratchet and Clank Future: Tools of Destruction is a great game, funny, beautiful, and a sheer joy 
 to play. The game is pretty easy, however, it does take complete use of the Playstation 3's sixaxis 
 controller's features quite nicely. It felt like I was playing a Disney movie with the visuals 
 in this game being so smooth and colorful. The sounds were fantastic and the dialog was deliciously 
 cheesy. (There is mention of electrically charged under-garments affectionately referred to as 
 stunderwear ) Overall, this was one of the most entertaining games I have played in the past year, 
 and is in the top five for best games on the current gen market. I really don't see how the score 
 of 7.5 could be issued to a game of this calibur, the absolute lowest I could see giving this game 
 would be an 8.5 for not including multiplayer, however, I do not count things against a title that 
 they did not intend to ever put with said title in the first place.
  
  For sheer fun, beautiful graphics, and memoriable moments, I give Ratchet and Clank Future: Tools 
 of Destruction a 9.5 out of 10. The difficulty should be improved and there should be more save 
 points. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BlackMax65
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 30, 2007 7:44 am PT
Review:  Playing the new Ratchet &amp; Clank: Tools of Destruction is kinda like playing a Pixar movie. 
 The graphics are clear, bright and stunningly crisp running at 720p on my Sharp Aquos HD TV. There 
 are times when you will get lost in the game just ogling at all the graphics, background, sky, 
 etc. The game play is enjoyable and not overly difficult. I gave the game a 9.5 instead of 100 
 because I believe it could have been a little more challenging at some points, but overall this 
 game is great fun and a must have for any Ratchet &amp; Clank series fan.
  
  If R&amp; C: TOD is a taste of things to come for PS3 owners, then I think we're in for a bright 
 future with the PS3. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Shinso-Zangetsu
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 29, 2007 6:07 pm PT
Review:  het and Clank. I've been with this series since the start, and it's been great playing through 
 it. Does the series' Ps3 debut live up to the other games? In my opinion, yes. The new game has 
 graphics that can be comparable to a Pixar movie, fantastic gameplay (with lots of explosions) , 
 quirky humor, a nice variety of sounds, and a satisfying storyline.
  
  Let's start with the story. Ratchet is the last of the Lombaxes. You guys probably know that little 
 piece of trivia. Now ask yourself why. At the start of the game, Ratchet and Clank gets a distress 
 signal from Captain Qwark. Later on, they get a personal visit from Emperor Percius Tachyon (I 
 think that's what his name is) , last of the Cragmites. The Emperor seeks to get rid of Ratchet. 
 The duo steals his ship and escapes. In addition, throughout the story, Clank befriends the Zoni, 
 who gives him cool devices and says that he has an unknown destiny. The story is pretty epic, but 
 the ending is REALLY disappointing. We don't need that suprise ending to know that there's gonna 
 be another game, Insomniac!
  
  Next is the graphics. Believe me, the game really looks like a pixar move. Plus, the game always 
 maintains a steady frame rate. Whenever you first start in a planet, the camera gives a wide view 
 of your surroundings, so you can really appreciate the graphics. The explosions, of course, are 
 big and satisfying. Another thing you have to appreciate is the lighting. The graphics really are 
 a marvel.
  
  The audio is great. The voice acting's pretty good. The sound effects are the hallmark, though. 
 There's a great variety of effects. The music is decent, but as GS said, the Pirate Theme is pretty 
 awesome. The gameplay is awesome, like always. I have to agree with GS with the diffuculty, though: 
 it's pretty easy. Even if you never played a R&amp; C game before, but played a FPS, you can change 
 the control scheme to imitate that. The diffifulty ramped up at the end, but not a dramatic increase. 
 The weapons are all satisfyingly destructive, and in addition to the weapons, there are gadgets 
 that take advantage of the controller's motion controls. Also, there is also devices, like the 
 Groovitron, that could tip a fight in your favor. Think of them like equipment in Halo 3.
  
  The motion control minigames are pretty fun, like the Pirate Jig, but some are really not necessary. 
 You can zoom in, with your weapons an over the shoulder perspective, but I didn't really use it. 
 There are basic weapons in the game, like the blaster and flamethrower, but they're used in creative 
 ways. You can level up your guns like in the other games, but in addition there's also a upgrade 
 tree of sorts in which you can increase the damage, amount of ammo you can have, etc. There's also 
 a final upgrade to guns in which there's special properties added to the gun, like the Alpha Disruptor 
 being able to hit through multiple enemies, Razor Blades being able to enter a beserker state (the 
 normal red yellow blades turn into red blades) more easily, etc. You can level up your guns up 
 to V5, and farther when you get the Omega versions of the guns in Challenge Mode. I think it goes 
 up to V10. You can also control Clank occasionally; it's basically the same as the other times 
 you get to control him in the series, only with the power to control the Zoni instead of the little 
 midget robots. The gameplay is awesome; I had a lot of Look at that explosion! moments. My one 
 gripe: no multiplayer.
  
  All in all, Ratchet and Clank Future: Tools of Destruction is a satisfying, action-packed adventure 
 that anyone with a PS3 should have. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fluffers623
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 29, 2007 10:34 am PT
Review:  this game is defiently one of the best on the ps3. the environment is destructive, there are beautiful 
 visuals, controls and nice, and the gaming is just plain fun. the game is very easy to get used 
 to, and it is quite humurous at some times.
  
  the story is simple. robotic commandos want to eliminate ratchet, one of the last lombax's on earth. 
 the ruler is a cragmite, short yet very egotisical.
  
  throughout the game, you will enjoy lush plants environments. no 2 planets look the same.
  
 
  the wepons are also great, with a total of 30 from shooting bullets to summoning tornadoes. upgrades 
 are also cool. each gun has 4 specific upgradable points. completing each upgrade will take a while, 
 and it is cool at the end to see how it has changed. the only bad thing about this game is that 
 it is too easy.......
  
  overall, this game is great and should defiently be worth buying 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Spencer626
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 29, 2007 9:25 am PT
Review:  I usually don't write reviews for games. In fact, this is my first one. But Gamespot didn't give 
 this game the credit it deserves. The story isn't that bad, I actually think it is the best one 
 to date (except for the ending) . The game is also longer than ever before with tons more planets 
 than usual. But even if you consider the story a dead weight, the gameplay is outstanding. Ratchet 
 and Clank games always have great weapons, but there have also always been weapons that you just 
 didn't like. But this game is different. Even the weapons like the lancer or bomb glove just feel 
 better than before. And there are only like 4 weapons that I can think of that are similar to previous 
 weapons. The rest are all new and are amazing. The devices are like weapons but are bought seperately 
 and they're great too (especially the groove-a-tron) .
  Weapons can be leveled up to level 5 and then more in challenge mode like before, but now there 
 is a way to customize the weapons. Each weapon has a grid and you use rareitanium to upgrade it. 
 The whole thing is hard to explain, but it is a great feature.
  The other problem that gamespot has is the difficulty. It is easy, but when was a Ratchet and Clank 
 game actually hard (and it does get harder towards the end) . Difficulty is just not what you buy 
 these games for.
  
  The only reason I don't give this game a 10 is because of the camera. There are some points in 
 the game where you don't have as much control of the it as you'd like but it really isn't that 
 big of a deal.
  
  The graphics are amazing, the game uses great use of the SIXAXIS controls, the weapons are better 
 than ever, the clank levels are outstanding and a lot of fun (you can even slow down time when 
 you clank!!) , the story is great (in my opinion at least) , there are more planets, more unlockables, 
 and all around more fun than in the previous games. If you liked the other games, getting this 
 one is a no-brainer. And if you haven't played the previous games, you will still understand the 
 story as much as any of us.
  BUY THIS GAME!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nocturn614
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 29, 2007 8:48 am PT
Review:  I had never played R&amp; C on the PS2 before so when I saw the 7.5 Gamespot gave it I was kinda 
 on the fence about buying it.
  
  When I saw the other users giving out good scores I decided to buy it anyway. After playing for 
 15 hours or so I can tell you that this is the best game on PS3 so far. It reminds me of the old 
 games... like the first Jak &amp; Daxter on PS2. The graphics are really next generation... You 
 can start to feel the power of the PS3. Another amazing aspect of the game is the number of different 
 weapons and upgrades you can get... You can get up to 15 different weapons I think and upgrade 
 all of them individually. I would be very surprised if you did not like this game. It's a must 
 buy.
  
  :-) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tdxmt57
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 29, 2007 7:42 am PT
Review:  If you are an owner of a PS3 and are looking for a good platformer to add to your collection, this 
 game is for you.]
  
  Graphics: (9/10)
  The graphics in this game are top notch. Alot of the times there is alot going on and the framerate 
 never seems to suffer. The game comes to you in 720p. I wished for 1080p but most people cant tell 
 the difference anyway. The graphics are very crisp and clean and they never slow down.
  
  Gameplay: (8/10)
  There isnt much new here with the respect to platforming. There are some really 
 cool weapons and puzzles that make the game exciting. there is plenty of things to do and this 
 game isnt hard to pick up. Story: (8.5/10)
  The story in this game keeps you guessing most of the time and it is rather out there. there is 
 alot to keep you guessing. I wont say anything about the ending. I do say though that the game 
 is well put together and the story keeps you intrigued.
  
  Overall: (9/10)
  The game is definitely something you should check out. It is alot of fun and there are alot of 
 things to keep you busy once you finish the story. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: brianpoetzel
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 29, 2007 6:57 am PT
Review:  This game has to be the best looking ps3 game i've played yet. It looks just like a pixar movie. 
 And it's just plain funny! The game is a bit easy and I'm sure that will turn some people off. 
 Some of the weapons are way overpowered and there's no penalty for dying. You just respawn at the 
 last checkpoint. That part I don't mind. But the over powered weapons bother me a bit. There are 
 so many different weapons in the game and I find myself using just one or two mostly. Why use a 
 weapon that takes 3-4 shots to kill one guy when another weapon will kill 3-4 guys with one swing. 
 All in all I have to say it's the best game released on the ps3 so far. I'm glad I picked it up. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: atrain4x4
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 29, 2007 5:31 am PT
Review:  Did Gamespot play the same game as I did? How dare they rate this game a mere 7.5! What a crock 
 of sh*t!!! This game not only exceeded my expectations, it brought me to a world that was absolutely 
 amazing! The worlds have so much attention to detail that it almost looks as if you were watching 
 a Pixar DVD! This game is a must for anyone who is a fan, or who just wants to add to their PS3 
 library. Let me just say, i used to take Gamespots reviews so seriously that i wouldnt even rent 
 a game if they said it stunk... however, with this review, i wonder if there credibility is starting 
 to slip. They better shape up, because a 7.5 for this game? All i can say is wow... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gymskllz
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 29, 2007 1:49 am PT
Review:  Evil robot destroyer and ironicly his robotic companion return once again to defend his planet 
 and to figure out his own past in order to save the future. With outstanding visuals and humrous 
 cinematics plus an arsenal of creative and destructive, and flat out weird makes this and adventure 
 you will want to experience more than once. Like the other games it is fun with a little bit of 
 puzzles involved. But nothing that cant be figured out. After youve beat it there are still unlockables 
 to achieve that make you want to keep playing until you have everything there is to own within 
 the game; such as cheat codes, or art concepts and even.... cheat codes. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: grimdagamer
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 28, 2007 7:53 pm PT
Review:  So its Ratchet and Clank, do you really need to be told its good? I mean come on. Ok, some things 
 that are new. It looks AMAZING, lots of pretty colors and great lighting and particle effects. 
 This game looks good, end of story. Gameplay it plays like Ratchet and Clank: Up Your Arsenal 
 with elements of Going Commando. If you didnt like those two, you wont like this one. Insomniac 
 said they were trying to return to the original RC gameplay, and they did it. However, one element 
 that appeared in Up Your Arsenal is the holo-disguise. In that game, you were disguised as a Tryanoid, 
 and to get past doors or make the other Tryanoids do what you wanted, you would talk to them and 
 start a almost rhythmic button pressing mini-game. This concept reappears in Tool of Destruction, 
 but has gotten much less fun. This time you are disguised as a robot pirate and to open doors you 
 have to dance as the other pirates tell you. One will say To your left and you push the analog 
 stick to the left. It is very tedious and boring. But that is probably because your dance moves 
 suck so much. I dont know, I just didnt like that part. Anyway. I liked this game overall. If 
 you like the Ratchet and Clank series, or perhaps you like Resistance: Fall of Man, they you will 
 more than likely like this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: warhawk256
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 28, 2007 2:11 pm PT
Review:  Finding someone that dislikes a Ratchet game is tougher than finding a needle in a haystack. They 
 seamlessly blend comedy and action to create some of the most purely fun and addictive experiences 
 in gaming. Despite being the series debut on PS3, Tools of Destruction is still, for all intents 
 and purposes, the exact same game that Insomniac has been creating for the last six years. Six 
 years later, though, Insomniac is still at the top of its game.
  
  One could argue that transplanting the standard Ratchet formula into hi-def graphics and calling 
 it a day shouldnt deserve much praise, but here is a case where the graphical bump actually enhances 
 the gameplay experience. These games have always been about blowing stuff up and looking cool doing 
 it.
  
  Many compliments can be made about Futures graphics, but the crowning achievement has to be the 
 rock-solid sixty frames-per-second. Even the most absurd amount of enemies, bullets, and explosions 
 happening at once wont cause the PS3 to even skip a heartbeat.
  
  Future also continues the series tradition of ingeniously crazy weapons. Just to name a few: a 
 shotgun that blasts shards of glass, gas canisters that force enemies to attack each other, an 
 electric whip, and a disco ball that gives enemies the uncontrollable urge to get their grooves 
 on.
  
  Upgrading these weapons is now a much more customizable process than before. They can go from version 
 1 all the way to version 5 just through usage, but players can also spend Raritanium to upgrade 
 particular attributes (damage, speed, bolts earned, etc.) . Essentially, the game rewards players 
 who choose favorites.
  
  At the same time, its rare to rely on just three or four weapons. For one, each is catered to 
 specific situations (long vs. short range, single enemy vs. groups, etc.) . By the end of the game, 
 players will have their hands on everything except the kitchen sink, but enemies will take so much 
 punishment that having a kitchen sink wouldnt hurt.
  
  Speaking of the kitchen sink, players wont just be jumping and shooting their way through the 
 game; theyll also be grinding on rails, piloting a battle-equipped spaceship, dressing up as pirates, 
 dancing, hacking circuit boards, gliding, and riding a motorized hamster wheel. The space combat 
 sections, in particular, feel like pale imitations of StarFox games. The attempt to break up the 
 monotony is admirable, but theres so much diversity here that the flow of the game gets constantly 
 interrupted.
  
  The plot also brings the game down somewhat. No one really plays Ratchet games for the story, but 
 Insomniac clearly wants players to care this time. On top of the recycled plot (evil emperor/mad 
 scientist/dictator threatens galaxy, Ratchet must stop him, Captain Quark provides comic relief) , 
 cut scenes attempt to flesh out the history of Ratchets race, and Clank is aided by tiny creatures 
 called Zoni that only he can see. Ratchet himself has never been all that likeable of a character, 
 so its unlikely that anyone will even care about these things. Its unfortunate that Insomniac 
 didnt take the plot with as little seriousness as the rest of the game.
  
  Fortunately, ignoring the overly-dramatic plot in favor of the action at hand is easy. The first 
 Ratchet &amp; Clank was a paradigm shift 3D platforming that freed players from boring collect-a-thons 
 in favor of exciting shooting elements. Tools of Destruction serves as a wonderful reminder of 
 how great a Ratchet game can still be, and now its gotten a face lift for a new age in gaming. 
 Anyone who likes fun will enjoy this game, plain and simple. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bluefire48
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 29, 2007 3:32 pm PT
Review:  When I first read the reviews, I was highly pleased. But when I saw GS's review, I began to be 
 doubtful. But after beating the game, this so called bull**** cliffhangar isnt as bad as the God 
 of War 2 ending. The gameplay is almost the same. With some slight adjusment to how you strafe, 
 it will play the same as previous games. But with the adtion of the sixaxis, you get a twist in 
 gamplay. When you freefall, fly, and do certain pzzles, you can use the sixaxis. You do have the 
 option to use the analog stick, but it makes it to simple with almsot no challenge. As it is implemented 
 well into this game, you will have no problem there.
  
  The weaons, devices, and gadgets are as extragandous as ever. A tornadoe launcher, blob beasts, 
 a magentic cage. These are some of the few things you can do with your weapons. The devices are 
 rare overpowered weapons, such as the awed groovitron. The gadgets are ineresting in this game, 
 as some of them are six axis implemented, such as the geo laser, whci huse conrol a laserto hit 
 certain pints on a rock strucutrer in order to ge through. However, this game may seem to simple 
 to for some people the first imte around, but there is a challenge mode, which is certainly raisng 
 the bar from previous ratchet game.
  
  The story is a much more organic and serious. This game will send you on an adventure to find the 
 origins of the Lomaxes. A side story here is clanks ability to see these invisle roblitc aliens 
 called zonis that help him during the adventure. The story progresses well as you will experience 
 the same laughable momnets, and sometmes you will laugh out loud. The graphics. Its a beutiul rainbow 
 swalloed by a giant ice cream cave in uberlisious specturalty. Its basicly awesome. Thestyle will 
 be familar from the other games. But as this games runs at 60 frames per second, some many things 
 go on on screen. Its a beautiful, cartoony, CG lookin game. And the music is spectacular. I want 
 my own copy of the soundtrack of this game Enough said.
  
  Get this game. You have no idea what you are missing out on. There are some hiccups, such as that 
 update thats on the disc, but in my opinon this is a must want. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dreadphantom
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 28, 2007 9:47 am PT
Review:  I have heard of the Ratchet and Clank series before in being one of the industries best gaming 
 series, though there was one game I will not mention that has been known as the black sheep, all 
 in all these games prove their worth as a must buy for those who love these genre of games. This 
 new game for the PS3 has made the leap from sd to hd with leaps and bounds and for this review 
 and just about all others everyone can agree that if you want to show off the PS3 this game is 
 the most complex and highly organized screen display for and demo as the hd visuals have anything 
 out now for the consoles beat as of now. The gameplay is simple from begining to end, at times 
 a little more tedious at flight mode, but with inclusion of the sixaxis controller motion control 
 you will have a well balanced game in the longrun as you find yourself completing small puzzles 
 to fighting in big gun fights with many characters. The weapons system has so many weapons that 
 replay value excels as you might find yourself completing the game with one weapon or the other 
 just for fun as each weapon has a character of its own. The levels are riddled with little extras 
 here and there for level ups, bolts and screws to buy weapons or parts, and the stores are almost 
 readlily accessible at most needed points so you wont run out of supplies as much. The storline 
 works just fine as being the first Ratchet and Clank on the PS3, and to provide a little hook for 
 this next generation of gameplayers for the PS3 edition of the games. The game is rated for teen 
 but you will find the oldest gamers, though some hesitant at times, will pick up the game and have 
 a great time of tearing up space. I would have to say the only fault is a lack of co-op, as so 
 many reviews have said, but this is focused for single player and it suffers very little at all 
 from that aspect or any other fault because this is a top game alltogether for this holiday season. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gamemaster749
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 28, 2007 1:35 am PT
Review:  This has to be one of the best looking Ratchet and clank games yet (due to the power of the PS3) 
 but still i love how keeps the flow of the series alive and not like some other series where they 
 tend to take something so stupid and milk the livings out of the series (aka some of the Newer 
 Mario and Sonic games tend to do this sometimes) but over all i have to say this was worth the 
 wait of the 6 months or so that i have waited since i have heard of it's release. one of the key 
 thing i love that insomniac games does well in the ratchet and clank games is the loading times 
 they are almost not existence (aka the loading screens are the ones with the ship flying around 
 on screen LOL) and the great thing i like is the Voice acting the reason why is cause the keep 
 the same people that have did the voices in the past game which is great key thing to do but over 
 all i really loved this game but i am worried about the ending... (spoiler alert) what is going 
 to happen Next...... Clank where did you go whats going to happen next? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mastertimx
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 27, 2007 10:45 pm PT
Review:  I've always have been a huge ratchet and clank fan. from ratchet and clank, to up your arsenal, 
 to size matters. Every single ratchet and clank game has been outstanding and tools of destruction 
 (TOD) is the best yet. I'll begin with the good parts about the game since everything about the 
 game is good. Ratchet and clank has always had a great story and characters. The story in TOD is 
 great and surprisingly depth. It starts out ratchet and clank are just hanging out together trying 
 to fix their hower bike ( or whatever it was) when they get a distress call from the very amusing 
 captain quark who tells them he is being attacked. so ratchet and clank set off to help him, but 
 when he gets there an evil cragmite names tachion finds ratchet and sets out to kill him, for he 
 is the last of the lombax race. why does he want to kill the last lombax? i won't spoil it for 
 you but it is very good. and on top of that clank even has his own little story about invisible 
 robots only he can see who help him and ratchet. now the gameplay, the beat part of any ratchet 
 game is phenominal. This has to be some of the funnest gameplay ever. You travel from planet to 
 planet (and there is alot of them) with tons of upgradable weapons that are wacky and fun and killing 
 a large variety of enemies in beautiful and different environments with just the right ammount 
 of puzzles and platforming. The weapons are the best part of the ratchet series, and this game 
 delivers some of the best weapons not only in this genre, but in any game ever made. The groovitron 
 for instance will make your enemies helplessy dance until you dispose of them, then there's the 
 death slinky's which are homing slinky's that explode when touching an enemy, then theres the tornado 
 laucher which you control with the sixaxis ( which works surprising well) and sweeps up your enemies 
 into a tornado whcih tears them apart. those are just some of the awesome weapons in the games. 
 All weapons are upgradable too, they geain levels when you use them, but also can be upgraded with 
 the use of raritanium ( i think thats what it's called) which can increase damage, range, feild 
 of effect, and much more, it can even add special effects like rockets release napalm after detonation, 
 or you can home in on an enemy with 3 rockets instead of 1. there are also gadgets too which are 
 fun to use like the ability to fly with clank, or hack into computers. Now the graphics are outstanding, 
 Everything, and i mean EVERYTHING looks fantastic and the size and scale of the worlds are trumendous. 
 Ratchet and clank look as good as ever, as do all the enemies ( and there are alot of different 
 enemies with different tactics) . The game looks like an interactive pixar movie, but don't be fooled 
 this isn't a kids game i guarantee you die at least 20 times playing through it. No kid game would 
 have a main badguy character killing off people planet, after planet to satisfy his own twisted 
 desires. The difficulty isn't as bad as the other ratchets however, but the challenge mode after 
 the first playthrough makes it harder for people wanting more of a... uh... challenge. speaking of 
 first playthrough, when you finish the game you can start over with all your weapons and bolts 
 you collected from the first run through the game, you can also find secret hidden gold bolts that 
 will allow you to purchase different goodies, and cheats like big headed enemies, or concept are, 
 and for people who like acheivments, there is a list of skill points to aquire to make it feel 
 like you've accomplished something. With all that said i don't know why your still reading this 
 review, go out and buy this game, and if you don't have ps3, get one, seeing as how this is the 
 best game ever made i don't see why you wouldn't especially with the ps3 price cut. The only game 
 i think that will beat this game is ratchet and clank future: tools of destruction's s sequel. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Valkron1
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 27, 2007 10:20 pm PT
Review:  Yes, this game is easy. Very easy for any old school platform game enthusiast. That said, the game 
 is fun. The graphics are amazing, no slowdown at all so far from what I have played. For 2007 I'd 
 say it is a must have game for any PS3 owner, and there aren't many of those. What I like most 
 about it is simply realizing what this machine is capable of within a year of its launch. The game 
 itself is somewhat simplistic, but there is enough in it that would make me run through it a second 
 time. I hope this is just a taste to come for what the PS3 will deliver. The weapons are very unique. 
 It pays to experiment and see what you can do at times. The comedy is a good addition between the 
 action, it keeps the tension light in the face of so many games that take themselves way to seriously. 
 It is simply a game that anyone can enjoy, and that is what I like about it.
  
  It is that same accessibility that is a bit of a draw back for me. Other games like Mario can leave 
 the player struggling to finish a level. But this is a simple jog through a park in comparison. 
 The sixaxsis stuff was the only part I had a problem with, and that is a problem with the controller 
 itself. I hate the sixaxsis and hope Sony will either drop it entirely or make it optional. Aside 
 from that it controlled quite well.
  
  I love the way this game looks, the resolution at 720p looks great, the frame rate is solid so 
 far, and the characters look like what Sony promised us with the PS2 with Toy Story quality. I 
 could only hope that my other favorites from the PS2 era will be this nicely polished. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nint3nd0_Fr3ak
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 27, 2007 8:26 pm PT
Review:  The last game in the Ratchet and Clank series, to be honest, was a bit of a letdown. Developer 
 Insomniac Games (c) realized this and decided to make a change in the franchise. They took Ratchet 
 and Clank back to their roots of true platforming, puzzle solving, shooting, collecting items and 
 comedic relief. This was exactly the shot in the arm that it needed. Ratchet and Clank: FToD brings 
 Amazing presentation backed up by a lengthy storyline and solid mechanics. The visuals in this 
 game are absolutely breathtaking. I turned it on and the first cuts cene felt like an orgasm in 
 my eye. The look of this game presents you with a vivid array of colors over large vistas and open 
 ended areas. The detail is done so well that you really feel the scope of the massive worlds you 
 are exploring. Textures feel like they are real. The effects are done so well in this game, that 
 I can completely understand the comparison of Pixars Movies to this game. I am not saying this 
 game is on that level, but its damn close. R&amp; C: FToD is presented very well. It has a very clean 
 and streamlined interface along with a nice set of options. The orchestral score is a nice touch 
 to the game adding a nice feel of realism. The sound effects were done very nicely, everything 
 from a bomb exploding, to a Plasma beast attacking my enemy with a terrible vengeance, sent a roaring 
 boom through my house with incredible force. The pacing is done extremely well in this game. You 
 are doing something new in each level. There is never a dull moment, which only adds to the greatness 
 of this game. The game play is solid. PERIOD. Any other reviewer who complains about it using the 
 same formula is stupid. The mechanics are a refined version from all of the Ratchet and Clank series. 
 You will find the usual R&amp; C trademarks in this game. There is a lot to collect, plenty of unlockables 
 and many, many weapons. Future decides to throw in many new things such as a Metroid prime-ish 
 ball rolling adventure to a few more clank missions. This adds a lot of variety to mix up the adventure. 
 Luckily for Ps2 fans, the controls on ps3 haven't changed. The controls are also solid. With a 
 freely moving camera and two control set ups, this game controls impeccably. This is one of the 
 best platformers out there so there would be no reason to change the winning formula. I would be 
 lying to say that I found nothing wrong with this game. One of my only gripes is the lack of multiplayer. 
 Another is the cliffhanger ending that sent me into with-drawls for a few hours. I do think that 
 the game could have used a few more armors and such. Those are my only complaints. Overall, I had 
 an amazing experience with Ratchet and Clank: Future Tools of Destruction. Minus a few minor complaints, 
 this game was a well presented, wonderfully fun and amazingly beautiful game. No ps3 owner should 
 go without having this game. This is the best game currently out on ps3 by far and definitely is 
 in the running for my GoTY. My hats off to Insomniac Games (c) for making the two best ps3 games 
 in its early lifecycle. Pros-
  -Amazing Visuals
  -Solid controls
  -Great Presentation
  -Lots of Variety
  -Lots of extra
  -Good Orchestral Score
  -Very Fun
  -Best ps3 Game. Period.
 
  
  Cons-
  -Lack of Multiplayer
  -Cliffhanger ending
  -Could have used a few more armors, weapons ect.
  
  Gameplay-9
  Graphics-9.5
  Sound-9
 
  Fun Factor-9.5
  Controls-9
  Difficulty-8
  Presentation-10
  Overall-9.2
  
  Sincerely,
  Nint3nd0 Fr3ak aka Raspinudo 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ejex
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 27, 2007 7:45 pm PT
Review:  I'll be honest, until the PSN demo of Ratchet &amp; Clank Future: Tools of Destruction I had never 
 played a Ratchet &amp; Clank game. I left behind platform games for the most part in favor for 
 shooters. I was floored by just how great the demo was. I sought out other Ratchet &amp; Clank 
 titles and anticipated this game with great enthusiasm.
  
  Needless to saw Insomniac did not disappoint me in the slightest. Let's get this out of the way 
 right away. This game is drop dead gorgeous. It is not only one of the best looking titles on the 
 PS3 but one of the best looking titles period. There's no slowdown or graphical tearing. There 
 is so much going on screen it's almost obscene. And the use of lighting and particle effects is 
 amazing. The Pixar look has very nearly been achieved here (although there's still room for improvement 
 when compared to Pixar :P) .
  
  The voice acting is top notch and the audio is very well done. The voice acting is up to par with 
 other R&amp; C titles and won't disappoint one bit. The audio itself won't blow you out of the water 
 but is still of a very high quality that adds nuanced dimensions to the title.
  
  The story is engaging and holds the game together in a very compelling way. It's not as deep as 
 some of the other R&amp; C titles but is still very good and leaves some nice twists in place to 
 keep the player engaged. Likable characters in both the heroes and villains abound and you'll find 
 yourself wanting more as the game progresses. The cut scenes are never tedious or boring in any 
 manner.
  
  But the game play. Oh the glorious game play. R&amp; CF plays like one part Mario platformer and 
 one part cartoon 3rd person shooter. The ability to upgrade weapons will keep you wanting to push 
 yourself to gather more bolts, buy more upgrades and see what you can do next. The sheer variety 
 will keep you up for hours on end. The mini-games, especially the Sixaxis mini-games, are cute 
 but not very deep and I found myself wishing they'd fleshed them out a bit more.
  
  Kudos to Insomniac for bringing a AAA title to the PS3 and for showing others how it's done and 
 what the PS3 is capable of. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: artson1966
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 17, 2007 11:05 am PT
Review:  I am really blown away by the low rating that this site has giving this game. I believe the reviewer 
 forgot that this game is for the entire family and it's simplefied game play is a reflection of 
 that. How could a 10 year old play at the same level as us older gamers in or 30's and 40's is 
 beyond me and his unrealist espectation is un warranted and very biased in my oppion. This site 
 used to be so fair on its reviews, but of late it's 360 bias has been very evadent in every thing 
 they do from on the spot which used to promote all platforms equally to a over load of 360 games.
 
  
  The graphics in this game blow me away the vivid colors to great animantion and a very steady frame 
 rate at 60 fps with almost no distortion at all.
  
  the game play is easy but not very easy as stated in gamespots review. He is right it is hard to 
 die but i feel it is by design. the game play is true to it's earlier versions with some added 
 weapons which is not lacking in any form and the effects of each weapons is fantastic and entertaining 
 and most importantly it doesnt get repeatitive at all. The game clocked in at around 17 hours of 
 game play for me and for those looking for a challenge try the grown up level and if you feel that 
 its too easy then well your way too good of a gmer for most of todays games anyway and you wont 
 like this game no mater how hard it is.
  
  the sound effects and music where good but not blow away.
  
  The storyline is comic and very 
 funny at times with some great one liners and the charector reactions make the funny gauge rise 
 even more. I don't understand how the story doe not make any sense, does any comedy sitcome make 
 any sense no it's a comedy it's ment to entertain you not educate you. So laugh have some fun with 
 the jokes thats what the GAME IS FOR NOT TOO GET INTENSE WITH A NOVEL BASED STORY COME ON GAME 
 SPOT GIVE US A BREAK WILL YOU.
  
  overall this game deserves the 9.1 average that most critics gave it and is a must own PS3 title 
 for any collection. The ending is a cliffhanger and it really makes this review eager for the next 
 installment of R&amp; C. Till then i bid you all great gaming and loads of fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bob444449
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 27, 2007 8:36 am PT
Review:  IMO This IS The Best Game In The Series, Yeah It's A Bit Easy but It's Still Fun.
  
  The Good
  1. Graphics Are Solid, Best Out Of the Series
  2. Weapons Are Diverse, And All Are 
 Useful
  3. Story Is Pretty Good
  4. Planets Are Detailed Nicely, Have Unique Enemy's.
  5. Mini-Games Are Fun.
  The Bad
  1. It; s Easy 2. The Upgrade System Is Weird
  The Ugly
 
  1. It's Not Ugly!
  So All In All It's A Rent For First Timers But A Buy For Veterans Of The Series. (Comparison)
 
  Going Commando Was The Worst IMO
  Then Was Deadlock
  Then Ratchet&amp; Clank
  Then Up Your Arsenal Now Tools Of Destruction 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nfsmaster
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 26, 2007 6:14 pm PT
Review:  Ratchet and Clank Future: Tools of Destruction has everything good that we've come to love in the 
 series and more. The graphics are spectacular. Of course, there are those typical glitches but 
 none that actually will affect your liking of the game. I love the new weapons. Ratchet and Clank's 
 weapon supplier is Gadgetron again and has a whole new line up of guns and gadgets. There is a 
 new villain, of which I can't seem to remember, that loves to appear on projections throughout 
 each world or making announcements. Ratchet, as you may know, is learning about his Lombax heritage 
 in this installment. Clank has some new interesting friends that appear at certain times throughout 
 the game. They help him get to places and give him Robo-Wings. Captain Quark is being taking hostage 
 from the villain, and for some reason, decides not to escape from the arena. Some of the enemies 
 and fights can actually get repetitive and annoying. Some worlds are difficult to find your objective 
 and you can easily find yourself lost. All in all, the game is great so far. I haven't completed 
 the game yet but I believe this is a game worth while and is quite addicting and pleasing for most. 
 Whether you are a return fan or you just like shooting/action games, this Ratchet and Clank installment 
 is the one for you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ppf816438
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 26, 2007 12:23 pm PT
Review:  If Heavenly Sword is like an action movie, then R&amp; C6 is like Pixar movie.
  
  The game itself have charming visual, base on sharp color and smooth object. Characters (either 
 good guy or bad guy) design with a little sense of humor (their dialog too) . There are bunch of 
 weapons you can unleash and upgrade. Some weapons really put a little bit smile on your face. Function 
 that allow you to save anywhere is really nice too, you can put down controller anytime you like. 
 Base on the cute design and easy difficulty, I would even suggest my girlfriend play it.
  
  The only off-side is that story can have more flavor into it, somehow it didn't feel like it keep 
 up with other improvement. Still it won't kill all the fun you can get from the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wmg1299
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 26, 2007 3:38 am PT
Review:  Ratchet and Clank Tools of Destruction brings one of the best series on the PS2 to the next generation 
 in a big way. The mix of stunning graphics and addictive gameplay will give fans of the series 
 something to cheer about and may finally make people think the PS3 is worth the investment. While 
 Tools of Destruction is definately next gen, fans of the series will find a familiar feel that 
 includes everything they love about Ratchet games. The graphics and sound are the best the PS3 
 has to offer, and Insomniac brought back the familiar actors to voice the now infamous characters. 
 Tools of Destruction takes the series to the next level by including all of the things that make 
 the series great. The game offers a huge variety of unique and upgradeable weapons, like playes 
 found in Ratchet Deadlocked, but brings back a lot of the platforming aspects found in the first 
 three titles. I am a fan of the series and have not been bothered by the rather small and piddly 
 things that other reviewers have harped on. I found the camera to be as good as on any other platformer/shooter, 
 and was not bothered by the level of difficulty. Personally, I would rather a game be a little 
 too easy that insanely difficult. Gameplay is addictive and players will want to play through multiple 
 times. Some critics were a little turned off by some of the minigame aspects (especially those 
 utilyzing the Sixaxis control scheme) , but these are a short and fairly minor part of the game. 
 I personally did not care for the brief motion sensing portions of the game, but am impressed with 
 the functionality and variety of tasks that are included in the game. Tools of Destruction brings 
 new hope for the PS3 and will leave gamers wondering how great the new installments of other classic 
 PS2 series (Sly Cooper, Jak and Daxter, God of War) will be. Overall, this is the best game currently 
 available on the PS3 and I highly recommend it as a purchase for anyone who has already invested 
 in the system. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: -D3MO-
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 25, 2007 9:16 pm PT
Review:  Ratchet and Clank Future: Tools of Destruction (PS3) Ratchet and Clank debuts on the Playstation 
 3. Insomniac Games have already given Playstation fans Resistance which was an awesome game, but 
 R&amp; C is one of the Playstation 2's staple series. Graphics:
  - Amazing. R&amp; C looks incredible, its on par with older Pixar movies. The graphics are purely 
 amazing, great animations, beautiful lighting. The environments in the game are breathtaking. The 
 draw distance is great. This is one of the most beautiful games released so far this gen.
  
  Gameplay:
  - The game plays great. The controls are pretty good and get the job done. The 
 Sixaxis motion-sensing is used in some portions of the game which is a nice change and is executed 
 flawlessly. The game, like other in the franchise, features a variety of innovative weapons. The 
 gameplay is fun, but gets repetitive after a while. The game is also very easy, and you must beat 
 it on the easy mode to be able to replay the game on the harder modes. You can beat the game in 
 around 15 hours.
  
  Value:
  - As much as I love ratchet and clank, it is not a killer app. The game is great and every Playstation 
 fan should play it. But the game doesn't stand out. Sure it has great graphics, but gameplay gets 
 repetative and boring after a while. There is no online mode what so ever, which is kind of a bummer, 
 considering you can beat the game in a week.
  
  Overall:
  This is a great game. It has its flaws, but stays true to the series. I recommend playing this 
 game. This isn't the best game ever, or even in my top 10, but is worth a play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: EightBitWarrior
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 25, 2007 6:30 pm PT
Review:  Fun: 9.5 - TONS of well varied weapons, gadgets, and devices that make the gameplay experience 
 never get old (I wouldn't have minded more even!) , perfect difficulty (not too easy or not too 
 hard, reguardless of what's been going around, that's my opinion) , interesting story (although 
 not mind blowing) , and just plain fun all the way through. Loses points due to a few random minor 
 glitches, a few crappy checkpoints near the end, and not having a completely awesome story (although 
 this game didn't really need it to carry it through) .
  
  Visuals: 10 - ABSOLUTELY BREATHTAKING. The best graphics I've ever seen. Despite hearing this a 
 lot or having your doubts, I'll first hand tell you that the graphics rival a pixar/animated movie, 
 with SUPER clear edges and textures (no jaggies whatsoever) , all running at a blistering 60 frames 
 per second that never even hiccups. 99% of the cutscenes are done in real-time, in-game engine 
 and look fabulous. Truly a showcase of graphics and skill here.
  
  Sound: 9.5 - Music that well fits the mood, including a particular awesome epic tune within. Voice 
 acting that is incredibly well acted to perfection, including tons of humor. Guns all sound about 
 how you'd expect, and overall nothing sounds out of place. The only thing stopping the sound category 
 from reaching a perfect ten would be a highly memorable main tune that I could hum/get stuck in 
 my head. If that doesn't much matter to you, then consider this section a ten.
  
  Replayability: 9 - With the main storyline lasting a good 12-14 hours, a harder difficulty after 
 you beat the game that lets you keep all your weapons and such, plenty of unlockables (cheats, 
 concept art, skins, etc) , and an overall fun factor through the roof will keep you coming back 
 to this one for a time to come.
  
  Overall Average: 9.5 - If you love action adventure games, love Ratchet &amp; Clank games, or just 
 plain like having fun, then look no further. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dan216
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 29, 2007 8:36 pm PT
Review:  Ratchet &amp; Clank Future: Tools of Destruction is the best ps3 game out now. Good replay value 
 tons of mini games. Lots of upgrades for weapons. If you are a ratchet and clank fan this is a 
 must have game best one out of the whole series. i personally have this game it's the best game 
 that i have played so far. The game should take you 10 to 14 hours to complete and its worth every 
 second. The controls are easy to get use to and actually one of the games that uses the sixaxis 
 controller to its potential. Has great graphics at 720P. This is a must have for ur ps3. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ponchick
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 25, 2007 12:42 pm PT
Review:  Everyone have the place there he feels himself welcomed and cozy. There we can spend time talking 
 with pleasant and cheerful people. There everything is just right and fits exactly for you. There 
 air is filled by affectionate joy and sincere smiles. Ratchet &amp; Clank Future is raising the 
 perfect model of such place while purring under your hand.
  
  This big and bright digital masterpiece full of pleasant friends and amusing foes can provide the 
 enthralling action on its miraculous worlds. Ungainly dancing pirates, menacing furry penguins, 
 big-eared cat-like ghosts and aquarium folks will be happy to entertain their guests by creating 
 the fabulous adventures, by giving the power to create his own attractions in ways of his imagination.
 
  
  Ratchet &amp; Clank are tickling something in me, something that I have forgotten about for now, 
 raising it from the deeps of time. What is it? How shall I call it? The beatitude of childish baseless 
 happiness, maybe. Please, relax your seriousness and send yourself on vacation in the space fairy 
 fiction world of Ratchet &amp; Clank Future: Tools of Destruction. You are awaited. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: infidexus
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 25, 2007 12:13 pm PT
Review:  This game is fun, yes it is easier then the previous versions, but it is also a lot more fun and 
 the graphics are stunning. Definitly the first of many great titles coming this Holiday for the 
 PS3. If you are a fan of the series, this is a must own. If your new to the series, this is a very 
 pleasant game to get started with, the controls are very tight, best I've seen in a game for a 
 while. The graphics will remind you of a Pixar movie, which is what many reviewers are saying, 
 it's colorful and fun. Most stores have this a week early, got mine from Gamestop, grab yours today! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pudge05
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 25, 2007 12:11 pm PT
Review:  RCF is probably the best game in the world.... any gamers out there that have'nt tried playing 
 R&amp; C any of the games you need to.... your not a true gamer unless you have played R&amp; C..... 
 The weapons are outstanding my favorite is the groovatron.... The game is a masterpiece.... Everyone 
 should love R&amp; C.... And how many games do you play that make you laugh and that have amazing 
 story lines like the R&amp; C series... AMAZING... The graphics on the game are spectacular..... 
 Especially in HD..... Once you start playin R&amp; C you wont want to stop.... And the good thing 
 about that is you can play it over and over in challenge mode.... Once you defeat it in challenge 
 mode now just upgrade all your weapons and go in and dominate over and over it never gets old.... 
 So please do your self a favor and go out and buy a R&amp; C game you will fall in love... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: superdynamite
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 25, 2007 10:45 am PT
Review:  With the release of Ratchet &amp; Clank: Tools of Destruction, Insomniac Games has launched themselves 
 into the stratusphere of elite game developers. They have undoubtedly outdone themselves and their 
 competition with R&amp; C: ToD. It's THAT good!
  
  Let's start with the graphics. For those of you with HDTV, the native resolution of R&amp; C: ToD 
 is 720p. The environments are stunning. Each layer of each level has a life of it's own. From the 
 bushes to the sky, there is nothing on the gaming market that comes close. I wish there was another 
 game that I could use as a comparison but there is not. The only fair comparison to use would be 
 a Pixar movie so that's what I'll try to do. Using a rating scale of 1 to 10, 10 being the best, 
 I would give the Pixar movie CARS a 9.5, Ratatouille would get a 10, Toy Story gets an 8.2 and 
 Ratchet: Tools gets a 9.5! The only video game that has life-like layers in the environment that 
 are even close to R&amp; C is Motorstorm and on the same rating scale Motorstorm would get a 4! 
 Gears of War looks great but doesn't have 1/10th the depth of this game, that's how good it looks! 
 As far as visuals go, the only thing that could make it better is if the Developers took the extra 
 step and went ALL-OUT 1080p. If you need to find any negative about the graphics, that would be 
 it... but you'd really, really be nit-picking.
  
  The game play is phenomenal. I read a few reviews and they all seem to have experienced slight 
 difficulty with the camera movement. I do admit that the camera can take a few minutes of game 
 play to get use to, but after about one half of the first level it's not a problem. Other than 
 that the game play is extremely fluid. Next, the script! Staying true to the underlying Comedic 
 story lines of the previous R&amp; C games, Tools of Destruction stays true to it's roots. Without 
 spoiling it for you, let me just say that the main Villain is a laugh riot. The supporting characters 
 as well as the main characters come across as funny as can be. There is definitely no shortage 
 in the laugh department here.
  
  In a Whole: So, if you decide to purchase R&amp; C: ToD, what you'll have on your hands is a game 
 that is Super Funny, Super Fun to play and a game that looks far better than you could possibly 
 imagine. By far the best game on PS3 and quite possibly one of the best games of 2007, Period! 
 Amazing! A Perfect 10! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: borgman
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 25, 2007 6:26 am PT
Review:  I have to say Insomniac is definetly the best developer group in Sony's camp. R&amp; C has everything 
 a fan would want in this latest installment. Pixar-like graphics, tons of weapons and upgrades. 
 The space battles are back, and a lots of planets to explore. The O'l R&amp; C humor is intact as 
 well. This game deserves the great ratings all of the other sites gave it. Don't let Gamespot's 
 rating fool you. As one of the satisfied gamers who owns it, I can proudly recommend R&amp; C ToD 
 as a great addition to your PS3 library.
  
  If you have a PS3 and don't have ToD yet, but have a liking for action shooters with a bit of humor, 
 what are you waiting for? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JoannaDarkxoxo
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 24, 2007 9:25 pm PT
Review:  I am trying to think of words that explain Ratchet and Clank: Future Tools of Destruction and all 
 that comes to mind is WOW. Words cannot explain how much I love this game. I have beaten almost 
 all of the Ratchet and Clank games but none of those games compare to this one. I was hearing about 
 Ratchet and Clank for a while but it wasn't until Comic-Con 2007 that I was really addicted about 
 this game coming out. Though I only played it for 5 minutes I was in love. Then when I pre-ordered 
 my copy I got the demo to take home. I musted have played that demo 100 times until the final game 
 came out. The graphics are totally mind blowing, I have never seen a animated game come to life 
 like Ratchet and Clank: Future Tools of Destruction. The whole time I was playing the game I seriously 
 felt as if I watching a pixar movie. I love the cinemas are all in game and no loading. I also 
 love how the gameplay hasn't changed a bit and they have even added some freaking awesome sh't 
 with the original gameplay. Some people love to use the weapons and upgrade them to the fullest, 
 but I am different. I love using melee. I love using Ratchet's ratchet to kill most of the enemies 
 and on occassion when theres to many enemies I love to use the disco ball to distract them so I 
 can kill them with my ratchet. Aw good times. Overall I love Ratchet and Clank: Future Tools of 
 Destruction, it is my favoirte Ratchet and Clank game. I could and will play this game over and 
 over again. If you don't have this game then please please go get this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DarkSniperXV
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 24, 2007 9:00 pm PT
Review:  Ratchet and Clank Future: Tools of Destruction is easily one of the most highly anticipated games 
 for the Playstation 3 this year. The graphics, as everyone has seen, are absolutely jaw-dropping... 
 but how is everything else? In a word: breathtaking .
  
  First off, this is the most beautiful console game I have ever seen, bar none (that includes Bioshock, 
 Motorstorm, and Oblivion) . The colors, animation, and attention to detail are all beyond top-notch, 
 and the atmosphere that all of those elements bring together can be a bit staggering at times. 
 The character models are, again, extremely well animated and bring out some of the PS3's immense 
 potential. The real graphical power, however, goes into rendering the backgrounds and all of the 
 motion therein. There is seemingly never a dull moment throughout this game. Whether it's watching 
 a building collapse from spaceship fire as you slide by on a grind rail or simply marvelling at 
 the amount of traffic high in the sky in the city levels, Ratchet and Clank Future does not disappoint.
 
  
  The sound design is also very well done. It's basically the same as the rest of the games in the 
 series. The voice acting is near perfect, sound effects are always clear and crisp, and the music 
 is the same somewhat-upbeat addictive techno mix as in the old days.
  
  Similarly, the gameplay is still just as tight as it was in Up Your Arsenal. Not much has changed 
 barring the addition of a completely new weapon set, special battle-aid weapons like the Groovitron, 
 and gadgets. The weapon upgrade system has been overehauled to give players a much more diverse 
 experience each time they play through the game. It has more a Final Fantasy XIII licensing feel 
 to it, but it's not quite as complicated. Each weapon has a list of upgrades spread out over a 
 web. Each time you purchase a new upgrade, new upgrades adjacent to those open for purchase. The 
 physics have also been improved greatly since Insomniac's last release, Resistance: Fall of Man 
 . Boxes tumble as you take support from underneath them, and enemy carcasses roll realistically 
 down ramps and over edges. I found the difficulty to be just as challenging as the PS2 RaC titles, 
 all of which I own and have completed multiple times through. The game just has a really good balance 
 and feel to it. It has a never too little, never too much mentality. If you're comparing it to 
 Ninja Gaiden or something of that sort, of course it'll look easy. That's not at all how this title 
 was meant to be played. It's not about white-knuckled frustration. It's about fun, plain and simple, 
 and there's more than enough to be had by gamers of all shapes and sizes. I also feel that Gamespot 
 should offer a second opinion from a different reviewer on this game. It might be an opinion, but 
 I don't think a 7.5 does this digital work of art justice.
  
  In summation, I can't recommend this game highly enough. The graphics are gorgeous, the sounds 
 are perfect, the gameplay is extremely tight, and the story is humorous and interesting. I would 
 give it a 9.8 or 9.9 for a few graphical errors I've seen (floating boxes, etc.) , but a 10 is the 
 closest option to my honest opinion. In other words, pick it up. You won't regret it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AdamC79
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 24, 2007 8:48 am PT
Review:  Graphics-10 They are almost Pixar worthy and the amount of stuff going on on-screen and with no 
 slowdown is phenominal. Truely a graphical achievement for gaming.
  
  Gameplay-10
  Same great R+C gameplay we have grown to love and this game will introduce new players to the series 
 with amazing gameplay that is not overwhelming. If it aint broke dont fix it and Insomniac did 
 well to not change their formula... sorry Aaron you are wrong.
  
  Lasting Appeal-10
  Theres plenty of collectibles and challenges to keep ou coming back for more time and time again, 
 this game has more packed into it than any other R+C game and thats saying a lot. This game will 
 keep me intersted for a long time to come and its one of those games that you can come back to 
 and instantly be intersted in after taking a break for days on end.
  
  Sound-10
  Once again sorry Aaron but you must have been playing this game on a POS sound system. My 7.1 system 
 sounds incredible with this game and the sound truely makes the game more immersive in this case. 
 You hear everything around you on the dinosaur level in particular and I found myself stopping 
 to take in all of the sounds on each level. Overall-10
  The best gaming experience hands down for me on the PS3 right now, Uncharted will be the only game 
 that can come close. Ratchet and Clank is a graphical and audio achievement for the PS3 and gaming 
 as a whole. There hasnt been a game out yet that can come close to the attention to detail that 
 this game posseses and Insomniac prove again that they are one of the worlds best developers. If 
 you have a PS3 you must buy this game and if you dont have a PS3 then this is a reason to buy one. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: x3lnaga86
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 24, 2007 8:19 am PT
Review:  IMO: Just got the game last night at around 7:10 and played through it non-stop because I got the 
 mind of a child syndrome and am easily impressed by shiny objects (also this game looks really 
 really GOOD) .
  
  Review: Not to go too much into detail about the game because some of the other reviews kinda give 
 too much detail about this game and might ruin it for some.
  Lets just say, if you like taking out your enemies in more then one way, then this game has you 
 covered. It was a fun ride and although some parts of the game seemed way too easy for me (age 
 22) , the story and humor of the game really moved me on and it made up for the lack of difficulty. 
 So, if you have kids or a younger brother/sister/cousin/etc, then by all means buy this game for 
 yourself and them (provided you have a ps3 or waiting for *$400 ps3 in November) . You will be laughing 
 all the way through and the little ones will keep coming back for more. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: maxim27
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 24, 2007 7:06 am PT
Review:  Ok where to start.
  
  Firstly i must say im so pissed about gamespot's review, the score sows it as a mediocre game which 
 it isnt, its clearly the best in the series.
  
  Sounds is amazing, fantastic voice acting and fun and very good score in my opinion.
  
  Graphics 
 is breathtaking never have ratchet looked so good and the inviroments is gorgeos to look at and 
 be part of it.
  
  Gameplay, yes the game is rather easy, but all the earlier was that also and isnt every game that 
 tbh ?
  But its about 10-15 hours long, with a solid storyline and with a superb closure in the but i guess 
 thats how you look at it. But when you beat it there is a challenging mode and so much to unlock 
 and get that there is so much more then just first time through and thats just awesome.
  
  All in all its the best of the series and fantastic it is, so all go buy it and be entertained 
 with R&amp; C!! :-)
  
  Have fun playing 
::::::

::::::
UserName: freefalling255
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 24, 2007 2:45 am PT
Review:  Given it's a good game but they didn't do anything new. Wow, it's pretty... Wow, I've done this 
 four times before this. They just have continued to perfect the game while managing avoid making 
 any real advances in the game its self.
  
  The style and the art are absolutely incredible. visually it is the premier PlayStation game to 
 date. there is just so much going on and the animations are very well done, but personally, I would 
 expect nothing less from Insomniac. They make excellent games.
  
  If you enjoy the Ratchet and Clank games you'll enjoy this one but if you are looking for something 
 new you'll have to wait for the next game in the series. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DanialOnn
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 23, 2007 11:51 pm PT
Review:  Not to sound braggy but I have both PS3 and 360. I'm a fan of the series since the first game, 
 I was soo happy when I got R&amp; Clank for the PS3. First I noticed was the graphics. The best 
 graphics on the PS3 right now. Theyre great, nice and colorful. The gameplay is finely tuned, anybody 
 can pick it up and play. The weapons are cool, but some of my favorites are gone. On the downside, 
 it is probably easy for anybody. The game is too easy. I have to recommend it to all PS3 owners. 
 Come on everybody BUY THIS GAME, lets save the PS3.... But when you have both PS3 and 360, and 
 have games like Halo 3, Gears, BioShock, Forza 2, or The Orange Box (Im in love with Portals) 
 its not worth buying, unless you're a big fan of the series like I am. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ruibing
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 23, 2007 7:25 pm PT
Review:  A perfect game that is as fun as it is memorizing. There has never been a platformed like it. I 
 got my preordered game from Amazon, thanks Prime membership and it is a blast to play. I have played 
 every since R&amp; C franchise, including the Size Matters for the PSP, but this tops them all. 
 It is a must have for all PS3 owners and worth the attention of all potential buyers. The levels 
 might be easy for experienced platformers, but that's what the difficulty setting is for. The story 
 is solid, graphics pixar-like, gameplay better than ever, and the entire game so great. I love 
 the different minigames available, especially the space battles. Do yourself a favor: Just got 
 and get it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: appl4s
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 23, 2007 3:40 pm PT
Review:  The best of insomniac. Better than any r&amp; c or resistance put together. The controls are pitch 
 perfect and the graphics are pixar level, voice acting good as always. It's also somewhat long 
 no multiplayer : ( . but still doesn't matter it's perfect. I can say enough for this game. It just 
 blew my mind and I LOVE IT I'll be playin this for a long long long time. A good reason to own 
 a ps3, the story is amazing, gameplay amazing everything rules the sound is perfect for guns and 
 characters. This game is also hilarous with gags and one-liners and references to the older games 
 in comedic form i love this game and so should you. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
